Good morning. Good morning. It's Monday. Big big news just dropped. Derek Lunsford has announced he is doing the Pittsburgh Pro. He did it at the end of a chess training video that he just dropped on his channel Derek Lford on YouTube. Let's listen to what Derek had to say. The first year that the Pittsburgh Pro is going to have open bodybuilding. You know, for me, I felt like the spirit was telling me the day after the Olympia, you have to do the Arnold. And like I said, I'd had in my head that the Pittsburgh Pro um was something that I wanted to to do this year. You know, like I said, I'm I'm very hungry and ambitious to compete. I've only done the Mr. Olympia for the last several years, so I wanted to compete more. As I just mentioned with the Pittsburgh Pro guest posing, I feel that the Pittsburgh Pro is going to be what I would call a legacy show. Meaning, if you have that Pittsburgh Pro title, that is a real notch in your belt, that is a real title that you can that you can carry with pride. With that being said, the position that I'm in right now, having just come off of the Arnold Classic win, to do the Arnold Classic, to do the Pittsburgh Pro, and to to do the Olympia all in the same year and be victorious in all three would be another monumental historical moment in bodybuilding history. So, for me, that excites me. That's what gets me moving, gets me out of bed, and makes me hungry as ever to get after it every single day. So, that being said, that's the announcement is that uh I will be doing the Pittsburgh Pro. So, I'm I'm very much looking forward to to standing on stage with these guys and then of course I will see everybody at the Mr. Olympia this October. There you have it. I mean, I I didn't think he was going to do it to be honest with you guys. I I thought he would carefully consider the fact that peaking three times within a seven-month time frame, four months within a year, might not be the best strategy if he wants to be the second man in history to have lost the Mr. Olympia title and then get it back. The first was Jay Cutler back in 2009. And this is in a 60-year history of the Mr. Olympia contest. Only one Olympia champion has lost the Olympia title and gotten it back. And that was Jay Cutler almost 16 years ago. What do you guys got to say? Smoked Og. Five minutes late. Was I five minutes late? Well, I didn't put a time on it. This actually I would have come out with this sooner, but my dog needs walks every morning, man. He has a big poop twice a day. If I don't take him, I worry. Awesome. Yeah, I mean this is great for the fans. Make no mistake, the Pittsburgh Pro was going to be a great show. Anyway, we had Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwwater, uh, Good Veto, I heard, is jumping into it. Uh, Creiso looking awesome. And now Derek Lunsford, my goodness, it's it's going to be a hell of a lineup. Yeah, just ruined a lot of guys days. I'm thinking Nick Walker. Realistically, it would be very very hard for Nick Walker to beat Derek Lensford. Derek especially all all he has to do is show up the way looking the way he did at the at the last classic a few weeks ago. Let's go to that. Let me show you that again. Why not while we're talking? So, is Nick beating that? Is Martin beating that? I don't think so. You know, Derek Martin almost beat a a much worse version of this at the Olympia a few months before, but I I don't see him beating this version of Derek. So, they're going to have to do another show. Luckily for them, there's plenty of shows. I know I'm already saying these guys can't beat Derek. Yeah, you know, anything can happen and they might beat Derek, but it would be very, very tough. Luckily, the New York Pro is one week later, May 17th. the Cal State Pro, I'm sorry, the 10th. Let's see, hold on. Pittsburgh is the 10th, New York Pro is the 17th, and the California State uh is the 24th and then you have the Legion Sports on 31st. So, every weekend for three weeks after, they're going to be three weekends after this in a row where these guys, anyone who doesn't manage to beat Derek, will have their chance to qualify for the Olympia. Remember that. Uh Fitzwwater has already qualified for Olympia. So that's not a concern for Martin. So will he will he do Pittsburgh and then another show if he doesn't win Pittsburgh? I I could see him doing New York. It's only a week later. You know, it's like I said, I would probably just hang out on the East Coast somewhere in that general area. It's it's a very quick flight from Pittsburgh to New York. Uh you could even drive there. Doesn't take that long. So well, tomorrow I'm glad he's doing kind of want Nick to have to try again since Nick joked about my Oh, did he really? What a jerk. This makes a great show. So glad I got my VIP tickets. I mean, any fan of the sport, we want the shows to be stacked. We want to see Olympia champs, Arnold champs, all the best guys on on on stage at these shows. That's what makes it exciting. It's never that, you know, we talk about weak shows and strong shows. We want to see strong shows. Those are the exciting ones where it's a few guys who are very very close and they're very very good duking it out up there. We have a leaner meaner Derek doing Ashley K. Oh Tina, thank you Tina Carlson cuz I looked on my YouTube analytics and only 4% of my viewers are female. So thank you for being part of that 4%. I very much appreciate it. Nick is not going to like this. No, I mean you know in Nick's heart of hearts, Nick is a warrior. Nick Walker, I'm sure he still believes he can win. You have to believe you can win if you're going to be at this level competing because if you're training for in your mind second place at best, how are you going to put out a 100% effort into your cardio, your training, your your diet, your posing, all everything that goes into a prep? You have to believe you can win. And I'm sure Nick still believes you can win. And you know what? Crazier things have happened in this sport over the many many years I've been part of it. So I wouldn't say there is no way Nick Walker or Martin Fitzwwater can beat can beat Derek. No way. But if Derek comes in looking the way he did. I don't know guys. It would be very very hard. It would be very very hard. Just put the Arnold back up there. Uh the next the next question is what about Sam? Would Samson now come out maybe and say he's going to do it? I I don't see I don't see that happening. But again, crazier things have happened. And again, Pittsburgh is this is the initial the inaugural Pittsburgh Pro. First time they ever had men's Open. There's only one first Mr. Olympia. That was Larry Scott. There's only one first Arnold Classic champ. That was Rich Kaspari. Um you know, only one I guess you could say New York Pro, but I can't remember who won the first New York Pro because it was Night of Champions for many years before that. But it is a prestigious title and it is being promoted by Jim Manion himself. Jim is the president of all of this. Everything. He's the leader of all this. The pro side, the amateur side, the IPB pro league, the NPC. He's the man everybody wants to curry favor with. They want to get on his they want to they want to please Jim because he's he's the godfather. He's the one that started all this. He he started the NPC. He's the one that broke off the NPC. I'm sorry, the IFBB Pro League away from the IFBB which became IFBB elite. So, you know, a lot of these guys feel they owe their their livelihood to him. Yeah. Can't imagine Derek peing three times in a year. Who's your favorite for the Olympia now, Ron? Well, John, the only guy who's going to be fresh for the Olympia is hottie. All these other guys will have competed prior to that. So, you know, it's it's a really good chance Hottie Chupan could get his title back this year if you believe that doing multiple shows and peing multiple ch times within one calendar year is detrimental if your goal is to be your absolute best at one particular show, in this case the Olympia. So, who knows, man. Who knows? It's the winning moment for Derek there. Uh, who's my favorite for the Olympia? I mean, by that logic, I would just say Head Chupan would be my favorite, but who knows? I also think Samson got kind of a wakeup call at the Arnold, losing to Derek, uh, basically just on conditioning. If if Samson had been in much better condition, there's no doubt in my mind, he would have beaten Derek. He's got a better physique. He's bigger. He's got better overall shape and structure. He just wasn't as leaning. Derek Derek had him. He had him dead to right some condition. Kian, Kalian, you send me all the updates, but I follow I follow all those channels. You don't you don't have to send me. I appreciate it. Don't get me wrong, but when breaking news happens. That's the thing about YouTube is you can't be that quick on YouTube. I guess I could have if I hadn't watched Branch, but it's much faster to make an Instagram post than it is to make a video because you have to have a thumbnail, set up the stream. It takes a few minutes anyway where Instagram post you can make that in, you know, two minutes easily. Walter Martin. I hope that Martin does New York. Walter, you're close to What show are you doing, Walter? It's not Pittsburgh. You're competing sooner than that, right? Correct me, Walter. I know. I see your updates every day and you look like you're not that far off. Pittsburgh Crow is going to be a great show. Good lord. It's basically Olympia. I mean, it's it's not impossible that that Samson won't jump in. We might hear within by the end of this week Samson Douta coming out and saying I'm going to do the Pittsburgh 2. Can you imagine that? That would make the Pittsburgh Pro Yeah. very close to Olympia lineup. We'd just be missing a few key guys, but certainly it would be the the second best lineup of the year after the Olympia. It's right up there with the Arnold. You would have No, it would better than the Arnold. You'd have Samson. You'd have Nick, Derek, Martin, Creo, Veto. That'd be insane. Thank you again, Tina. Jack Todd's great news sport about being competitive. Nick can still win. Yeah, you know, I I I I have to back up and say it it's going to be very difficult. It would be very difficult for Nick Walker to defeat uh Derek Lensford. It would not be impossible. Nobody's unbeatable. You know, Derek came into last Olympia as the reigning champ. A lot of us thought he was going to he was going to carry another title, second second Olympian in a row, but he got beat by uh Samson and Heidi. So, stranger things can happen, guys. Less than a first time Arnold class. Let me get let me put something other than myself on the up there so you guys have something to watch. See classic first call out. No, we don't watch that. I'll put Derek from Put Derek from his Olympia. Let's put Derek Let's put Nick Walker up there. Heck, what? Why not? I know we're not talking about Nick, but let's give Nick a little love and put him up there while we're talking. When was the last time a first time Arnold participant also won it beside the Arnold Classic? Uh, it was Flex Wheeler right after that. I mean, well, actually, you know, everybody was the first time Arnold participant the first few years, but um, Flex Wheeler won that 93. I would have to go into the uh I would have to go into the Arnold Classic archives the records of who won what. But it it's happened a few times. A few it's it's very rare that a first time Olympia competitor. It's even rare, I should say. It's it's pretty rare for a first time Arnold competitor to uh to win, but Olympia is is even more of a rare occurrence. Was it Jay the only one one backed up title? Yeah, Jack. So far, Jay Cutler is the only one who has lost the Olympia title and got it back. So, who's done it? Who's lost the Olympia title since then? So, right after Jay, we had uh no Dexter had won it the year before. Dexter lost it to Jay. Uh Phil Heath. Phil Heath lost the Olympia title to Shawn Rhoden. Was never able to get the Olympia title back after that. Uh he never he didn't compete again after that. Um, yeah, Rammy lost his title. Everyone else has lost their title and has been unable to get back since. Henry, since the last Mr. row, Derek has improved, but Martin has two. I agree. Derrick is the favorite, but Martin has a great structure. Can win the Pittsburgh Pro. Oh, yeah. Martin Martin's no joke, guys. Don't don't get me wrong. Find some Martin footage while we're talking about Martin. It's only fair, right? Keon Simpson, Derek. I got AI got footage of a lot of guys loaded up, guys. Where is Martin? Oh, here we go. There's Martin at the last Olympia. Yeah. I mean, it's not like he's worlds apart from Derek. Derek has better arms. Martin's legs are a little better, for sure. Uh Derek's back is better than almost everybody's back. Okay, John. So, good news for Martin Fitzwwater fans is every weekend in May is a pro show, a men's open pro show. The first, so third, there's none. I shouldn't say that. So, the 10th is Pittsburgh, probably going to be Derek. New York Pro is the next weekend after that, the next Saturday, 17th. Uh 24th is a Cal State Pro out in California. And the very last weekend, the last Saturday of the month, 31st, is Legion Sports. I don't know if that's Vegas or Reno, but anyway, that's that's three more chances, three more shows in the month of May. For anyone who does not manage to beat Derek or, you know, I mean, it's not a foregone conclusion that Dererick will win. It's very, very likely that Derrick will win Pittsburgh. Certainly, he's got to be the favorite on paper. And I I don't think too many of you guys would argue. What do you think? I mean, what are what are the chances of any of these guys beating beating Derek? Tell me in the comments. If you're watching this later, tell me in the chat now. Nobody's unbeatable. Everyone can get beat and does get beat unless they manage to go out on top before that happens. Yoli Haney retired at age 31 at his eighth Olympia win. Had Lee kept going, is it possible he might have lost the Olympia title to Dorian Yates in 92, 93? It's very possible. It's very possible. um other guys, you know, Ronnie didn't go out as a winner. Ronnie kept going for a couple years after he lost the title. Uh so it's it's it's one of those things, man. It's it's uh it's a the Olympia is the the cream of the crop and I don't know if anyone's ever going to do that again what Jay did. But you never say never. Just like we've been arguing, are we ever going to see a six, seven, eight time Mr. Olympia champ? I don't know. I don't know if we ever will. But is it impossible? No, it's not impossible. Raymond Joe's Dark must not see Dark as a threat. He's wished me a lot doing the show. Yeah. Um, you know, I just because he doesn't see him as a threat. I I think he can still see him as a threat, Nick Walker as a threat, and still proceed. Um, because, you know, he wants to win regardless of who's there. And I don't think he would take these guys lightly. If if he took if he took them lightly, that would lead me to believe he might come in at something like 90% 95%. Not as good as he looked at the Olympia, sorry, at the Arnold and still coast to a win. But, you know, Derek's a champ. He's he's not going to he's not going to go in halfass and anything less than his best. Aceto Chris Aceto is coach. He wouldn't he wouldn't do that either. You know, they both have reputations and their pride. They wouldn't bring they wouldn't show up with Derek anything less than 100% his very best. I'm sure he takes uh Martin very seriously because Nick damn near beat him at the Olympia just a few months before the Arnold. Um I don't think he takes Nick Walker lightly. Nick's a freak. He's a monster. He's a two-time New York Pro champ, an Arnold Classic champ, third place at the Olympia and his he's looking crazy and freaky. Lendon Murray lost for Olympia Teleki. Uh, we're talking about men's open Kenne, but thank you. Appreciate that. You got a good point. It has been done. I mean, if you go across different divisions, maybe it's been done in other divisions, too. I clearly, when I'm talking about this, I'm I'm typically only talking about men's open. But yeah, Raymond, this will shut all the haters up. Said Martin was pushing Derek at the O. Assuming he beats him. Yeah, assuming he beats him, which, you know, I don't see why he wouldn't beat him. We got any Olympia footage to go back to. I like my Olympia footage. Classic second column bumpster Olympia routine. I'm sure I got some stuff there from it. Classic Olympia Walker. I like to put up footage while we're talking, guys. Let's just put Derek up from 2023. His Olympia win while we're talking. So, if Derek lost to Martin or Nick, 2025 would be the greatest Olympia of all time. I still think it's going to be a great Olympia cuz we have Hottie coming back fresh a year off stage, a whole year to focus and and train just for the Olympia. Samson who took a big chance competing in the Arnold Classic that he might lose to somebody and he did. He lost to Derek. So, a reigning Mr. Olympia beaten. And the only time we've seen a reigning Mr. Olympia beaten during his reign was Ronnie Coleman back in I think it was 2003. Shortly after the Olympia, he lost to Gundle camp at the GNC Show of Strength. It was either O2, I think it was 02. Uh, and then he came back a year later with 20 pounds more muscle because he was so pissed off. But yeah, I mean that would if he if he lost to Martin, that would set up crazy drama because then we would have four guys who had an equal chance of winning. Samson, Hottie, Derek, and Martin. It's already going to be a great great Olympia. You're right. That would make it just like I always said, you know, if Samson lost the Arnold Classic this year, which he did, that would make the Olympia more exciting because Mr. Olympia just got beat and now he's going to be that much hungrier to keep his title. Not that he wasn't going to be motivated and hungry, but he just got beat at the Arnold Classic and that for the reigning Mr. Olympia to get beat, that's that's a that's a big blow. Is anyone confirmed for New York Pro? I don't know. I haven't heard. I'm guessing most of the lineup from Pittsburgh is going to be at New York Pro because it's only a week later. It's in the same part of the USA. It would be silly for for a lot of these guys. They're already in shape. You know, it's it's typical that a lot of guys would hit a couple shows in a row. Like the CalPro is always right after New York Pro. So, I remember like Nathan Dasha won the New York Pro and the Calp Pro and I think Tony Burton did that too. It's been done a few times, I should say, because they're backtoback. And you know, just because you've already got your Olympic qualification doesn't mean, uh oh, I better stop competing. If I'm that guy, I'd be like, why don't I just take a six hour flight to California in a few days and go win that, too? Why not? Walter is doing Oh, Walter. [\h__\h] you're Detroit Pro. That's coming right up. I should have remembered that. So, Detroit Pro is this Saturday, guys. Walter Martin will be in there. Um, who else does we have? We got Hollings Head, Bonak, Carlos. I don't know about Carl Carlos. The list is not out yet. Is it out yet? Saserati. I'm gonna have to take a look at the list, guys, while we're on because now you got me got me thinking about it because uh Detroit Pro, I'm going to be doing a a watch party right here on the channel because it is a free live stream on Fouad Abiad Media. Uh, Detroit does not have the list up yet. Not yet. Hoping that's going to come up very very soon. I just checked on uh I'll show you where I checked. I don't want to invite. Just want to show you guys a real cool if if you're not aware of this all the websites to follow for schedules. This is uh ifbbro.com.pbro.com guys. If you if you want the schedule, it's got the pro schedule, all the shows there by division. You just click on the tab on the left, men's bodybuilding, and you can look at all the men's bodybuilding shows for the year. Um, you can go to results and look at scorecards from shows, all kinds of cool stuff on that. So, that's ifpro.com, guys. Check that out. Stop screen. All right. And put some more stuff up. I was going to put up something while we're talking because again, I don't like to just have you staring at my my weak ass mug all the time. AC. We'll leave this up. Let's leave that up while we're talking. Leave that on loop. Get to your comments. Here we go. Mr. Rogers, I think Derek will be fine. Peak a couple times a year. He's young. He's even double digit pro shows yet for his career. Yeah, he has not done a lot of shows. He has not. In fact, I think I ran it down one time. I can even do it by memory. 2017, he won the USA. He did the Tampa Pro that year. Tampa Pro. He was uh he won that. That was his pro debut. He did the Olympia that year. So, two pro shows in 2017. He got fifth place there. Uh I think he took second place at 18 to Kamal at the Olympia 19. Did he win it? He's only done he's done most of the Olympia contest. Most of the shows Derek has done have been have been Olympias 212 Olympia and Open Olympia. Third biggest prize money. Um I think Dubai Pro is also giving away $100,000. But I don't know if the breakdown so I saw the breakdown. It was all even numbers. 100,000 for first place, 50,000 for second place, 25,000 for third place, and I think 15,000 for fourth. So, you win as much for fourth place at uh Pittsburgh as you would for winning almost all these other shows because the new minimum prize package is $15,000. It was $10,000 for about 20 years and they didn't raise it. They didn't raise the amp. Z fitness. Derek won Olympia one. He's in some jeopardy. Let's be honest. He went all about Oh, yeah. Yeah. Derek doesn't need to. He doesn't need to do Pittsburgh. There's There's no compelling reason why he he has to do Pittsburgh. But as he explained in the video, he wants to be the first Pittsburgh pro champ, Open Pro champ, because it's a legacy show. There's only one firsttime Mr. Olympia, first time Arnold Classic, and he believes that this show will it's already a big pri big money show. It's going to be a title that everybody wishes they had had first. So, that's his reason. Everybody's copy Mr. They're going to take each other out. Mr. Dota, I mean, the Masters, it's Hottie's really the only one who's going to be fresh. I agree. Samson. I I hope Samson is resting up and going to come into the Olympia all guns blazing, better condition than we've ever seen. Doesn't need to be any bigger at all. But if he does that, you know, if Samson shows up in condition that we've never seen, I I still think he'll beat everybody. You know, he's he's just the better bodybuilder physique-wise than he's taller, he's wider, he's got rounder, fuller muscles. He's He'd be unbeatable if he was in shape. I mean, what in sh in better shape? In better condition. It's not like he's out of shape. If he was in crazy, dry, grainy condition. Derek wouldn't risk doing the show if he thought he would lose. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Derek doesn't need the prize money. He just won a half a million dollars, guys. And I don't know what Jaco Fuel was paying him, but uh it it's probably pretty damn good if he left Evagen. And I'm sure Hani Hani was paying him well for Evagen. So, I would imagine he's either making as much or maybe even more than he was making with Eva Jen. No one no one really knows except for him and his accountant and his wife. Leave a like for Ron. Thank you, Jack. Massive respect to Sam's paved the path more at the top ask Pete why I have the best physics in the world. Show him once a year. Well, John, I think that it's it's because it's a risky move. These guys are so much bigger now than they were in years past. And you know, I I venture to say the peed the peed part of the sport, it's probably a little more intense than it was in years past when guys competed more often. So, that's taking a toll on them. So, I totally get it. Monica Delgado Mexico, unbelievable. Shouldn't because the perfect time to make good small offseason. Yeah, I I You're not the only one, Monica, who would think this is a mistake for Derek. I mean, leave a comment below, guys. I was asking in the video a few days ago, should Derek do the Pittsburgh Pro? And a lot of you felt he should, a lot of you felt he shouldn't. I'm curious now that he's actually made the commitment, do you still feel the same way? Do you feel this is a great idea? Picks up another another $100,000, reasserts his dominance, probably possibly probably beats two front runners, Martin and Nick. And if he beats if he beats Martin and Nick, I mean, it's it's very safe to say people won't be talking about Martin or Nick beating him at the Olympia. It would just be a matter of Samson and Hottie would be the guys to get past. You know, they're all none of those guys are going to be easy to beat. None of them. Derrick Lu and Martin being Samson. It'll make the Olympia title look weak. Uh, not necessarily, Raymond. I mean, it just it would just show that maybe it's it's best for some guys to not do so many shows. You know, that's the argument. We want them to do all these shows. We say they're lazy if they don't do a bunch of shows or they're just, you know, afraid of losing to some this or that guy. But by the same token, they're putting their bodies through a lot with all these preps. And these are human bodies. These are human beings. Their bodies need time to heal and rest between prep. Prep is very demanding on the body with the diet, the chemicals, the the the overtraining, all the cardio and the training. It's a lot of training. I mean, I remember Chris Aceto said if if you want to do your contest prep right, you have to walk that fine line of overtraining, you can't just, you know, contrary to what Dorian and the Mike Mener fans would have you believe, you can't just go in the gym three times, four times a week for 40 minutes and you can't can't just cruise in with no cardio. Those days are for most people that's not a not a successful strategy. I think Derrick's a little full of himself now. I mean, if you like a guy, you'll view it as confidence. If for whatever reason you don't like a guy, you'll perceive that as arrogance. So, is he full of himself? That's in the eye of the beholder. Does anyone know what payment is for other two shows? Two places on Arnold Classic podium. Um, it was 500 for first. I think it was I want to say it was 200 or 150 for a second. It's It's very hard to find prize money breakdowns. They don't usually list those publicly. You'll see them occasionally, but those aren't really made. Buy your bruised bur ego by saying he thought he wasn't really going to do the show. That's the real reason he's competing. Well, you'll see I got my L team Lunford shirt on. Derek did give me a couple t-shirts. Samson never gave me a t-shirt. Otherwise, I'd be wearing Samson t-shirts on these lives. But, you know, no, I don't think Derek even know I did the actually. He liked the uh I think he liked the Instagram story, but I always invite these guys to collaborate on the Instagram post and very rarely do they, you know, I get it. Why would they help me out with their three billion followers? Anybody was in the 90s go on European tours? Yeah, Royan. Because they had European tours back then. Typically what they would do in those days in the 90s, um, European promoters would have a series of shows, a Grand Prix tour, uh, usually twice a year. They would do one in the spring so that the guys who just did the Arnold could hop over and do anywhere from three to eight shows that the promoters would set up all over Europe. It would be quick flights, you know, you know, maybe like UK one day, Paris the next day, then they have the week off and Italy, Greece the weekend after that, Russia and Czech Republic or something the weekend after that. Yeah. And then they would do the same thing after the Olympia. They would usually have the Olympia always had post post Olympia Grand Prix tour, but there was uh there were more than a few times I want to say almost every time in the 90s they had uh spring tours. Spring tours. Actually, I can show you something. I'll show you something. What the heck? Why not? I want to show you how many tour how many shows guys used to do. We'll like look at We'll take a look at Milos. If you want to see how much how many shows these guys used to do. So, Milos, he's a good example because Milos competed a lot. Cormier competed a lot, too. All right. So, yeah, I want to because we talk about the 90s, guys. I think it's it's it's worth a look here, guys. I want to show you how many shows there used to be in a row. Uh, so this is Milos's competitive record. 91 his first his first year as a pro he did Grand Prix tours in Denmark, England, Finland, Italy, Spain, Switzerland. So that was one, two, three, four. There was six Grand Prix shows all over Europe in a row there. I don't know if those were before, after the Olympia that year. Same thing in 92. He did Grand Prix shows in England, Germany, Holland, Italy. 93 uh one, two, three, four, five Grand Prix shows. Yeah. So, you could see you could see in the 90s that they they had all these Grand Prix shows, these Grand Prix tours, which gave a lot of Oh, I didn't even present the screen. I didn't present that. Sorry, guys. My bad. My bad. Let me get rid of this because I have it on loop. Okay. So, here you go. Uh, so I was showing you all the Grand Prix shows that, uh, like Milos used to do, for example, because Milos is a good example. 91 you can see he did they had six Grand Prix to shows in a row that year in in the over Europe. 92, one, two, three, four in a row he did there. 93 he did one, two, three, four. And where they say two, if you see the number two next to it, that means there were two Grand Prix shows in France that year and two Grand Prix shows in Germany. Two different shows. Same thing here in uh England. And then France, they they must have had two Grand Prix shows there that year. Cormier is another guy to look at because he did a ton of these, too. So, I'm betting he was in there. No, he wasn't in it. Kevin did a lot of Grand Prix shows. Dlette. Anyway, you get my point, guys. You get my point. All right, back to the comments. Derek only did one show last year. It didn't pay off. He dropped the third place. Yes, should do it. Samson won Mr. Olympia doing multiple shows. Yeah, Charles Samson's a good example of someone who's competed successfully multiple times in the same year. Once guys get to the Mr. Olympia level where they've they've won the Olympia, it does become a little more risky. You know, Ronnie, I I think Ronnie, he said back in 2001 he would never do multiple shows a year because he he did the Arnold Classic that year and then when he was getting ready preparing for the Olympia that year, 2001, his body wasn't responding. He showed up at the show at the judging not looking his best and Jay Cutler beat him in the judging. Uh I think what happened was uh he almost quit the show and then Chad gave him some sort of diuretic that dried him out and he came back and he was able to make up the difference and win the show. But it's a gamble. Now Ronnie said after that he believed he couldn't peak twice in one year. Doesn't mean he really couldn't. Maybe he couldn't. Maybe that was his body and his metabolism. But to say that about other guys, you know, everybody's different. Some guys have shown they can look fantastic. But we've also seen a lot of guys who look much better at the spring shows than they do in the fall shows. Flex Wheeler was notorious for that. There have been a few guys who traditionally year after year if they did spring shows and the uh and the Olympia and the Grand Prix shows they always look better in the in the early part of the year. March will be phenomenal for building for these shows. Yeah, Tony. Well, the May is going to be a big year. I mean, we have we've only got one more pro show for this this we've only got, you know, March is almost over. April, we don't have any pro shows for men's open, but May, we have four. Pittsburgh starts off. So, 10th, 17th, 24th, and 31st. Three out of the four Saturdays in May, we have a men's open pro show. We have Pittsburgh, New York Pro, Cal State Pro, and Legion Sports all bam bam bam in a row. Yeah. April. April's going to be nuts. That's what you meant to say. Martin bad. I mean, we had the Arnold Classic and it was a pretty damn great Arnold Classic. And this Detroit Pro happening Saturday, which guys, please join me on this channel. I'll be doing a live watch party. Big Mike Cox, if you're out there, I I'll I'll look I'll I'll get him on there. He's awesome. Love doing uh show coverage, live show coverage with Mike because he's got that eye for bodybuilding. Uh and he says it like it is. He's he doesn't hold pull punches. talks about the physiques and not the personalities. That's how it needs to be. We hosted every show in the '9s in every podcast these days. Yeah. Yeah. Uh I hope they'll do mine again one day. Hope to see more Europeans in these shows like Christian Wolski. Creo. Yeah. Creo. Kiso. I'm glad he's doing um Pittsburgh. Uh, I imagine he'll do I, like I said, I think everyone that does Pittsburgh, unless they win, and maybe even if they win, is going to be in New York the next weekend. It makes so much sense. It'd be silly not to do Pittsburgh Pro and New York Pro. And of course, we're going to have a lot of guys who didn't get their Olympia qualification. Now, Fitzwater's already got his. He doesn't need to worry about it. But Nick Walker needs that Olympia qualification. Creiso needs his Olympia qualification. Good. Veto will probably get it. Veto is actually probably going to get his uh two weeks a week from a week after a week after Detroit is is the Arnold Brazil Arnold South American Brazil. And I'm I'd be very very surprised if Veto doesn't win that and get his Olympic qualification. Shawn Ray would call I don't Shawn Ray is short. Like I don't think he would use them the M word. It's only taller guys who like to call shorter guys midgets because it kills taller guys to it kills a lot of fans to especially if they're tall to see their favorite tall bodybuilder get beaten by a shorter guy. All these midgets. But you know I also hear guys like Giles has said you know he likes to see the taller guys. A lot of people like they they they see more aesthetic beauty in the taller physiques. They're taller, they're wider versus the shorter, more compact physiques, not as aesthetically pleasing when you put all that muscle on a much shorter frame as as it is when you have like a Samson or Andrew jacked or a Creo even that's a guy who's six foot tall or better. We keep arguing about Samson's height. I 5'11, six foot. It's all the same for me guys from down here. Definitely will listen to watch part. Thank you for great work. Power hour beyond X. Yeah, we're doing a preview of Detroit Pro, Giles and I. We were were going to do one last year, so that'll we're hoping to get that up tomorrow. We need to have the list we need to have the list up uh to get the to get the full roster for Detroit Pro, but the next Power Hour is coming up. Thank you for asking. If you guys have your notifications on, you'll always know when power hour or anything is is popping up in your feed. But yeah, we're going to do a power hour. I'm also working on uh some other big big interviews. So uh I think I'm gonna take off guys. We got Martin has gained a lot of muscle. Has his great physique. Good veto is freaking amazing. I agree Monica. I'm very very impressed with both of those guys. And Ko I'm very impressed with Kiso how he's looking right now too. Kiso is looking fantastic. So all right guys. Uh so that's it. That's been the big big news. Uh what's this? Uh, who you call [\h__\h] I mean, why you got to call him that? Awesome news, mayor. Yeah, midget's a bad word, guys. It's it's a derogatory term. So, just say a shorter guy or shorter statured statured man or actual you can't even use a [\h__\h] to to describe actual people who are clinically disabled because they're very very short. They're called little people. Uh there's all forms of dwarfism. There's many, many different types of dwarfism. So, yeah, if you go back, Derek, um, M12, it's it's the very beginning of this video, I I rolled a minute and a half of Derek's new chest training video. After 35 minutes of chess training, uh, PC Oh, politically correct. Yeah, after 35 minutes of chess training, Derek Derek did make his announcement, sat talked to the camera, and explained that he is he is doing Pittsburgh Pro and he explained why he's doing it. So, he's doing it. Anyway, guys, that's it. Derek is in. Don't skip me, Ron. Well, you No, Giles has not been handled from another man. I don't know what you got against Giles. Giles is my bud. Smart move from Derek. Don't think it's a smart move from Derek. I mean, it could it could backfire. If it ends up affecting his ability to peak 100% in October for the Olympia, then in retrospect, it will have been a bad move. Right now it's $100,000 in his pocket. Another $100,000. He just had $500,000 that he took home from the Arnold Classic. This would be another another one. He just opened up his own gym. So, and he has a young baby baby girl. I'm sure the money can come in handy. Make that money while you can. Anyway, all right guys, that is it. I'm going to take off. So, thank you all for watching. Derek Lensford is doing the Pittsburgh Pro. Risky move, smart move. Let me know in the comments what you think and I'll talk to you guys later. Peace.