What's up, guys? Ron Harris here. Thanks for joining me. Uh, I promise this will be the last time I talk about Jiles and Martin Fitzwater. I know it's been it's been done to death. I'm sick of talking about hearing about it. But I did want to clear up one thing. Um because when Martin came at Giles and uh do I have to show that again? I guess I do. This this is what Martin said when he rushed rushed the uh pay-per-view commentary table in Prague. Here it is. >> [music] >> Hey, next time you want to talk [\h__\h] about me, do it to my face. [music] >> Okay, so talk [\h__\h] I wanted to go back and look. I don't have the the actual pay-per-view footage. Uh, but I do have Giles's responses to me because we did a wrap-up video after the judging on day one of Prague and then I spoke to him the next day after the finals. So, I want to play those two clips so you can hear exactly what Giles said. Here is what Giles said as I got him right after the judging was done on day one of the 2024 EVLS Prague Pro. Take a listen. >> In a few minutes. >> So, so you're saying you could you could see this going uh Chris Bumstead first? >> Yes, 100%. He's won it straight first. I I predict he's won it straight first. Wow. Wow. Okay. Because I was the whole time I'm thinking Martin's got so much more size on him. >> He does. He does. >> I I I did have Chris winning some winning some poses, but >> being bodybuilding purists, a bodybuilding purist, I thought the size and density that Martin has would just overpower him, but you're saying I trust >> his midsection doesn't look right. And I'd like to see more conditioning and detail in his back. >> Wow. So, you think Martin could be third? It's possible. I don't know. I Okay, if I'm if I'm being realistic, I think Martin's going to get second. >> Yeah. >> Uh Kar I'd like to see get third, but I think Hullwex got fourth, but they gave him a chance. They really gave him a chance. And I'm telling you what, he looked good next to Clarida and really good next to Martin. >> So, um but I mean that that that second, third, fourth could maybe go any way. So, I wouldn't be don't be shocked if that obviously obviously that was a semi-final. That was a prejudging. So, tomorrow it could go it could go either ways, you know. >> Yeah. Because you know Martin needs to tighten up a little bit. This is not the Martin that we saw five weeks ago. But >> well what Chris Cormier said last night. He says guys he says you can't peak twice like that just in a number of weeks. He's been straight on the prep. He hasn't sort of you know hasn't come off his prep. He said it's it just the body doesn't peak like that. He said I'm telling you Martin won't be on like he was an Olympia. And I said in the live stream I said look I said Martin straight away I Martin was better at the Olympia. >> Yeah. I mean look I'm I'm looking at the Olympia right here and he >> not the same guy. Not the same guy. >> Yeah definitely. He's definitely off condition. Like you made reference to the tan. His tan does not look that good very good today. It's just it's it's not doing any favor. >> Do you know what? I didn't even spot that. But you're right. You're right. You're bang on, mate. >> Yeah. I mean, whatever whoever tandem at the Olympia did a much better job. No offense. >> Yes. Yeah. No, I totally Oh, there's Ronnie over there. There's Ronny. There's Ronnie, Lauren, and Chris. >> Okay, so that was Giles's analysis after judging. He did have Chris Bumstead winning. Uh the score sheets indicated that the judges never had Bumpstead winning remotely. They had straight first places for Martin. Even though, as I've shown this footage several times, uh Martin when he's 100% on, he is damn good. He might win this next Arnold Classic. Both Giles and I felt he deserved to be a slot higher at both the 2024 and 2025 Mr. Olympia contest than he was. See, we had him higher than he placed at those two shows, but you don't hear about that. Uh, this was this where again, we're looking at 2024 Prague glutes. You could see how much softer his glutes were last year. That this was day one. His tan was awful. He was holding a bunch of water. His stomach was popping out. It's because he had pulled his hamstring during the call outs. He was he was in rough rough shape. And it doesn't matter. You know, judges don't care. But they they still had him in first. Let's take a look at what Giles said after the fact after the show was all done the next day. I did get Giles on immediately again as soon as the finals wrapped up. He was kind enough to talk to me. Here's what >> Yeah. might got a little bit tear in his hamstring there, but um yeah, he obviously it didn't affect him too much because he obviously won the show, but um he he definitely looks a little bit better today. >> Yeah. >> But um I thought I thought Bumstead had this in the back to be honest, mate. >> Yeah. I mean there are a lot of very upset people. I don't you know because yesterday he was beating him but even if Martin legitimately did deserve to beat him and you know yeah >> Tyler wasn't Tyler wasn't there right so we're not gonna get a Tyler video on this >> Steve weber >> Steve might do a video I don't know but you know he had his reasons Steve's the Mr. Olympia head judge. He's >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Probably the most experienced judge in the world. >> Um he had his he went with the the more muscularity. In your mind, what how did Martin beat Chris tonight? >> Just I don't know. Uh well, I was going pose for pose. In front of bicep, I had Chris. Front lat, I had Chris. Side chest, I had Chris. Side tricep, I had Martin. The rear shots, it's difficult because Martin's like twice as thick. But Chris has got so much better quality conditioning and separation. Um I still kind of gave the back shots to Chris. I did. And I mean AJ was like, "Oh no, no, the back shots to Martin." I kind of I'm not I'm not going to argue with that because I get why. Um but um if you go pose for pose and I was talking to Moro Sassy, he was saying that you know the abandon you've got to give it to Martin because Chris was hitting it like as a vacuum. He wasn't hitting a proper AB shot. So you can kind of forfeit that one to Martin. the most muscular. I thought I thought thought I thought Chris. So, if you want to look at it overall, I think Chris won more poses. But, um, who'd have thought a classic guy next to like one of the thickest bodybuilders in the open would would even come close. But, I tell you what, I was so happy for Shan Karita. And Sean Karita was only 178 tonight. You know >> what's that 178? Oh, you got his >> I told I asked him backstage. I said, "What are you weighing, man?" >> Okay, so there you have everything Giles said. Did he talk [\h__\h] I guess talking shit's a matter of opinion. Let me know in the comments of the chat. We're live right now. Was he talking [\h__\h] He gave his opinion. He wasn't being disrespectful. I didn't feel toward Martin in any way. He was calling it like I say, like he saw it. Martin's condition was not that great at the 2024 Prague. Not the way it had been at the Olympia a few weeks before that. And certainly not the way it was. This Prague pro that he just won recently, spectacular. the best I've ever seen. Martin, let me let's get to what you guys have to say. Still nothing from Martin. No. Yeah. The thing is the the reason I was hoping to hear something from Martin, not necessarily apology. I don't expect an apology toward Giles. It would be nice. I don't expect it. But, you know, Brett Wilin in a in a comment on an Instagram post about this because M muscle Discord Matt made a an Instagram post and Brett said, you know, there's more to it, but I'm not going to speak for Martin. So, I've been waiting and waiting for Martin to say anything. Now, he blocked me on Instagram, but I can still see it through other people other people's phones that have he hasn't blocked yet. Haven't seen one one word about anything else that Giles said that was quote unquote talking [\h__\h] Nothing. And I'm I'm ready to listen. You know, if there are other things that Giles said that I'm not aware of, you know, even though I'm Giles's friend, I we Giles and I we hold each other accountable to things. We're not above, you know, each other's [\h__\h] We'll we'll we'll say something. So, good morning. What's up, Ricky? It's likely the politics of Martin got the not over Chris. I don't know. I'm I'm not gonna I'm not going to go there. I will play the judging again. Some judging footage. Uh this was last year. So, I mean, like I said, Bumpstead looked phenomenal. Martin thicker. There's no question. Obviously, he's got a lot more muscle mass and density than Bumstead, but Bumpstead, his condition was bang on. His color was bang on. Obviously, he's got beautiful shape and symmetry. Uh, it was a close close call. Bumpstead Bumpstead almost had him and I don't think there would have been too many complaints if Bumpstead won. But, you know, we weren't crying about it. We weren't saying, "Oh, no. Chris got robbed." I mean, we were never doing that. People in the comments were we were never doing that. It's also person's right to respond. Well, you can respond, but you can respond in a respectful way. You don't have to get in someone's face and scream at them for having an opinion that, you know, maybe you weren't the rightful winner. I said, we heard nothing from him when we said he should have placed higher than he did, which, you know, you'd think he'd be happy about that. We both had him third place, beating Derek Lynford at the 2024 Olympia. Uh, I had I had him fourth place instead of fifth at this last Olympia, as did Giles, beating Samson. We felt he deserved to beat Samson this year at the Olympia. and he deserve to beat Derek last year, but last last year at the Prague show, it was not the same same Martin. Martin was was not unbeatable there. It was not the Martin that we just saw. Not by a long shot being angry about his immature little Maram losing. Well, I'll tell you, he never would have done that to he never, you know, Weinberger's at the next table with the judges. If Weinberger had said something about the the Well, what's he going to say? Weber was the head judge and he had winning. I'm just saying he wouldn't have rushed up to run up to Weinberg and got in his face and yelled at him because there would have been consequences. He knew he could do it to Giles. What's the worst can happen? Giles is going to be upset about it. There's going to be no repercussions. No disciplining, nothing like that. He could get away with it. He knew if he had gone to someone like a Tyler Manion or Steve Weinberger and did something like that, he'd be screwed. He'd be in trouble. So, let's see. We need clear delineate between comments from someone paid to commentate and keyboard warriors. Yeah, Giles was not someone who was uh, you know, a troll on on Instagram or on a YouTube comment saying, "You suck. Martin, you suck." And Martin, I mean, Giles has said many, many complimentary things. When Martin is on, when any athlete is on, he gives him credit as do I. Uh, none of this has tarnished the way we feel about Martin's physique. Martin looked phenomenal at the Olympia. He looked even better at this Prague show a couple weeks ago. You know, even though I don't uh agree with how he treated my friend Giles, who I've known for years and years and have the utmost respect for, I still don't hold it against I don't let that color the way I discuss his physique. His physique looked incredible. Uh the personality, I have an I have an issue with that. The way he handled that, the way he went out to Giles, just don't feel that was respectful. People asking for an apology or soft, I mean, it's fine. You can you can feel that way. You can feel however you want. If someone ever does you wrong, uh, I guess you won't want an apology from them. It wasn't even bones to properly prep for open. Well, he didn't. No, he just filled out a little bit. He was only a few pounds heavier. I think it was like seven pounds heavier than he had been at the Olympia. He said, she said, "Alla Martin intentionally applied force." Charles said, "We're not neither Giles or I pushing that assault narrative because he touched his his phone." Giles doesn't have an issue. That's fine, you know, but he did rush at him. And this whole thing about Jiles having uh faking a heart injury or heart condition, he didn't fake. He had a heart attack on stage at a pro show in Ireland in 2023. While he was at the podium mcing, he had to stop MCing, go backstage and they called an ambulance for him. And the tropenin levels were super high. They said it was one of the highest tropen levels. So it was a massive heart attack. Could have died. He had a triple bypass surgery, which is these, you know, the not one blockage of the major arteries, but three that they had to unblock and put stances in. He's got a scar, you know, from from his uh from his the bottom of his throat all the way down below his sternum. He's got a huge scar and he does have to be careful with his heart and getting too excited or too upset. Adrenaline can can mess with his heart and he can get an arhythmia and he could have another heart attack. Issues mainly hormones. No, I mean, yeah. I mean, all the guys are on are on hormones. I mean, when you're in prep, contest day is probably the absolute worst you'll feel both psychologically and physically. You've been dieting and doing all the cardio. You're on so many different so many different compounds, so many different peeds for a contest. offseason, you can get away with a two, three, four, whatever. I mean, a lot in the old days, guys would just do test and deca, maybe throwing a little dbol. Now, it's a whole laundry list of things that can mess with your psychology, your emotions, uh, make you angry, make you depressed, you know, all kinds. Those of you who compete know exactly what I'm talking about. Starting to become a bit of a Martin fan. Surely you think Martin would know this is going to attract trolls seeing how fragile his ego is. Well, he blocked me finally. It took him surprised it took him this long, I guess, to block me, but now he associates me with Giles. Uh, a couple other people that are coached by boss. I think I think think they've gotten the memo not to talk to me, but they haven't all blocked me yet. Move on drama. Yeah, this is the this is the very last video. The very last time we're talking about this. I just want to get the the footage on there that showed what Giles said. Giles talk Martin. Yeah. I mean, she's talking about your physique. And I understand you. It's hard to differentiate and compartmentalize. this is me, the person, the human being, and this is me, the physique that people are talking about. A lot of times it's it's intertwined. You can't really criticize someone's physique without them taking it deeply personally. I understand that. Um, but Giles was being paid to be there at the show to commentate. The promoters fly him over every year. They they appreciate him. They like what he brings to the pay-per-view commentary. A lot of the pay-per-views, the live streams don't have any commentary, but it does add an extra level. I think if you watch like the Olympia and you hear Phil Heat, Shawn Ray, uh, you know, the experts, uh, Tim Tim Wilkinson, they do add another level of, you know, it's just like watching a football game on TV. You could watch it with the sound off and you'd still see everything that was going on. But they do have analysts in the in the boo in the booth commentating, doing the playbyplays, color commentary, talking about it because people like to hear, you know, former greats and and people who have been covering pro football games for decades. They like to hear them break down the plays and the players and how they're playing, how the game's going. It's it's entertaining because it makes it more exciting for them. And the promoters do feel that Giles brings something extra to the pay-per-views or else they wouldn't bring him over. They wouldn't fly him over and pay him to do these. What would Jesus do or Jay do? [laughter] Surely not this. Didn't really fall this whole top to be honest. Is that serious? I mean, no. I like I said, your mom's flip-flop. This is the last time I'm going to even address it. The last time I'm going to play those clips one last time and then I'll probably just take some comments and and take off. But again, here is what Giles said about uh Martin and how he looked after the judging a year ago, a little over a year ago in Prague. Here it is. >> In a few minutes. >> So So you're saying you could you could see this going uh Chris Bumstead first? >> Yes, 100%. He's won it straight first. I I I predict he's won it straight first. >> Wow. Wow. Okay. Because I was the whole time I'm thinking Martin's got so much more size on him. He does. He does. >> I I I did have Chris winning some winning some poses, but being bodybuilding purists, a bodybuilding curse, I thought the size and density that Martin has would just overpower him, but you're saying, and I trust his midsection doesn't look right, and I'd like to see more conditioning and detail in his back. >> Wow. So, you think Martin could be third. I >> I don't know. I Okay, if I'm if I'm being realistic, I think Martin's going to get second. >> Yeah. Uh, Clar I'd like to see get third, but I think Hwex got fourth, but they gave him a chance. They really gave him a chance. And I'm telling you what, he looked good next to Clarita and really good next to Martin. >> So, um, but I mean that that that second, third, fourth could maybe go anyway. So, I wouldn't be don't be shocked if that obviously what obviously that was a semi-final. That was a prejudging. >> So, tomorrow it could go it could go either ways, you know. >> Yeah, because you know Martin needs to tighten up a little bit. This is not the Martin that we saw five weeks ago. But >> what Chris Cormier said last night, he says, "Guys," he says, "you can't peak twice like that just in a number of weeks. >> He's been straight on the prep. He hasn't sort of, you know, he hasn't come off his prep." He said, "It is the body doesn't peak like that." He said, "I'm telling you, Martin won't be on like he was at the Olympia." And I said in the live stream, I said, "Look, I said Martin straight away Martin was bear at the Olympia." >> Yeah. I mean, look, I'm I'm looking at the Olympia right here and he >> not the same guy. Not the same guy. >> Yeah, definitely. He's definitely off condition. Like you made reference to the 10. This 10 does not look that good. Very good today. It's just it's it's not doing any favor. >> Do you know what? I didn't even spot that, but you're right. You're right. You're bang on, mate. >> Yeah. I mean, whatever whoever tandem at the Olympia did a much better job. No offense. >> Yes. Yeah. No, I totally get Oh, there's Ronnie over there. There's Ronnie. There's Ronnie, Lauren, and Chris. >> Okay, [clears throat] before I get to the final comments, that was what Giles had to say about Martin after. Now, he was wrong. scorecard did indicate uh Martin had straight first places based on this after the judging which I wouldn't really agree with. I mean Martin's much bigger than Bumpstead, but this was the judging from day one that it was a two-day show. Uh as you can see Martin's tan was was off. His condition was off. He was holding a bunch of water. He was letting his stomach out. Uh the glutes which were shredded and strided to hell a couple weeks ago in Prague here they were not. He was off. He was off here. So, Bumstead was not. Bumpstead looked pretty great. Clarita looked pretty good there, too. Right. Uh, so you can see why it was very close. Even though the scorecard said it wasn't close, I think it was much, much closer than Martin getting a perfect score. Here's what y'all had to say about the win. Martin's win the next day, the day after it was all over after the win because again, this was a two-day show. So, here we go one last time. >> Yeah. Yeah. might got a little bit tear in his hamstring there. But um yeah, he obviously it didn't affect him too much because he obviously won the show, but um he he definitely looks a little bit better today. >> Yeah. >> But um I thought I thought Bumpster had this in the bag to be honest, mate. >> Yeah, I mean there are a lot of very upset people. >> I don't you know because yesterday he was beating him, but even if Martin legitimately did deserve to beat him and you know Tyler wasn't Tyler wasn't there, right? So we're not going to get a Tyler video on this. >> Steve Weinberger >> Steve might do a video. I don't know. But, you know, he had his reasons. Steve's the Mr. Olympia head judge. He's >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Probably the most experienced judge in the world. >> Um, he had his he went with the the more muscularity. In your mind, what how did Martin beat Chris tonight? >> Just I don't know. Uh, well, I was going pose for pose. In front of bicep, I had Chris. Front lat, I had Chris. Side chest, I had Chris. Side tricep, I had Martin. The rear shot is difficult because Martin's like twice as thick. But Chris has got so much better quality conditioning and separation. Um I still kind of gave the back shots to Chris. I did. And I mean AJ was like, "Oh no, no, the back shots to Martin." I kind of I'm not I'm not going to argue with that because I get why. Um but um if we go pose to pose and I was talking to Moro Sassy, he was saying that you know the abandon you've got to give it to Martin because Chris was hitting it like as a vacuum. He wasn't hitting a proper AB shot. So you can kind of forfeit that one to Martin. the most muscular. I thought I thought thought I thought Chris. So, if you want to look at it overall, I think Chris won more poses, but um who would have thought a classic guy next to like one of the thickest bodybuilders in the open would would even come close. But I tell you what, I was so happy for Shan Karita. And Sean Cita was only 178 tonight. You know >> what's that 178? Oh, you got it. >> Okay. So, yeah, let me get to your comments, but I I basically want to hear legitimately, was that Do you consider what Giles was saying talking [\h__\h] Would you, if you were Martin or say if you were pro and he said things like that about you, would you be upset and hold on to it for a whole year and then rush up to him and scream in his face the way Martin did during a poseown? Uh, don't know. God of frogs, he was born 1889. He's very old God of frogs. No reason. There was no reason for Martin to come up aggressively true. If he had such an issue, he could have had a friendly talk about it. Even if not a friendly, just a, you know, business tone and he's he's had every opportunity, but he held on to it for a whole year. There's nothing about Jaws commentary on some period. I don't know why people make excuse. No, Martin hasn't said anything. And the reason I would I don't expect, you know, JS did ask for an apology and some people like, ah, that's a [\h__\h] move asking for an apology. Uh, whatever. You can you can have your own opinion about that, but I don't expect an apology, but I would like to know if if there if Martin feels there was more to it. Was there more to Jles's [\h__\h] talking than what we just heard? Did he hear that Giles was talking about him behind his back on, you know, I don't know what it could possibly be, but I'm I'm ready to hear it. I'm, you know, Giles is ready to hear it. We're not above reproach where we we hold ourselves accountable when I make mistakes, which is all the time. That's why they call me wrong Harris. I own up to it. I admit my I admit I was wrong. I, you know, I say I'm sorry a lot of times because, you know, I have a lot of things to be sorry for. I I f up constantly. Student Martin is a very immature individual right now. Won't be a good ambassador for sport. Again, I mean, I have to me that has no bearing on his physique. I think he looked amazing amazing in Prague when he won that. Uh, here he is with Samson. Yeah, I just want to show this real quick because he looked phenomenal at this show there. There's no there's no question in my mind. This was a great look. He looked better than he did at the Olympia where he took fifth and Samson had been fourth. I had him beating Samson at the Olympia and here he went and it was just undisputable. They had to give it to him here. He was just that that much better than Samson here. Condition was just bang on. The color was perfect, everything. So, I had no issues uh with Martin physique. I don't like the way he he uh handled himself there with Giles, obviously, because I'm very biased. I'm a good friend of Giles. Uh we're the last of the Moheakans. You know, there aren't many journalists left, people that used to write for the magazines because there are no magazines anymore. Uh anyway, immature ambassador, professional bodybuilder. Well, Fouad says that professional bodybuilders are not professionals. He did make that excuse for Martin that they don't have to pro they don't have to uh handle themselves professionally because they're not professionals even though they are professional athletes technically because they compete for cash. So that does make you a pro alete whether you like it or not. Martin is greasy water. But I like Jonathan for what I've seen. His predictions are meh. They're spot on sometimes. Usually pretty offer because Martin freaked out. Well, it wasn't really prediction. I mean, he was basic predictions are when we talk about a show like say we're talk in a few days about the Japan Pro that's coming up next week. We're just making predictions based on how these guys have done and looked in the past. This wasn't really a prediction. It was an assessment of how he looked at the show. Why is Tyler Man okay? I guess I wasn't going to go there. So Tyler Tyler is on the road all the time. He he's basically devoted his entire life to this sport. He's judging, head judging every weekend somewhere. He's always on the only people he's ever around competitors. Other other judges and competitors. That's the only I think that's the only social network that that Tyler has because his job is so demanding. So, of course, he's going to date from within that pool. Uh, however, he doesn't date active competitors. He certainly wouldn't date someone that was going to be he was going to be judging on stage. That would be a massive conflict of interest. He has not done anything like that. I don't you know some athletes could take stuff like this so personally. Yeah. It's it's it's hard to, you know, like others have tried to stick up for Martin and trust me, I get it. When you put this much time and effort into your body, years of training, hard training, dieting, you know, depriving yourselves of the food you want to eat, sleeping like [\h__\h] taking years off your life with all these peeds, you know, it's a big sacrifice. You put a lot into that physique. I totally understand when someone says something about your physique, you take it personally. It's hard not to even for us who we don't make a dime off our physiques. So all of us watching this, you're most of us here wa you're all bodybuilders. Someone says, "Oh, your arms suck or your legs suck or you're fat or you know your your waist is blocky." It hurts. It hurts. Uh it does. The delivery does matter because sometimes people say it in a really mean way or a way that they're just you could you could tell they're just trying to put you down. They're just trying to make you feel bad. They want you to feel badly. When Giles and I, when we make critiques about physiques, we're not doing it that way. We're never trying to bring someone down or knock them down. Usually, almost all the time, it's constructive criticism. Condition could be better, although they come back with better condition next time and they win. This this or that body part could be better. Go work on it. I mean, I've had a ton of people, and so is Giles, say, "You know what? What you said about my physique at this show, it pissed me off, but I went back to the gym. I went back to the drawing board. I made the improvements, and now I'm winning." So, thank you. You were right. I didn't want to hear it at the time. And that's the thing is a a good critic isn't just crit criticizing to be a jerk or just for criticism's sake. It's constructive because these guys are all great athletes. They're all great bodybuilders. But what makes somebody the winner at a show versus someone who's second place, third place, or last place? There are levels to this. Martin Leaks Water, Baby Bulga. Well, no. I mean, he looked awesome at this last show. Don't get that twisted. You look great at this proud show. Low IQ, doesn't think things true. I don't know how how intelligent is. I have no idea. And J said was untrue. Remember Martin did the same thing with Andrew Jack being true racist. All I remember is he called Andrew a bag of chocolate milk or something like that from what I recall, which I guess you could consider that racist. I mean, I've heard much much more racist statements out of people's mouths. I'd like I'd love to hear Martin's perspective, too. I really would. I'm not I'm not kidding. I'm not being sarcastic or wise ass. I would like to hear it. He's never going to give me an interview. I know that. He's already blocked me on Instagram. He'll never talk to me again because I'm Giles's friend. He'll never talk to Giles again. Was on all those drugs you arrest for. Cocaine, Bell. I I didn't I don't know about all the drugs he was arrested for. I heard like fentin all over. And we've never I've never repeated any of that. It's been all over comments and social media posts and things like that, but I've never repeated that because whatever issues he had with recreational drugs or being arrested or whatever, I'm talking about physiques. I'm not talking about their personal life, their love life, none of that stuff. Um, obviously if there's a big court case and it's in the news, we talk about that. But other than that, I leave it alone. It's got no bearing on the physiques. Jal says was a professional and he only says opinion respectfully. That's obviously how I feel. Obviously, I'm on Giles's side. It's I'm not making any I'm not even trying to say I'm uh I'm neutral on this. I'm not neutral. I'm on Giles's side. Pretty ass move for Martin. I guess we'll see where it go. People are soft nowadays. Maybe it's emotions and what goes on prep. Yeah, you're definitely much more emotional during prep. The rehash g like muscle discard. called Kime Jamie Kime Gonzalez Duran. I did say at the beginning of this, this is the very last time and the only reason I made this was because my Facebook memories, the video that I made with Giles, the videos I made last year right after Prague popped up and I said, "Let me listen to what Giles said and see was he talking shit." That's that's fad. No, I don't think he does. I don't think I expect all comments like physic. Nick got much worse comment than Martin needed to act that way even Bob. Yeah. I mean, Bob said, "I got I'm gonna announce you in eighth place at the Olympia." And Nick rolled with it. He made t-shirts. Who the f is Bob? You know, he he has a sense of humor saying Martin's approach should act like, "Can you imagine Dorian Heath looking like this?" No, I I can't imagine Ronnie or Lee Haney or Dorian or Jay or even Phil Heath reacting like that or just hates commentation general like Yeah. I mean, I've heard that people have said if they say anything just what he feels is critical on his Instagram, he immediately blocks them. Immediately does not like criticism. A lot of people Hercules had seum winning. A lot of people take a good way and try to prove what he messed up, what's lacking. Yeah, he did. He fixed the tan and the condition, which was really just water. Martin fixed both of those things for the second day. It wasn't because Giles pointed out everyone saw what was going on with his physique that first day. Uh let's see if I'm winning. They would take the critique in a good way. J's media guys report what he sees in front of him. I think maybe eventually J will get an apology. I don't think he'll get I don't expect an apology, but I'd like I just would like to hear his rationale. What was going through Martin's mind? I would just like to hear why he did that. Why he felt he was justified in rushing up to Giles during the pose down and saying, "Next time you want to talk [\h__\h] about me, say it to my face." Big egos go ahead and hit a B. Well, in big egos, it's a lot of people with deep-seated insecurities that sort of mask that with this false bravado or ego. Yeah, Damron. Who hasn't blocked you? I don't have I don't know anyone else has blocked me. I don't know why they would block me because what did I do? Story's completely over. Yeah, this is the end of it, boss. This is the very end of it. I'm never mentioning this again. Tap phone and talk [\h__\h] Bunch of [\h__\h] fairies, man. Well, that's the question. Verier Lauren, was he talking [\h__\h] when he was pointing out what was what were the issues with his physique, which he was paid to do? I don't pay him to talk on my YouTube channel, but he was being paid as a commentator by the promoters to talk about what he saw in front of him. Warren told Nick he looked fat on stage at Pittsburgh. Exact proves the point. Put yourself guys. Peace out. Have a good rest of your day. It's actually night time over there for you. It's just emotions. Definitely wouldn't say rush to dudes on plenty of gear. I think most people that would [\h__\h] in their system would do the same. Martin is Will Smith. Keep my name out your mouth. And he slapped poor Chris Rock. Oh boy. All right. So yeah, I'm not going to belabor this. I'm not going to drag this out anymore. That was it. I just wanted to put out there what Jles actually said a year ago to see what Martin has been fuming and percolating over for over a year that he felt the need to come up and say, "Don't talk, you talk [\h__\h] about next time you talk [\h__\h] about me, do it to my face." So, I want to hear in the comments, guys. Was Giles talking [\h__\h] Was Martin out of line? Was Jaws out of line? Just let me know. Let me know what you guys think. Your opinion matters. You're the people that make this sport. Without the fans, there is no sport. Uh, and of course without the viewers I have no YouTube channel. So appreciate all you guys. Thanks for watching. See you later.