What's up guys? Ron here and I wanted to showcase a guy that has been getting a little bit of attention but not as much as I think he warrants. talking about Edward Edward Ali Carbo originally from Sierra Leon in Africa now living in Dubai and he was not so much overlooked at the Europa Pro inbach Germany which was won by Urs Kachinsky but kind of got lost in the shuffle because everyone was so focused on Urs who had just made his pro debut a week before in Italy and won that. And of course, Quint Quint Beastwood, Quinton Aria was still trying to get his Olympia qualification. So, everyone was talking about those two guys at the show, but the third place man has been steadily climbing up the ranks. So, these are photos taken just a few days before the show that have kind of gone viral. Um, these were posted, at least some of them were posted a few months back, right before the show in Germany, but not the full set of eight. So, obviously, this is gym lighting. Uh, it's very advantageous. Everybody looks better in this type of lighting. The stage lighting, as you'll see, is brutal. But look at the potential for this guy. I'm seeing shades of Ronnie Coleman in there. I'm seeing Phil Heath kind of in some poses. his back was a weaker point. It's got it's become a lot better. So, we're going to look at these and then look at the stage footage. So, I think either something happened in between here and the time he got on stage in Germany that diminished the condition a little bit. My guess is maybe overcarbed, spilled over a little bit with the fluid because this to think that this is a third place. And guys, he has placed he was seventh at the Dubai Pro a couple months before that back in July. The show won by Beirus Tobani for second year in a row back in the year before the 2024 Dubai Pro. He was fifth place. He hasn't competed a whole lot and he's still a young guy. He's not even 30 yet. But I see just tremendous potential in this guy, this young man from uh living in Dubai now where a lot of the influencers live. So let's take a look take a look at this posing footage. So granted, this is not the same resolution. It's nowhere near as crystal clear as those photos. I still think something happened. something took away a little bit of the condition and the fullness because we're not seeing what we saw in those photos here on stage. [snorts] Now, I don't think those photos are manipulated. I don't think there's any Photoshop going on, anything like that, any AI enhancement. I just think the guy looks phenomenal. And yeah, you can see the condition. He didn't look as hard and grainy here on stage as he did in those pictures, but you can still see the muscle bellies, the structure, the size on this guy. What's up, Kion? They're going to do a live Ursin announce the New York Pro. Yeah, I mean, it's really I I don't see how that's a whole video. Big Ron, what's up, Lee Priest? Uh, it's been known for a couple weeks. Yeah, and I mean, I knew Urs would come back and do an open show. I assumed he would do one later in the season. All right, that's enough of that. Go back to the photos. Yeah, this guy impresses the hell out of me. Who is Edward working with? I don't know who his coach is on his bio. I don't see anything about a coach, and I haven't heard any of the top coaches claim him as their own. Joel Stubs is a better set of wheels. Yeah, I mean, what is this guy really missing? I don't really see a weak point on him. Let's try to find a weak point, shall we? It's got plenty of size. That's a pose very few people can pull off. You have to have massive shoulders and arms to hit that pose. You really need massive triceps to do this pose and not have your arms kind of flatten out and look smaller. Front lat looks crazy. Look at those nice striations in the pecs from top to bottom. legs. Nice striations in the teardrops in the even you could see even a couple striations in that outer quad there. So these photos they're sharpened up a bit which you know any of you guys who post photos we all sharpen our photos because makes you look a little bit sharper. That's why it's called sharpen. But still you can't sharpen something that's not there. Meaning all the muscle separation and detail has to be there in the first place. Yeah. I mean chest looks great. shoulders, arms, side leg, front leg. And as I said in the past, the back shots were problematic. He needed more back thickness. I think he has definitely brought that up because I do not remember his back looking anything like that a year or two ago. It's It's been It's been pretty uh So, who is he does it say who he's po who he's uh coaching? Who's coaching him? Probably not. all [snorts] his links here. He's sponsored by Bullion Nutrition. I if it fits your macros. Which is a it's a meal prep company. That's his meal prep sponsor. Grandpo Grabandgo. That's some ecommerce site is another affiliate or sponsor. So, I don't know who coaches uh Edward. I was calling him Ali for the longest time and then I saw even on his even on the bio page of the Instagram it's Edward A. Cararbo. So it's not Ali Edward, it's Edward Ali and again originally from Sierra Leon which I couldn't tell you where that is. I know it's in Africa somewhere. Certainly not one of the bigger countries. He was on the Menace podcast last year. Gave his whole story. Not to say I'm not interested in his story, but I really I'm more interested in hearing looking at the physique updates for this guy. And like I said, these were that's the picture that really went viral. That pose there looked like uh that's actually a little more clear here. He must have been recording it directly. So that's some really good posing footage of Edward here. So what do you guys think? You think this guy's going to win a show this year? I don't know which show, but I saw some shows this year that were I think he would have won them. I should say last year. We're already in deep into into 2026 at this point. I'm just super impressed with this guy. And I was last year, too. And I I I don't think he's getting overlooked. Although at the Dubai show, I thought he could have done a little better. Yeah, I would I would post this picture quite a bit as well. If I had a picture of me looking like that, I'd be posting it constantly. He posts it a lot because heck that that's the one that that's the pose that reminds me of Phil Heath when he when he hits that pose right there because the fullness across the shoulders, the the round fullness of the arms. Very similar to Phil. Very similar. Not to say he's Phil Heath. There was only one Phil Heath in bodybuilding. There will never be another Phil Heath. you showing the wheels because I think at one time his legs didn't quite match the upper body just like the back didn't. Back and legs typically take a lot of guys longer to develop to bring up to the standards of areas like the shoulders, chest, and arms. Those tend to be the areas that grow quicker for even these guys who are they're genetic freaks. So that was four weeks ago. That's how he's looking now. Dungeon Gym. If that's an actual gym that he's training at called Dungeon Gym. This was posing weeks posing update from five weeks ago. He's clearly been working hard on his back. His back has come up a lot. Uh let's see. Reminds me of Joel Stubs. VIP in the chat. Lee Priest. Yeah. Oh, that was a joke. [laughter] Just watching you and Xavier at the Harbor Mate. Yeah, that was a that was a cool cool video. Just sitting on the grass talking instead of cooped up in a in a house or an apartment like we are. Everyone needs a coach. F coaches. Some people definitely need coaches. Some people need their No, he won't be at the Ohio show. Jack, this is AI know everyone. It's It's kind of weird for me to be talking about someone at this point who's not in the Arnold because we only have two and a half weeks left to the Arnold, but I just saw these this set of photos come come up posted on his IG. Actually, we had on our group chat uh the the old MD people and we're we're just marveling at this guy. Calves are weak? Yeah, calves. Nobody's calves calves are weak on a lot of people. It doesn't seem to make or break anybody if if you have weaker calves. It's a lot of weight. Let's see if he moves it. Uh, okay. Okay. I did not expect his legs to go that far down. I give him credit, man. That's That's a lot of weight to use. His legs are hitting parallel to the platform. His his femurss, they're going parallel to the to the platform at the top. So, as far as I'm concerned, that's a that's a full rep. He's got the hacks. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Seven plates on the hack. An old Cybex model. Those are very That's a very heavy model. If you know, you know. Those of you who've used that particular Cybex hack squad, not a light one. So, yeah, the Dungeon Dubai. I'm not familiar with that gym, but it must be pretty good if he trains there. Yeah, Dubai is on my bucket list. There's a lot of other places I want to go first, but so that was nine weeks ago. So I'm assuming this was probably taken right after the the uh Germany showbach the Europe Europa Pro. Pretty early. Lee gets up really early. Lee gets up at like 3 in the morning, I think. I think he's training by 4:30. What's up, Don Pump? Blessings older brother. [laughter] Yeah, there is some resemblance facially. Blessing is older. Blessing is actually older than him. I believe this guy Edward Ali Carbo is only 28 and Blessing Blessing's not old, but Blessing's got to be about 35 by now. He's better than Rean, huh? Don't let the Regan fans hear you say that and coach get out of bed in the morning. Snow Liz out sweep on his calves. Yeah, I mean you can see tremendous separation and striations here in this pose. Of course, that's this is like optimal lighting, I like to say, because it's coming from different angles and yet you still have some shadows. Whereas when you're on stage, the stage lighting is so brutally harsh and bright. There are no shadows to fill in. I should say that the light is so bright that it fills in all the separations. You have to be deeply strided and separated for those to show on stage with decent stage lighting. Uh, I'm guessing no, he's from Sierra Leon, which let's ask AI. Where is that? Where is Sierra Leone? Where is Sierra Leon in Africa? Where is Sierra Leon in Africa? because I'm curious where it is. Okay. Okay. So, I could see it's Liberia to the south and Guinea to the north. But what does that mean? Okay. So, I'm looking at uh [laughter] I'm looking at Africa. It's on the West Coast. It's on the West Coast, which Nigeria and Ghana. Nigeria is also in West Africa. So typically it seems the West African nations such as Nigeria, Ghana, Sierra Leon, that's where we seem to have better genetics for bodybuilding. Uh on the east side like Somalia, Ethiopia, uh places like that, Kenya, that's where they have I got Ken. Is Kenya wrong? Where is Kenya? Anyway, the the east side of Africa, people tend to be more slightly built, more ectomorphic, thinner. On the west side of Africa, we're talking subsaharan Africa below the Sahara Desert, that's where you seem to see a lot more ability to build large volumes of muscle mass. Like I bet if you walk through a big city in Nigeria, I bet you'd see a bunch of guys who look like they work out and they don't even work out. No Sierra Leone. Not everyone's an auto diet act self-learner. Yeah, a lot of people do need a coach. Edward Ellie is super underrated. I agree. That's why I did the video. I I think this guy needs I know Ivan Bodybuilding mentioned him a couple days ago in a video and I think Nick Nick on Nick Strength and Power did too, but he really needs he really needs some more publicity. This guy's only got, and I say only, but just to give you an idea, on Instagram, a guy who looks like that should have at least a half a million followers, maybe a million. He's got 67 66.7,000 followers. It's not a lot for someone who looks like that. Uh, it's more than me, but you know, Ron Harris will get no sleep during the Arnold. No, actually, Donald, the great thing is the Arnold is on East Coast time, which is awesome for me. It's the Olympia that messes me up because the Olympia is three hours. It's in Vegas, which is three hours behind me. So, it means me and anyone else helping me out like Mike Cox and Giles doing the the commentary and the playbyplay and the the watch party, I should say. We're up till and I can't complain because Giles, we're often up till like 4 in the morning our time, but then poor Giles five hours ahead of me, six hours at some point parts of the year. six hours depending on daylight savings time. He's up very very late like into the next day obviously. Mr. Olympia in the gym on stage is different like Dennis James blessings. She was interview with Boyer Co. they train his calves a lot. People assume oh you're talking about Boyer Co. Yeah. I mean I think most people would have better calves if they put more time and effort into them. I think most people just give up on their calves. They try training them for a little while and decide ah I just have bad calf genetics. They they either stop training calves completely or just do a couple sets at the end of leg day and that's not going to cut it. We see this guy on stage. So Jack, I'm guessing so he lives in Dubai. He's done the Dubai Pro the last two years in a row. I think it's very safe to say he's going to do it again this year, which won't be till won't be until July. But I'd like to see him jump into some other shows and get his face out there because I said third place at the Europa Pro in Germany behind Urs Kalachinsky and Quint Naria. Quint Beastwood that was that was no joke. That was a very respectable placing because you know Urs was on fire. Nobody was nobody was beating Urs. He looked fantastic. And Quint Quint looked great too. Dubai is up there with North Korea for me for bucket list. He needs more quad smatches sick body. Yeah. I mean, the the quads, they they don't need to come up much. I'd say just a little bit more. They look pretty damn good. But I agree with the body an upper body that looks like that, you got to match in the quads. I see what you're saying. 3:00 a.m. Yikes. Doing cardio now. It's 6 a.m. 6 a.m. there. And it's 6:00 a.m. on Wednesday there. It's 2:04 p.m. on a Tuesday here in the Boston area. So, that's 12 + 4, 16 hours ahead of me. Yikes. That's a big difference. Blessing. Uh, he's got to be close. He's got to be close. Let's see if AI can figure this name out. Blessing. Auge uh 34. Okay. Yeah. Okay. As of February. So in September he will be 35. He is still 34. I knew he was I knew he was around that. So he's 34. He'll turn 35 in September. Just still young in bodybuilding. I'm not trying to say he's older anymore. They're all 50. That big Colombian dude. Oh, talk about Rubiel. Rubiel to me they call Neckzilla. Rubel Mosca from Colombia. To me his legs are just way too big. I'm just I'm not a fan. He looks like a a bunch of big body parts sort of slapped together with no rhyme or reason. The physique doesn't flow. He's got crazy crazy side shots because in the side shots you can't see shape and structure. They're pretty much hidden. So, you know, guys who have really wide waist, he doesn't, but I'm just saying when guys have a really thick wide waist, they still look great in the side shots. It's when they turn to the front and they do their front relaxed, their front double bicep, the front lat abdominal thigh, then you're like, "Oh my goodness." But from the side, big freaky guys, even if they have a a really wide waist, you can't see it in the side shots. It's not so close to Nigeria, they can blame it on the water. I mean, it's so it's right there. I've heard a theory that in West Africa, western the whole west western section of that big continent, it's common to have not only myostatin deficiency, which we know is uh it's a hormone that limits muscle growth and if you're deficient in it, then there's nothing to limit the growth and you just keep growing. They're myostatin deficient. I heard this theory and they're fostatin deficient. another hormone that I guess having a having a less a lower than lower than normal amount is a good thing if you want to be a bodybuilder fall statin. Yeah, we don't hear too much about fallatin do we? West African genetics. So blessing said this I'm passing it on [snorts] but I want to make it clear that I didn't say this. Blessings said in an interview once, we were talking about Nigerian genetics and he said in the old awful evil days of the slave trade when men and women were being kidnapped and children were being kidnapped in Africa, thrown onto ships like fire, stacked like firewood and sent off across the ocean to the new world to be slaves. [snorts] At the slave auctions, the ones who came from Nigeria, they were the most expensive slaves. They cost a lot more. It's like I hate to compare human beings to automobiles, but you know, like a Ferrari versus a Kia, just way more expensive because they were known to be so much physically superior. They could get more work out of these slaves. So, you know, I'm not condoning slavery, guys. Please don't get it twisted like that. blessing did point out that even back then, so we're going back two to 300 years in history or more. Um, it was known that Western Africans were physically superior. They had a greater amount of muscle mass, muscle endurance. They they could work harder. They were stronger. Just physic they were physically superior specimens. It's a South American starring frog from what? Sun Sri Lanka. Is that a real Is that a real frog? [laughter] Oh, the staring frog I think you meant. Wasn't that on South Park or something? I can't remember what what that was on Kenya. Like I guess it's marathon for me then. Shame cuz I love bodybuilding. Yeah. I mean, how many how many of the marathons around the world have been won by Kenyans? It's it's crazy that one country in Africa has produced so many marathon champions. And I they figured out it was something with their blood, something that they're able to produce more red blood cells or oxygenate. I can't remember what the exact mechanism that made them different from other people, but it was unique to Kenya, which explains why so many marathon great marathon runners come from that one one country, which is crazy to think, right? Kenya has the fast lines. I mean, aren't all lions fast? I don't know. Sir heard you a little Polish. No. So I know the DNA test said Muldova, Romania, Ukraine. But I know on my mother's side, my father came from Luds, Lodi, Ludzi, Luds, Poland. And my grandmother came from Steppen, Ukraine. And they met in the US. They both immigrated here around before the Russian Revolution. So like around 2010 2010 1910. Yeah. So we're talking we're going way back. And they met in Low Massachusetts in a factory they were both working. Yeah. Oh, I'd love to see all of Europe. I'd love to see the whole I think it's so much history in Europe and I'd love to go I'd love to visit all those countries. Look at the guy behind him in that picture looks ah the skeleton. Should probably throw up another picture, huh? That is a hell of a picture. If I had a picture like that, I would make that my screen saver. I would make it my screen saver my PC, my phone. See how these guys get you? They all You always think it's going to be some posing, but then you're looking at training. The the posing is just the thumbnail like, "Oh, looks like he's going to pose." Nope. More training. Posing. Posing. Okay. Well, this actually was pos. So, this was 15 weeks ago. 15 weeks. So this would have been I don't know was this right before right after that show 15 weeks ago. How long ago was that? Because Germany the German show was September I believe right? Yeah that was going back a ways man his muscles look very dense and artificial go for high intense train. How did I don't know how he turned pro. I don't you know we used to have we had there's still a website called musclememory.com it gave you the stats the competitive record of all the people if you look them up contest results going back to the 1960s but I think the guy who ran the website it's still up but he stopped updating it around 2020 because I think he was soliciting donations you know to just to help out And nobody was donating, I think. So I think he decided screw this almost low body fat. Well, Ronnie was negative five% body fat. Isn't that what Ronnie said? Why is he not in the New York Pro? Well, he might be. He might be. We don't know who's coming to the New York Pro yet, except for Urs Kachchinsky. Americans suck in geography. Well, I think most people suck in geography. I'm not horrible in geography. I I have the general idea of where most countries are. >> [snorts] >> How many Rocky Dennis have? Oh, Rocky Dennis was in Mask. Oh, yeah. But what's I don't get the reference. So, Rocky Dennis was the main that was a character in the movie Mask with Eric Stoultz based on the true story of a a young man who had a horrible cranial facial deformity. I'm pretty sure Ronnie from James can trace back to Western Africa. It wouldn't surprise me. I mean, if you're talking about the African continent, it's a huge continent. Obviously, in the north, you have very different people. You have like Egypt, uh, Tunisia, uh, God, what else is up there? Well, you know what I'm saying. It's more like, it's more like the Middle East. They speak Arabic. Uh, they look different. And then when you get below the Sahara, the people are they look African. They look, you know, they're African. So, I wouldn't be surprised if uh Ronnie, Lee, Haney, Flex Wheeler, Chris Cormier, they all they all could trace their ancestry back to somewhere in Western Africa. That would that would make sense to me. He's train five times a week. Yeah. You know, Yeah, Danny. I mean, I remember reading things in old body really old bodybuilding magazines, like I had some vintage ones going back to the 60s and 70s, and there were there were recommendations from some of the oldtime bodybuilders to do a set of calves, standing calf raises every hour on the hour, every hour you were awake, which would come out to like 16 or 17 sets a day, every day. I think you only supposed to do one set. And people swore by that. And you remember we were just talking about Boyer Co. Boyer Co. used to sell this shoe. It was a very strange looking, almost looked like an orthopedic shoe, but it had you, you know, now that I think about it, it was almost like wearing high heels for guys, except it was a bit big and blocky looking. It wasn't as dainty as a high heel. But I think the whole purpose of it was to keep you on your tiptoes. And I've told people to do that. If you have a real problem, your calves are not responding at all, try walking on your tiptoes for, you know, I'm I'm not saying any special time amount of day, but try, you know, if you have to walk, you're going to look like an idiot, but who cares? If you have to walk across the parking lot from the to the gym or the grocery store, whatever, post office, whatever you're going, walk on your calves. Or if you're going upstairs, I walk on your calves as much as on your toes, I should say. Walk on your tip toe as much as you can and you will activate a lot of calf fibers that you probably weren't activating before. I mean, I think that's why ballerinas, the dancers, they're little tiny women. They're very petite. You have to You'll never see a big clunky ballerina, professional ballerina. But as slightly built as they are, they all have very respectable calf development. And the only explanation is because they're always on their they're always up on their toes. basically on their on their toes like uh like they're wearing high heels but they're barefoot or in those slippers. Leave a like for Ron. Thank you, Jack. Doesn't doesn't cost you anything. Ble Fox insane jinx pack on serious mask. Yeah, it was sloppy if you ever see it, but uh you know, again, I was looking at some of Burle Fox's pictures in old bodybuilding magazines. He was damn good. He was very, very good. He was in terms of like overall thickness and density in areas like the shoulders, chest, and arms. He was way ahead of his time. P. So Chinese would be worth nothing. I don't get it. Uh I don't get the reference. Blacks are superior and viable. I mean, I guess it's not politically correct to say that, but I mean, they are. I that's not to say that there aren't some great uh white if there is such a thing as white white Asian Latino bodybuilders. There certainly are. But it's like the NBA. There are some great Asian pro basketball players. There are some great white pro basketball players, but the vast majority of guys in the NBA are African-American. And why? They're just they're just better built for it. taller, more agile, faster, more coordinated. You just these are genetic factors. You can't ignore them. So discover what my genetic superiority will be. Well, I always say pretty much everyone who trains with weights for at least a couple years, you got to find one thing, at least one body part, if not a couple, but you got to find at least one that responds really well. Like I've seen some guys that for whatever reason they just have crazy shoulders or crazy chest or crazy arms, calves sometimes and in in many cases I'm sure they train everything equally hard, but one body part, one muscle group is going to respond way better than the others. I mean, for me it was my quads and my chest. Those are the two things that just blew the hell up from day one. As soon as I started training chest, it grew and it got thicker and thicker and thicker. And I saw other guys around me, the their arms got huge. My arms never got huge. And I would have a chest twice the size of theirs. And it didn't make sense because obviously my triceps had to push all that weight, right? You can't press heavy dumbbells and barbells and hammer strength machines and Smith machines. You can't push all that weight on chest movements without your triceps taking a lot of the work, right? But and I was very strong on chest movements. I could do a lot with uh dips. I used to do two sometimes three 45 pound plates on a belt doing dips. But my tries never really responded. So far it seems to be typing speed. Well, even if it's not a physical thing, Donald, I think everybody's got a hidden talent somewhere. Maybe most maybe some people never find out what it is because they never try music or what or it's a sport or whatever it would be, art, whatever their talent would be. Maybe they never even found out because they never tried to do that thing. But I think everybody's got some kind of talent. Some everyone's got the the potential to be very good at something. [snorts] Pushing his Polish heritage quite a bit. Oh, so he doesn't even need to do that. The Germans love him. Enter code palaco. Where does it say that? Majority of those Western African men have settled in the southern region of United States. Nowhere in the southern region. Uh well, I hate to say it, but the reason they're in the south, the reason we have so many African-Americans in the south was unfortunately because of that blight on American history called the slavery. That's those were the states, the southern states that had the plantations that were bringing over the slaves to work for free. So, you know, the Once slavery ended, African-Americans they did disperse to the rest of the country. But you still have a very high concentration of African-Americans in those states where they originally came from over to America from under awful circumstances centuries ago. Look at the hang on hamstring. Yeah, this guy is great. I need to get a different different video up though. I think you guys are sick of seeing this. So, that update I think was taken right this that had to be right before the Germany show, the Europa show. There's a good shot. Yeah, look at that. It's just This guy was born for bodybuilding. Born for bodybuilding. [snorts] Quint Beastwood, bro. I can't tell you for offseason or prep. So, Quint gave him some props there. That was backstage. It's very dark. Very dark. These are some stage shots. Yeah, I mean he looks Yeah, he does look pretty hard grain. I think the other pictures that video we saw the resolution was not very good at all. Yeah, he's really not missing anything, guys. He's He's very complete. And I remember uh I'll show you some stage there's more stage shots. Yeah. See, I I often judge people almost not entirely, but you can tell a lot about someone's genetics from one pose. And the frontal bicep tells you a lot. Tells you the overall shape and structure of the physique. Tells you how you can see everything from the front. Obviously, you see the muscle bellies, the insertions, the the shoulder to waist ratio, whether or not they have a good quad sweep. There's a lot you can tell from that one pose. I always say when the guys come out and hit the front lats, front front double bicep, I can pretty much get the placings almost done. I just need to see like a couple other poses and and I got it. Earth by blood is full Polish. Consider himself German. He's lived here all his life. Yeah. So, this is a Polish heritage. I think you guys have a word. No, maybe you don't because I remember Dennis Wolf is from Siberia, Russia, but he went, his family moved to East Germany when he was when he was a kid, when he was like 12, 11 or 12. And they had a word for the Russians that moved because I guess a lot of them a lot of them moved there after the Berlin Wall fell. And uh they had a word for the the immigrants. I don't think it was a nice word. How appeal does he get on stage? Well, you tell me. I think he's in pretty damn great condition. So, we look at the back shot, the back poses, which was Let's see if there's another set of photos from the show. Okay, here's some good posing. Here's some Here we go. This is the best best footage I've seen so far. It's better than the footage that I recorded that I was playing earlier. Pretty damn crispy Christmas tree to me. That looks pretty great. Look at that. Look at the taper. Could he be a little bit hard? I'd like to see a little more detail in the hams, but I think that's a gen thing. Like I like to see all those cords going up and down the hamstring like steel cables, but it's a hell of a taper. He's got very wide back and shoulders and narrow waist. He could have been a little bit harder. Could have been a little bit I mean it was enough to get third place behind Earth Urs and Quent, man. And there were obviously those two were superstars. Even Kai Green commented here on this said, "Is it me or does this guy's physique remind you of Phil Heath?" I could be wrong. Let's see if people flamed him for that. Or Bill Burke. Huh? Phil Heath responded, "You've been wrong a few times, brother." [laughter] AJ, you guys know AJ Kelly Robert said, "Would have had no issue with him placing higher than third yesterday. I was there live before shocked seeing him. He was a 100% on and complete." What people say to that awesome talent. Couple areas need attention in big trouble. Phil Clayar, Burle Fox, and Victor Richards type of genetic. Someone said, "Agree AJ's muscle bellies are insane. So full and hard." So JT B say he should have got second or first in my book. So that guy could have seen him beating both both Urs and Quint. See Northeast J don't sleep on Northeast USA. [laughter] I don't think we we have 200 people. Northeast genetic. Where would that be? Who's better, him or Martin? Martin's better. Martin's better right now. But this guy's still he's only been competing as a pro, I think, since 2023. So, he's he's finished three pro seasons, I believe. Uh, and I looked at the footage from 2023. He's he's gotten a lot bigger since then. [snorts] I saw a video where he was another another guy like Samson. You wouldn't have you wouldn't have known he was going to be this big. Why they get mad when asks they're of African origin? Um, I don't know. I mean, obviously, if you're you're from Africa, it's pretty obvious. I mean, if you're from Asia, it's pretty obvious. You know, we're all one race, the human race. But we are kind of like different breeds. You know, dogs, if you want to compare human beings to dogs, there's only one species of dog. Canine can kis or something, whatever it's called. So, all dogs are one. They're the same species. That's why any I think any dog can mate with any other dog and have puppies. That's why we have all these crazy designer breeds and everything. [snorts] Um, so humans are the same thing. We're one species, homo sapiens, sapiens, but there's a huge a huge genetic variation among us around the world. You want to call it races, ethnicities, whatever you want to call it. I mean, [snorts] we've we've evolved different and adapted to different environments and climates throughout all these I think humans have been around for about a half a million years now. I think that's when we finally got rid of like No, we still had cave cave not cave people like Neanderthalss were I think they were around up until 50,000 years ago. So, we haven't been the only humanoid life form on Earth, our our particular species for that long. Sam Silk was Rocky Dennis. Oh, you call him like You think Sam Silk looks like Rocky Dennis? He's way better looking than Rocky Dennis. Come on. Morocco and Algeria. Thank you. Those are two more uh northern African northern African nations. I mean, uh yeah, big difference between North Africa and South Africa. North Africa used to have uh like empires. The Egyptian Empire. Uh the Carthage. Carthage was another one I remember from God I took ancient maybe ancient history I took that way back in middle school you know 45 50 like 40 years ago 45 years ago anyway yeah Carthage like Hannibal was a great general they used to fight with the Romans and they were based out of I think what is now Morocco or Algeria had a population of 230 million oh even then you would have to have genetics of less than one in a million >> [snorts] >> Yeah. So they're there. That's that's a that's a substantial population. I think the USA is 350 now. Brazil's up there, too. That's for that shoe. Yeah. The Boyer Co shoe. It was pretty crazy. Train cans every possible you couldn't move them at all. Did they grow? You didn't You didn't answer if they grew though. Couldn't move them like you couldn't move the measurement or they were so sore all the time. If you have really high calf insertions, obviously there's not much you can do. Crazy to tell how it's the west or east most time. I tell you Ronnie for sure is not always from the east. Somalians, Ethiopians, I mean unfortunately with all the the the issues we've had with the the fraud in Somalia over the past uh [snorts and clears throat] few months. I guess it's only been a big issue. We know what Somalians look like. They look very different from pretty much anyone else. They have a very unique look. Like I I'm pretty confident I could spot a Somali in a crowd if I had to. The men. The men have a a very distinct look. Their heads are big. So there he was. Monsters do exist. Some stage shots. Who took these? Saw another good shot here was backstage pumping up. Yeah. Some pump up shots. Look at See, look at the quad sweep there. That was pretty crazy. Yeah, I could see the condition wise. He could have been better there. He could have been better. I mean, he could have been the separations could be a little more clear and deep when I when I'm looking at this. He still looks great, don't get me wrong, guys, but I'm trying to figure out why isn't this guy winning? Why isn't he won a show yet? But I do think this is going to be a breakout year for him. I think we're going to see I'm I think we're going to see this guy win a show this year. I believe we will. We already looked at that. Yeah. Where was that? In Germany. Oh, this is an AI picture. AI. I get fooled by my son. My son makes fun of me all the time because I get I am so easily fooled by AI. Yeah, that that footage doesn't look great. See, so that was that was right before the Germany show or was it before the Dubai show? Dubai was in July. Germany the German fro show was in September. [snorts] Yeah. So this was this was prep for those two shows, I guess. Yeah, just a few more. That shoe make you run faster and jump higher. Yeah, I don't Did it work? I don't know if it I'd like to hear from anyone if actually they got any results from those shoes. They did they did sell a shoe that was that was supposed to increase your explosive power, your jump, your vertical leap, all that stuff. Shoes of future Seinfeld. It sounds like something that would have been on Seinfeld like uh Kramer would have had it probably some guy like George. Yeah, I used to love Seinfeld. Primolan versus Masterine. I don't know enough about those two, but a lot of guys are running uh Primabolan [snorts] with test as a as a year round quote unquote offseason stack. They seem to go very well together. Maston more so a prep drug that use people use while they're prepping for a show. Not something anyone is on year round. [snorts] Jim say wearing a jumpsuit. Oh boy. [laughter] Haven't seen anyone in a jumpsuit. She looked at original Charlie's Angels. That looked like it would be very uncomfortable to train in personally. Which content has the best hair gene pool? Trying to think of who has the best hair genetics. Uh I'm going to give that to Persians. Iran. Most of the guys from Iran that I've ever known, and of course they're all in America, the ones I know, they had hairline down almost to their eyebrows, super thick, bushy eyebrows, but very thick hair and a very low hairline. I don't see too many Persians with that creeping male pattern baldness, which I was I had. I went to Turkey to get my hairline lowered another couple inches again. But I'd say Persians have the best hair genetics. say black superior by um I you know I when you when I say superior it's not to say that they're the only they're the only group of people who can succeed in bodybuilding but if you look across the board who's been winning shows in at the highest amateur levels at the pro level it's it's more so African-American people of African descent than others I I don't someone would have to actually do a big meta study and get the real numbers on it. But I think people uh with African heritage, particularly West African heritage, do seem to have a lot of those attributes, those qualities with the long muscle bellies, uh nice structure with the wide clavicles, wide shoulders, and a narrow waist. I mean, you do see people obviously there are quote unquote guy a lot of guys with European heritage who are also excellent bodybuilders. There's there's no doubt about that. I just think if you're looking at sheer numbers, you would see a trend that more people more men with African heritage are are better suited in terms of what's going to make you a good bodybuilder or not because it's all genetics. It's depressing in some way to realize just how genetically ruled bodybuilding is. You have to have the right parents. I've heard I still hear people saying, "Well, it doesn't matter what your genetics are. You can just take enough drugs and if you train hard enough and really believe in yourself." That's almost like saying, "I'm 5'7 and a half. If I really believed I could be 6'5, I could. No, I can't. There's nothing I can do to become 6'5." Well, there is that limb length. I could have my legs broken 20 times in in that surgery to put them back, right? But you get the you know what we're saying different no racism was back. I mean it's it it would be boring if we were all clones if we were all like you know I don't know which Star Wars movie finally revealed that all the Stormtroopers all the Stormtroopers were clones of uh Django Fett, Boba Fett's father because they all took off the the helmets and they all looked exactly like him. That was like, oh my gosh. But yeah, what a boring world would it be if we all looked exactly the same if we all if we had all the same opinions and everything. That would be boring, too. I mean, we disagree on a lot of things as humans, don't we? That's why, my gosh, the USA is so divided right now. While I don't like to see all the fighting and the hatred and the how divided we are as a country, it would still be bizarre if we all believed all the same things, the exact same values and everything. That would be that would just be like out of a Twilight Zone or Black Mirror episode. Afro gentlemen are phenomenal in Bible. Same in boxing, police track field. Nominal in basketball. Yeah, definitely basketball. Earth's got a house with me in a studio live by 247. See, I don't get that. Why does he have to live in the gym? I mean, can't you just go to the gym? Oh [\h__\h] Close grip bench under tricep exercise. [snorts] No, I mean, if if you talk to a lot of guys who built huge triceps over the years, they're going to give like I remember uh Evans Aani, that was his go-to movement. He had still has monster triceps. I think the best two movements for big triceps are going to be close grip bench presses and weighted dips just because the sheer amount of weight, the load that you can put on the triceps. You know, think about like a tricep kickback. Even a strong guy is never going to use more than, I don't know, 30, 35 pounds, 40 pounds on that. But a very strong guy, very strong guy could probably do a 405 close grip bench press for a few reps. uh I could probably do dips with, you know, a big strong 250 pound guy throws on another 100 pounds and now he's dipping 350 pounds for reps. I mean, that's that's going to that's going to blow up your triceps as long as you have the the muscle cells, the muscle bellies to to grow. Even the whites are immigrants. Everyone was Well, even the Native Americans were immigrants. Yes, that's true. Because they've been here uh I'm talking about in the U in the in in the Americas. Canada, USA, Central America, South America. We have Indians, we have natives, Indians going all the way down those countries. And they all crossed over originally when there was a land bridge between Asia [snorts] and uh what is now obviously Americas. They walked across like where Alaska is now. Uh [snorts] the Bearing Straight or something it's called. Right. So even they didn't they weren't here origin they were here before long before uh the people like the Spaniards the concistador they were here before the Spaniards before the English explorers even the Vikings I think who preceded them as explorers but didn't really settle here but they weren't native to this they they walked over from Asia I mean humanity humanity began in Africa that's been well established that's where we all originally came from I think the old divide gorge in Kenya is where they say the human race sort of was spawned all those years like a million years ago. Those arms are dream man. God I wish I had arms like that. Look at the triesman is what someone asked if you want to know where somebody's from. Vasuinman in general means foreigner like an outlander. Couple of other words we don't want to get got. [laughter] Well, I mean, Latino [snorts] people call everyone who's not Latino a gringo. Uh, Jewish people call everyone who's not Jewish, uh, what's the word? Goyam go. Yeah. Even in Hawaii, uh, the island of Hawaii, the islands, it's an island chain. They call everyone who's from outside from off the islands, like the mainland is Howies. So, everyone's got some kind of term for outsiders. British. Hey, why would he? What's wrong with being Polish? You know, Polish people, every immigrant group that came to USA at one time had a had a pretty hard time. They were treated pretty poorly. Uh Polish people were called Paxs. Uh they were stereotyped as being stupid, which I don't know where they got that from, but they used to have Polish jokes, but what do you call a Pak or what what one Pak say? They were all jokes and the punch line was always that in one way or another they were dumb. So every immigrant group that came to USA, I guess except for the English, the first ones here, everyone after that got roasted pretty much. I mean, when the Irish came here, they got roasted and then eventually they took over the, you know, things like local governments and fire departments and police departments and all the big cities, places like Chicago and New York and Boston. So all those immigrant groups in the US sort of scratched and clawed their way to uh to better lives. This guy should have won. He looks freaking great, right? Northeast Genics USA. Well, I mean, who would that be though, Danny? I mean, I if if you want to say we have a lot of Italians in the Northeast, I mean, Italian people of Italian heritage. We've had a lot of great American bodybuilders of Italian heritage, obviously, over the years. Uh, Mike Morazzo comes to mind. Paul Deo, you could go I'm sure there's you could you could think of many, many others over the years. Rocky Defero Ali Carblode. Yeah, I was saying his name wrong for a long time. It's actually Edward Ali. I kept calling him Ali Edward, but that's me. Huge melting pot. I mean, yeah, the USA is it's you'll find people from the only thing I don't think we have here in the USA is like aboriges, the native people of Australia. I don't I've never seen Aboriginals. When I visited my son Christian in Brisbane, I didn't see a ton of them, but there was there was a good amount like, "Oh, these are their natives. The fuse got down from the Boston reg. The Irish retalian was like the part of town. Well, I mean it was Boston had a has still has a huge population of people from those areas because you know the immigrants all came over originally to Ellis Island in New York. All the Europeans that's that was like the big depot where you had to stop and get processed and then make your way around to wherever you're going. A lot of them stayed in the New York area. Obviously they're already there. Others went to places like Boston and Chicago. Yeah. I mean, but it's it's what was I gonna say? Boston has still has a huge uh Irish population, a huge Italian population. There are a lot of neighborhoods where still like souy Boston, which the departed was mostly filmed there, the Whitey Bulier and all that. That's a lot of Irish people there. Then you have the North End and then places in the Northshore like Ravier and Everett that are lot of lot of Italians in those areas. But it's not like that now. We have people from a lot of We have a lot of Central Americans in Massachusetts now. Even in the Boston area, a lot of Haitians. Uh people from all over really. The world you're looking for the imbred like inbred [laughter] [gasps] inbred is when people just have kids with their own uh their own group. So we all the same stuff just Yeah, we're all we all bleed red. None of us bleed like purple or green, do we? What's up, Melbourne? Nigeria has 230 minute people. Yeah, I didn't know it was that big either. I had no idea. Chains on the shoulders while doing dips branch style. I tried that once. I was like this. I'd rather do with the belt. South Asians, too, as far as good genetics. Well, I'll tell you what. Uh, I've never seen a bodybuilder open 212 class physique from China, Korea, or Japan with skinny legs and no calves. I've never seen that. Every single Asian pro bodybuilder from those places seems to have great great legs. Why? I don't know. I don't know. I went to Turkey. Yeah, that was a long trip. Uh, not as long as Australia. Turkey was like 12 hours. Australia was like a 24h hour. I think it was like 28 hours from from one end to it because we had a couple layovers. But yeah, I went to Turkey for my hair transplant because it was one quarter the price. It was literally a quarter the price in Turkey as it was. So, I saved I saved about $15,000. It would have been it would have been 20 to 30 in the USA depending on where I went. In Turkey, I think I paid $3,000 for the transplant itself and you know obviously it was a couple thousand dollars for me and my wife to fly there. Uh and we stayed there a couple we were there for like four or five days. We took we did a tour of Eastlow was cool. They had a lot of the old Roman ruins are still there. Plus you had you know these mosques. A lot of lot of cool stuff there. [snorts] directly pump the child say eight eight n grow they get taller or better shape that's a good question I don't know I I assume they would get much taller right because I mean that's that's what happens to those people with gigantism is their pituitary gland pumps out too much growth hormone so maybe if you did that horrible experiment that's like something Joseph Mangala would have done at Awitz back in World War II pump a pump a child full of growth hormone see if they grow to an extreme Extraordinary height. I don't know. That's a good question. Talk about black. I don't know. Can we say black? I don't know. I'm reminded of Arnold Franco Nassermen Dorian Cutler Platin. Yeah, those are all guys from with European heritage. But you also you could rattle off a huge list of guys of African heritage, too. Yeah, we've had we've had bodybuilders, great bodybuilders from almost every nation in the world. [snorts] You know, like look at lately in the past say not even 10 years since the IFBB split in 2017 and Brazil had more opportunities to turn pro. How many pros in all the divisions, men's and women's, have we seen great ones, really good ones coming out of Brazil. [snorts] So obviously some great genetics going on down in Brazil as well. Talk about Urs. He broke up with his girlfriend. Pretty nasty breakup. Uh oh. What's he do? Well, I don't I wouldn't want to live in a gym, but if I especially if you had a nice cozy house, he can do what he wants. Spar's going to take the house. Wow. Ronnie Lee Haney won the most. Yeah, I mean, if you're looking at Olympia wins, Ronnie had eight. Lee Haney had eight. Phil Heath had seven. Uh the only other guy Dorian had six uh in a row, six in a row. Uh Arnold had six in a row and then came back five years later and got a seventh. But yeah, I mean if you're looking at sheer numbers out of all the Olympia champions. Yeah, we've a lot of guy more more Olympia wins have gone to people of African heritage. Urs broke up his girlfriend. I've never dreamed of sleeping at my own gym. [laughter] I like I do I do like I'd love to have my own kickass gym just you know it's every bodybuilder's dream. It's like love to pick out all my own equipment and you know money is no object and all that. I can train when I want and play the music I want and my friends can all work out with me and all that. That was especially when you're young a young bodybuilder that's that's your fantasy. But once you have a house and it's furnished and you know you got all your stuff there. Why would you want to live in a gym? Uh two cents are a lot to close. It's all relative. I mean that's a good amount. Sure. You know, people say, "Is 300 lb a good bench press? Is 500 lb a good bench press?" I mean, I I don't I'm not a bench press snob because I was never a great bench presser, but when I hear someone bench pressing and they're sort of bragging about it and it's anything less less than 315 or 345 pound plates, I'm like, "Eh." Because I mean, I used to do that. I I used to back in the day. I was AI was a terrible barbell bench presser, but I could still do 315 for a couple good sets of 10 12 reps back in the day. I could do 405 for a couple really shitty reps. Somebody helping. I don't think I ever pressed more than [sighs and gasps] 365 on my own. And even then, I don't know if it was on my own or if the spotter was helping. I don't know. Like I said, I was never a great bench presser. We broke up a girlfriend. It's hard to keep secrets like that. Urs has got a training bud. You should check him out. Dennis Reinhold. Very good physique podcast. Steph. Yeah, that was uh so Stefan Stefan Keinsel, boss of Outlaw, started his own podcast and his first guest, appropriately enough, was his star client, the Miracle Bear, [snorts] Monzo, Fuks, Gustavo, Branch, Evan, Derek Lynford. I think you're just talking about great white body. Yeah, there been there have been plenty of great white bodybuilders. White. White is such a nebulous term. I I like to say of European heritage. It's more accurate I think because like even when you say Asian people picture Americans like me immediately we're thinking like Japan, China, but Asia goes extends the Middle East is Asia, India is Asia, Pakistan. Those people are all Asian. Interesting factoid. Istanbul, Turkey. I can now say I've been to Asia because the hotel that they put me up at was on the Asia side of the city and the hair transplant facility was in a hospital was like a 30-minute drive across town in the European half of Istanbul. Istanbul sits on both sides. It's half the city is in Europe, half the city is in Asia, which blew my mind. That was pretty crazy. Phil Plex was stupid back then. [laughter] But now our economy is on track for new way. So are you saying our because you're Polish? I mean I didn't I never took offense at Polish jokes. I'm like I know I'm not stupid. It's like uh Dolly Parton one of her most famous quotes was how do you feel? How do you feel when people say blondes are blondes are stupid? Blondes are blondes are dumb. She goes well AI know I'm not I'm not dumb and b I'm not really blonde. So there you go. Phil has the most bubbly looking muscles. Okay, that's what I call black bug. Gez. Yeah, that's that's we've often talked about different attributes you see in different ethnic groups, races, however you want to whatever you want to call it. And you don't see many white guys with really round full muscles. Fitzwater has that. Uh I'm trying to think of who else. uh to an extent Lunford does, but typically with the European heritage bodybuilders, you don't see that really round full, what we call bubbly look, kind of like just roundness, like round muscle shapes. It's I don't know why, but at the same time, you don't see too many guys from with a of African heritage that can get really thin skin and that super grainy detailed look. Uh, if you think of someone like Phil Heath, he had that, but Phil Heath is there's there's a lot of European blood in there. You can see he's not that dark dark skinned. You know, I I I don't I'm not a a geneticist or an anthropologist or anything, but sometimes I think you get the best of both worlds when you get when you mix [snorts] a couple different ethnic groups or whatever. Like for instance, Kevin Leone had a African-American mother and an Italian father. So he sort of got a great blend of both of those genetic genetics which helped make him one of the greatest. Is Phil black though? I don't know what's what's considered black. How how is half is one parent? I don't know what I don't know who decides what's black, what's white? What are the parameters? I don't know. I don't know. Do the blacks claim him? I mean, I would. [laughter] I would. He's a fantastic one of the greatest bodybuilders of all time. I would claim him if I would. I think so. Maybe mix. Yeah. I mean, he's he I believe his mom was His mom is I think she's still alive. His mom's white. His dad was African-American, so he's biracial. I get it's hard for me to keep up with all the terms. I'm so old. [laughter] Chinese clan. Wuang clan. Wuang. Mike Lounau. Okay. Phenomenal Italian prodigies. Interesting fact about Dave. So his dad his dad was Italian. His mom was a Russian Jew. And I only say that because I I have nothing person against Dave. It's just that he used to allow people on RX Muscle. I mean, I didn't see the moderators do anything about it. anti-semitic comments would pop up all the time and I never saw him defend you know or come down on those to say hey what do you that's not cool guys [snorts] and you know you know I don't want to get into all that [laughter] once we start talking about like anti-semitism stuff we're on we're we're really going off the rails Chappelle's show was on Chappelle's show Donald Trump Pump oh the Chinese clan I love the Chappelle show he was hilarious did you see his his last standup special which He talked about Dubai, but it wasn't or or Saudi Arabia. It was filmed in the USA. It was for Netflix. It was pretty damn great. [snorts] I was curious about Jay Cutler's accent when I first went hearing problem. No, it's he's got a Boston accent and he's just got kind of a nasal tone to his voice. I'm one to talk. My nose sounds pretty stuffed up right now. [snorts] Nigeria as a country isn't big. It's just congested with people. I mean, a lot of the most populous states in the US, they're not that big. Like New Jersey is a it's not a big state, but it's packed with it's it's very densely populated. You can say that about most of the Northeast, I think. Then the the further out west you go into the Midwest and stuff, you'll drive I've driven across the country for four times now. Three times. Three times across all the way back, forth, back, forth. I've done that three times across and I've done Boston to Florida four times. Anyway, uh only when you're driving through like the middle of the country will you be you'll be driving sometimes for long stretches of time and you won't see any any towns or cities. Just flat prairies, wastelands. East symbol is interesting. It's like half Asia. Yeah, that's what I was just saying. See if I can find something different in Ali while we're talking. I keep calling him Ali. It's Edward. Edward Ali Carbo. the next rising superstar. That's why I made the video. So, these are some great shots from the Oxygen Show. So, that was the Dubai Pro where Yeah, he he ended up seventh. I don't know. Should he have been higher? I don't know. I'd have to see the comparison. He looked pretty great there, though, didn't he? So, that was a Dubai Pro. He lives right there in Dubai. And then, so here's the comparison. And look at that. So this is these are some shots he did to show you how much he improved. He put some size on. Same show, Dubai Pro 2024 versus 2025. And substantially bigger from left to right. Yeah, look at that. He put on some really good size in one year. That leads me to believe he's probably not done yet. He's probably not maxed out. He can probably get even a little bit bigger. Yeah, you see a big difference in the back. I know the lighting is not exactly the same, but you can see there's a more thickness in that midback area here from 24 to 25. That's pretty. I'm not seeing a huge difference there, but I saw it more so in the rear double. You see it there. So, that's 2024 to 2025. Pretty damn good back though. I mean people were saying his back was weak. That's not a weak back. See Phil Heath running. We can add Sergio Le Caucasians. Yeah, Caucasians is I don't even know if that's a real word anymore because it's Caucus Cauasus Mountains in Russia which obviously there's no human beings that sprang from that particular area. You know, I mean, people started making their way up from Africa into Europe along many, many years ago. That's how they got lighter complexed because it was less and less sunlight and colder climates and they're, you know, every every ethnic group in the world has adapted to the climate of that area that they're in now. Um, but back a long time ago, they weren't. Some family pumping their kids full of GH. What [sighs and gasps] I I out of a morbid curiosity, I want to see what these kids look like. Kids are pumped full of GH. And I wonder does do they get taller? I really wonder. Wouldn't want to sleep at Metroflex. I wouldn't want to sleep in any gym, but yeah, that's I remember years ago hearing that Metroflex was cleaned once a year with a [snorts] leaf blower, meaning they would just blow the trash out the door, out the uh the big, you know, big rollup doors, cargo doors, whatever you want to call them. Uh, but you know, it was it was a pretty dirty gym. Dorian's gym when I went there was very dirty as well. [snorts] I don't like gyms to be filthy. I also don't like them to be spotless. And well, spotless clean is okay, but when it's it's so sanitary looking like aos it looks like a hospital. I don't like that either. It's just too clean. It should be a little bit of grunge. Just a little. Should the way it's cool away, but it shouldn't come from form. Oh, we're talking about working out. Oh, yeah. I mean, you do have to get stronger over time, but you still want to use good form and stimulate the muscle, but progressive overload has to be there. [snorts] If you start out squatting the bar or maybe a bar in a 10 pound plate on each side, you better not be doing that same. You're never going to build huge legs unless you eventually start putting more weight on the bar. So, if you're squatting the bar 45 pounds today for 10 reps and that's all you can do and let's say two years from now you're doing 315 for 10 reps. I promise you there is no way your thighs, your quads, your hams, your glutes are all going to be much much bigger and thicker because they're adapting to the extra resistance that they're being forced to handle. Don't start where we all we call blacks blacks as we can't call white. Well, you can call him. I don't you I'm You're not offending me. I just don't know what like what's white what's considered white because I mean if you talk to some hardcore racist guy like AI don't know Kuk's clan guy. I don't know what they what they will and will allow in their little group. Like if you're if you're Italian, is that not white enough for the clan? I don't know if you're Portuguese. Uh, do you have to be from only England or Scandinavia? Uh, because a lot of them I I know a lot of them didn't consider the Mediterranean European people white because they were darker, a little darker complexed. You know, sometimes they had curlier hair. You know, we're talking about like Greeks, Spaniards, Portuguese, uh, Italians. So, I know to a lot of I I I know just from in the past hearing some of these racist, ultra- racist guys talk that they didn't consider that white. So I don't know what white is. I mean I mean Hitler had Hitler had a very very narrow view what was considered acceptable. I think you had to be German, right? No. Did he consider a couple other countries? I don't know. He was very specific. I know that to be to be white or or master race by his standards it was a very narrow parameters. Turkeyy's almost all Asia almost Europe. Well I only know Istanbul. I didn't go any other part of the Dolly had great chess janks. Yeah, those are real. I believe her her her breasts were real cuz Dolly was known for her for her large breasts significantly years before they had breast implants. So yeah, those are natural. Brunettes are better than blondes. I mean [snorts] I am much more partial to brunettes. That's me. But everyone obviously a lot of people love blondes too. It's all in, you know, beauty is in the eye of the beholder. I'm white and proud. Well, I think everybody should be proud of what they are. If you're black, if you're Asian, if you're Latino, if you're Native American, be proud of who you are and where you came from and where your ancestors came from. This nobody should be ashamed of what they are and where where their ancestors came from. No matter where you no matter what, and I think that should go across the board, like white quote unquote white people are being they're being made to feel uh they should be ashamed of themselves. They should be apologizing all the time just for being white. You know, I don't think anybody should be ashamed of their skin color or their ethnic heritage, where their ancestors came from. Everybody should be able to be proud. We're all human beings. We all We all came from somewhere in the world. It's we're all on one planet. I think the only thing that would ever unite us is if we got invaded by some aliens from another planet or star system. Then we would realize, oh [\h__\h] all these differences that we had and now we're being invaded by like 12 foot tall cockroach looking things that have lasers and can blow up planets. And that's that's what it would take for us to finally unite as a human race. We would have to have like a common enemy and then we'd realize we maybe we'll get back to fighting each other and hating each other eventually, but right now we got to get rid of these giant cockroach aliens that are trying to kill us. Phil has those hazel eyes. Africans don't consider African-Americans African. Weird subject. Yeah, you can go on and on. Ali been posing for us for 20 minutes now. I know. Yeah, I gotta I gotta get off this. I've been going over an hour. Geez. He just won't quit. Yeah. But I do I am impressed because look I said this was the progress he made from 24 to 25 and he is only I think he's 28 years old. So he's he's not done. He's not maxed out yet. I don't think he needs to get much bigger than this. I think he's got plenty of size. But if he can keep that waist small and keep all the shape intact and put a little bit more size on and refine it and get some more details, I see this guy winning shows. You know, I think it's his time is coming. He's on the cusp. He's right there. He's going to be winning shows very, very soon. Boyer Co posing one and a half hours. I believe it. You know, the old school guys, they would pose after every workout. They would all get together, critique each other. Uh, [snorts] you I went to a gym in Pasadena, California in the 90s. We kind of did the same thing. We were all young guys. We were all in our 20s and we all we all competed. There was a there was probably about two dozen of us there that competed at this World Gym and we used to always in contest season, which was most of the year, we would be out. There was an outdoor part to the gym with equipment but had this big mirror that took up a whole a whole outside wall and we would be posed especially at a certain time of day like like an hour before sunset the light was just killer. Everybody if you were lean everybody looked amazing. It was cool. They don't get tired. Think of the Epstein files. I don't know anything about them. think they should all be released with everyone's names. Tell you that Europeans are whites or Americans Americans. Well, I wouldn't say I think the last stats for I think people in the Americans that are white are like 50% now. It used to be like 90%. Obviously, uh, Latinos are gaining a lot of ground. African-Americans are still only 13%. I don't know what Asians are. Latinos is a good amount of Latinos. I mean it is it's a melting pot but it was uh largely you know it was settled by English settlers on the east side of the what's now the USA and people from Spain on the west side uh the concistadors. So yeah we have a lot of European heritage in the early earliest foundation years of this country even whites don't know if they're the early whites. Yeah. What is white man? What is I want more native Americans by I'm trying to think. I know there there have been a couple. Not many. Not many Native Americans. Yeah. Look, we used to call Indians when I was a kid. Indians. American Indians. Native Americans. People have been the people that have been in the US the what's now the USA. [snorts] Uh since long before the English got here in [clears throat] 14 14 when the hell the whenever the pilgrims got here it 1500s. I don't even know. [laughter] We just go extinct like the dinosaurs. Well, dinosaurs had a dinosaurs were around for about 100 million years. They had a hell of a run when you think about it. We're invaded by aliens. Join the aliens. Leave the aliens alone. These radical leftists. Yeah, we got we got a lot of crazy people in this country now, man. All right, I think that's enough about Ali. I didn't realize I've been going this long. So, that is Ali Edward Carbo, guys. He is a fantastic bodybuilder living in Dubai, originally from Sierra Leon. He took third place behind Urs Kalachinsky and Quinton Aria at the last German the Europa Pro show back in September in Germany. Third place and I think he's going to win a show this year. I think he's someone you all we all need to follow and keep an eye on. So, let's look at you can follow him on Instagram. He doesn't have a lot of followers compared to uh his peers. So, give this guy some love. It's ali.edward.carbo. Give him a follow. See what he's up to. Yeah, I'd love to see him compete in the US. I would love to see him do New York Pro, Texas Pro, Tampa Pro, some shows like that where Americans can get a good firsthand look at this guy because he is excellent and he's going to be better and better. Cool. Reminds me of Max Charles. Do I remember Max? His Max Max was still competing up until like a year ago. Anyway guys, so thanks for watching. Please subscribe, like, share, do all that good stuff. appreciate you watching and viewing. And I'll be back tomorrow night on the Meatthead podcast at 7 PM Eastern live. Me, Big Mike Cox, Jimmy Mendes, and Chris Pantano. We're going to be talking about steroids and sex drive. How it affects sex drive. We're going to share some racy stories. It's going to be a lot of fun. Uh I hope we'll try to keep from getting banned or getting uh YouTube to strike the video. We can't be too filthy and disgusting, but we will get into it. We're gonna we're going to be talking a lot about that. So, tomorrow night, 7 PM Eastern live, the Meathead podcast. The topic is going to be steroids and sex drive with a lot of personal stories. So, thank you guys for watching. Appreciate it very much. See you right here next