Hey everybody, welcome to Ask Dr. testosterone, the only weekly show on YouTube you can ask questions from a medical doctor who was also a champion bodybuilder. The show is brought to you by his book, The Bible of Bodybuilding 2. This is available on Amazon with over 700 pages, everything you need to know about training, nutrition, supplementation, and peeds, written by this man right here. Please welcome from Athens, Greece, Dr. George and Tuliato. Hey, George. How are you? Hi, Ron. Uh, let's speak about the Cali Pro. was yesterday. Ringo rhymes got the I think was much easier than the Beats Pro or the New York Pro. Yeah. Uh or perhaps also FIO and I assume that Quizo or Olivia Jr. could also uh win this particular show. Of course, Rio Ram grabbed the opportunity and he is again on the Olympia stage. Um excuse me. I'm gonna bring up some pictures while you talk. Yeah. So, there's Reagan right there. Yeah, you're right. I mean, Sergio would have had a good chance. Uh I think Kriso would have won this. Well, we don't know for sure, but I mean, both Sergio and Ko have also some other chances until October to, you know, to grab the first place. Yeah. Uh Ko's done. is not going to compete anymore this year. Why? I heard Kzo is not going to even try to be make why I I guess he's just he feels he needs to make improvements. He doesn't if he could I guess he's improved already. What kind of improvements his size? I don't know. I mean I I think I think his sponsors have a lot to do with which shows he does and they they they I I'm sure they had something to do with telling him uh the Olympia this year. No, let's let's try again next year. I mean, he could It was awesome. Come on. What are you talking about? I agree. I think this was the best by far his best. But uh I think he would have beat Rean. He would have beat Sassan Sassan. He beat I believe so. Yeah, he beat them in Pittsburgh, didn't he? 3D uh New York popping out, you know, and really good match. Come on. What are they talking about? He has the best delts and arms and this thigh sweep. Yeah, we can done improvements in size because he he did offseason and he skipped I think Olivia once two years ago in order to to gain some mass because Jay Kler taught him that and I saw a picture with Jay and Milos. Oh yeah. Yeah. They were all in the podcast al together I believe Jay's podcast. Yeah. Yeah. So, what what do you think? Uh because Sassan was in better condition. He had a much better tan and the guy I believe Rean is better on top on the on the top of the you know on the on the upper body. Yeah. A little bit of volume in his thighs but his conditioning is good where Yeah. legs look better to to his other opponent. Yeah. It was Yeah. I just feel bad for Sasan because that's he took second place at Detroit to William Bonak. He took second place at Fibo to Andrew Jack and now he took another second place. I was speaking about Pittsburgh. The question is not if Nick Walker deserves to win at Lansford or but if he can beat Samson and had it. Mhm. So that's also what Bob Chick said that okay you beat Lford but I mean very you almost won the level but the point is to be high which is unbe he's unbeatable in terms of conditioning and Sam he's all much bigger you know and we shall see. Yeah I mean four are very tight so Sam had Derek and Nick are very close. That's your I think that's your top four right there. Yeah. But none can create a legacy like the superstars of Ronnie Jay, Phil. Okay. There's no such a superstar anymore. No. I mean I I still think, tell me if you agree or not. I still Phil at his best would beat all these guys right now. Ronnie at his best would beat all these guys right now. Both of them would, I think. Yeah. So, it's just a different era. We're not putting these guys down. But yeah, Rean, congratulations. a different era with let's say more um advanced drugs or better equipment or supplementation but uh back then I think it was the the original compounds the pharmaceutical create ones yeah I mean the guys back then kept it very basic I mean I don't think they used anywhere near the amounts or the combinations uh these guys are all using like peptides and thyroid meds and asthma meds and you know all kinds of They're relying very much on peptides for muscle growth. Yeah. Yeah. Which were didn't even No one nobody was using peptides back in the Liy days. I mean apart from Ramy it doesn't seem to to create the mega mass monster of mass you know or I mean okay had is a frequent conditioning but still we would see the mass that um that had carries to other to other people in in um in Ronny's or Jay's era for instance LeBron yeah different eras I mean we have a good a great group of guys right now but I don't see anybody body that's like dominant where like Samson's good, but do I think he's going to win the Olympia like six, six, seven, eight times in a row? I don't know. I don't know. Yeah. I don't know if anybody ever will again, honestly, while we're alive. So, uh, you're freezing on me right there for a second. I'm going to get to the first question now from our readers. Very important because this is the most widely used recreational drug on planet Earth. I have read that marijuana is bad for bodybuilders because it raises estrogen. Would that matter if someone was using AAS? Would cannabis still hurt? I think that's a problem. That's why it also creates a problem to the an issue to the HPDA and to the erection the testosterone synthesis, not necessarily estrogen. Um, and also it spikes hunger. That's why people that do weed afterwards, they want to eat something like dessert, you know, junk. Um, I would kind of be still her gains. I don't think so because Arnold, I mean, he was in gear, of course, but it makes you sleep better and with sleep you can uh, of course, recover much better. Uh, but natural people, yeah, I think it it can be it can hinder the the gains. Okay. Yeah, because um you know I've I know some people I've even heard that if you're trying to get your wife or girlfriend pregnant, your chances of having a boy are much much less if you're a regular marijuana user. I don't know if that's true or if it's like a some myth, but that's I had two chances of having a daughter, you know. Yeah, true. All right. Yeah, exactly. All right. Well, there's your answer. Here's a question about Brad Pitt and his hair. Doctor, how does the actor Brad Pit have such amazing hair? Because he's 60 years old, I believe. How can we make our hair like his like it was when I was 20? Good luck. I think it's genetics because also I don't take anything like androgen thinner or even minoxidil or ketoconol and I still have hair because my both my dad and my grandfathers on both sides they were not bald. So mine also but rapid perhaps never but with the exception of Troy he use a little bit of gear but he never touch any dirt that may cause some hurting you know. Yeah I see guys at my gym who are 60 70 years old full head of thick hair and I'm like geez I had to go to Turkey to get my hair back because I was losing my hair by the time I was in my late 40s it started getting pretty bad now that your hair grow you know. Yeah, but I had to go to Eastanbul. All right, another hair question. Is saw palmetto good for hair loss? Will it help regrow hair if we have lost some? I don't think so. Come on. I mean, it's not even that effective for prostate, you can take it perhaps to urinate better. Um but if you want something expected, if you if you want to expect something um drastic, uh you need to cut GHD by duty. Yeah. I mean the the minoxidil foam works pretty well too with just local. But if you want to kill PH, take along with testosterone, not alone itself, because you're going to get castrated and severely depressed without testosterone. Well, I don't like the sound of that. Here's an odd question. I read that PDE5 inhibitor drugs, uh, first of all, which what what are those drugs for? PD5 inhibitor drugs. Biotin. Okay. So, erectile dysfunction drugs, they can in rare cases cause a heart attack. Is this true or is it due to the strain of sexual activity? Because I also read those drugs help the heart. Yes, they do have the heart because initially um senapil was created was manufactured to treat was supposed to treat pulmonary hypertension. Yeah. Because it vasoddilates the permon arteries and lowers the blood pressure and also we expect a severe headache when we take 100 milligrams of Viagra because the headache comes from vasod dilation that increases the blood flow but also gives tension to the arteries and then we have this pain in the head and we had this headache. So I don't know how you can cause a heart attack by relaxing blood vessels. Now it could be a fact because if you if you do sex let's say for half an hour and you sweat it's like a a cardio but if you have a plaque or something then it could give you a heart attack in this way. Yeah. I mean, we've I've heard anecdotal stories about guys having having heart attacks and dying during sex and you know, a lot of the joke is like that's how I'd like what you know, if you use cocaine, yeah, you have the opposite effect, but also speeding the heart rate. I think a lot there's a lot of people out there probably do combine Viagra or Silis with cocaine. So, bad idea, guys, if you're if you're trying to avoid a heart attack. And actually if you have if you have cocaine it's like it was a cost the penis. So usually they put cocaine on women's gentle you know. Oh yeah. It works differently. Oh boy. So yeah. So cocaine would constrict your blood vessels. Yeah. It's the opposite. Viagra. Yes. And then the Viagra would open them up again. Yes. Okay. Cool. Well that's probably why people on Coke use Viagra. All right. Our final question. I'm on TRT 160 milligrams a week and after I tried DIM I don't need anything. My nipples feel normal again. So I guess he was having he didn't say but he must have had some sensitivity to his nipples. Do I need to cycle DIM 200 milligrams a day or can I stick to that dose for life? That's a good one because deem kills the E1 which is the estroone the bad estrogen. It's antirogenic coming from broccoli. Um, I'm using deem all year round now for a couple of years because it prevents from prostate cancer by killing the bad estrogen that proliferates the cancer itself of the prostate and Ram McLean was the first to say that. But um, if you combine DM with high dose of zinc or 50 milligrams, it's also a good way to lower the estrogens. But personally for that I'm using tamoxifen 20 milligrams and in a couple of days the pain's gone. So I don't touch the aridex. I don't want to kill my sedial but I want to occupy the receptor of the estrogens with a ser so that no more floating estrogens can see over there and create the problem. Okay. And as a matter of fact two days ago I had an itchiness in my nipples and I had a normal day after the pain was gone. Wow. And also my sal was not to the roof, you know. So the problem is not E2, but it's the it's the the receptor of estrogen that you need to um to block and it's much healthier taking a little bit of novadex rather than killing the estrogen. We need estrogens. Yeah. I mean by I'm I don't I wonder because I I stopped taking an astraol just because I I felt it was leading to muscle tears. I was going to tear every damn muscle off my body. muscle, bone, milk, sexy, HDL, it has side effects and we need this dial. Come on. That's why testosterone is so fundamental because if we have E2 and DHT, both of them, we need that. Yeah. Otherwise, we would take provider for instance for TRT, but no, we need testosterone. We need and we need DHT for several reasons. Yeah. Cool. Um, yeah. Is it okay to show some pictures from uh your daughter's baptism or No, that's true. Okay, so this happened yesterday as we're speaking. Uh let me show it. Oh, I got two two lines up. Hang on one second. Go to Facebook and her name is Nikki. Nikki. That's She's already got a nickname. It was Nicole. But now she's got a cool nickname already. So this was yesterday. Yesterday in Athens. Yeah. There. There she is. There's Doc in a suit. I see the resemblance. I see the resemblance. She's mine. Definitely your kid. Like my kids. There's no doubt those are my kids. There she is saying, "Look at my dad." A pair Bernal picture. Yeah. Yeah. And there's you and uh you and Nancy. And Yeah. Good times. Church. Everyone looks happy. Baby Nikki. Good stuff. Yeah. Congratulations. That's a big milestone. It's a big milestone. Beautiful family. Beautiful daughter. Great stuff. Yeah. Cool, man. Yeah. I like to see this stuff. Family is so important, man. The older I get, the more I realize family is like the only thing that really matters in your life. Yeah. That's the destination. Yeah. So I because career you know and and is something that it's gone but what you leave behind is your DNA and um uh your own blood you know. Yeah. Do you know we are also the result of our ancestors. Yeah it's true. But do you I don't know how it is in Greece but right now the United States has the lowest birth rate and the lowest marriage rate it's ever had in our history. Greece also has a problem because it gets older and the older population remains more you know in a matter of percentage with co we lost about 35,000 bricks most of them of course were elderly but I remember that the giant ecologist that gave birth to Niki said that u we have around 70,000 births in Greece while it used to be double this 50 years ago. No. And of course, finance is a problem. The other is the the low testosterone, the low fertility in men that I face with so many young men. The other is that women want to create a career and they go for money and they think about becoming a mother of 35 plus is a problem. 40. Of course, you can do that. But I think mother nature uh is smart and and I think that healthy offsprings come from from younger parents. Of course 18 to 25 are the prime years for a woman to you don't have the money back then now you perhaps you don't have the experience or you want to fool around. Yeah. So you you can't have it all. Yeah. You can't have it all. Yeah. I mean the last thing I want to say is people say well that's great. We we we don't need many people on Earth anyway. We're overpop populated. But the the thing is is we need to have a lot of young people working to help support all the old people that are retired because we don't have money to to pay over patient. Exactly. So, if you don't have people to support the retired people, I don't even know what's going to happen. I Geez, I hope I don't find out the hard way. Anyway, that has been our show. Uh congratulations again on your daughter's baptism, doctor. And guys, if you have questions for next week, comments, anything, please leave them below in the comments. Love to hear your feedback and get some really good questions for the next show. Go to amazon.com and support the show and the doctor by getting your copy of the Bible of bodybuilding, too. And that's it. Thanks for watching Ask Dr. Testosterone with Dr. George and Tulattos. We'll see you next time.