What's up guys? Ron Harris here coming to you a lot later than usual, but something occurred to me today is uh now with Howdy Chupan in the USA. Yes, he got his visa. We know we're all very very happy. He's here in the USA with his employer and probably still his coach, Honey Rambot. Hotti Chupon has been getting uh not as much love in the Olympia predictions as I would think he would. Uh remember that this guy has a track record that I'm going to put up here in a second. Oh, remember guys, if you like the video, hit that like button. Track record here. Check this out. Um in the times they faced off against each other five times versus Samson, they've competed together. Hottie has beat Samson four times to Samson beating him once. Hottie versus Derek Lungsford has only happened three times. Hotti's come out on top two out of those three times. And Heidi versus Nick, they've gone against each other twice so far at the Olympia and Hottie has beat him both times. So I don't know why people have him as low as fourth, fifth place in their predictions. Why are people sleeping on this guy? Why do a lot of people think he has no chance of winning? Remember last year at the Olympia, Hotti Chupan and Sam Samson Doda were tied after the Friday night judging. They both had eight points. Hottie did uh slip unfortunately. He ended up losing uh to it was a 88 at judging and then it was six points for Samson, nine points for Heidi, three-point difference. So, he did lose the Olympia by three points to Samson Douta. However, it was tied. So, it's it's not like this guy is a slouch. It's not like he ever shows up out of shape. He's deadly. He is fierce. He is a warrior. And I cannot for the life of me understand why so many people assume he's going to get beat by Samson, Derek, and Nick. Remember, Nick has never beat Hottie. Derek has only beat him once. and Samson has only beat him once. So, Heidi has beat all these guys more than they've beat him. I understand that people improve. Nick Walker's improved. Samson Doubt has improved. Derek, you could argue, has improved as well, but that doesn't mean Samson, I'm sorry, Hottie isn't getting better himself. Uh, I want to show you guys. So, Hottie arrived in the USA yesterday, I believe it was. And we'll take a look. He went from the airport, Dallas Fort Worth airport. Immediately asked Hani Ramba to take him to the gym. This is the private gym for Eva Nutrition. He wanted to do a back workout immediately off the plane. He had been on in the air for 17 hours uh from Dubai to Dallas. I don't know if there was probably a layover stop somewhere. There had been a flight delay. I think that was the connecting flight. So this guy this guy didn't want to rest. I don't I doubt he got a lot of sleep on the plane. Instead, he went right to the gym. And what is that dumbbell there? I'm I can't quite read it. It looks to me like it's at least 170 180 pound dumbbell. He's going to do a set of dumbbell rows there. And it's uh it just shows you, man, this guy is warrior. He is fierce. He is not about to let anybody beat him. What's up, Zionic? Howdy, Mr. Olympia. Why not? You know, people writing him off as, "Nah, he can't win the Olympia this year. Why can't he win the Olympia? He's won it before. His Olympia record the past couple years speaks for itself. 2023, he was a winner. 2020, I'm sorry, 2022, he won. 2023, he was second to Derek. 2024, he was second to Samson. So, the guy's either won or been runner up the last three years in a row. So, for people to assume he's going to slide down is ludicrous. I I just don't see that happening. I just want to check out this amazing set here because most of us couldn't row this with all the rest in the world. This guy came right off a plane. I assume they gave him some food. Video was too long to watch. I see it was 200 lb. Oh, well, I didn't listen to it. I usually watch these things with the with the uh sound off, but thanks for clarifying. It look like a big big ass dumbbell, whatever it is. Me personally, I I I worry I know I shouldn't be worried about Chupan. He's a grown ass man. Seems to me he keeps up the heavy heavy training all the way to the end. I see him with a Smith machine with like six plates on each side on squats. Just crazy crazy weight. Heidi can win, but Smor improved since last year. Agreed. Agreed. We don't know how anybody's going to look until we're actually three weeks exactly from the finals. Three weeks from tonight will be the finals for the Mr. Olympia. Three weeks from last night was the will be the judging. So, we're only 20 days away from the judging for the Olympia. Great job. Uh great job there, Heidi Chupan. Bring up some more footage of him. Here's how we looked at the last Olympia. And you know, he I understand that there's room for improvement. He can be better. He was He's been When he's off, it's off by like a 1% margin. But we get so used to seeing him shredded to the bone that if he's just a millimeter off that, we go, "Oh my god, honey was off." He's obviously surgical enhancements. What surgical enhancements, Brian, do you think he had? I I get the sight enhance. Well, I don't know if he's sight enhancing. I think he he does have a tendency to put a lot of his gear in his shoulders, but like I say all the time, these guys are doing, you know, a good amount of volume of oil they have to inject every week. Where are you going to put it? It's got to go somewhere. Was Hani still coaching Heidi this whole time? Uh, to my knowledge, he has not admitted that. Uh, if I was a gambling man and I was going to put down a few hundred bucks, I would say yes. Either Hottie has been fully coaching him 100% the way he always has or at the very very least Hottie has probably been Hani has probably been looking at his updates, facetiming him, checking his condition, giving him advice. So, if he hasn't been 100% fully coaching him, I'm still fairly confident, very confident I should say, that he's been advising him, being acting as that second set of expert eyes that any any competitor needs at the end, especially at this level. You need somebody to take a look at you and say, "You're flat. You're you're you're a little bit behind. You're a little bit ahead. Maybe you should cut back on the carbs today or tomorrow. Don't do any cardio. Do more cardio." Everybody needs something. Even in the shirt, that left shoulder looks pointy. We'll take a look at his stuff in a second. Yeah, let's take a look at his Instagram. What the heck? What the heck? We'll look at his most recent updates because I'm showing you old footage. We should be looking at the newest footage. Uh, go to his updates because that was Han's page. Okay, so this was the last physique update he posted four days ago. And you know, there was that whole controversy about his getting his visa was fake news because uh a couple media outlets on Instagram, they announced that got his visa and Nick Miller from Nick Strength and Power, excellent channel. If you don't already subscribe to it, you probably do. Nick um clarified. He called, you know, you go right to the source, Hani Ramad. He called up Hanie. Hanie said, "No, no, that's that's fake news. He's we're still waiting to hear." So, either one of two things was happening there. Either Hanie was lying to Nick, which I doubt, or the truth is he did not have the visa at the time. It was not secured. We we said uh the the the posts were saying sources have confirmed, but how could those sources know anything that Hani Ramad didn't know? So either Hani did know that the visa had been approved uh and was keeping that a secret from us or Hottie hadn't told him yet. I mean obviously Hottie would be the first person to know if his visa got approved, right? So I don't know. That whole that whole thing's pretty sketchy. But it's all it's all in the past now because we have Hottie Chupan here. What we don't have is Beirus Tobani. And I uh unfortunately I don't know if we're going to see I don't think we're going to see Beirus. Sorry about the period. I'm not a clown. I swear. What' you say, Brian? Uh I didn't see the period. I don't Oh, he janky. Period. He janky. L Assassy Brian hashtag period. He's here to take back what's rightfully his. Yeah. I mean, if you've been following Hottie these past, if you're any anything of a hottie chupan fan, you know that he typically does get to the USA three weeks. I think one time it was four weeks. He's not he doesn't need more than four weeks here with with Hani. And as far as Hani coaching him or not coaching him, he's staying with Hanie. So, he works for Hani with Eva Nutrition. He's a sponsored athlete. Even if he's not quote unquote officially coaching Hottie, he's going to be training with him, supervising his workouts. Obviously, he's living there. He's supervising his meals. He's looking at him every day posing. So, in effect, he's a deacto coach, even if he's not officially the coach. Put it that way. Which is great because I mean, why wouldn't he? He speaks Farsy. Hottie doesn't speak any English. Hani speaks passable Farsy. He's admitted he's he's not the greatest at it. That's why he always has that gentleman that works for him that translates. If you ever see the uh the interviews on stage or backstage, that gentleman uh who works for Evan, his name escapes moan. He does he's very fluent in both Farsy and English and he he assists with all the interviews with Hottie. U but man, I mean, if we're looking at Hottie and trying to figure out, you know, is he better, is he worse? I don't know. To me, Hott's looked the same for a long time, but that was that was a good enough look to win the Mr. Olympia in 2022, to win the Arnold Classic and the Arnold Classic UK in 2024, um, beating Samson Dada in both shows, I might add. Did that cost him? Did doing those shows in the spring cost him the Olympia? You know, that's that's the dilemma we're seeing with Derek Lynford now is I I don't know. But it's possible that doing those shows in the spring, the Arnold Classic, which he won, that was 500 G's. Pittsburgh Pro is another 100 gs. He won that. But will that impact his ability to get into 100% peak form for this Olympia? I don't know. Remains to be seen, guys. This all remains to be seen. Dr. says, "How do the most fresh and no one will beat his grainy looking condition?" Yeah, when you think about it, he has a massive advantage over these other guys, over Samson, over Derek, and over Nick. Even Martin, they've all competed this year. Nick competed uh at the Pittsburgh and the New York Pro. So, he was prepping, you know, ear the whole early part of the year. He was in prep. Hottie was not. Hottie is the only one of this whole group of potential top five guys. If you want to say that I guess we'll throw Andrew in there, but Andrew Andrew Jack has also competed this year. Hottie is the only one who is 100% fresh. Think about that. That does give him an advantage because even though these guys have time between shows, it's still every time you prep, it's wear and tear on the body, on your on your psyche, everything. Prep is is hard. God Frog says, "I still had Heidi beating Simps who say he doesn't win at politics." I don't think politics are involved anymore. I really don't. I don't uh they do rear their head from occasionally from time to time, but at the Olympia level, I haven't seen an a politically charged or or even implicated decision at the Olympia in quite some time now. Sam has nice shape. All Jack's favorite piece together. Yeah, genetically I would I've I've said this many times. Samson Doubt has the best genetics out of everybody because he has that structure, the perfect bone structure with the wide clavicles and narrow waist, round full muscle bellies, just beautiful shape and aesthetics and he's 300 lb, you know, ripped. I put a little asterisk next to that because I still would love to see Samson little bit sharper and I do think we're going to see that. Now, I'm not saying outright Hottie's gonna win. Hottie's gonna win. That's not the title of this, but can win. And I think a lot of people, they're in denial of that fact. They're saying, "Well, Samson's definitely got it, or Nick's definitely got it, or Samson and Nick are definitely the top two." Let me tell you, nothing is definite until that show, until those guys walk out Friday night, 20 days from now. We don't know who's going to look like what. Some people might be spilled over, some people might be flat. You just never know. Better proportions. Raymond says, "It's only fitting Honey's last ol open olympia win was with Derek." Ah, true. Yeah, he did. Uh, Donald Trump Pump. He better be top five. Donald Trump Pump. I'm saying fifth place. If anybody has this guy in fifth place, I don't know what you're smoking. And please send me some. I'd like some. Wrong with that shirt. Look. He's commanding a Star Trek fleet. I I hate to say this is my uh dog walking shirt. I'm still wearing it from walking my dog a couple hours ago because I don't want to get a jacked up farmer's tan. So, I got to keep covered. Yeah. This is not the Star Trek logo. I don't have any Star Trek shirts. I'd like some though. Top four is so interchangeable. Well, you know what? It it it should be the buzz because we don't know who's going to look like what. We just again, these guys are all capable of beating each other on any given day. The top five can go many, many different ways. I do think Samson is the odds on favorite. Uh if I was gambling and someone said, "You have to bet on someone. You have to." I'd probably put my money on Samson. Uh, I do think Nick has a has a legitimate chance and so does Hottie. It's going to be a dog fight. That top five is going to be crazy. That's why when people were saying like Urs Khinski is going to be top five, I'm like guys, calm your horses. Calm cool your jets. Hold your horses. Um, as great as Urs is and he's he's still a work in progress as an open bodybuilder, I think with another offseason, we're talking top five, top six Olympia. Yes, for sure. with Urs or a very very high likelihood, but this year it's just too crowded up there. Samson, Derek, Nick, and Hottie. To me, that's the top four. It's It's like almost set in stone. Uh I think Martin's going to look great, but I don't know if he's going to be able to to beat any of those guys this year. I don't know. You never know. You never know. I'm not writing him off or Andrew either. We don't know how Andrew is going to look. These guys are all great. That's that's the beauty of the Mr. Olympia. It's the greatest in the world. You put them all on stage together that this was four weeks ago. So this was seven weeks out from Mr. Olympia. Condition-wise, Hottie was right on track, if not ahead of ahead of schedule. He never ever comes in off. If he's off, it's by compared to the best he's ever been. He's still in better shape than most of the guys on stage when he's quote unquote off. Now, I will say this, he's shorter and blockier um compared to Samson. Nick is short and blocky, but he's just a freak of muscle. And Nick's Nick's not as short as Hottie. I want to say Hottie's about 5'5. Derek Derek's probably about 5'5. Nick, I give Nick 5'7. I'm gonna say 5'7. Scotty safe bet is first or second. Beam me up, Jimmy. Scotty. Yeah, man. Not a Star Trek fan. It was the dopiest show, but I loved it when I was a kid. The reruns. How do wins if Samson comes in too conditioned and lose that wow factor? Uh it's not too conditioned. What we're the concern is with Samson is is he going to be able to maintain his fullness while he gets into that condition. That's always been the fear. People say, well, the taller guys especially, they do have a tendency to flatten out easier. Uh we see them like flatten out on stage while we're watching them. like be by the time from judging start to judging finishes, you can see some guys and it's typically the taller guys, they'll flatten out, you know, 10 minutes on on stage, you they start deflating. Uh you don't see that happen as much with the shorter guys. You just don't. I don't know. It's one thing where there's one area the short kings definitely have an advantage is not getting top five. I know you'd be surprised how many people are convinced and I had people in the YouTube comments on one of the Earth videos. They were so angry with me because I don't I don't have Urs in the top five or top six. No, I don't. There's It would take a miracle for the miracle bear to to do that well against We just rattled off these names, guys. This is a tough tough show. You have four Mr. Olympians. I mean, you think even Brandon Curry can't beat I don't think Urs beats Brandon Curry right now. Brandon just dropped out of the top five for the first time in six years last year. He's been he's been either the winner in 2019 or he's been third fourth place a few times, but he's still still always up there. Don't pump. What about Andrew Jack exactly? I don't know. Andrew doesn't post updates. We have no idea what Andrew looks like. I mean, he's always in like a tight t-shirt or something. He doesn't even wear a tank top most of the time. We don't see his physique until the end. Persian Wolfer updates. I do I do appreciate the fact that while some of these guys have very little detail in their chest, look at that striations all the way across like spaghetti spaghetti strands on those damn pecs. The buzz says, "I don't want to hate on Derek, but with how balanced the other guys are, I should stop warding his upper lower body imbalance." Uh, I I don't see much of an imbalance. I mean, I assume you're saying because Dererick's legs aren't as freaky as his upper body. You could say the same about Nick Walker, though. Nick Walker's legs, they're good. They're still not as freaky, massive as his upper body is. So, if you're going to point that out, we have to go across the board and call out call out Nick on that, too. Rean Earth is an interesting battle for me. I want to see comes off better. I mean, they're both they're both fighting for like ninth, 10th place, I think. If I cracks top 10 this year, that'll be an amazing amazing achievement that he should be proud of and his fans should be happy with. I know you guys won in the top five, but you guys, you got to remember he just just started competing as an open pro. And yes, he did win two shows in a row, but he was up against no one. No one who was a top 10 Olympian at that show. So, he beat a lot of good guys. He didn't beat a lot of great guys. Put it that way. He didn't beat any like top Olympia guys. Had he done that, then I'd be a lot more confident. And look at that back. Audi is just one thick dude. One thick dude all the way big dude as they said in the movie pumping iron. One of my favorite lines. I like to repeat that. Even when his legs are full, they're still way small. I'm talking about Derek now. Yeah. Is hottie definitely coming there, Ron? Yeah, he's here, Dave. He got here yesterday. That's why I didn't bother making By the time I had AI had an appointment. I had to see a a coaching client. I had a physical therapy. By the time I got done with all that, the news had been on Instagram for like three hours. I'm like, eh, what's the point of making a video now? Every Instagram is so fast. Everybody already knows he's here. So, he's here in the US. He's in the Dallas Fort Worth area staying with his former coach, probably still his coach and current employer, Hani Rambod, uh, who owns EVA Nutrition. That's that's his major sponsor there. Andrew, Timmy Holes, his physique. I mean, I I still think Andrew needs more hamstrings and more back thickness. It's the posterior chain with him. How's Yeah, he's here. He's here, God. Yeah. And the reason I didn't state that in the beginning is I did actually state it, but I I went right through because I just assume it's been in it's been in so many Instagram posts. And the funny thing is is people like they will as soon as it comes out on, you know, Generation Iron, RX Muscle, Beyond the Stage TV, who's the best bodybuilder, uh, bodybuilders without borders, muscle insight. when it comes up on all those outlets. I still have people DMing me and showing me that this post. Dude, I'm thinking it's it's on like it's it's half my feed right now on Instagram. All I have to do is open it up and I can see hottie's here. But thank you. I appreciate it. He has landed. I'd say the eagle has landed, but this case it's a Persian wolf has landed. Keep going. Keep going. Yeah. I mean, Heidi is just he's thick, dense. He's got that old man muscle, that crispy conditioning, just hard as a rock. Damn. I think Urs fans of Higher Expectations. Oh, yeah. I mean, even when Urs was was getting ready for these last two shows that he won, he wasn't making any predictions of winning. He was just being very vague and saying, you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna do my best. He wasn't being uh I'm going to win this and I'm going the Olympia doing top five. That's not Earth. He wouldn't do that. And boss wouldn't do that either. The boss of Outlaw. I will be interviewing boss of Outlaw soon, guys. We're just working out a day at a time. A conditioning is lethal. Yeah. I mean, this is obviously a little bit sharpened up here. I mean, I know I do that to my photos on Instagram, but still, even when people sharpen up pictures and stuff, these lines are really there. The the photo editing just makes them more clear. But you can't sharpen up like these veins. Those are there. The separation here, it's all it's all there. It just is enhanced when they do the photo editing. But you can't take a, you know, like I've been critical of Derek not having a lot of detail across this area, the shoulders and the chest and the arms. You can't do that with Derek because the lines aren't there to to enhance. They have to be there. Urs not beating Bonak, Curry, Burton, Antonio. Good veto Martin. Yeah, dude. This Olympia is stacked. So when I say I don't have Urs in the top 10, I I think you know 11th or 12th would be awesome. If he does make top 10, I'm not saying it's impossible. If he does make top 10, it is a major major achievement. I mean, we only have uh 19 19 guys in the show. Unless Be Ruse gets an invite. Sorry, a visa. He doesn't need an invite. He's there. He's got to win. So, God of Frogs remind us Nick Walker, Lunsford, Fitzwwater, Jacks, Samson, Hottie, Geto, Brandon Curry, probably Backroad. Yeah, I mean those guys are all incredible. I mean, Brett Wilin might beat him. I don't know. Akim Williams might beat him. Akim is no joke. He's been Akim has been top six at the Olympia before. Uh Andrew Jack, obviously Nick Walker. Rean's been top 10. I think he was eighth or ninth uh when he was last in the Olympia. Tonio Tonio's been top 10. Sasan Harat, I don't know. I'm not sure about that. I know we're getting off on a tangent with the Urs thing, but uh I think Urs will be Chang Long Shen from China. We keep forgetting. I keep forgetting about Next Zilla. Rubel Moscera. You Rubial is a top 10 guy. I don't see Rubial out of the top 10. And potentially he could be a top five, top six guy. I could definitely see that because he's a freak. I'm not a huge fan of his structure. A couple of his poses are cringey to me. the front double bicep and the uh the front latch spread and his front relaxed stance just because of the the long torso and the short legs and the and the uh the thicker waist. Uh but his side shots are incredible. Ridiculous. His most muscular is ridiculous. He's a freak. 1012. He should wait till next year. I'm with Shawn Ray on this one. Yeah. I mean I mean but the the thing is is in life you never know what's going to happen. You get in a car accident, somebody could hit you. It's not your fault. You're sitting at a red light. Somebody slams into you and you know you break your neck or something. Who knows? Tear your pec or something. Tear a quad. Uh get a hernia. There's a lot of things that can happen to anybody but an elite athlete, elite bodybuilder. So you never know. You never know if this chance, this Olympia that you qualified for, if you skip it, are you ever going to get to the Olympia again. Most of the time the answer is yes, but sometimes these guys never do. I I can't think of any instances, but I bet there have been guys who qualified for Olympia, didn't go, and they never qualified again for whatever reason. Either they were sick, injured, or or they just weren't as good. They had that like one hit wonder shooting star type of career. I agree. Nick has an imbalance upper low as well. known, accepted. With Derek, it's hardly ever mentioned. Uh I mean, people are critical of Derek. With Derek, I think they're so busy talking [\h__\h] about they think his arms are full of oil. He doesn't have a lot of detail. There's other in across the chest and the and the front delts and the arms. Um people people harp on those so much that I think they're by the time they're done with that, they forgot about the upper body disparity, which I don't think it's awful. Do I have him here? I bet I do. Since we're talking about him, I'll keep him on screen for a second. It's only fair. Derek. Derek. Derek. Because Derek didn't win. Oh, come on, Ron. I know you have it here somewhere. It's probably having a million a million videos queued up. Hottie wins Arnold. Oh, here we go. There's Derek. So, here's Derek at the Arnold. Now, he looked better here. His legs looked a lot better here than they did in Pittsburgh a few weeks later. Uh they had flattened out just like they did at the 24 Olympia. I don't know what what the deal is. I don't know what the cause. I've never heard him even address it. Maybe he has, but some shows his legs are fairly full. They're still not as big as we'd like to see them, but they're not that bad. They're still pretty pretty decent. But then when they flatten out, as they did at the last Olympia and as they did at the Pittsburgh Pro this year, he becomes more vulnerable to getting beat by guys who have better balance and proportions. Condition wasn't an issue with Derek. Uh it's just the legs. The legs are kind of hit and miss. Sometimes they they look pretty good and sometimes they don't. I don't know what happens to this guy. Let's go back. I heard needed two seats on the plane. Well, I would You know what? I I I bet Hani, his employer, because it's such a long flight and because this guy's needs to be getting good rest, I bet he sprung for a first class. I'm, you know, I'm I would I'm almost certain he would did that. So, he probably had a very nice comfortable chair that went like all the way back, a nice recliner. The sheriff is near. Dave Thomas says, "Great to see Nick on his mom show yesterday. Sounds like she knows her stuff. It's good." Yeah, that's Tracy. Mama Walker. Yeah, Tracy and Lou, his dad. seen them at many shows, always always talked to them. Nicest people. They're like my age. We're all around the same age. So, you know, we have that that in common. I prefer today's Olympic to having the same guy win time and time again. I agree. So, think about this, guys. Let's think about all the Olympians we've had. So, 2017 was Phil Heath. 2018 was Sean Rhoden. 2019 was Brandon Curry. 2020 and 21 were big Ramy, 22 was Hottie, 23 was Derek, 24 was Samson. So we have had seven Mr. Olympias in the last nine years. Seven different Mr. Olympias. The last time anyone won more than one was Ramy uh when he did it in 2021. Of course, we don't seem to have these reigns, these eight-year reigns anymore or even three or four year reigns. Um, you know, we saw Ronnie with eight years, Lee Haney with eight years, Dorian had six years, Cutler four, but they weren't all together. It doesn't seem like there's anyone that's that dominant and consistent that can make that can just beat everyone year after year after year. We don't we don't have like a Ronnie that right now. I mean, Samson's very good. And if Samson does get that perfect balance between conditioning and fullness, uh, and figures, you know, how to how to replicate that again and again, yeah, I don't know who's going to be beating him. We have great great guys coming up, but I don't know who's beating him. I mean, I talk about Keon Keon winning in a couple years, but if Samson really improves and gets that 100% package where he nails the fullness and the conditioning like we've never seen before, I don't think Keon's beating him even with a little more size. It's just Sam Samson's just a big dude. He's wide. I know the height shouldn't matter, especially as a short guy. Uh, let's see. Main the one thing Urs keeps maybe placing higher is due to his status. So maybe it won't. Rubio. Yeah, I don't think the social media following and how many Instagram followers or YouTube subscribers these guys have. I don't think any of that matters anymore. I really don't. Earth fans versus hottie fans. Who will break the chat? Oh, that's a good question. Well, the Earth fans, if Urs doesn't get first call out, which I don't believe he will, they're going to be upset. They're going to be outraged. So, you're going to see a lot of cursing in Farsy and in Arabic in the chats. So, I don't read either one. Uh, I did put a a little bit of Arabic on the last thumbnail for Hassan Mustafa interview that I did yesterday. Uh, I thought more people would check it out because he's got a lot of followers and fans, but and I was hoping putting the Arabic on I go, "Hey, look, it's Hassan." Um, but you know, didn't didn't get the views. Potty fans 100% will break the chat. Rubia Mosca 10th place. If Akim had a better backlo Oh yeah. Yeah. I mean Akim's physique front shots are in insane. Side shots. It's just the back poses. The back poses doesn't have the the thickness and the detail that you'd want to see because that's that's how he looks from the front and the side. But boy, if Akim Akim Williams had a had a crazy back with great detail. O, he might be Mr. Olympia. Have there been any updates from Fitzwater. Yeah, I don't. Martin's another guy that doesn't get back to me. Nobody wants to get back to me. Rude. So, I guess we'll check on Martin while we're all while we're all chatting. Martin Fitzwwater. See how recent Portugal posing. three weeks ago. So, this was seven weeks out. So, these aren't recent at all. It's in good shape. I mean, hottie at seven weeks. A little harder, but you know what? The show isn't seven weeks away. It's It's that day. Yeah, Martin has a hell of physique, man. I mean, fourth place last year and a lot of people felt he was good enough to good enough to be third over Derek last year. Yeah, he's he's not doing any new updates. This was Jeez, this is eight weeks, seven weeks ago. This is a long time ago. This is not recent at all. Should I check the stories, you say? All right. Typically, if they have really good pictures or videos, like update stuff, they put it in their they put it in the feed. They put it on the page. The stories are generally for stuff like this where they're just kind of shooting the [\h__\h] All right, let's go back to Hottie. Hottie Chupon. We are talking about Hottie Chupan here. He is the focus. Again, the purpose of this video is just because I want to recognize it. Honey Hadi Hadi is an excellent bodybuilder. He's won the Mr. Olympia. Let me put this banner up again so you could see the uh the track record. So, that's the track record of Samson versus Hottie. Hottie's come out on top four times. Samson's beat him once. Heidi versus Derek. Heidi's beaten Derek twice so far. Derek has beat him once. And Heidi and Nick have only had two chances to compete against each other. Uh 20 21 and 22 Olympians. Yes. And uh how do you beat him both of those times? You know, those are those were next Olympias. I'm not holding that as an example of his ultimate potential. Obviously, he was third in 2022, Nick. And you know, he could be he could win this year. I have I'm I'm definitely not opposed to the uh the argument that he could win. This looks like they've AIed it up, but yeah, that's a hell of physique. That's a Mr. Olympia right there. I got behind. Got behind on your chat, guys. Okay. Did that. Okay. Olympia. I'm still behind. Okay. It was there. Okay. Celeste was Richard Jones first mind. He's going to be the next big thing in the mid90s. Yeah. Rich Richard was a Boston, Massachusetts guy. Of course, I always have to mention that when there's a great bodybuilder from Boston. Um but uh correct. He was he was hyped up. He did have the structure, the shape, very very similar physique to Shawn Ray. And we all know Shawn was one of the best for many years. Runner up at the Olympia, top five in the Olympia 13 years in a row. Shawn Ray, do you guys you guys realize that? Some of you do. And some of you some of you like, "What? Really?" Depends Mr. O. Nobody seems to be a little like Dorian Haney or Ronnie. Yeah. And you know, we talk about the 90s being the most competitive era of bodybuilding. So we had Haney at the very start of that decade. Then it was Dorian for most of the decade, six out of the 10 years. Uh, and then we saw the rise of Ronnie and Ronnie held it for eight years. I don't I don't think we're ever going to see that again. I I could be wrong. I don't know if I'll live to see it. It might be like 30 years away. I used to much prefer it when we were waiting for the magazines to come out. I was going to take this out. Yeah. I mean, you think about it now, Dave, and it's like, man, they have it so good now because all the information is instantaneous. The video, they can watch a contest live on a live stream, uh, as it's happening. The pictures are posted very, very fast. The even the professional pictures are sometimes up in two or three hours, which is insane. You know, back in the in back in the day, we would have to wait at least a month to see pictures of the Mr. Olympia contest and we would be calling I remember calling up Gold's Venice from Boston call or World Gym in Venice or one of those I think sometimes I would call local gym and say you guys have the top top five top 10 from the Olympia and they would read it off they had they expected these calls the morning after the Olympia the gyms back then so at the front desk they would just keep the results there so all morning long they'd be answering the phone and telling people how the what the Olympia results were but you know it was there was we had to work for it but it was magical I mean, maybe it's because I was I was young and I just that nostalgic eye sort of that nostalgic lens. I see everything through that because it was when I was really falling in love with the sport when I was a lot younger and I was just such a gung-ho meatthead. Remember about the Meatthead podcast every Wednesday night at 7, guys. The Meatthead podcast. Me and Big Mike Cox. I'm going to hopefully get Lee Priest back on. Uh maybe Fatty, maybe uh EP09, maybe. You know, it's I don't want to have too many people on because then people are just wait sitting around not talking a lot of the time and that's kind of cringey to me to see like six guys on screen and one of them's talking and talking and talking and some guys some guys you'll go a whole hour and they barely talk. I mean the host might see that and go oh by the way so and so. Uh so could slide down to fourth. Yeah he could. Derek and Samster cable beating him again the way Nick is looking. Oh yeah fourth could definitely happen. No argument there Dale. No argument at all. It could very well happen that way, but I know a lot of a lot of people don't feel he has it in him to be Mr. Olympia or even like a runner up anymore when he was so close. He was uh tied with Samson after judging last year as we said and he beat Samson last year twice uh at the Arnold Classic Columbus and then the col the Arnold Classic in the UK. So they're very each one is capable of beating the other. You know, Heidi's beaten all these guys before. He can beat them again. Not to say that he will, but it's possible. Hottie Versus 00 Walker's density conditioning nightmare for top three. Oh, yeah. Nick Nick is if you're a fan of just like pure pure bodybuilding, you know, crazy gnarly freaky muscle mass, just a beast, then Nick is your guy. Nick is It doesn't get any freakier than Nick Walker. You know, we've seen so many freaks over the years. guys like Big Ramy, Roly Winkler, uh geez, Nasser, gosh, Mick Richards, there's so many. I mean, Marcus Rule, Paul Dlet, I know I'm starting to go back in time. We've The point is we've seen some freaky guys and Nick is up there with any of them. You know, most of these young guys, I would say they're just they're not at that level, but Nick is. So, let's take we'll believe this Pittsburgh. This Pittsburgh version, Pittsburgh Pro version of Nick was very, very impressive. Absolutely. And you know, the fact to say that this can't win the Mr. Olympia. No, it could. It could. Yeah. He needs to control his his midsection all the time, never let it pop out at all. if he can do that, which is I know it seems like such a stupid little detail, so trivial, but in the end, that's what that's what Steve Weinberger said cost him the Arnold, not the Arnold, the uh the Pittsburgh Pro this year was that he in that final death match round where because they were tied, uh you know, they had to basically pose till somebody dropped and uh Nick was getting tired and he wasn't controlling his mood. ction. So, nobody's sleeping on hot. He still has the most intramuscular detail out of all the top guys. Top 10 great days of color gold ship. Yeah. I mean, think about in terms of muscle maturity. Terms of muscle maturity in detail, Derek is no nowhere near that level. Samson has nowhere near that level. Uh Nick has is getting a a good good amount of muscle maturity as a as what's he only 32? He's still a young guy. Uh, but he's getting he's he's he's acrewing it. I like that word. He's he's he's acrewing it, but it's gonna it's going to be a little while. Heidi, for right now, is the only guy in the top five with that real grainy old man muscle. Just like freaking bacon or something. I don't know. Yeah. Okay. How long I've been on? Geez, 40 minutes. All right. All right, guys. Well, in that case, I think I'm going to wrap it up. because it's getting late. I haven't taken a shower yet. Full disclosure. Take one last look at Hottie. This was Hottie winning last year's Arnold Classic picking up nice extra paycheck. uh which some speculate did did doing those shows in March, the Arnold Classic and the Arnold Classic UK, did they affect Hottie for his uh Olympia prep a few months later? Just a tiny tiny bit, a hair, and that was enough for Samson to get past him and get the win. It's hard to say. It's hard to say. Yeah, we never know. I mean, there are some bodybuilders who were never able to look good at both the spring and the fall shows. Flex Willer was infamous for looking far better at the spring shows, particularly Arnold, which he won four times, and Dexter beat him with five, beat the record for five. But he he had a track record of looking better at the spring shows and not as good. And Ronnie Ronnie Coleman claims that nobody compete twice in a year. I wouldn't say that. I would say that much his experience uh across the board. I have not found that to be true. But nonetheless, there is always that question of if you're doing spring shows, is that going to impact your prep for the Olympia? Wouldn't you be better off? Especially if you're already qualified just resting up for the big show. But the problem is is now we have some big money shows. Shows giving out really big paychecks. the Arnold Classic. Case in point, it's going to be $750,000 next year. Would who would in their right mind would pass up $750,000 if they thought they had a really good chance of winning it? So, we're going to see a lot of the top Olympian guys at the I mean guys, this it's a sport where the the athletes still aren't paid anywhere near as much as in more mainstream sports like football, baseball, basketball, soccer, even ice hockey. Th those athletes all make a lot more money. So, they got to go where the money is. And uh especially in light of the fact that careers in bodybuilding are not always long. Sometimes you're only in your peak at your physical peak as a as a pro for two to four years and then things start going downhill. Some guys do keep that maintain that peak form for a few more years, but you could still pinpoint to any of the top pros uh that are retired now and say they look the best for around this time and it'll be like a span of two to five years maybe. Let's put a cap on five. Uh and then after that things started going south because the bodies break down. It's like nerve damage, just muscle tears. uh body might not be responding as well to gear or training. Who knows? There's any number of reasons why it can happen. Go back to a couple comments on the to a peace out. Brian says if Cedto cannot bring Andrew in Peele this time just I I don't I wouldn't I wouldn't blame Chris. I mean Chris is one of the greatest coaches in the history of the game. if and Chris has a great track record of bringing many many guys into excellent conditioning and winning shows like the Olympia and the Arnold Classic. You know, he's a very very top coach. He's probably the most experienced at this point out of any of the people still coaching. He's, you know, because he's been doing it the longest. Chris was coaching before coaching was a thing. Anyway, I I wouldn't blame Chris because I I think Chris is very good at what he does. Uh, maybe they don't have the I I don't want to I don't I have no idea what their relationship is, but I was saying maybe they don't have the greatest communication. I don't know. But I know Chris is a great coach and I'm not going to say, well, maybe Andrew's not following the diet or you know, I would never say I don't know why they haven't brought Andrew in as great as we want to see him. He looks really good, but we're all looking for that extra level that that show where you're just like, dude, he really puts it together. just shredded full popping, you know, with that giant frame, those bubbly round muscles. It would be a sight to see. We haven't seen that yet. Just like we haven't seen that really crispy, dry, grainy Samson with a lot of fullness. That's what I would love to see three weeks from last night. I'd say Flex looked his best in his legs for sure. Yeah, even with Ronnie, you can say first two Olympias, 2001 Arnold Classic, his three best looks. We're done. Some people might say, well, the year he was 280 or 290 this, he he had a he had a little bit of a bubble gut when he got up when he once he got past around 280, his midsection was getting really thick. He was so huge everywhere else, it wasn't totally distracting like it would be on someone that wasn't as freaky big, but it was still, it was noticeable. And those three shows I mentioned with Ronnie, 98, 99 Olympia, 2001, he was lighter. He was uh right around 250. Right around 250 was a great look for him. It still had plenty of size, but it was just so dry and detailed and striated. You could see every little muscle fiber. Kind of like when Heath's at his best. Yeah. The controversy over that was that posts were made about Hottie, sorry, Hottie already having his visa secured and Nick Stre Nick Miller from Nick Strength and Power got Hottie Honey Ramot on the phone saying, "Is this true? you know, can you confirm or deny this? Hadti said and Hani said at the time, "No, it's it's not approved. He doesn't have his visa yet. We're still waiting." So, either somebody had a source inside what the US State Department or the Iranian whoever's in charge. I don't know what the government branch would would handle that, but anyway. Anyway guys, so that's it. Uh, it's going to be an amazing amazing olymp Mr. Olympia this year. Really looking forward to it. Hottie's going to be fantastic. So is Samson. Derek, so many great guys. Martin, Andrew, Rubio, Brandon, William. Oh gosh. I mean, it's it's just a stacked stack. Mr. Olympia, I'm here for it. And uh that's it. What we got? I can see dark slides coming off as well. So, that's it, guys. Thank you so much for watching. Have an awesome Saturday night and I'll see you later. Bye-bye. Oh, and stream.