Hey everybody, welcome to Ron Line Report. Today's guest, very special guest. I've known him for a while and now he's got the biggest title of his life. He is the 2025 Masters Olympia champion preparing for his first Mr. Olympia in six weeks. Please welcome Dorian Haywood. Hey Dorian, what's up man? Totally wrong. >> So happy for you, man, cuz you know, I've I've followed you. I've been to so many shows where like, ah, I wish he was getting a better call out. I wish he was getting a better placing. This guy works. He keeps coming back and grinding and going. You just You never gave up. And this is persistence pays off. Exemplified is is uh is what we're looking at here. >> Exactly. >> Yeah. Um I I have to get started. I want to get this out of the way now so that we're not I'm not dwelling on it. the controversy over the win. Um, obviously Phil Clayar very very upset. Uh, we're talking almost two weeks now. Tomorrow will be two weeks since the show and he's still making a ton of post as Matt from Muscle Discord claiming that he was robbed, claiming that he was a rightful winner. They've never seen such a shift in points from judging to finals. Um, but first of all, I want to ask you before we get into detail on that, does it sort of bother you that we should be celebrating the victory, the title, you know, the accomplishment that this is a lifelong dream for you and instead people are focusing on that? >> Yeah, it's kind of kick in the pants to be honest with you. Uh, I've been doing this forever and you know, I've uh done my best to get to where I am. So, just to celebrate a victory, one of this nature would be wonderful. But um at the same time, it's like I get where Phil's coming from. I don't feel like he's really attacking me personally. He seems like he's attacking the judges more so than me. >> Yeah. >> Um but at the same time, it's like this is competition. Uh I honestly think coming out of prejudice, I don't think I should have been all the way down third, but I was. And I don't know if that's because uh I'm not sure if that's because they're trying to create some drama and how this plays out or what. If that's the case, it worked. Um but you know, I'll give it to Phil. If you beat me in prejudice, good job. I love the night show. That was my show. In the night show, I came on. I was confident. I was poised. I hit all my poses perfect. And uh I never really gassed myself to the point where like breathing. So I was really good about controlling my midsection and uh you know I dominated that night show if everybody was to watch just the night show they would have seen I was the winner. >> So I came in I cleaned up. I did what I was supposed to do. I didn't ask I won. And you can pitch as much as you want but you're not going to change the outcome of that. >> Yeah. That's that's my that's kind of where I'm I'm my head is at is I understand he's upset and that him and his wife have gone on and on. They've made a million posts, but what do they think is going to happen? Do they think, you know, the IFB is going to say, you know what, you're right, Dorian, give the trophy back. Give him another 10 grand. Uh, we changed our minds. No. What's done is done. And whether, you know, you if you compete, you have to be you have to accept the judge's decisions because it's a subjective sport that is judged. And a lot of times people aren't happy with the outcome. The only person that's ever like 100% happy is usually the winner in any show I've ever been to in 35 years. So I I just don't know what the point is of keep going on. Everyone's heard what he had to say. Um he's talking about suing the IFBB. Good luck with that. I'm sure they have some good lawyers. But, you know, I I I just want to moving forward, I I hope the focus is on celebrating your accomplishment, your victory, and the fact that, you know, I I don't know if you ever thought you were going to go to the Mr. Olympia. I'm sure it was a goal of yours entire career, but now you're actually your qualifications there and you're it's it's coming up fast. It's it's a month and a half away now. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Uh and honestly, no, the victory was wonderful. Uh but my goals beginning the season was a come and win that show, b qualify for the Olympia and be well in the Olympia. So as much as I wanted to qualify and enjoy the win, it's in my head I couldn't let myself go with diet or anything. is I had to get right back into the grind, continue to improve for the Olympia because yes, I was good enough to win the Masters Olympia, but that version of myself isn't the best version of myself. I think I peaked well for that show, but it was I can be better. I can uh come in a little bit tighter. I can really know my poses, especially right off the gate doing prejudging. If I pick some of these little things, I think I'm gonna be pretty competitive. And that's my goal. You know, I'm taking on this Masters Olympia title. for example, dies. Uh, and a long point with why Phil is disappointed. He thinks the judges are writing him off because he's too old. Well, I want to prove Phil right and guy that beat him is going to come in and do well in Olympia. And I want to represent all these Masters guys. And just because we're older doesn't mean that we're not competitive. So, I want to come in and uh do my best to make a mark in this Olympia lineup, which is outstanding this year. So, you are are you 41, 42? How old are you now, Dorian? >> I turned 43 July 30th, right before the Masters. >> No, happy birthday. So, looking at your physique uh and where you've how the various looks that you've had over the years since you turned pro, do you feel you're at your best now or do you feel like it was you peaked at a certain time? I mean, where where do you think you're at right now? >> Well, you know, there's different qualities to the physique that kind of come and go. Um, I've heard people say this look I put on mass with me was the best look I ever put on stage. >> I'm not sure if I agree with that, but I'll take it. >> Um, you know, I'm noticing with my age, you know, some things are changing, but at the same time, it's like where my mind is. For example, used to be going into a show, I'd be so scarred that I would do hours of food pointing trying to figure out what I'm going to do after the show to eat. Uh, now I've been doing this so long, I've eaten all the food that I could possibly ever want to eat, but I haven't accomplished the wins that I want to accomplish as a pro. So my want for the win far exceeds my want to temporarily satisfy. So I have a mind mind and I think I'm focusing on being the best version of myself and doing the best I can do on these shows not distracted by some other things. >> Yeah. So you're friend that helped you with your posing. It's like right on the tip of my tongue. >> Adam Young. >> Adam Young. So, yeah. What was what was the deal? Because that that that seemed odd to me that Dorian knows how to pose. I mean, why would why would his poses be off, but what what was going on with the poses that he fixed? >> Well, here's the thing. Where I practice my posing and armless coaching, there's a specific type of lighting setup, and the lighting is at certain angles compared to where you position yourself. So, I learned how to present the best version of myself in that light. >> Okay. way that the Masters Olympia lighting was in Tokyo, it was different. So, when I went to hit the poses, the way that I learned how to do it, Adam could clearly see that I'm not showing off the best of my presentation. And uh, you know, I can see it too, the difference between the videos in the morning and night show. So, he tweaked a couple things. just basically with my um front mat spread and back mat spread he had to lift my chest more and lean back more especially in my back lat spread with that back double by instead of leaning forward so I can make sure I'm getting all the light on my back I can lean back and then that lighting I still get all the light on my back but it just kind of changes the angle a little bit so it did look better so I'm very thankful that Adam was there because I think he's crucial in what help pull off this picture So, you definitely did sharpen up. I mean, obviously I wasn't there, so I can't speak from someone who was in the audience, but from the videos, you did sharpen up conditionwise from judging to finals. Um, I understand why why Phil's upset because Weineberger, Steve Weinberger, in his little wrap-up with uh the co-host backstage after said that Phil fell apart. See, I and tell me if you agree, I with what I'm thinking. I don't think Phil got worse as Steve said. I think you just got better and I would have probably made the same call because to me his midsection it was just such a distraction to me. Uh and you know you were both very evenly matched guys that the gentleman from the Italian guy was really good too. But uh I I think it could have gone either way but I was I had no problem. But here's the here's the moment of the announcement. Do you agree that you got better and he basically stayed the same or do you think he did get worse? >> Let me write it down for you. >> Okay. Uh, and let me preude by saying, and uh, I'm I'm being critical of him, but it's not to be disrespectful. Uh, and I'm doing this specifically because this is part of why I won. So, in the prejudging, I think I didn't do as good in prejudging as I should have or could have because I kind of blew my load before I got off stage doing everything I needed to do to kind of like pump up, get the shoulders going, get the chest going, make sure all this muscles alive and full by the time I hit the stage. Then once I hit the stage in prejudging, it's like I wanted to kick some ass and I really push myself to pose hard and beat these guys. So by the end of prejudging I was kind of gas and uh breathing heavy and I can see why they kind of knocked me down because I kind of lost during prejudging. >> I learned from that. So as I'm getting ready and I got to say preuding did kick my ass. >> Um I met with Adam right afterwards. I had a small meal. It was 4 ounces of chicken and some cream rice right after that. But I laid down for about two and a half hours and didn't move. It kicked my ass. So I kind of got my mental focus back on game, got ready for the finals, started pumping up a little bit. I didn't want to go back on stage making the same mistake that I did earlier in the day. Pump up too much and exhaust myself before I can finish finals. Okay. So I did that. But I also saw Phil backstage. He was going wild, pumping up hard, push-ups in between every single round. And I honestly think that hurt him because when I was on stage with him, I saw him breathing and I saw him let his belly go. So soon as I started seeing that, that made me think, you know, I'm gonna take this. >> So, but I was very strategic and I was watching. watching all the competitors and if I could defeat Phil in any ways, I think he just pushed himself a little bit too much to pump up before the the finals and that kind of exhausted him on stage to the point where he couldn't control his midsection and it opened up the door for me. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I I I prefer, you know, it's it's I prefer your physique in a couple ways. I I would have been happy for him. I'm happy for you. You guys all work so hard. anytime anybody wins, you know, I'm I'm very happy for that person because this is not an easy sport. It's 247. It's it's 12 months out of the year. You never you never get a chance to take a break. Um, tell me about Japan, though, because, you know, I've never been to Japan. Most most Americans have never been to Japan. I assume it was your first time there. >> Uh, what were your overall impressions of the country and the people? Um, I wish I could a little bit more cultured and moving around because the only city I was in was Tokyo. Um, one thing that stood out as soon as I flew in, it was hot and humid, kind of like Florida. And, um, the first three days, me just kind of like settling in, I went to the athletes meeting. I went to the grocery store. I would just focus on resting and getting my meals in and getting right and doing what I need to do to win this show. >> So, I didn't really do much, but the show came, I won the show, I got to celebrate with some friends afterwards. Um, next day, I got to explore the city and see everything I wanted. I ended up coming home from Tokyo a couple days early just because I wanted to get back in the grind and start prepping for Mr. L. But some of the things that stood out to me, the nature of the culture, some of the people there are very respectful for bodybuilding. They understand the grind that it takes. They understand the dedication, the hard work, sacrifice, and they're also impressed by the muscle. So, every place I went, people were wanting to get pictures and shake my hands and uh you know, it's not like that here in the States. I've been down to like Mexico and other um countries that kind of act similar to Japan. It was the same way in the fact that they were very interested in big bodybuilders. Um another thing I thought was interesting there no garbage cans in place. You got garbage. You take it with you. You take it home. >> You can't throw there's nowhere to throw your garbage away. Is that what you said? >> Wow. You also said in another interview that was uh you didn't see any obese people, Japanese people. >> No. Uh the food there is really clean for the most part. Um and I didn't see anybody who's morbidly obese. It's like I remember going I think you were there too, the Indie Pro in like 2000 2021. >> Yeah. >> And I I'm from Indiana. So when I went back to Indiana, I was shocked at how many obese people there were. I couldn't believe it. Yeah, >> but you know, let's be traveling for a trip for bodybuilding. Here I am again traveling for a trip for bodybuilding in Japan. And just seeing all these people who they look almost identical. I don't see anybody extremely fat. I don't see anybody extremely small. Like how can I look the same? >> Man, that is that is crazy. I mean, yeah. You said you don't see any people that are like really big and muscular. I mean, we don't have a ton here either. It's not like we do, but >> wrestling. >> Yeah, it's pro. I mean, the sumo wrestlers are probably the only big guys, I guess. Uh, I wanted to talk about, uh, you know, your longtime coach, Dave, because, uh, I know you wish you could have been there. I mean, I I I only knew him from the shows, but I love Dave. I used He was like the first guy I would always head over to and start talking to at the athletes meetings and between judging or whatever. Um, first of all, um, how long were you working with Dave as a coach? >> Eight years. >> Eight years. Yeah. And um so was did he turn you pro? Were you already a pro when you met him? >> No, we spent one season together. >> H wow. >> I was knocking on the door. I was close. But uh working with Dave, I really had that breakthrough season. >> Yeah. And you you know he he did a he was such a such a good coach in the sense that I mean he was so passionate. He wanted you to win I think even more than you wanted to win. It's from that's that's the impression I always got from talking to him. He was uh he was incredibly supportive. I mean, every coach should be, but I think I think he was that that extra level of concern and and encouragement and support. Um how how long has it been since he passed now? >> Been about a year and a half. >> About a year and a half. Um >> I think he believed in me more than I believed in myself sometimes. >> Yeah. shows things turn out didn't come out the way that he thought it should, he'd get he'd get emotional like he'd get animated and uh that's really good to see. He's somebody a coach who's so invested in their client and I was with him so long he eventually turned out to be my best friend and I talk today more than anybody on earth before you left. more >> did um so how sorry to interrupt how how did you go about finding a new coach because going from someone that you were that close to to someone brand new I can't even imagine that challenge >> well it was kind of a gamble and I wasn't sure I wanted a new coach and to pick up Ariel Cooks um about midway through my offseason um and have him prepare me for a show of this caliber you know it's kind of a gamble because we've never gone through the whole process, but retrospectively I'm glad that we did because we pulled out a win. But before day passed, he told me, he's like, "Hey man, if anything ever happened to me, I want you to work with this Ariel Cuts guy." And he told Ariel, he goes, "Hey man, if anything ever happened to me, I want to make sure you take care of your authority." So he kind of set us up and um last season I did that season without a coach and I coach myself and it just kind of got to me. Last piece of advice Dave gave me was work very early. So I'm gonna follow through with it. >> Okay, cool. >> Fair enough. Yeah, I mean he did a fantastic job. I mean you looked I think this is the best you've ever looked. I mean, I've I've I probably have seen you 10 times on stage. 10 or 12 times. >> Oh, yeah. >> You You've come close. I think the year were you fourth at Tampa one year than I was there? >> Uh I think you were at the New York Pro right. >> Yeah. I mean, it was it was a really good look. Uh I I did have to ask one more question because I had if I don't I'm going to slap myself. during the judging um AI should say after judging concluded um you you held up Phil Clayar's hand and he him and his wife feel that was an acknowledgement that you were saying here's your winner everybody um I could see it being either that or sometimes after a tough fight boxers will or fighters will hold up each other's hands just as a respect thing what was that when you held up his hand were you saying this is the winner Phil Clayar No. >> Okay. I mean, that's that's why I'm asking. >> So, I know Phil poured his heart and soul into this. He says he took 18 weeks to get ready for the show. And he's put a lifetime of work in to put himself into position to have he has. And I respect his grind. I respect his mindset that he came in to win the show. And I just held his hand up to be like, "Look, this guy's a champion, too. M >> you know and I respect that guy. So more like you said it's like a a fighter hold the other fighter's hand because he respects his effort. >> Okay. Thank you for clarifying that. And I'm not I'm not going to rub it in their face like haha see it wasn't what you thought it was. I just thought it could have been one of two things and I wanted to see which one it was and you're the only person that could possibly know the answer to that question. Yeah, I know fight and just the way I came in the finals is like I had a lot of confidence and I thought the way that I performed that I took the show and could easily be the winner. So, I want to make sure that if he didn't win that's that he knows he's respected. >> Right on. Right on. All right. Cool. All right. Well, that's all I'm going to say about that show and that thing in particular. Uh let's move on because you are getting ready for the Olympia. You just posted this and I can't play Wolf Mother, Joker and the Thief or else YouTube will give me a copyright strike, but I love that song. So, this was today or yesterday? >> I think it was Tuesday. >> Tuesday. Yeah. And I mean, this is >> Friday for reference. >> This is already better condition, I think, than the Masters right here. >> Yeah, I feel here already. >> Yeah. I mean, you didn't you didn't post a lot of updates going into Masters. I was trying to I was trying to keep track of your progress, but you were keeping things pretty pretty covered up for the most part from what I could see. But, uh, this is this is if this is six and a half weeks out and you're going to drop another, you know, I know it's not a body weight thing, but you don't have much to to lose a couple a couple more pounds beyond this because you're going into this show. Um, I don't think anyone expects the Masters Olympia champ to do very well in the Olympia. And I'm not saying you're going to be a top five, top six guy or anything like that, but you could surprise a lot of people. You have a chance to make to make a lot of people shocked. I mean, what what's your game plan heading into this? >> Well, that's exactly it. And I almost feel like, you know, I'm glad I got to pull off the win at the Masters, but like I said, I wasn't the best that I could be. I was on for that show, but I needed to be a little bit leaner and I needed to know my poses. So, I think if I can correct those things, that's going to make me a formidable opponent to a lot of these people in this lineup. It's gonna make me a threat. And I also think that the judges will see my improvement from show to show and they'll reward them. >> Absolutely. I mean, so there's also been talk about the Masters like they didn't some people would say they didn't do Phil and his wife, they didn't do much to promote it. It's over in Japan, which you know, that's probably who was agreed to to host it and pay for everything is the promoter in Japan. I get that. Um, but you know, the Masters Olympia used to have a little more coverage, a little more hype around it when it was guys like, geez, I remember Vince Taylor. I'm going way back now when I say like Robbie Robinson, Lou Farigno. That was the first year. Deven Dexter was the the winner in 2012 before the contest went away for a while. How could you, you know, if it was up to you, if DPB said, "Dorian, we're gonna make you the ambassador for the Masters Olympia, uh, we want you to brainstorm with us and figure out how can we get this show uh, more p more prestigious, more interest in it." U, what what are some ideas that might pop into your head for them? >> Um, I kind of talked about one. You know, I've never won a major show. I I won the Daytona Beach show to qualify for this. Outside of that, I haven't won a pro show since I've been a pro. >> Wow. >> So, my pedigree doesn't look outstanding. However, I did win the show because I was good. And if I could come into the Mr. Olympia and say, "Hey, these masters guys aren't [\h__\h] around. They're quality." Uh, I think that's going to bring a little bit more respect >> to the whole M's class because when you're looking at some of these champions who have done this in the past, there's been eight Masters Mr. Olympia in the past and Vince Taylor's won it five times. >> Yeah. >> I want to say most of the guys who have won have had a large pedigree >> and very successful career. Look at Dexter Jackson. Jesus. He's >> before him was that Claude Gurax. I'm not sure how to pronounce his last name. Claude. >> Oh, Claude Guru. Yeah. From Canada. Yep. >> Yeah. And um you know, I I give him respect. He was a good bodybuilder at the time, but he's not like a a previous Mr. Olympian. Um and before that, I think it was Dumb Blood. D Young Bloodood ended up beating Taylor out. So, I think a lot of the fans, they like to see these guys who have been um previous champions with a large pedigree. >> I mean, why didn't Bill do it? They didn't pay him enough money. Why didn't Kai do it? They didn't pay him enough money. >> Yeah. >> Those are two guys who would make this show seem so much bigger than it is. I mean, we could have had Brandon Curry do it again. >> Yeah. Back. Back is older than you. William Bak's 44. >> Yeah, Bonak is in there. Now, coming up this Mets next match, we can see guys like Andrew Jack. You can see guys like Sergio Olivia Jr. Um, >> so I think it's just a matter of making this kind of an allar event like it used to be. >> I I don't want to rule myself out saying I'm not anar. I mean, >> but um I think um those guys aren't showing up to this show because A it's not convenient for them or B they're not paying them enough money to be there. >> Yeah. No, you're I agree with all that. I mean they're they're I believe they've said it's going to be in Baltimore, Maryland, uh the next it's two year they do it every two years, I guess. Um but yeah, I agree that even I didn't cover it and Phil was like, "Ron, why didn't you cover it?" He thought I was avoiding it because of the controversy. And full disclosure, which I've said in one of my lives, I said this, there wasn't a lot of interest in the show. And it the reason is is because there weren't a lot of big names. If those people, my goodness, if we had had Dexter, not Dexter, he's not he's done. He's not going to compete anymore. But >> Phil Bonak, uh Roly Winkler, uh if we had Brandon Curry, if we had names like that, people would people would have been very interested in the show. >> Absolutely. >> Yeah. I mean, fans go fans go where the big names are. That's I've learned that just as a YouTube guy. When you have contests with the bigger names in them, that's when people want to watch. So, I guess the the I guess it's convenience and Baltimore is a lot more convenient for most of these guys than Tokyo or Ceschna or wherever they were thinking of holding in Dubai or something. >> Romania. >> Uh yeah, but I mean, yeah, Romania two years ago. You're right. I mean, that was a hike, too. But uh yeah, these are all great ideas. So Jake Wood, Dan, Dan, whoever's listening, uh listen up and let's go because you got they have two years to two years to make some changes and get some more things going in this. Um >> well, you know, the Masters Olympia show we did have two years ago and um Kamal won a >> but before that they didn't have this show for decades. So, I feel this show is just starting to like get gain traction again and uh have its place. So, this is just such a time been back for over a decade. Uh if they keep it going as a continuous thing, it's going to get more and more popular. >> Dorian, what do you think about having it on I know the Olympia weekend's got so much going on already, but I still think having it with the Olympia weekend would be a lot more convenient for most fans. I mean, most fans aren't going to go all the way to Romania or Tokyo or anywhere just for one show, the Masters Olympia or anything, but if it's part of the Olympia weekend and they're already in Vegas, I assume it's always going to stay in Vegas, you know, I I understand the logistics. It's it's it's another event, but you know what? They're adding classes. They're they're going to add fit model next year for God's sake. If you can have a fit model Olympia at the Olympia weekend, why can't you have a Mast's Olympia on the Olympia weekend? Agree or disagree? I disagree. >> Okay. >> Um, now here here's why I disagree. Uh, there's qualification series A to get in to do the Masters Olympia. B, if you win the Masters Olympia, then you can qualify to be the Mr. Olympia. So sometimes you'll see like over in Europe like the amateur shows, they'll be the amateur proqualifier first, then the winner of that show will turn around next day compet. >> Yeah. So if you did the Masters Olympia that way where the winner of Masters will qualify for O turn around compete the next day. I think that would be kind of cool. >> But u the only reason I made it to the Olympic I haven't qu I've been competing for 28 years in 43 years of being alive. This is the first time I qualified to the Olympia. I'd be the last. So this was my opportunity to qualify for that show. And if this wasn't a qualifier, I probably wouldn't be in the Olympia still. So, >> there my rebuttal. I use this as my Olympic. I need >> Right. Well, I mean, this it actually makes sense to what you just proposed because I've been to shows where they have the ProAm and I've seen people go in in some divisions go from amateur to winning the pro division the next day. I've seen that in like Toronto one year. I remember that happen. Um, but still, so if your finals were on Friday night for Masters, let's say, and then, well, no, because at Friday they do the Olympia judging. So your your finals would have to be done before Friday night, I guess. But whoever's listening and can uh can make this happen. I I I would like to see that even though it's going to make a longer That's going to be the the argument. Oh, now the show's going to go on till they keep adding divisions anyway. What's it at this point? What does it matter? You know, we're in for the long haul. You know, you're not gonna sleep on Olympia weekend if you're a fan or a media person. It's it's it's our Olympia. It's our biggest biggest show of the year. You miss a couple hours sleep. Nah. Oh well. Big deal. What else I want to say? Cool. Uh I want to go back to your Instagram because I feel you're a champion in another way, Dorian. You ready for this? Yes. Look at this. Uh is is this your uh fiance, girlfriend, partner? That's not my picture. >> Fiance, is that what you're saying? >> I'm just kidding. That's Monique. >> Okay. >> Yeah, she's something like that. She's basically my wife. >> The poor thing. She kind of had a bad situation moving over here. Um, and I don't want to go into details about it because it's uh kind of incriminating for somebody who's going to be doing this. my name. Um, but she came over here to compete in the NPC and try to get her IFB Pro card. I think she was kind of let on by some people thinking that would help her. And it's like soon as she got here, [\h__\h] hit the fan. And uh, I was talking to her for several months on IP and I said, "Hey, you get along well. I think you're super attractive. How about I come and meet you in Las Vegas?" So, I went out there, meet her. There was Sparks. We got along great. And uh I ended up coming out on a Wednesday and I left on a Saturday and by the next Thursday she was back here in Denver and she hasn't left since. >> Wow. Okay. Oh, so she's still in the USA, right? >> Yeah. >> You never know these with You never know these days because it's it's it's tough for some people from other parts of the world here in the USA. Now, as we know, I'm not getting into politics, but uh Okay. I just want to show that because I thought she's beautiful and I like to show beautiful women on my good >> and uh beautiful and she's been very encouraging uh in terms of like being a good workout partner as well as kind of keeping my mind in a healthy place as I was going through prep has been very helpful and uh she's very ambitious. So, I hope us teaming up together is not only going to mean something good for our love life and our relationship, but also we can uh bring her goal of becoming an IFP to fruition. >> Right on. Is she bikini wellness? What division? >> She she's got such good genetics, such good she could do anything she wanted and do well. But uh does bikini over in Europe and um you know between me and Dylan Arm we think it's the best idea her just to stay bikini because it's gonna help um encamp femininity and she's not gonna have to do anything extreme to get much bigger but she's already been she's got everything she needs. >> Oh I mean figure you you got to be big for figure now. >> Yeah. >> Figure is like figure and women's physique are like almost I can barely tell them apart now. They're very very close. Um, so I just want to wrap it up talking about this Olympia coming up because like I said, that's every bodybuilder's dream. Everyone that's ever competed, they want to be on that Mr. Olympia stage. And we're only It's six weeks. We're at six weeks now, right? Wow. >> Yeah. Yeah. Let's see. Today, Friday, six weeks. Exactly. >> Yeah. Judging. So, you'll be up six weeks from tonight. You're going to be up there with Samson Da Chupon, uh Derek Lunsford, Nick Walker, Andrew Jack, D, uh Martin Fitzwwater. It It's going to be an incredible Olympia. I think one of the best we've had in many years. Um >> how excited are you, dude? This is going to be a killer show. >> I'm very excited. Um and to be honest with you, you know, I came out of the Masters Olympia thinking, "Hey, great. I qualified for Olympia. I'm looking at this lineup. I'm like, "God damn, these guys are good." >> Yeah. If >> I don't come in at 100%, I'm going to be competing for last place. >> Yeah. >> And you said that in one of your previous interviews, too. Whoever qualifies for the mass Olympia because they're not gonna have much of an impact, >> right? I believe that. Unless >> Well, I don't want to make you eat those words, Ron. >> Please. I You know what I always say, Dorian? I say I love being proved wrong. I love it. I love it. I know I've got some of the best glutes and hamstrings in the league. If I can get them lean to the point where they're shredded. >> That makes me a very dangerous guy. >> Yeah. You know, there coming out the Olympia um doing his masters Olympia. I don't want to get lax, >> right? >> As I go through the next week of training, I'm posing every day and I see myself getting full. And I'm seeing my body still getting leaner after the show. >> Like now I'm starting to gather some confidence. I'm like, you know what? I might not be fighting for that. I've got a chance here >> to really make an impact. So to what level that impact is, we're about to find out. But I'm going to do my very best to uh be my best on that day. And hopefully the judges reward it and it's respectful among the community. >> Yeah. Like I said, I mean I I really am hoping I'm hoping you do get a good look. I I want you to place better than last. I mean, I don't I don't know how many guys I I think we're almost We only have one more two more shows to qualify. So, there's only going to be two more people in the show that are that aren't in in the lineup right now. I think it's around 25 total. I'll have to look and see where we're at now, but >> I want say by the end of the season it should be 23. >> Yeah. So, um you know, I'm I'm I'm really rooting for you. >> You can actually make a few mistakes. So, I don't know if they root for a man. >> True, true. So, yeah. I mean, uh I I I root for the older guys. I'm a lot older than you. I'll be 56 in a couple weeks, but you know, I want to see I I like to see the older guys show that, you know, they're they're still competitive. And it's crazy. There's not that many young guys anymore anyway. Bodybuilders at the pro level are older now than they used to be. It's it's definitely uh changed since the old days. But, you know, 40 43 is like not even that. I think that's how old Roden was when he won the Olympia. >> Exactly. >> Yeah. >> So, uh, you've got time to get better and better. Six weeks. Uh, I'm really looking forward to it and I will be watching from home and rooting rooting for you and all the other guys because this is a hell of a tough sport. All you guys work so hard and uh, you deserve all the recognition in the world for it, all the respect and that's it, man. So, thank you very much for your time, Dorian. >> Hey, thanks for having me, Rob. I appreciate that. >> All right, cool. And I want to encourage people to give you a follow there on Instagram. It's easy. Dorian Haywoodbro. Check them out there. And that's it. Thanks for watching Ron Report with your 2025 Masters Mr. Olympia, Dorian Haywood. We will see you.