Hey everybody, welcome to Ryan Line Report. I can't say I have a guest of this caliber on very often, but I'm very honored to have him here today. Six time Mr. Olympia all the way from Spain. Please welcome the shadow Dorian Yates. What's up, Ron? What's up, everybody? Lovely t-shirt. I got my DY t-shirt on. You got your Temple Gym, so we're we're good. I was I was talking to Dorian before we started recording. This shirt is 15 years old. I earned this after he almost killed me in a leg workout at Temple Gym. Yeah. When when were you there in Temple Gym? That was uh Exactly. 10. It was May 2010. So, exactly 15 years ago. Wow. And that was the first Yeah. Is that Is that when all the guys came down like LeBron and Shawn Ray and everybody came down the gym and we had dinner and stuff? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it was uh Body Power weekend. Body Power in Birmingham. Yeah, it was uh Sean was there. Flex, I think Cutler, I think. Everybody. Yeah, pretty much everybody. Everyone was there. So, it was good. We all got to go down to temple, take some pictures, and have dinner and everything. Yeah. Yeah. Unfortunately, it doesn't exist anymore. But, uh you know, there's a there's a time and place for everything. And uh you can't recreate something that's past, if you know what I mean. So, uh there's various reasons why why the place closed. Uh one of them was because somebody bought the building. We were just renting the basement and uh you know, somebody bought the building and they want to make it high-end, you know, high-end offices and a restaurant and a bar and uh yeah, these uh barbarians underneath making lots of noise and stuff. They don't really fit in with the new business plan. So, they just kind of made it very difficult for us to do business and put the rent up and everything. And in the end it's like it it it wasn't viable, you know, and I'm not there. So if I'm not there at the gym, it's, you know, it's not the same, right? So people come for to see me and the atmosphere and everything. So it was difficult to to keep it going. But uh yeah, nothing lasts forever, man. You know, it was a very special place for me. It was all my my whole journey started in that place. You know, I knocked the walls down like me and some guys from the gym. We knocked the walls down. We painted it. We put everything like we worked our asses off for like a month to get the place open. Uh so my heart and soul was in there. All my training I did all for all the my whole career was in that little basement. So yeah, a very special place. But uh yeah, nothing lasts forever, you know. So it was kind of time to let it go. But I mean it was probably only a couple years after you were there, I think. Right. Yeah. So, I'm very very fortunate that I got to train there a couple times, especially, you know, you put me through workout. But it must feel good to know that there's not there's only a couple you can count on one hand the number of truly iconic gyms I think in bodybuilding lore. You got Gold's Gym, Venice, that's always going to be there. Yeah. Um, Temple Gym and Metroflex Gym, I'd say the top three gyms as far as bodybuilders consider the most hardcore gyms of all time. Yeah. And that's crazy to think, you know, I went to that gym the first time when I was doing karate. I was like still at school, right? So there was some few weights in there, but it mainly was a karate gym, right? And then later over later on I took 1987, I took over the place and made it a full bodybuilding gym. Um because I was British champion and somebody uh you know, they had faith in me so they backed it with with some money. And you know, this little I mean it's such a small place compared to gyms nowadays. this little hole in the wall place became kind of world famous um because I was training there but you know I had every piece of equipment that I needed I just didn't have like 10 leg presses I had you know like one or two of everything but all the stuff was was really really good and you know as I went along I picked up pieces from hammer strength and so on work with them so I had all the tools I needed there and I had isolation as well I used to train in the mornings before the gym opened Can you believe Temple Gym used to open at 12 midday? I think you told me that before. Yeah, it used to open at 12 midday until 9 in the evening. I mean, now the gyms are open like 24 hours or they open at 5 or 6 in the morning, but nobody was really like in the UK in the in the 80s. Like, nobody was wanting to train at like 6:00 a.m. in the morning or something. It was not was not a thing, you know. So, uh, I used to go in about 10:00 in the morning, do my training with a training partner and, uh, isolation and that's the way that's the way I liked it, you know. So, it was it was really my gym and, uh, trying to make money with it was was not really a thing. So, we kept it totally hardcore. We didn't have to try to change anything to, you know, get more people in there. It was just a real hardcore place. And the people there loved it. and uh yeah got world famous which which is crazy you know to think uh that I started I never dreamed that this would be the gym would be famous as well I think we're looking at are clips this is from your DY nutrition YouTube channel but these are clips from the again we talk about the most famous training videos of all time I'd say the two most training videos of all time are blood and guts Dorian Yates and Ronnie Coleman the unbelievable to this day and uh why is that it's because so what you know I'm a fan I was a fan right huge bodybuilding fan and I watched everything I read everything and uh all the magazines all the books any tapes I could get I watched them and I was always disappointed in the training because it didn't look like training as I was used to it you know um but I realized that that was because in those days you know you hire a video production company to do the thing for you and they are concerned about the production. So there angles, lighting, things like that. So they, you know, do take one, take two and and all that stuff. Yeah. Um, which makes it impossible to have the genuine intensity and the the feeling and the energy and everything like that. So as a fan, I was disappointed. So I said, you know what? Uh, I got Kevin Horton as a friend of mine that took the black and white pictures as well. He used to work with Peter McAfe and and stuff. So, I said, "Kev, can we like hire a video camera uh and you film me training, but I want you to just be there and film me and try to get the weights in and and you know, get show what I'm doing. I want to capture the energy more than anything because that's what's missing. So, yeah, he was just like a fly on the wall and we trained and just forgot he was there and got just got on with what we normally do. So it captured that and it and it captured the energy and the weight and uh people watch it before they go to the gym to get inspired and that that was exactly what I wanted to achieve because I didn't feel that when I watched. So uh I guess I was the first one to like really uh do a genuine workout. It wasn't a thing at the time. It was all pose. So, and we filmed it in color and then I don't know, I was watching the playbacks and I was like, "This looks too bright. It's too, you know, it's too much." And and I said to Kevin, "Can you turn the color off? Let me take a look at it in black and white." So, he did that and I was like, "Yeah, man. That's that's it." It kind of reminded me of I'm a big movie fan, so it reminded me of the Raging Ball, you know, Robert Dairo movie, the black and white one, the boxing one, and it just seems so more realistic because it was filmed in black and white. So, that's what we decided on. Yeah. I mean, I probably told this story before, so, but let me tell again. 1992, you came out to California, April, I think it was, to guest pose at the Orange County Muscle Classic. So, this is a few months before you won your first title. And um I was working for that America lose Wick and the American Muscle Show and we we were able to get you to come out to my gym in Pasadena to shoot the Valley of Workout Boring Dorian's back training and you made you know when you trained it wasn't for the camera and I didn't quite understand that because when No, it was like some miscommunication because they wanted me there to do a pose workout and I and I'm I'm not here to [\h__\h] train, right? So, I'm just going to train and uh let them get the what they can, which is pretty much like that's the way things always went in the end. I started with Chris Lond and Chris was doing like the pose stuff and I told him I don't want to do that. I want to do like real stuff and uh you know, people liked it. So, I got that first cover with the 200 pound dumbbell and people love that. I'd love to see that. And it was it was kind of hard to convince Joe Weider that you know he had his way of doing things but the numbers didn't lie. You know when people saw that that magazine sold and people want to see more of that stuff. So in the end Chris London became famous for doing super hardcore workouts even like you know uh even I was like Chris no you know right near a contest or after a contest asking me to do like stuff and I'm like no man I could get injured so too little to too much and then you know we had John Pierre Fuches who tore his quad doing whatever a heavy squat with Chris you know because you can't do when you just come from contest, right? You're dehydrated. Your body fat's low. You can't be like uh especially for the camera, you know, you got to like hold it or something for the camera. So, yeah, it got a bit a bit dangerous almost in the end. But that that's how it started. Yeah. But but that day taught me just how seriously you took your training because uh I remember you were doing barbell rows and I think you went up to four plates or four and a quarter on a side something. It was it was your top set. you only did that one top set. And uh I I remember saying, "Dorian, can we do it again? I want to get it from this angle." He said, "No." I said, "What do you mean no? We shoot from all these angles." He said, "No, that was my set and we're moving on. We're doing this now." I'm like, "Oh, yeah. I think I wasn't too popular with the photographers that we because I never really wanted to do what they asked me to do." So, you know, they got their like, you know, sheet of things that they need to get that Joe's told them or the officers told them and I'm like, "Nah, no. I don't want to do that. I'm not doing that. I don't think I was too popular apart with apart from Chris because Chris loved you. You know, Chris is English and we're kind of like on the same vibe so we understood. Yeah. So, I don't know if I ever told you this. Maybe I did. You wore a belt. It was a Valio workout. So, we made everyone wear a Valo belt. They were the sponsor and we gave you one of the thicker ones. It was called Valo 2. I don't know if you people out there don't even remember Valo belts, but whatever. Well, I do. Yeah, they sponsored me. Yeah, I was I wear that belt all the time when I was training, but not the big one that's that's thin one. So, the big one that you wore that day, you didn't need it cuz you had a belt. I took that and I wore that belt in the gym for until it until the Velcro wouldn't stick anymore for a good 10 years. I was like, this was Dorian's belt. He trained back in this belt. Yeah, you get an extra couple of percent power when you put that belt on. I I did. I felt like energized when I put that thing on because, you know, I'm AI'm a huge fan. I've always, no matter what, at the end of the day, I'm a fan. Uh I wanted to I started as a huge fan. I mean you know uh so I understand uh like a fan's perspective. I remember when I you know Tom Plattz was the guy right in Oh yeah. Although Lee Haney was Mr. Olympia when I kind of like started Tom Platt was the man especially in UK. I don't know about anywhere else but in UK Tom Plats was huge because he was freaky and uh he did a lot of seminars and then the passion that he talked about the training and all that stuff and the heavy squats and everything that was like in my gym where I started if you didn't squat like it's like you're gonna just leave or something man it's not you're not even a proper [\h__\h] man if you don't squat. That was that was the thing. So, we admired Lee Haney's physique, but we felt like it was great genetics because we saw him training and doing squats with like three plates and that was like girls doing that in the gym, you know. So, you know, um Tom Plattz was the guy that in inspired us and that kind of energy and that the train the training man the training is always was always a thing for me. Right on and it was like a it was like a religious importance. I couldn't take a day to, you know, not train properly because I was doing a photo shoot or something or because I was traveling and I had a guest posing or something. I tried to keep it like, you know, as good as I could even like if I was on the road, I would be going full out. Actually, I remember a funny story in the Orange County because that was when I was out there, right, for the there was a show in Orange County. Yeah. Y and I trained at I think it was a goals gym in Fullerton at the time where Sean Ray train that year leader. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. So I was doing Cable rows. It's a 300lb stack and it's light for me at that point, you know. So I pinned 245s on there. Yeah. With a you know with a pin with a weight pin, right? Yeah. finished my workout and then somebody said, "Oh, the the manager or the owner would like to meet you and, you know, in the office and and talk with you." So, I thought, "Yeah, you know, they're going to say, "Hey, well, you know, welcome to our gym and all that stuff and everything." I got in there and there's like three pins all bent like this on the table. Yeah. And they were like, you know, you're bending our pins and everything. And I I was generally like shocked because in England everything's hardcore and you know bend the [\h__\h] pen. So what? Like just get another one, you know? Right. And I was like, "Yeah, well I'm sorry." You know, like not enough weight on your machine. So what I'm going to do I thought this is a bodybuilding gym. I'm sorry. Like so yeah, it was was funny. I did you you just joged my memory because that back workout that I saw you do that day at my gym in Pasadena are all the stacks 300 seems to be like the standard cap 300 was most of the stacks were at 300. Yeah. So pull downs and rows I always pinning stuff on it like you know you had 245s. Yeah. Unbelievable. I guess it's not unbelievable. I mean you were known for your known for your strength as well. You know, that's another thing is bodybuilders have an extra level of respect for guys like yourself that not only look the part but move the kind of weights you would expect someone that looks like that to move. So you rotted I always did you know I always did like the physiques that I looked at even though Lee Haney was better from a competitive point of view was Tom Platt's Mensa case Vtor was a big fan of Quesvator as well because the guy just looked like a a [\h__\h] gorilla like he could lift you know you see the guy benching five plates on an incline or something. Yeah. Um, so I always had that and uh actually when I was opening Temple Gym because of the gyms, you know, there's walls down and everything. We don't have the equipment in there yet, but I'm trying to keep my training schedule going. So I go on the other side of Birmingham to this gym forum gym. And that was a strongman gym, powerlifting gym, and bodybuilding. But they had their stones and all the equipment for strongman. And uh the owner was a powerlifter. The British champion powerliffters trained there. And uh Bill Kazmire used to come there to train from time to time if it was uh so I happened to be there when Kazmire was there and he was like telling the owner like who the [\h__\h] is that kid like he's so strong you know and he's like oh he's a bodybuilder is like British champion and stuff you know it's like so he met me and he was like bro you're really strong and everything and like uh he said all the bodybuilders in in America they they train like [\h__\h] right not my words his words. His words. Uh, I said, "I don't know, man. I just thought everyone trained like this." And he said, "No, they don't. They don't train like this." I was like, "I don't know. Just, you know, I'm just doing my thing, man." So, yeah. Uh, I've been friends with uh Bill since that that time when I was out in England. So, I respected the powerlifterss and the strong guys as well. It's not my sport. I'm not built for that. But yeah, I mean I I always like the the physique that looks like it it's powerful as well. And uh that's what I chased, you know. Yeah. So yeah, let let's talk about your training style because you were sort of the final evolution of what Arthur Jones began in the early 70s with his highintensity training theories and then Mike Mener took that and sort of added to it, made some changes, fine-tuned it, and then I think yours was the most bodybuilder friendly version. You called it blood and guts, uh where you had more exercises per body part. It wasn't just one movement per body part. Uh, it was still one works, one really heavy work set, but you did do warm-ups leading up to that. Oh, absolutely. So, some people get the wrong idea. Uh, Dorian change hit one set or I mean, I don't care what label you put it on. It's probably uh, if you look at it, my training is a bit of a hybrid between more conventional bodybuilding and the purist hit, if you like. Yeah. Uh, Arthur Jones. I mean, he he wasn't a competitive bodybuilder and it wasn't really concerned with that. So, if you're the average person, his kind of training with one exercise basically per body part and everything, yeah, would be great, but competitive bodybuilder, you need side delts, you need rear delts, you need to work a couple of different exercises. For instance, your triceps down by your side, you're doing push downs. You're not really activating the long head. You need to stretch it, right? So there's two you need to do for triceps as a minimum. Calfs you need to do two because you got the gastronmus and you got the silas underneath. So one with the legs straight, one with the legs bent. So you need two there. Uh chest then you probably going to need an isolation movement. You're going to need a compound and you might need a something on a high incline to trying to work the the clavicle area a bit more. So yeah, three three exercises of chest, probably four for back, three for quads, and um I don't go in and go 100%. So what I used to do was warm up. Yeah. Let's say whatever one or two sets. Yeah. Go to failure and then after, you know, not rushing or anything. After a couple minutes rest, drop the weight a little bit 10% to go to failure again. because if I took the same weight the second time, I wouldn't get adequate reps. So, basically, I was hitting it and then doing another one just to make sure the job's done kind of thing, right? Yeah. So, when I met Mensah, he said like uh he felt that even when he was training, he did more than was necessary and his clients, he's getting good feedback off doing less. So why don't you cut back from doing two sets to failure to just one? So that's around about that time that I made that little change in the training. Um so people say Dorian doesn't do pure I do what I do, you know. I don't know. It's up to you what you want to call it. Yeah. Uh it is much briefer and infrequent than than most bodybuilders, I guess. But it's not. No, it's not pure hit because I'll do like four exercises for back. True. I think you need to. There's a lot of muscles there. You got the traps and rumbos and you got the lats and everything. So, um, biceps and triceps, two or three exercises, chest three, legs, three. So, yeah, I do the first exercise, I probably do two warm-up sets and then I go in. So, that's three sets. But on the second exercise on the same body part, I don't really see the need to do two warm-up sets as I'm already warm. But maybe it's a change of angle. So I'll do one warm-up set and then one set to failure. So I guess to take if you take chest is probably usually be like seven sets total. Yeah. Okay. So, you know, it's not one set or two sets. If you're going to count all the sets, the warm-up sets, but I don't really count them because to me that they're they're not doing anything. Yeah. as far as you know any progress they're just getting me safely to the point where I can go to failure but anything below your capacity of course you understand this the cause of stress and overcompensation your body is not going to change or overcompensate if it's working within its existing boundaries. Yeah. So your warm-up sets are not doing anything as in adding uh size or strength. They're just getting you safely to that set that will do that. Yeah. You know, so I'd say that while you were Mr. Olympia, that's your style of training became very very popular with bodybuilders because you're the greatest bodybuilder in the world. Everyone wants to emulate you and do what you're doing and hopefully duplicate your results. But and I'm doing something a bit different as well. So it it sparked people's interest. Yeah. But it didn't it didn't last. I And I I have my theories as to why. You know, some people love volume training because just like you said, you had that one chance to do that allout set. And most people psychologically, that's very hard to get into that space where, okay, this is it. If I I have to do this one set and if I mess it up, if I don't take it all the way to failure and beyond, it's going to be another week until I get a chance to hit it again. Oh, well, uh, in that, let's say I'm training you, Ron. Yeah. Yeah. and we warmed up and we do this set to failure and for some reason yourself or myself you're like [\h__\h] man I didn't get it I was not right in the right do another [\h__\h] set then it's not a religion yeah it's written in stone right I'm saying ideally you don't want to do more than one set to failure per exercise because if you go to failure you've done all you can to stimulate and if you go and do it gain is just putting more stress on top of that that you got to recover from without an additional benefit as I see it. So that's why I'm trying to get it in one set. If you don't, hey, we can do another one. Like, you know, do another one if you if you feel like your head wasn't in it or I don't know why you didn't hit 100%, but let's give it another go. Uh, actually, I think it's easier. see what what people if they can't push themselves doing another set where they don't really push themselves. I I I don't see how that's going to, you know, be too beneficial, right? Yeah. Um so yeah, try to hit it with one set. If you don't do another set, um but it it is kind of a skill uh to be able to generate that kind of intensity. It takes a bit of time, but as long as you're trying, you know, as long as it's your perceived uh failure. Um, anyone that comes to train with me, there's a guy in the gym today wasn't even training him, but he's like, you know, he's a fan and he's like, "Can you set me can you spot me on this set of leg press?" All right. And I'm just warming up anyway. So, okay. So, he got on here. He had nine either side. Nine play. I said, "How many can do with that?" He said, "I don't know. on like 10 or 11. I said, "Okay, let's go. Let's see." The guy ended up doing 22 reps. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. He ended up doing 22 reps and he's like, "Yeah, because you're there." I said, "Yeah, it's because I'm there." Yeah. But I'm not touching the weight. I'm just shouting and I'm Dorian and somehow that's motivated you. Yeah, it is. It is. Yeah. So, it's just a matter of motivation. I won't be there next time. But you should you should decide before you come to the gym how [\h__\h] important this set is that you're going to do because you want the results and that's important to you for there. Therefore, you've made your mind up. You're just going to go balls in and you're going to give everything you've got. It's a frame of mind. He just changed his frame of mind because hey Dorian's here now. [\h__\h] I better, you know, whatever. But you got to tap into whatever that is inside your head. Yeah. That's going to give you the motivation. A lot of it was me was just [\h__\h] you motivation as it Yeah. You know, [\h__\h] everybody, man. Everybody that said I couldn't do something ever or anyone that didn't believe in me or anything, all the negative things, anger and things like that, I just took them instead of it being destructive for me, which it can be. Yeah. I just put it into the gym. Yeah. So I'm training I'm there I'm training changing something which could be you know anger and loss and negativity whatever you want to call it. I'm I'm using that energy and I'm doing something with it. I'm building something with it. Yeah. I mean the power of the mind the the the leg workout you put me through at that at that day in May of 2010. Again like the leg press you had the thing loaded up with all the plates that would hold and I'm thinking 10 10 reps, nine reps, something like that. And I think I ended up doing like 15 cuz Dorian Yates is there yelling at me. You weren't help. I think you were spotting a little. But I I I think most people just can't train that hard. I thought I trained hard. I thought I trained very hard. But that's one of the if not the toughest leg workout of my life. It's definitely one of the top two or three of That's the thing that you take away from it. I show people what they can do. I mean I could show them technique and and form and uh all the theory you like you know we can talk about it but the main thing is that I show people is that their limit is not where they put it. They put a they put a limiter on themselves. You know they put a block on themselves somehow and I showed them that that can go away. So next time you you lifted the weight you lifted the weight 22 times. I didn't I didn't touch it. Right. So that shows that you can do it with the right mental attitude and the right motivation. How you create that is an individual thing, right? It depends on the person's personality. For me is just I just created aggression out of negative things and use it to like I'm gonna show you basically. Yeah. I mean, but there's nothing there's nothing like having a Mr. Olympia. The other example I is 2005 I got to go out to Metroflex and train legs with Ronnie once. People asked me oh that was that was that was probably the other workout the other leg workout. Well the other the top three are the workouts with you Branch Warren and and uh Ronnie but that day I I front squatted 405 for four plates aside for 10 reps. I never I never did that before in my life and I never did it again. But I had Ronnie Coleman behind me going, "Come on, Ron. It's like the mother that can lift a car up off her trapped baby or something, you know, but it's there. It's there, right? So, you got to try and tap into it. That's why I always used to take a write my workouts down and then before I go to the gym, I look at what I did last week. So, I got a clear picture in my mind what I got to beat. Like last week that I did seven reps, I got to do eight or nine. Yeah. So, I visualize it. you know, the order of the exercises, what I'm going to do, the ninth rep, the you know, I've kind of visualized everything so that I've already done it and then I'm going to the gym and and replaying it kind of thing. So, you're not going to push yourself into a very uncomfortable zone unless you've convinced yourself there's a good reason to, you know, I I don't push myself that hard anymore. Why should I? I'm 63 years old and there's no benefit. So, I still I mean it's in my nature to go pretty hard on anything I do, but I don't feel bad if you know if I if I don't nowadays cuz it's not much point. I want to talk about that in a second. But last question about the training. If you had trained the way Ronnie Coleman had trained and Ronnie had trained the way you had trained, if we had just switched your training styles, do you think you both would have looked the same or do you think either or both of you would have looked different? You know, it's like it's not night and day if you look at the way we train. I mean, I'm not really sure, but I think Ronnie trained once a day for an hour and a bit, six times a week. Yeah. You know, I trained for less than an hour, four or five times a week. So, it's not a huge difference. Uh pro Ronnie probably did more sets. He did primarily free weights because didn't have a lot of machines in that gym anyway. Yeah. Um Yeah, it's true. So yeah, I I don't know what exactly what he did, but if id did what he did, I probably would have been injured as well. You know, I've been injured myself with my own training, but uh for instance, squatting with free weight. Uh I just had a hip replacement surgery, what you might know, la last year. Yeah. Oh, wow. So yeah, everything's great, man. It's It's really good. But um thing is I had a hip injury when I was when I just started training like after 18 months, two years trying to be Tom Platz, you know, right? Because we're all trying to be Tom Platz. I got the lifting shoes. I got the the the wraps the I'm squatting till my ass is on my heels. And one day I tore something in my uh right hip. And you know, I didn't know anything. There's no physios or anything around. And I just rested it till it felt better and you know go back and I kept retairing and irritating it until I had a little surgery to remove some scar tissue. Um so I couldn't pre-quat. I had to find another way to do it. So I was squatting on a Smith machine, hack squat, leg press, leg extension. Um so you know I wasn't built to do what Tom plats did. I tried but it didn't work for me. So I wouldn't be able to do free squats. Maybe for running they were great. It looked like when he squatted 800 pounds it looked like the form was pretty like upright and and primarily the quads where I would like lean forward because just different structures. So, uh I'm sure that Ronnie would look great if he did my training. I would look great if if I did his training as well as I could, but uh I wouldn't find it ideal, you know. Yeah. Um, I always said to people like, "Oh, no matter what bodybuilding training I did, I would have been a very good bodybuilder." Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Would I be pro? Would I be Mr. Olympia? Would I have reached new standards like in physique development at that point in time? Probably not. No. Yeah. You know, I I really think that I before the injuries came in, I was getting near somewhere near probably to to my potential and maybe I wouldn't have got that far with conventional training. I'm sure I would have a great physique because got good genetics for bodybuilding, you know. Look at my early pictures and trained for like a less than a year or something, you know, and the physique's there. It's not massive, but it's all there, right? You can see it. It was all there. The 83 pictures, the pictures where you were very very pale and your you had the the curly red hair. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is before any competitions or anything. And it was just that was in Temple Gym. It wasn't my gym at that point. There was another guy that was running it. But he was also a photographer. He worked for the police like police crime scene photographer. So he had some good cameras and he got those pictures. Otherwise, like you know, nobody's walking around with a camera like No. In those days, right? So, it was fortunate that he was there and he took those pictures because there's some kind of record there now that even, you know, even I wouldn't remember exactly how I looked when I started if there wasn't those pictures there. He was Was that Was it name Martin? Was that his name? Martin. Yeah. Yeah. He was there at the gym the day I was there. Remember? Probably. Yeah. Probably taking pictures and stuff. He'd be hanging around. Yeah. So, that's cool. Yeah. So, you you just joged my memory into the next the next topic I want to get to. So, I had an argument. I really got into it in the YouTube comments cuz I did a preview of a contest with Shawn Ray and someone said, "I hate when these pros, these retired pros, don't look the same anymore. Uh, it's a disgrace." And he said, "I saw Dorian Yates uh get totally outclassed by a 71year-old bodybuilder from Brazil." Uh, and I'm thinking, and I I said, "Well, the guy, if he's 71 and he's that big, he's on a cycle. He's not on TRT, which is a bad idea for anyone 71 years old to be running a a bunch of gear. And I said, "This guy set an entirely new standard for bodybuilding. He changed the sport." He was Mr. Olympia six years in a row. And you're telling me when he's 30, what is it, 35 years now? 40. It's 35 years postretirement, something like that. Uh 28 years. 28 years, right? You expect this guy at 63 years old to still be, you know, 260, 270 ripped all the time. You know, I couldn't find the I an emoji for a middle finger, but I I was You don't need me to defend you. I wouldn't even waste my time arguing. First of all, that I don't know who this 71 year old bodybuilder is. Yeah, exactly. Uh in in Brazil. Um, but you know, I did the sport and I did it to the maximum and uh what you do for competitive bodybuilding is not not the best thing for your health and longevity as you're getting older as uh you know ju just look how many people have passed away in the last uh five years or something. I mean and these are people that we know, right? Yeah. I mean you know known competitors, right? So, how many people are out there that don't even compete, right, that's had health problems or died and and so on. Um, so there is some risk there and I tried to do it as as well as I could, you know. Yeah. Um, but as you get older, you need different things, right? So, if I was trying to stay keep taking stuff and trying to stay big now, it just because I'm stupid and I'm insecure. Yeah. Yeah. And I don't know who I am outside of being a bodybuilder, right? Yeah. Um and actually at some point about 10 years ago, uh my blood pressure was a bit high and I said, "Look, I'm just going to lose weight and I wasn't carrying a lot of body fat. So, I lost muscle." And I did it purposely, right? And uh I didn't care because I'm not Mr. Olympia. I don't need to carry all that muscle around. that's not good for my health for for no reason, right? Yeah. And it it was a it was a good exercise for me to see like, you know, can I do that? Can I lose muscle? And who am I without that? Well, I'm still Dorian. I don't need it. You know, I I am for a 63 year old guy, I think my fitness is really good. I just had it when I was in Brazil. They estimated my biological age to be 38 due to, you know, heart rates and exercise capacity and all this stuff. Um, I've got injuries from bodybuilding, which would mean that I couldn't lift heavy weights anyway, like pressing and stuff like that. Even if I wanted to build that physique, I couldn't. But why would I? Yeah. For the reasons I just mentioned. I'm stupid. I've got an ego. uh I don't know how to face life out of sight of this little circle where I feel comfortable. Um so I was so much into bodybuilding it was it was my life that when I finished with it I wanted to see more of life and experience more things in life and I didn't need to maintain that muscle mass for for what? It's unhealthy. That's right. It's unhealthy as you get older to have a high body weight even if it's muscle. Yes, that's right. even if it's muscle, not good for you, right? And it doesn't even look good walking around at 60 years old and you can't move properly and everything. So, you know, I do yoga and pilates and things like that because I I do my weight training to maintain my muscle mass. I'm 230 and I'm pretty lean, so I'm not exactly skinny. Um, but it's all about function now and the health and longevity. I got a grandson. I want to be there watch him grow up and stuff. So, I feel great, man. I feel very fit. I feel very flexible and mobile and I don't have any pain or anything. So I'm very happy with my physical condition and I don't live my life for other people. So I remember when I was when I was young and people were saying the same thing about Arnold why does he need the guy's getting 20 mil a movie and he's he has his physique for whatever he needs to look like for that movie that you know that's the point. So um yeah I I did uh last time I got asked a question like you know why don't you maintain this size and all I said oh there's a few hundred people there I said put your hand up if you know a 70 year old 300 pound man please put your hand up ah no hands okay thank you yeah I did um with a medical expert it's called Russ Scalar I did a podcast with him some time ago. It's on D1 nutrition. Uh but we were talking about bodybuilders and heart heart disease and and stuff like this. And uh he said he's from the triathlon community and they have the same thing there. Not even using steroids. It's down to the constant eating spiking the blood sugar all the time. That was his opinion. So I asked him his medical opinion. if you're, you know, carrying excess weight as you get older in your 50s, 60s maybe, uh, so on. Yeah. If it's fat, if it's muscle, does it make any difference? And his opinion was no. It's not good either way. Carrying, you know, carrying excess weight. So, just trying to stay alive, man. Excuse me. You know. Yeah. No, I mean I I I honestly believe anybody any bodybuilder who tries to maintain that much muscle mass, which means a lot of gear, a lot of food, you're not going to you're not going to make it. If you make it to 60, you you've beaten tremendous odds. You're Where's all the big Where's all the big guys gone? They're they're dead. They're dead. So, you know, you're supposed to you're supposed to die young to keep a couple fans happy because they want to they still want you to look the way you look 30 years ago. It's very difficult for people to move on when they're, you know, the the it's your source of feeling good, right? Whether it's, you know, you're a competitive bodybuilder, you you have a career and all that stuff. Um, but a lot of guys don't. It's just they feel better because they came they started lifting weights from a point of insecurity. Yeah. So, they wanted to get bigger and stronger to to manage this insecurity. So now they got they're bigger and stronger and they feel more confident. People treat them differently, etc., etc. And uh they literally don't know who they are without that. So um I think it's sensible if you're a competitive bodybuilder when your career is over that you bring your body weight down. Like uh that's a sensible thing to do. So yeah, I mean no doubt people that say these things, they're probably very young because you know Yeah. when you're young, you want to be massive and strong and you think that can last forever, but right, it can't. Not to that not to competitive degree. So, I want to I want to move on to another sort of related topic. It's, you know, they they when guys like yourself or Kevin Leone or any of the older old school guys talk about the cycles that they use, you're you're called liars because it's not what they expect. and they they think they know what all bodybuilders take because on the internet on social media anybody can say anything say I know all the pros I know what they use they're liars if they say because they're all on five grams of this 20 I use a broth and this and that and if they say otherwise they're just lying to you so funny story you know a guy named Paul Baxenddale yes yes so Paul Paul knows you how was he a training partner oh he used to train with me a little bit yeah it's uh sometimes a training partner and we're we're still friends now. Yeah. So, he trained with me early 90s. Yeah. We had some good training sessions together. He used to come and drive a couple hours from the somewhere else in England and come and train with me and Kenny Brown. That was before I trained with Leroy that everyone knows from Blood and Guts. But Blood and Guts had a film till 96. So, I was already like three times Mr. Olympia. So, yeah. Paul was training with me the early days probably around the first Mr. Olympia, second Mr. Olympia. Yeah. The reason the reason I brought him up, Giles told me this story because Giles knows Paul pretty well. Somebody was claiming that they knew your exact cycle from when you competed and it was 10 times what you claimed it was. Okay. And this guy said, "I know because I was very close to Dory and I was I was one of his training partners." And Paul said, "I've never heard of you. You've never trained with Dorian. You're full of shit." So that just goes to say on social media when somebody says that they say, "I know what Dorian took. I know what Kevin took. I know what they're all lying because I know what they really took. Here's the here's the truth, Ron. Yeah. Nobody knows what I took except for me. Yeah. Yeah. My training partners don't know. My ex-wife don't know because they're not there and I could be [\h__\h] lying. Whatever I tell them, I could be lying, right? you know, but I don't see the point that remember when we both worked for Muscle and Fitness and it was my idea to volunteer what I took for the competitions because I saw stuff on the internet and I thought, "Fuck, you know, somebody sees this and takes it seriously and does it, it's like they're going to kill themselves." So, I'm I'm not saying what I took was super conservative. It It was enough, you know? Yeah. Um, but yeah, I don't see the point in telling any lies. No, even when I work for Muslim Fitness, like they weren't asking me to to volunteer this information. No, I could just keep my mouth shut. And uh, you know, some guys from the old days I've spoken to, I think they take the piss a little bit. Like, you know, take 100 milligrams and uh, and 10 milligrams of this and come on, man. You know? Um, but yeah, I took [\h__\h] 1,500 milligrams up to 2,000 milligrams maybe in the offseason. It's not exactly a small amount, you know. Uh, and that was like right at the end after being training for many years. When I was an amateur, it was like very, you know, much smaller, like 500, 800 milligrams a week maybe. By the time I got to be Mr. Olympia and and I noticed even when I push it 2,000 maybe a little bit more was like wasn't really getting any more benefit out of it. You know, I was getting more water retention and stuff like that. But there's a limit to, you know, what can be anabolic and then more than that is going to be a chance that it's going to be harmful. So, um, and I tell people like if you're not competitive, I don't really see the point in getting on this whole merrygo round, you know, but that's just now now you remember back in the day steroids was like an in uh subculture thing in the gym that we knew about and even then people were a bit like secretive. If he was a new guy, they wouldn't want to tell you anything. Right now, it's like a household thing, right? And I think people use steroids now, men, women, just as a cosmetic enhancement basically like I don't know like getting Botox or getting breast implants or something is it just see it like that. I think I mean I I I think uh part of the confusion comes the reason a lot of you bodybuilders even if a guy now says a current bodybuilder says this is what I use and if it's not grams and grams if it's not like four five six grams people people call them a liar because they're doing two grams, three grams, four grams and they don't look like that. So you must be lying if you look better than me. Cuz I think the hardest thing for most people to accept is there are those among us on this earth that have exceptional genetics for building muscle and a certain structure and muscle bellies and things like that that most human beings just don't have. And it's very once you accept that, you have to admit, I'm never going to look like Dorian. I'm never going to look like Phil Heath. And it that crushes people. So they'd rather believe you're just liars because if I took what they took, I would look like No, I get it, man. But people can believe what they want to believe. It doesn't matter to me what's in somebody's head. I just try to tell people the way it is. And uh they can take it or leave it, man. It's 30 years ago since my career, as you said. I don't really give a [\h__\h] you know, like uh what people want to do. But I at some point I don't think it's going to benefit anybody. And all the guys that are up there, they got good genetics. So that's why they got this development. Just because you take the same things, it's not going to, you know, it's not going to give you the development these guys have got. So I think over a certain point, you're not going to get anything out of it. And my way that I did it was just to take a minimal amount to get the effect because later on at least I can go somewhere with that. Now guys are jumping on a thousand 1500 milligrams straight away and like you could get the same benefits from a very small amount to start with. Later on as your body gets more accustomed and you got more muscle mass you might need more. So doesn't make sense to just jump on a huge cycle. Yeah. Did did you ever expect it's called trend now but back in your day it was parabols. Yeah. Did you ever expect trend to be this mythical substance where every kid in the world now is on trend or they want to be on trend? Not at all, man. I mean, you know, uh, no member of the public that I knew would know what trend was back in the 90s. Like, nobody, you know, and we didn't even call it trend. It was Parabolan. And, uh, Finejek was the other one, the short acting one that was a veterinary one, right? Yeah. Um, and you know, we didn't have much information, but I knew the guy uh was a guy that lived in France and he lived in Birmingham as well. And he was the guy that used to bring stuff in. And I knew him earlier on because I was training in the gym and he came to say hello and introduce himself and he said, "You want anything?" I'm like, "No, I'm not on anything, man." You know, but one day I I probably will, but I'm not now. He said, "Okay." They said come and see me when you, you know, when you want to talk about it because I can tell you something, been around a long time and you've got the structure, you've got the muscle tissue to be a great bodybuilder. This I'm natural, right? But he can see it. You know, if you know, you know, right? Yeah. Uh anyway, Paul, he he was the guy bringing the parabolon in because it's from France, right? Um so we didn't know much about it. The only thing he told us is it's very powerful. It's very androgenic, but it doesn't aromatize. It doesn't make it hold water. was very powerful. That's why they make it in 76 milligrams as opposed to 200 or 250 with test or something like that. And uh two absolute maximum three a week. Um and it's reportedly hard on your kidneys. Whether it is or not, I still don't know. But that's that's the information that I had. That's all I had. And uh I used to use it for contests, not really offseason. Two three maximum a week. So that was like 200 milligrams would be 220 or something let's say would be the maximum. Uh I heard of people using Fijet daily 50 milligrams so that would be 350 a week but I don't really know anyone going over that because we knew that somehow but I you know these famous trend side effects. Yeah. I don't know man. I don't know. Nothing only thing that I used to get was that funny taste in your mouth. Copper. Yeah. the trend thing like tastes like I used to think tastes like a [\h__\h] hospital or something like you know I used to get that but nothing no [\h__\h] crazy aggression or mental episode that I hear people about it's probably just they're taking too much you know well I mean I hear about young kids like we're talking 16 17 year old kids taking a gram of tren a week a thousand milligrams that's insanity man it's just uh crazy if you're going to take a thousand milligrams at least take testosterone that's you know is a more natural compound than trembolone that would be crazy and I say because they start on trend and that's the so so powerful I say that's like starting recreational drugs instead of making injected heroin like yeah anyway um yeah enough drug I mean you know trembolone is for me it's it's a good contest drug uh good hardener Well, it's not something to take in all the time or in in big doses. Yeah, I I probably should have asked this before, but your career was so short. Uh 1990, May of 1990 was your very first professional show, The Night of Champions, New York. And your very last show was only seven years later, Long Beach, California, Mr. Olympia. You know, you look like Dexter Jackson competed for as a pro for 20 21 years, 22 years, I think it was. Was it the injuries? I mean, do you think you could have kept going if you hadn't because you tore a bicep, you tore a tricep? I'll tell you, like I tore a bicep in 94 and then, you know, it's like always a little bit compromised, you know, you got a little break in the chain somewhere. So, now looking back, I can analyze it. I had a little shoulder pain and I was doing the reverse grip barbell rows that you saw me do. Yeah. But I noticed like one hand straight on the bar. this left hand I had to like you know it was rotating forward because the shoulder was slightly injured. That meant that when I grabbed the bar there was a lot of tension going through the shoulder and through the bicep because it was not in the right position and I was training too heavy near a contest and I got the injury. So then it was always a bit uh compromised from them. But the thing is uh right or wrong I did this thing like obsessively 100%. I had no social life. I had no other interests. I had nothing. I didn't go to family events. I didn't do anything. Yeah. So, in 97, I started my conscious prep and I was like, it was different. It was like, this is starting to feel like uh Groundhog Day, like I'm doing the same thing over and over again now. And somehow the joy was going out of it. and it's going to be very difficult to improve which would be a motivation very difficult with the injuries at that point and uh I just had this feeling during my conscious prep I need to start thinking what I'm going to do with the rest of my life because I've only been doing this and uh it's feeling like a job now and I never it was a job of course I'm professional but I didn't want it to feel like a job you know like something you've got to do as opposed to something you really want to do and it was starting to feel like that. So even if I didn't get injured, uh I don't know if I would have compete the next year because I was never chasing n like Haney's title or anything. I was just doing one at a time. Um it may be that I would step down anyway. I would just had a smoother transition, you know, because when I got injured and I had the surgery and I couldn't train properly, I just I even cancelled guest posings and everything. I just didn't want to be on stage again looking like, you know, I don't know, just not near my best. Um, so it's kind of the way I do things. Very extreme. I think was all in and then boom, one day it stopped, which was uh, you know, which was very tough. It's tough for anyone to in a competitive sport, I think, to step down from it and transition. Uh, but it was so sudden sudden. It was was very tough. Yeah. Yeah. You didn't have really time to contemplate it. Um, so you won six Olympias, Lee and and Ronnie won eight, Phil Heath won seven, but in the past eight years, we've had seven different Mr. Olympia winners. Do you think we're ever going to see a dynasty like like you guys had or or are those days gone? I don't know if they're gone, but like not at the moment, you know? Not at the moment. There's nobody like head and shoulders. I would say, you know, Samson's Mr. Olympia. So, let's say he's the best guy right now. Um, then he got Hadti and Derek. That could be interchangeable, I guess, depending on who's who's in condition or not. They're very kind of close. Yeah. Uh, by the way, I did watch a bit of the Pittsburgh show. Oh, did you go? No, I didn't. I had to watch it just like you are remotely, but what do you think? Yeah. Uh, I would say that ju, you know, it's hard to go from video, right? you're not there in person, but from the video, I would say that um Nick Walker would have won in my opinion. It was in better condition and everything. Um what the [\h__\h] up with the chewing gum on stage, man. Yeah, I don't Mr. Walker, don't chew gum on stage, mate. Come on. It's a rook. That is a rookie rookie move. I don't know what he was doing, but I mean, you know, if the judges said that they marked him down from first place to second place for chewing gum on stage, I would understand that more than saying he had, you know, the other guy had a better physique, to be honest. I mean, Wayne I mean, when Wayne was around, none of that [\h__\h] right? Chewing gum on stage, man. Come on. I mean, Big Steve Weamberg, a good friend of yours, he had the horrible task of trying to find a winner because at the end of finals, they were they were tied for points. Yeah, they both had 15 points and he had to come up with this new sudden death round of just posing. I didn't know that. I just saw some compulsory uh comparison. You know, and you know, Nick was getting tired. He was getting gassed and his between poses his gut would pop out. He's got a midsection. And that's I think that's how they gave it to Derek. They had to do you got to see you got to see the whole thing. As I say, even like if I watch the whole thing on video, it's not the same as being there. Uh but that's just what I saw. I thought he was in better condition, but that's not a way to present yourself on stage as a professional, man. Yeah, that could have hurt him. Would have hurt him if I was judging. Well, the last thing I want I want to talk about with the modern guys is we've even seen a couple Mr. Olympias, Derek and Samson, they don't have a lot of detail in certain areas like the arms, the chest, the shoulders. I mean, we look back at, you know, your whole thing was you didn't care about being big and full. And I don't think you ever shot up any body parts. I'm not saying they did, but people have accused them of that. You know, detail and quality of the muscle was very important. And now it seems like we're even letting guys win the Mr. Olympia with arms. Sometimes they just look like a big blob. Why do you think we're seeing less detail? Is it because they're they're injecting things or is it because they're trying to come in bigger and fuller? What? I I I know. I think it's possibly both. Um, you know, the standards are standard, right? Yeah. So, whoever wins, whatever that shape is, is what you got to chase. Right. When Dorian was Mr. Olympia, people trying to get bigger and and harder because that was what I presented. Yeah. Um, so I think in the in the past since there's been so many classes that the open Mr. Olympia has been going for size and fullness and roundness and uh lack of detail and if you're injecting things sight injection, that's also going to take details away. But I think it's simply like, you know, uh I'm not volunteering here, of course, right? But if I if I would take one of those guys to coach him for Mr. Olympia, any one of them, I would have him come in 10, 12, 15 pounds lighter and then they would look more detailed and there would be more separation in the muscle. You know, that's the kind of condition that's acceptable on Olympia days. and I would be like not even halfway through my prep and thinking, you know, I got to get more. I got to get more. So, you're going to sacrifice some fullness and some size to get very sharp condition, right? Um, but why would you do that if the guy that just won is not displaying that condition? And, you know, you could come in bigger and fuller and that's that's the standard. So if that's being rewarded, then you know people will continue to do that and it it's easier to compete. You know, you could do a short prep and and get into condition and then maybe you could do another one later in the year. For me, it was like all in once a year. Yeah. I mean, we were just looking at 93 Olympia and that was a few weeks after the infamous Black Socks photos that Kevin shot. You could have come in. It was about a 10 or 12 pound difference between those pictures and when you got to the stage. Yeah, like 12 12 to 15 pounds from the black and white to the contest and much rounder and fuller. I like the black and white pictures. Yeah, great. It's probably, you know, my favorite pictures of my physique, but I just felt it was a bit too soft for Olympia condition. And I always was conscious as a big guy as I was generally speaking uh that I want to try and get the condition that the smaller guys have got like Shawn Ray and Labrada and guys like that. I don't want to be just the big guy. I want to you know match them on every department. I I remember your phrase some some phrases of yours stick in my head. You said I want to be so ripped that they could see my kidneys pumping through my lower back. I think I got that off Samir at some point. I stole that from him. But yeah, that was kind of the thing uh to be like anatomy chart. You could basically see all the muscles, insertion, everything, uh separation and small details in a muscle, but you got to get your body fat really low to look like that. And you got to be a bit dehydrated as well. So, obviously, you're not going to be as big and and as round. So, it's like a it's like a balancing thing. But if I were to compete now, I probably wouldn't go to that degree. But why why should I? You know, I don't need to, right? It's all about winning. You said your feet would hurt because the the fat P. I don't know what it was. I was walking back and my feet were really hurting me to plus I had a habit of banging my feet on the on the floor when I was competing. So, there was that. But I was Why are my feet hurting me? Well, my feet were so bony. And then there's a pad under your ball of your feet and on your heel, pad of fat, and that was like reduced right down as well. So it was pretty extreme. Yeah. You just reminded me of the 91 Olympia in Orlando. The first time anyone in the U Well, no, not the first time, first Olympia you ever did. It was on It was on risers. It wasn't like a real stage. It wasn't like a theater like Night of Champions was. So when you came out and hit that ab and thigh the first time and bent stomped your foot on the ground, the whole the whole floor shook and people could hear you from the back of the theater like who is this guy? I did it the first time I went to Night of Champions. Uh I did it, you know, because my posing style was my style as it should be. You should pose as your personality, your physique, the presentation, the music. So, it was quite Marshall and a bit aggressive my posing compared to everyone else because I was not into the arty stuff. It's great, you know, but it wasn't me. Right. Right. Um, so when I went Night of Champions, I did my first call out and did the compulsory when I did my back double bicep. I did that bang the calf down so everyone would look and uh, you know, I was a bit nervous going to New York because I'm from England and New York's like New York, right? had seen it on TV and I heard the people in New York like if they don't like you they're going to you know they're going to tell you, right? Yes. So I didn't know uh you know how the crowd was going to re uh receive me. But I did that first round of posing and uh you know bang their foot down and everything and then five minutes later the whole Beacon theaters chanting my name. You know they must have been who's that guy? Who's that guy? Don't worry don't. And then they start chanting my name. I was like, "Okay, guess the crowd's with me, you know, and Benuzza was great, so I got second place, but it was, you know, I knew uh that I had what it takes to be competitive in professional bodybuilding at that point." I mean, two there's only I think it's noteworthy to say there's only two people ever beat you as a professional. It was Momo Benaziza in 1990 and Lee Haney in ' 91. No one else ever beat you while you were Mr. And that was, you know, I was still learning then. Still learning, still growing. Well, that that brings us to the final thing about today's bite. So, the first guy to win Mr. Olympia out of UK uh since you did in 97 was Samson Data when he did it last fall at 2024. And you know, he wants to keep this title, but he just got beat at the Arnold. He's coming in at like 305 pounds on stage. Enormous, big, full. I love his physique, but you know, he won't listen to me, but maybe if Doran Yates says something about coming in lighter, what would your advice be to Samson if he wants to keep this title, not just another year, but maybe another few years? I mean, his legs look great. That's a little bit more condition on the upper body. And uh I don't know about all these weights, man. I mean, you know, uh does he look anywhere near as big as Ronnie Coleman? Absolutely not, man. I I don't see 300 pounds there. Maybe he is, maybe he isn't, but I don't see it. And it's a visual sport, so um yeah, more upper body and uh I wouldn't worry about the weight, man. I'll throw the scales away. Maybe if he came in at 15 pounds lighter, he'd look better. I mean, that's like I said, he's got a great he's got a great structure, great, you know, I I' I've never met him. Even though he's from UK and I'm from UK, we haven't met yet. Oh, really? No. Wow. Okay. That's surprising. I mean, I know it's a big country and you you haven't been in the UK for years, right? I you know, I'm living in Spain for 12 years and I go back to UK a couple of times a year, two, three times a year to see family and everything, but uh so we've never met. Um but I'm sure his experience the UK welcome when you're Mr. Olympia, basically nothing. The UK welcome. Yeah, basically nothing. You know when uh saw um Big Ramy when he won and in Egypt and uh Hadi in Iran, I mean literally being mobbed by crowds and uh reception and on TV and everything probably. But in UK is like uh it probably went home to like nothing. His family were happy for him, you know. That's just the way it is there. It's not recognized really bodybuilding. Yeah. Same as here really. But so uh let's wrap it up by talking about your company because you've had DY Nutrition for a while. I remember when it was called Dorian Yates approved, which was way back in uh gez we're probably like 20 years ago or close to early early 20 early 2000s. Yeah. Yeah. I've been involved in the supplement industry and you know I was interested in it anyway when I was competing nutrition and supplementation. So um but we really grown in the last uh five years massively. So we got our own manufacturing facility now. Yeah. So that we got control over everything. Uh, and in this industry, there's a lot of corner cutters. So, we have our own facility. So, we're manufacturing our own stuff and you can uh get the paperwork with it. You know, there's a scan code on there. So, you can do that. You can go online. You can look at the the readout from the products to make sure that people getting uh what they're paying for. So, that's great. And we're we're doing really well in Europe and uh Middle East and even Asia. Now we going into So I will be at the Mr. Olympia in October having some meetings with some people regarding uh kicking something off in the US. I mean I have the most requests and mail from the US from consumers like why why aren't you here? Why can't we get it? But you know it's been one thing at a time building the business. So now we're ready to take a look. And uh also I'm going to come and get my uh Mr. Olympia ring right because I wasn't there last year. That's right. Yeah. I mean, he made up very nice rings for all the champions. It look great. Yeah. I'm not sure I would wear it too often. Might get mugged if I go to UK. Were you busy? Was that when you were getting your hip replaced? Uh, yeah, around that time. Yeah. So, uh, I couldn't make it out, but I'll be there this year. Yeah. So, DY Nutrition coming to USA. Yeah. I'm just curious because I'm in the USA, so I don't have that perspective and I'm not in the supplement industry. Is that looked at as sort of like the holy grail to have your your products marketed in the US? Uh it's uh I mean business is business about making money, right? Yeah. Um but the the US market is uh is a big market. Well, it's a very tough market. There's a lot of lot of companies there competing, but obviously I have a leg up because I am who I am. Yeah. Um and uh we'll see. But I hopefully we can uh kick it off uh early next year. So we'll keep people informed on social media and everything how things are developing. It's uh I'm going to put that up while we're talking. It's V Dorian Yates. Yes. Uh the the Instagram. Yeah, the Dorian Yates. Yeah. And then you know you got we got uh DY Nutrition. That's the the supplements. But you watch my page. I'll you know I'll let people know the developments. pynutrition.com. Yeah. Yeah. Tell me if this looks right because I'm a horrible speller sometimes. Yeah. Okay. No, what one is Instagram and one's the email. Yeah. I mean, one's the website, so just separate them. Okay. Yates is the email is the Instagram and the other one's obviously the website. All right. Well, I have taken a lot of your time up today and you let me get my beauty sleep, which I appreciate because you're six hours ahead of me. I was going to get you up at 5:00 a.m., but I took mercy on you and I went to the gym instead. Appreciate that very much, man. I appreciate you doing this, Dorian. No problem, mate. I guess I will see you in uh in Vegas then. Yeah, hopefully. Yeah, hopefully. And um you know, congratulations on still being so relevant in the sport 30 years almost after you retired, you know. Yeah, it's great, man. And it's I just as I said I've been travel I just been to Argentina and uh I mean literally I had grown men crying because they had such an impact on them as they're growing up you know and you know it's not just the gym it's a mental uh approach as well and my and my story of like overcoming adversity. Um so it's great. I really appreciate it that I had a positive effect on people. I did bodybuilding for myself. you know, initially it's all about me. It's just for me. Um, but I realize it's it's something bigger if you can touch people all around the world. And through bodybuilding, I've done that. So, yeah, I feel blessed that I'm still in that position. Yeah. I mean, there are people watching Blood and Guts before they go to the gym. Now, it's the ultimate pre-workout, which by the way is the name of my pre-workout. Blood and Guts. Blood and Guts. That's awesome. But I was saying they weren't even born when that video was made. these people. No, but here's the thing, Ron. I mean, I go and I do appearances and I and I see Kevin and Ronnie doing their appearances sometimes online and it's the same. It's uh I mean, most of the guys in the lineup, they're not even born. Yeah. You know, most a lot of guys 18, 19, 20, they're not even born when I was competing. So, I guess they get into fitness and then they find out about the history and and all the people in there and uh they're interested. So, that's great. I mean that that that warms my heart because like Ronnie does seminars with Giles over in UK and they're mobbed and it's a lot of young guys. Yeah. So glad to see the young people following a little bit of the history of the sport instead of just these guys on social media now that a lot of them don't even compete. Oh man, they they they know and they appreciate the the guys that built the sport. I think you know and they see uh I don't know maybe a little bit more energy and drive and that that we had back in those days. now is like so much information it's overload, you know, and a lot of it's technical, you know, technical information on form and exercises is great, but if you don't lift no [\h__\h] weight, forget it, guys. You know, like you you could do you could do your training absolutely perfect, right? the form and everything and then use a cable and do one side at a time or whatever, but that's not going to be as productive as the guy that's just got shitty form and he's throwing his [\h__\h] weight all over the place, but at least he's going for it. Yeah. So, you got to combine the two together. The energy and uh the technical movements. Yeah. But don't forget, if you don't, you know, if you don't push it, it's it's useless, right? Yeah. I mean, the last thing I want to say about that is I at my gym, I'll see guys, science-based lifters, they're on a incline bench in front of a cable with 30 lbs on the weight stack doing a little squeeze, and they have no back develop. And I'm thinking, Dorian, Ronnie, Branch, guys like that. Hundreds and hundreds of pounds on T- bar rows, barbell rows, dumbbell rows, deadlifts, and they had these big slab-like manta ray backs. Yeah. I'm sorry. We were doing it wrong, though. We're doing it wrong, man. these science kids, they keep telling me. It's funny, you know, I just find it amusing when I put some like I'm coaching somebody and we put a little clip on telling them how to do it and everything and then you got these guys, you know. Yeah. Um coming on that they've read something or saw something and we're doing it wrong. All wrong. That's why you guys won all those Olympia titles. Well, we got the results, didn't we? So, in the end, that's the proof, right? The proof's in the pudding, as we say. I I love that phrase because it's so true. All right. Well, Dorian Yates, thank you so much for taking the time. Wish you all the best, mate. And uh hope to see you in Vegas soon. Yeah. Yes, sir. All right, everybody. Thanks for watching. I'll be there. See you in October in Vegas, Mr. D. Yes, sir. All right, guys. Thanks for watching Ron L Report with this man, Dorian Yates. We'll see you later. Cheers, mate. I