Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour starring me, Ron Harrison, the one and only Giles Tiger Thomas. This week we're going to be talking about the Dubai Pro coming up. Big big show with some big names. There's also a pro show, the WG China Pro. And uh first Giles, uh let's congratulate a fellow Brit, shall we? We're talking about, let's see, Sassan. Sassan went to another show. He had his Olympia qualification, but said, "Hey, I'm gonna get another win and he did it." So, here he was at the Emperor Classic. Beautiful Jonathan Maro photograph there. Um, yeah. And you people, there was even rumors he was going to go to Dubai, but he's not on the list. But no, what a year for Sassan. This started in March. Wow. He's done absolutely amazingly well. Um uh I I'm glad he did this show because I think it's good that he committed to it and did it. Um I I'll be honest though, I'll say it because I think I've said it on the comments before the before the finals happened. I did think Angal had him because you know me, I'm a conditioning snob and angel Calderon. He's been second in the 212 Olympia. He's being was he 10th, seventh, fourth, second, third, fourth. So he's like a top. And I think this is the best I've ever personally seen him. And to be honest, I much prefer this look because I I was I was messaging back and forth with someone on Instagram and um he was saying, "Oh, but the other guy said, I much prefer how Angel looks as an opener." I said, "To be honest, I totally agree because he doesn't look I've seen him as a 212 many, many times, but to me, he looks like probably maybe 218, 220, maybe even heavier. So, I actually agree. I think this is his best physique." You know, it's um it's like when we used to say about Flex Lewis, we never got to see the best version of Flex Lewis because Flex told me himself at the Olympia uh what's it called? The the press conferencing, he said, "No," he says, "My best physique is at 226." So, the thing is, we've got to see Enal now at his absolute best. And I think his best is as an open, but the thing is um and I also said to Sassan, put on his comments. I said, "Sassan, I said, you know, you got two wins going into the Olympia now. That's huge. But also, I think it's really as as significant is that you've beat a a runner up at the 212 Olympia and I think that for me is as significant as you getting a second win because Assassin hasn't done Olympia yet, you know, and he's kind of like um you know, he's just kind of hitting his stride now. So to beat him, I think it's kind of a bit of a double victory for him really with this one, winning an in pro in Spain. So, um, because I, because I'll be honest, I think his condition was starting to fade. If you compare to how he looked at the other shows, you know, the Cali and all those, Alle the Legion, I think his his condition was starting to fade. And I think it's this is not the hardest Sassan I've seen, but I'm happy for him. He's got a second win. He's going into the Olympia with a lot of momentum now. And also, I'm really, you just said it there because I didn't know. I'm really glad he's not doing Dubai because I think that would be a big mistake. Yeah, I don't see the benefits. If I can use that word, I'll start. Don't do you [\h__\h] start. the benefits. But yeah, I mean, you know, you you uh were we were on a group chat and you said, "I think Angel's got this." And I I could have given it to Angel based on the pictures I'm seeing right here. He looks he's had a lot he's a lot harder and he's um I think Sassan was just Sassan looked good, but I think he just if you look at like the condition in the quads, it was like I mean obviously he's done six shows in a row. He's not going to be able to nail it every single time. But thing is he kind of has been able to nail it every single time. He kind of did nail it here. But when you're next to someone like Angel Calderon who's full to burst in, his condition is on point. He's fresh for the show. Um I like I said because prejudging um Sassan was only ahead by one point. Wow. And then Sassan seemed to pull it pull you know by by a few points for the night show. So the prejudging it was pretty much a flip of a coin. And that's exactly how I had it. And in fact I actually had it like I said I actually thought Angel had him on this. Angel. Angel. I thought Angel had definitely had him on this one. Yeah. I mean, Angel's gonna We We'll see Angel again in Dubai this weekend as as a 212. So, if he was 218 or 220, he's going to have to drop a few pounds. But then Oh, [\h__\h] He's doing 212. He is. Of course, he is. Yeah. He's You know, I was looking at the list today and I didn't even It didn't even register that he's coming to do. So, that tells me he's not far off 212 here then. He can't be. He can't be. He can't be cuz look at the condition. Unless he I mean unless he just doesn't eat for a whole week in bloody you know I remember Josie Raymond remember I remember read one of your articles in MD years ago and the one of the years I think when it was 202 and he said he was having to eat like one tiny little chicken breast and a little bit of water and it's like it's like it's I don't think it's actually that healthy and actually quite I think it's actually quite dangerous. I'm sure you know to to some of these guys like a week out being 208 210 and they're dry and hard because if like Angel's like what say he's 218 or 220 there. Yeah. I mean he's rock hard. He's dry. He's lean. What exactly can he do to get down to weight? What are thing is if he doesn't make weight, he'll just have to go into the open. Well, that's he'll he'll do okay in the open. I mean, he's there's some big big names in this Dubai show, but he'll struggle. He'll struggle there. This this is this is a this is a different kind of lineup, Dubai. He won't be fighting for the win in Dubai if he goes open. But, you know, I'm sure he is he's got a plan. I bet he's probably like two, if I'm going to throw out numbers, he couldn't be more than like 215 here because he looks he doesn't look that much bigger than when he's 212. I he's 5 foot. I know. I know. I know. I know. I mean, it's um but it's nice to see him at his best. Do you know what I mean? Because sometimes when like when we saw Bumstead in in Prague and I saw him, he was what six to seven pounds heavier. He did look better because that was how his physique that's the weight his physique looked its best at. And I think this is the case with with Angel. So, he'll obviously look good in Dubai, but he probably won't look as good as he is here. All right. Well, let's move on. Dubai, this is the third biggest prize money after the Olympian. It's $140,000 for first. I don't know how it breaks down after that, but this is the favorite right here. The man from Iran, Beirus Tobani. So, is this the most recent update? Yeah, he's doing the motorcycle stance, but that's uh it's okay. I don't I'm interested to see if Tyler is going to make a video about the motorcycle stance. He will. He will. And I wonder, are they going to say, "Put your arms down or whatever you whatever you want to do, guys. Arms up, arms down, whatever you think." I think it's more of a like a shopping trolley pushing an imaginary shopping trolley. That's what some of the men's physique do that, don't they? Like their arms up there in a bloody Yeah. Well, Lee Lee Priest posted uh that looks like he's carrying groceries, sacks of groceries under each arm. does. So, there's really there's two front runners. I I I'm not discounting Nathan's. Tell me because you would know this. Did Nathan beat Beirus at one of the shows these past couple years? Hang on. Hang on. Oh, [\h__\h] You've asked You should have asked me this before. Ah, I mean, because I I remember it, but I'm not sure if I'm remembering incorrectly. Oh, I can't remember. It's gonna really bug me now. The thing is we're going to see in the comments because people are going to know. Um I can't remember. I honestly can't remember. I can't remember. Yeah. I mean I know there's a good question. Maybe in one show maybe I don't know maybe a few years ago but um I nothing nothing springs to mind. I remember he beat he beat Nathan I think was last year one. I get them all mixed up because half of them are in Alakante. There's like three shows in Italy. I get so mixed up with the European shows. I'm a dumb American. But I I I know he beat uh Nate he beat Nathan at one of those shows last year, but it was close. It wasn't like a blowout. So, we we'll look at Nathan in a bit. But Beirus, this guy never misses with the condition. Uh you know, especially and he's in Dubai, which is good because Iran is being bombed and missiles fired at it. So, you don't want to be there getting ready for a show obviously. Absolutely. Yeah. Uh I want to find Go ahead. Yeah. Um, like for me last year, I know obviously the the one weakness I felt like he had was his quads from the front, but some of the updates I've been seeing, it looks like he's brought them up, and that was really it. That's all he needed to bring up. But, um, yeah, Beerus is my favorite to win this. Um, I think he's um I think he's he's looking good enough. And I think he's good enough as well to to to to retain the win on this one because he's just he's just too dominant. He's too good. I mean, how he looked at Jubai last year, he looked phenomenal. I mean, I've seen him in the flesh. He's He is incredible. He's got a beautiful Look at the midsection. Look at that. I mean, he's got that much size and density in his shoulders. His shoulders don't look all filled up with crap. It's nicely crisply separated. He's got a beautiful shape. The only thing the only the two two criticisms I have on Beerus, his quads from the front, but it looks like he's brought those up. And also his posing routines, his posing routines are terrible. And his music his music choice is horrendous. He's just like he comes out to some disco music, some background music, and he just and he's got such a thing. The problem I have with that is he's got such a beautiful aesthetic physique. Like I just I would love to see him do like an 80s or early 90s kind of like posing routine because it would just really it would really finish everything off just beautifully. Um but like I said, that's that's that's as far as my critique goes of him really. Um I can't really He's He's incredible. He really is incredible. But um yeah, it looks like he's brought the quads up. So the physique I think is going to be I think it's going to be the best one on stage. So I think he's going to win. I want to find I look at that. I mean the quads weren't horrible. I mean we've I don't want to I don't want to throw anyone under the bus and saying, "Well, the this guy's quads are worse and he's still winning shows." But I I I know I know what you're saying. They do they do look like they've come up. They're bigger than they were because this was last year. This was Dubai last year when he won. Yep. Yeah. Let's kind of kind of a wide shot so we can't see it. But yeah, uh I I I'd be very surprised if he doesn't win. Um but at the same time, you know, I'm rooting for Nathan, too. Take a look at Nathan. Look at him. He's awesome. He's awesome. I mean, I'll be honest. I I really I don't have any knowledge on, you know, on the situation with his visa and stuff, but I think with what's going on with Iran and the fact that he's he struggled for the 2021 to get to the Olympia, I don't think we'll see him with the Olympia this year. I would love to be proved wrong. I'd love to see it happen because um he's he will he will upset a lot. He will basically rub out a lot of big names at the Olympia. But um Oh, I've just funny enough, I've just been talking to Nathan actually. Oh, wow. What's he What's he in Dubai right now, right? He is. But because I said to him, mate, I said, "You're looking drier than Gandhi's flip-flop." So, cuz I said, "Mate," and he said, "Charles," he says, he says, "I haven't felt like this bad, this [\h__\h] for a long time, like you know, in struggling." And he says, he says, "I've really given this everything." And I said, "Mate, to be honest, it looks like it." I said, "Because I've never seen you in this condition at like one week and two weeks out. I've never seen you this dry or this hard this far out." I said, "So, if you keep on as you're as you're going," I says, "I do see like, you know, you've been in your best condition ever." And then he sent me. I didn't know you could do this on WhatsApp. You can send videos and they can only see it once. Oh, okay. No idea. Yeah. So, because I knew I could see it and I thought, "Is this is this something new on WhatsApp?" And he sent me because obviously then I couldn't save it or send it to anybody else. But he showed me it was a minute like a It was a a recent video. I think it was from today yesterday. It was like a minute 15. He was going through all his poses and he looked absolutely sensational. I mean, his cheeks are really Somebody was saying, you know, these guys um was on one of the Instagram accounts and he says, "These new guy, the obviously talking about the top five, top six guys, likely top six guys in this show. They say, "None of these guys can get the sucked in cheeks like the 90s." And I said, "Well, I've seen I've seen pictures of Nathan." I says, "And trust me, he might be the only one." So, condition is usually where Beirus takes out most of his rivals, and it looks like Nathan is going to be right there with them this time. So, I'm wondering, could this be enough to to finally tip the scales and beat Beirus? I don't know. I to be honest, I've got Nathan a solid second. I think he's going to be I think he's I think he's going to I think he's going to beat the others, but like obviously by coming second, but um I think um I think it's going to be him and Beerus in the in the final two. Um based upon what I've seen obviously because that's all we can go on. Yeah. But um yeah, I think uh I think Nathan will push him, but I think I think Beerus is just too too far ahead right now. Yeah, I mean this was a great look. This was uh Dubai last year. Yeah. Yeah. Fourth fourth last year though or fourth, I believe. So is it? I can't remember who beat him. I Beirus won. That's all I can remember. But Oh, no, no, no. Um I'm sure Rubel was fourth, wasn't it? I was in Italy. I remember I was in Milan that weekend in that show and I was watching it on my phone. Lauren was telling me off. Okay. Yeah. She's like, "Come on, I'm supposed to have a romantic weekend in Milan." I'm like, "I'm just checking the show results." So, he was already this dry and tight at over a week out. Yeah. Uh so, we can expect to see better condition than this. And this was pretty damn great. Look at that. The The only thing it just looks to me like he's lost a bit of size in his back, but everything else looks fantastic cuz cuz last year um I think it was when he did one of the Italy shows and it looked like his legs had really come up. And I said, "Mate, you've really brought your legs up." because then I compared it to um one of the shows he'd done the year previous and the two year previous like that and you could see that he'd really brought his quads up and he said, "Yeah, I've been really I've been told to sort of really bring them up. I've been working really really hard." Um but um he because he's 39 now, he feels like he's knocking on a bit. I mean, he's still a young he's still a baby, but um because he said he want he always said to me, he said to me many times over the years, he says, "I want to be done by the time I'm 40." He says, "I'm not going to go I'm not going to go on past 40." He says, "I've got my kids. my kids will be at a certain age where I want to spend more time with them and not be prepping because obviously he's been prepping out in Dubai here. So, you know, he's away from his family and he's a very hands-on father. He says he likes to go to footy with them on a Sunday and takes them, you know, he spends a lot of time with him. Plus, he's got the gym and the business and his wife and everything else. So, you know, he has an active social life as well. So, he's I think he's he's not afraid to go off and work, you know. I mean, I don't know how long he's been out in Dubai for. I'd imagine it'd be for most of the prep because I've been seeing his videos from Dubai for for for a good few weeks now. No, I did not know that. I assumed he was back in Liverpool. No, no, if you look at all the videos, he's been prepping out in Dubai. He's been he's been really he said that's what I need to do to really um bring out my best, you know, and obviously. So, but um yeah, he's um but he said he's really really dug deep for this one. He said he's really really worked hard. I think maybe that's because he knows he maybe in his head he has got this thing that he's going to stop in another year. So he wants to just give it everything those last couple of years and go out as you know go out kind of on top or at least you know still winning more pro shows because I mean I think is it was it 11 or 12 show pro shows he's won now he wants to yeah lost I I I know he had 11 definitely had 11 and I think he might have got one some extra ones but um he's someone that really um he's he he's kind of he wants to kind of go out like a like a Lee Haney not in winning eight Olympias but but going out where he's you know he's he's he's on top and at his Yeah. So, Antonio Burton, I didn't expect him to jump in the show, but I think it was about a week couple weeks ago he made it public he was doing it. He's already in Dubai. So, this was a couple weeks ago at Legion. He's got his Olympic qualification. And this is a ballsy move because Beirus is no joke. He knows Beirus is in it. Bonak is in it. Nathan is in it. Um, next Zilla. But Tonio Tonio's got a really good shot. Obviously, he's not as big as some guys. Condition isn't as freaky, but geez, overall package, I don't think too many guys can touch him on the structure and shape that he has. Bone knuckle beat him. Bone knuckle beat him. Okay. Well, you said it. Yeah. Bone. I know because obviously you brought you're bring Yeah, but Ron, you're bringing this guy up because you think he'll be third. I've got him maybe like lower down, like maybe fourth or fifth. Yeah, I saw a video he posted because it I posted the video where he just got Jubai to be honest. He looks like doesn't look like step on stage in a couple of days. I know some of these guys can you know when they travel they can hold water. That doesn't look to me someone that looks rock hard, mate. No, when he turns to the side especially, you'll see uh right there that looks pretty soft. And I don't know if if if that's water, that's a lot of water. Yeah, I think I mean that's like 10 pounds of water if that's water. I know he hasn't got the tan on the I know he's got the bright light on him and he hasn't got I know he's got the bright light on him and he's got the you know the sun on him and stuff and um but um I mean he looks good but I don't I don't he's not in my top three mate. I think Bonak is um it's funny because I've read the comments and people are like Bonak won't be top five and it's like how many times how many hundreds of times have I heard people saying that Bonak won't be top five in these shows. Bonak is probably the most consistent pro since Dexter Jackson. Let's be honest. You know, the thing is he's the thing is he's he never misses, mate. He never misses. I mean, the only show he was in top five was at that last Olympia. Everything else he's either won or been in the top five. So, yeah. Seventh Olympia, which he's gone back up. So, Antonio, unless if if if this is a lot of water and he's going to shed the water, yeah, first call out, all that. But if this is an indication of the condition we're gonna see, I'm very concerned for Antonio. But we'll see. I guess we'll find out. And they're eight hours ahead of me, Dubai. Good lord. All right. So, uh, let's take a look at Bak. Yeah. No. Yeah. No, I think Bono will take him. Yeah, I agree. You know, I think Bonak, he's so consistent that I think people kind of get bored like, uh, they know he's going to look great. They know what they're going to get. Well, that was 91 weeks ago. I don't want to see that. He just posted that. So, what was this? Last year's Dubai. I'm not sure what this That was MR Pro. That was MRO last year. I was there. He won it. He beats there. He beat Barus. Oh, he did beat Barus. Okay. Yeah, he did. Yeah, I was there. I was doing the commentary. Oh, okay. Why do I think uh Oh, MRO, he beat Beus. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. In Spain. That's right. So, looking for recent updates, but you know, we like you said, you don't have to worry about is he gonna be in shape? I don't know. Is he gonna pull it off? He's always in shape. This was uh earlier earlier in the five days ago, I should say. Mhm. That's that's William. He's always he's always in shape. He's done he's done I don't know how many pro shows now. Probably 30 40 somewhere this year. I mean, he started off with the win. And I'm really surprised at how many guys are continuing on long after they've got Olympic qualifications. I I don't know why he's doing this show. I'll be honest. I mean, he's been going since the he did the Olympia and then he went straight into the Arnold Classic, then he did Detroit, then he did he's been going and going and going. I mean, I just think is there in Pittsburgh? Is this is Yeah. Is this his last year, do you think? Or do you think he's just kind of just going all out for that final year or because I I'm just wondering what the benefit is to go from like he's probably he's been prepping since January. Yeah. So, he's in January, February, March, April, May. Now we're in June. now pretty much I mean like people like Samson and Keon are now starting their Olympia preps pretty soon. You know Keon's already started so it's like soon as he comes off this one he's he's going to have to go thing is I wouldn't be surprised if he goes and does like Italy or or one of the other pro shows because they've got a few other pro shows coming up you know so I wouldn't be surprised but um and I'd be very shocked if he didn't do the Mast's Olympia. So that's only a month away or like six five six weeks away. He'll jump in. I reckon he'll jump in. Yeah. They're not going to say no if he's, "Hey guys, can I come in your Masters Olympia?" Like, "No, no, it's too late." No, of course they a guy who's been twotime on a classic winner and been second in the Olympia and he's still winning pro shows now and he's, you know, um I wonder if he'll do it though because I know we know Brandon's doing it and you know, is he does he think because he think if he thinks he can win if he can beat Brandon, then he would be silly not to do it because it's a Mast's Olympia title and then he holds that for two years because the Masters Olympia is only ever only ever two years. So, it would be definitely beneficial for him to do that, especially if he's on a prep anyway to the Olympia to go and jump on a plane and go and compete in Japan. That's that's not really that much of an imposition. I I strongly suspect this is the last year for him because he's never done this many shows before. Must be. It must be. You wouldn't be doing you wouldn't be doing every single show and he's 42. That's not It's not an old man for a bodybuilder, but 42. He's he's been a pro for I want to say close to 15 years at this point. It's been a long time. When did he turn pro? 2011. 2011. Yeah. So, 14 years. That's a That's 2011. It's a long pro career for anybody. So, good on him. Let's, you know, I'm glad to see if this is last year. He's leaving nothing under leaving nothing on the table. Go ahead. Yeah. All right. Well, let's move on to one of the question marks. Question mark. Is he going to be in great shape? How's he going to look? Talk about the neckzilla. Rubel Mosca from Columbia. Uh I don't see any real recent physique updates. Uh condition. The last one we saw, he looked like he was he could he could get in shape in time, I suppose. But uh well, there you go. I guess that's this is the most recent one. Uh we know his side shots are just devastating. He beats pretty much everybody in the side shots. They're all Dubai. Yeah. Uh, I'm, you know, my concern was that Angel. It's hard to tell. My Yeah, Oxen Gym in uh Dubai. I forgot they have one there. So, yeah. I mean, I I like the guy, but I still think certain structural issues with him are going to prevent him from beating someone like a Beirus or a Nathan, uh, even a William. If he beats William, I'd be very, very surprised. But, uh, you know, let's let's see how he looks. I um I'm not bothered about the structure, it's the conditioning I'm bothered about. And I know I've seen these pictures and I saw some video of him training with uh Bob Chick and who else was on the Panata stand a few weeks ago and he looked really good there. I mean, he looks fantastic there, you know, at the New York Pro and everything. Um I don't I I I need I I'm yet to be convinced that he can really bring good proper conditioning yet. And I I don't know whether he's got that fire. I don't know. I'd like I'd love to be proved wrong. Um but um I just I think he's fighting for fourth with Tonio, mate. Yeah, I mean that's the thing. He was we we think he was fourth last year. This is older. This is 20 weeks ago. So not an indication, but yeah, he's a massive guy. I could see why he's a fan favorite. People there's always going to be room for freaks in the sport. And this guy is about as freaky as it gets. He's also I do like him. That was I thought See, they always fool me. The thumbnail has a looks like it's going to be a video of him posing and it's something completely different. Uh he was he was fourth last year I believe right? I think so. I think so. Where was Nathan? I can't remember. Was Nathan third? I can't remember like year ago now. You're pretty good with this stuff. Oh, I'm slipping, man. I'm slipping. Yeah. Look at Look at the legs. Yeah, he's he's so thick. So thick. And like a shot like that where he's twisting in in the midsection is a little smaller looking. You know, you would think this guy's going to win every damn show. He's just a monster. I think he's got the best side tricep better than Hunter in the Pro League today. I can't think of anyone right now off the top of my head who has a better side tricep shot than uh Rubel. Yeah. No, I agree. It's It's going to be a good one. So, let's move on to Who else do we have in our We have the Dark Horse. The Dark Horse. Is this Ali? Yeah, Ali. That's fine. Ali Edward Carbo, who was in the show last year, but he has significantly grown since a year ago. I don't remember him being this big. Look at that. People comparing that to Phil Heath because when Phil hit that shot, he had such round full delts and arms like that. And yeah, I can see it. I can see similarities. So, I don't know how much it says he's in these shots. He's 242. I don't know how tall he is. He's probably not I'm telling you, I think this is the guy that um could cause an upset with those previous names that we've mentioned, Antonio, William, Rubiel, Nathan, Beerus. I think this is the guy that will I think there'll be a lot of talk around this guy because I think what we I think what what even what I saw last year was impressive, but you can see he's put a lot of tissue on. It's quality, size, he's got good conditioning, good separation. Um I think this guy's going to be a bit of a talking point this weekend. I think he's absolutely sensational. I like his shape. for like his thickness and um I think he's really really coming up hard. I think he's g potentially um he is kind of maybe like a fifth sixth place guy which is no shame in in a lineup this good but um I think uh I think he's um could potentially I I could see him like beating Tonio. I could Yeah, it's possible. Especially if Tony super sharp. Ton if Tony's off he's gonna get beat by a few people. There's no doubt. 100% 100%. So, the the knock on him a year ago was he needs to bring up his back. And, you know, I I don't have like a before and after, but it looks his back looks pretty damn good now. It could be a little thicker, but geez, because he's got this massive everything from the front is so thick and round. It reminds me a bit of Patrick Johnson. Oh, yeah. Yeah. We forgot about Patrick. I messaged him. I said, "What's going on with you? What's happened?" Because I heard he was he was writing about something cryptically about something that had happened. And I went, "Mate, what happened? Why have you been out for so long? What's happened?" and and um he didn't respond. Yeah, that's annoying when people do that because they know everyone's going to want to know what happened, what's going on, and then you never make it's like on Facebook when those whiny when those whiny women have a breakup and they start winging and they go, "What's up, hun?" And then she says, "I'll DM you." So annoying. Last guy I want to talk about because he just jumped in. I didn't hear about him coming in was Oh [\h__\h] Oh my god. How can we forget this guy? Well, he just jumped in. I mean, so this was this was from last year, but good indication of geez, this this guy is deadly. He's very complete. Uh, again, back is the one thing. So, I'm looking to see some recent back shots, but geez, look at that from the front. This guy is well put together. Grainy, grainy. Egyptian photo is Was it um two pro shows he won last year or the year before? Remember, he won him. He won Chicago and I think he won another one, didn't he? He won two shows. Was it Tampa and Chicago? So, this was last year. Yeah, Chicago. Yeah, Chicago. Yeah. Did he win Tampa, too? I I believe he did win a couple. He won I know he won he won two shows. He won two shows, but um again, he is another dark horse. Here's somebody I'm really struggling. I'm really struggling to sort of because you're going to have some really really good guys here not making top five. Oh, I agree. I was reading a one of his posts today and he say it's the best prep ever and he's looking his best ever and uh and the pictures all reflect that. So, um he's very very well put together, very complete. He's won pro shows, you know, he's gone to America. He's gone out of his comfort zone and uh traveled and actually beaten a lot of good guys. So, um Mofod, I mean, there's a a legit, you know, like Olympia guy there that um has proven himself for several years. And um yeah, he's another one who could rub out a couple of big names as well. And he can get a visa to the US. We know this already. So, that's going to cover the Open. Oh, we already looked at Angel, who is probably the the favorite for the 212 division at this show. I don't think uh that's in dispute. I want to take a look at just a couple others. We got Rotola. Hang on, hang on, hang on. You're missing somebody. Uh oh. Who did I miss? Tell me. You're missing Nihhat. Nihhat. Nihhat, the Turkish guy, the 22-y old who got second to eight. Nihhat got second to Angel just last year here in Dubai. And he is honestly I think when Keon eventually gets um bored of winning the 212 Olympia I think Nihack could be an Olympia champion. I really do. And this kid is 22 years old. He's put a lot of quality quality size on since last year. I think he's I think we've got a future superstar. I think we've already got a superstar in the 212. But I think in the next couple of years you're going to see him because I'll be honest in the 212 Olympia I think Keon and Sean Karita uh I think they're pretty much you know the top two for as long as they want to be. Um, but guys like Niha, I mean, look at his shape. Look at the size, the density. And I think he was what, 21 here, was he? Yeah, this was a year ago. 21 years old. Yeah, he's 22 now. I might be I he might be 23, but he I mean, the fact that he's got such a well-developed physique at this age absolutely blows my mind. Um, and uh, he seems very I've been watching his his updates all year on and Patrick Tur shares them as well. I think he's really really good. I think he'll struggle against Engle Calderon, but he'll push him. Um but um I hope he I hope he does another show because because I spoke to Patrick when I was in Milan last year and I said what's he said on he was shutting it down. He said he he's got a second here to angle. He's proven himself because we I said why didn't he keep going go and qualify for the Olympia and he says no no no that's not our plan. We're going to go into a good offseason and come back next year. So that's what he's done. He's come back this year. So, I hope even if he doesn't beat Angel, I hope that he goes and does another show like any other show with 212 in it because I would really really like to see this guy at the Olympia. I think he could be a top six guy this year. Look at that condition. And I I He's definitely put some size on. It's It's very apparent. It says here in the post that he's still six pounds over the limit. And this was uh today. He just posted this an hour ago. So, he can Patrick Patrick can get six pounds off him. I don't think that's gonna be an issue. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you for reminding me because I'm the worst. I forget about a lot of people. This guy's awesome, man. I just honestly I think he's done I mean obviously that we got Keon who's probably going to you know win as many men as he wants to win in the 212. Um but um I think Nia is probably the fastest rising fastest rising star in 212 today. Right now Keon I mean realistically how much longer is Keon stay in 212? Not I don't see him this I think this will be his last if you know Keon's really grown but he was only 200 205. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, Keon was uh 20020 at the Olympia last year. Oh, wow. Okay. Yeah. So, he's he's got room to grow. I think Keon at like 215 would be Mr. Olympia. Honestly, I don't think he needs to be much bigger than that. All right. Uh just a couple more guys and 212 because uh we love the 212. I I want I want to make sure that we we talk about 212 guys because I I feel like that division is sort of getting overlooked in the past year or two for whatever reason, but it's it's it's building back up. So, who did I have? Rod Angelo from Bulgaria. Uh so, he's very complete, very very round. Yeah. [\h__\h] And that's this is today. This was or yesterday 21 hours ago. Oh, I think Oh, Nat's gonna struggle against him, isn't he? Yeah, I mean, Nat, yeah, Nihhat, Radislav, and Angel. I mean, I don't see anyone cracking cracking that top three apart from those three guys. Yeah, very good. I think I had one other guy though from Italia. Okay. Zagarelli. Oh, um, Zagrega. Zagarelli. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's He's really good. Really. I think he's one of the best balanced 212s out there, actually. Yeah, he looks like I'm gonna say he did well and he did well. Go ahead. Yeah, because he did well at the Olympia. Uh but um I think he's one of the best I think he's one of the best balance 212s out there. Yeah, for sure. I mean, he you know how tall he is? Because he looks he doesn't look like he's 5 feet tall. He looks like he's probably closer to like 5'6 or 5'7 if I had to take a wild guess. But it doesn't matter. He's not as He's not as thick, but the shape and the structure are just astonishing on this guy. I've seen him. One of the best front he's got one of the best front door biceps, I think, in the in the Well, certainly in all of bodybuilding right now. Yeah. Look at that. Look at that vacuum. Beautiful. Beautiful. It's just a real It's a real eye-catching physi pose for him because thing is the frontal bicep. That's your first compulsory pose. And if you can shine in that shot, then you know the judge's eyes are going to be on you big time. Absolutely. All right. Now, let's move on. Just a couple guys in classic I want to mention. Uh, when has Doulool competed since uh when was the last time Doul actually competed? I can't remember. We're talking about Michaelia. Probably the Olympia, wasn't it? Yeah. So, it's been a it's been a minute. Oh, come on, Ron. I know you had it there somewhere. Durable. So, yeah, there we go. Michael Doul from Syria. He lives in UK, right? He lives in uh Dub Dubai. Oh, geez. Everybody's in Dubai. It's Yeah. So, he's 223, four pounds over the limit. This was posted uh yesterday. You know, classic classic proportion, shape. This is a guy when when we talk about does somebody is a straightup bodybuilder? Are they true classic? There's no question in my mind. This is a classic physique physique we're looking at when we look at the bool. Yeah. Really like an old school vibe with this guy's physique. But he's got a he's got a lot of competition in this class because this is a how many's in this class? Oh boy. I think it was 37 or something. We'll look at the body body board counted it up. This class and men's physique were just packed. They were each of them had almost 40 guys, I think. Yeah, that's incredible. That's so so if he wins this because think the thing with classic there's so many kind of upand cominging good guys coming through. You know, you can have new guys coming out of nowhere winning pro shows. When I had Terrence Ruffin here in the studio a few weeks ago, we were we were discussing that and I said about classic. I said it's not just the quality, but it's the quantity of quality that's coming through and he and then Terrence reeled off a few names of like in Brazil and different countries of of guys that he personally rated that I'd never even heard of. So I was like, "Holy shit." And he said, "Yeah, check this guy out. Check that guy out. I really rate him." And I was like, "I've never even heard of some of these guys." So it just shows you um just just how competitive the the classic is. So if if Michael can win this one, then that's going to give him a lot of confidence and uh momentum for himself going into the Olympia because thing is he's always he's always like what fifth to eighth at Olympia. He's he's won all he's won Arnold UK's he's top three Arnold Classic, you know, he's he's literally he's one of the the the absolute A-listers in classic today. And that's a very very competitive category. Absolutely. And I got one more guy in classic. I think he's from UK. I just assume everyone's from UK. I don't know why. Richard Nate, New York, Pittsburgh. Hungarian. Hungarian. Uh Doug Doug on it, Ron. So here's uh his most recent update. He's already qualified. Did he Did he win something already this season or was that was it post? It was Romania, right? Yeah. Yeah, he's won shows. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. what he's I can't remember what shows because he's done I think he's won I'm sure he's won two shows already this year because I know he won at least two last year because he won um he won one of the the Hungarian show last April when I was doing commentary with Lauren the the Coeni Classic he won he won the classic there and then I think he won at least another one or two more so he went into the Olympia was like a two three pro show winner I've got eighth place that he was at the Olympia was he was top 10 Olympia guy anyway so and you know when you got like some of these some of these years having 58 60 guys in that's a huge achievement. I really rate this guy. I really like his physique and um he's um he will push Michael. I'll tell you that now. Yeah, he's no joke. This guy look that condition. You know, Doulool Doulool is also known for condition, but this guy will be right there with him right there. And he's already got I think I I'm pretty sure he's already got a couple of wins under his belt already. So, so he must be coming into this one thinking he's going to win it, you know, or knowing that he's capable of winning it. Um, so and the thing is if he took out someone like a Michael Dull, that would be a huge scalp for him to take. Oh, absolutely. Because then he's going to move, you know, in the minds of most people, he's going to move up into that top five, top six spot at the Olympia. There you go. There you go. Yeah. So, that I'm not sure he's a top five guy. I'm not sure he's a top five guy yet. I think he's like a sixth to 10th sort of guy. Um because I think the top five is just too stacked right now. But, um, he's definitely a top 10 Olympia guy legit. and he's and he has been top 10 in the past. So, you can't have everybody be in the top five. There's too too many people. 56 guys in your top five again. They did have 56 competitors. So, uh there is another show happening in China. Same day. Uh oddly enough, actually, let me see because I think the Dubai show is the No, so actually the Dubai show is Saturday and this show is Sunday. So, you could theoretically watch them both if you really wanted to. You got you got to say China like how Trump says it. China. China. China. China's gonna have to pay China. China. Yeah. Yeah. 25 open guys. 10 more than Dubai. He makes a note to say. Wow. Yeah. That do you know this this China show? That was the one that Andrew Jack said he wanted to do. That's the one he told me he wanted to do and then he didn't. He apparently got his visa or something sorted for for Fibo and he jumped in at that in the last minute. So the act original plan was for him to do this one and qual and get his qualification here for the Olympia but obviously he um you know he obviously went and did took the chance on FIBO and won. Yeah. I mean I remember a couple months ago I don't think it was us joking like it would be an easy win if somebody does this China show because who's going to go to China but there's actually some good names here. So uh I'm gonna say Prey Andrea Prey. This is probably his uh his show to win based on what I've seen him capable of and who else I've seen in the lineup. And we're wondering, you know what? I hope he gets a Go ahead, Ron. I hope he gets a win because he got shafted in Prague last year. Agreed. Did you see that? Did you see that? He got eighth place. I actually I was actually I was actually with Ronnie um back at the hotel and Steve Weinberg and George Farah came over and said hi and I said, "Steve, can I ask something?" And then everyone looked at me like, "Jiles, you're playing with fire here." And I went, "Steve, can I ask you something? Will you be honest?" And he went, "Yeah." I said, "What hell happened to Andrea Prey?" And Steve gave me this really like evil look. And he said, "Uh, well, he moved up. Did you give me some answer?" Like he was like, "Oh, he moved up towards the end and stuff." And I was just like, "Yeah, but eighth place really?" And then George Farah said, "No, he had wrinkles on his lower back." And I'm thinking, he freaking didn't, mate. He was awesome. H but I I just I just hope I hope I hope Prey gets some love here because I would love to see him get a win because after the after the uh the Prague show I heard rumors that he was thinking of retiring because he's like he says no the judges don't like my physique anymore and because he's always like a top two top three Olympia guy sorry pro show guy you know he's won pro shows he's done Olympias and um like literally it really knocked him knocked him mentally so I'm really happy to see him back because I'd love to see him I'd love to see him win a good pro show like this and then get to the Olympia because otherwise He's kind of losing momentum, isn't he? You know, so because he's he's really good. He's a big dude as well. Big big guy. Yeah. He's he's the one I want to see more quads. If his quads were bigger, he'd be beating a lot more people than he's been beating. Put it that way. Yeah, I think we know that. We know that. Shoulders are so shoulders back. He's so wide up top. He's got a beautiful frame. I'm a big fan of He's a nice guy. I've talked to him a few times. Nice stripey shoulders as well. Yeah. Nothing. You know what? It's a funny thing to say. I saw him whenever I saw him at the 22 Olympia and I was at the hotel checking in Planet Hollywood and I remember because I whenever I see like Kamal or whatever I always go up and give him a hug like that and I hugged Andrea and it's like like some of these guys when you hug them they're quite even when they're in contest conditions some of them are quite squishy like they're quite they feel quite it's a really weird thing to say they're quite padded but I I hugged Andrea and I went Andrea it's like it's like hugging a a tree that's rock hard. I mean, he was like his his muscle was like, you know, when you shake some of these guys' hands. I remember shaking Tom Prince's hand once. It felt really spongy like a bunch of bananas. Oh boy. And then when like, you know, but like when I hug when I hugged Prey, it was like he was he was so big, but he was so like his body was solid. I was like, it really stuck in my mind. It's really really crazy. The guy is just he's just Yeah. He's like made out of stone or something. Yeah. I mean, he's another one who's very consistent. I've never seen him remotely out of shape ever. Is there something's going on with his chest? I don't know. It looks kind of odd there. Yeah. You know, a couple of the videos you couple the updates you showed me. It looks like something maybe maybe it's just my imagination. Maybe I'm just seeing things. Oh, I think Are you thinking maybe like a tear? No, I think that's just a No, no, no, no. Not that not that one. One of the other ones I just literally popped into my head actually. It popped into my head. But um because sometimes when these guys are very delt dominant, you know, they're like like Keon Keon's dealt do dominant over his like it's it's more dominant than his chest. Like you know, like sometimes and um I just I noticed this more like in the 80s you used to see guys with bigger chests and smaller shoulders. Now they've all got big shoulders and smaller chests. Correct. So I don't I don't know that's something you've noticed, but that's definitely something I picked up on. Yeah, I've heard people say, "Well, I think the judges emphasize delta." The judges don't emphasize anything. They're just judging whatever's in front of them. They're not like or even though Andrea's got nice stripey delts, do you think a lot of it's because they pin their shoulders? Well, when you see zero zero separation or detail in a muscle group, be it the arms or shoulders, I immediately assume it's it's just full of oil. It might just be regular gear or whatever, but there's no other reason because if you're if everything else is shredded and detailed and then you have two body parts out of nowhere that have none of that, they look like blobs. And also and also, Ron, sorry to interrupt. Have you noticed when um some of these guys now that all pin their shoulders, have you noticed now, you never saw in the 80s or 90s, guys without striations in their chests, now you see guys hitting poses and their shoulders are just massive and solid and there's no flickers. There's no no striations, no detail in their chest. And that's that's a new phenomenon. That's something I've noticed in the sport that you never saw 20, 30 years ago. Now you see quite guys hitting most musculars and nothing happens. I won't mention the names. probably a few I could mention actually where nothing kind of flickers in their chest. All the detail goes because all the everything their shoulders are so solid, they're so filled with crap. It's almost like it doesn't connect. It's like they just they've ruined all the pathways and all the connections to their chest and they can't they can build a chest but they can't get any detail in it. Um and also just make it clear I'm not saying that about Prey. I'm just saying no we just got onto the subject of chest and shoulders and it's just triggered a thought process that's not connected to Andrea. A couple names that came to mind are much higher up the rung on the ladder than uh than Andrea. Andrea right now. So, let's move on. That's enough said. Enough said. So, let's get ourselves cancelled. No, no, not Bo Lewis. I want Lewis breed the brick. So, Lewis is jumping in. Haven't seen Lewis in a minute. Uh Musk Monday. This was last year's Tampa. So, yeah, he's he's hoping to get to the Olympia this year. I What do you think about the point system? Because we've seen guys Sassan had to do six shows to get his Olympic qualification. He had to win a show and it was very very likely that he wasn't going to get it. You know, he he ended up beating Rean and he won this other show, too. But we're going to see guys like you you predicted this once the point system gone. Last year was the first year we hadn't had it in a while. We're gonna see a lot of guys that don't don't make it to the Olympia or at least a few who are really good and really should be at the Olympia, but they're just gonna have keep taking second place to Olympia level guy, you know, top five, top 10 Olympia guys. Tough. Tough. No, seriously. Because if you do six shows and you get six seconds, those six guys that if they're if they're different guys that have all beaten you, you're going to you're going to have to go up against them again at the Olympia anyway. So, if you can't beat anyone, if you can't win a show, I mean, now they're saying that for like classic and um you know, people are people people are put floating the idea that you have to win more than one pro show to qualify for the Olympia when you've got bikini and men's physique and classic so full, you know, when they've got 50 60 people. Like, it's like it's it's do we have to get a bit stricter with the qualification, not looser. I mean, I I mean, yes, I know it probably sound a bit hypocrite because I have commented on, you know, sort of guys that keep going and going and going and they don't get a win. It's like, oh, he probably would have got a qualification if he'd had the point system. But you know what? How many I think somebody pointed out said, how many people have ever actually qualified on points have actually done it and made an impact at the Olympia, especially if they if they've done three, four, five shows and they just picked up seconds and thirds. You know, those, you know, then you've got the top six, you know, the likely top six guys, then you've got the five or six guys that they went up against, they got beat by in those last six shows. you know, really, is there any point going to the Olympia just to make up the numbers just to say that you want to just to say that you've done the Olympia? Um, I'm not so sure, mate. I'm not so sure. So, I'm I kind of I do I flip-flop on this one. Um, but um I think um the thing is with Sasan now, you know, he's he's proven himself by getting two wins. So, and and also also I think it's Oh god. Okay, I'll I'll put this out there. This is something I've been wanting to talk about. Kriso, can we just talk about Kriso quickly? Go for it. Kriso. Um, there was no benefit for him doing the New York Pro or the Pittsburgh, which apparently his sponsors wanted him to do. Now, I know that Kriszo doesn't like to travel. He's coming a long way from Prague to go into to America to compete. Those were shows that, let's be honest, I wouldn't have said he would have been top three in probably either of those shows, even though he's a fantastic bodybuilder and he is one of my favorites because after the the New York Pro when he got was it fourth or third? Fourth, I believe. Fourth. Yeah. was No, no, because he beat um No, he beat he got third and then Regan was fourth, wasn't he? Yeah, you're probably right. You're better. Whatever. Whatever. But I mean, those are two shows that he was unlikely to win. I mean, he could have maybe won the New York Pro, but he wasn't going to beat Derek or Nick or Martin, you know, in Pittsburgh. And so now he's shut it down and we didn't and we're not going to get to see him at the Olympia. And this is a guy who's been seventh place at the 2023 Olympia. This is a guy that we want to see at the Olympia. So, you know, there was no I would have said to him, "Look, mate, go pick a show like Emperor. Go do Italy. Go do a show that is likely like even Andrew Jack was willing to do the China show because he wanted to get his qualification out of the way." So, that's why he jumped into FIBO because he just wanted to get it done, get the bloody that thing stamped and just get himself to the limit so he can concentrate fully on Olympia where it really really counts. So, now like So, I think I think this was this was a mistake putting him in these two shows. Yes, it's great to see one of our favorite bodybuilders in a good lineup against, you know, but realistically, was he going to win it? Probably not. Hold on a second. Let I don't think he ever even So, here was the top four from Pittsburgh. It was Martin, William, Nick, and Derek. I don't think he even got a chance to stand next to them. There you go. There you go. So, this all this thing of like there you should do every show and there's no benefit to doing a show of so and so. I said we you and me both said like look if if Veto does it he's probably fighting with Kriso for fifth and that's exact and obviously Veto didn't do it but I think that's what would have happened. We were right on every other count. So now he's done New York and Pittsburgh and now he's burnt out and he's gone into his offseason and the next show he's going to be doing is Prague which is after the Olympia. So I'm really disappointed that we're not going to see Kriso now at the Olympia. Whereas I mean let's be honest he probably would have beat Sassan. He would have beat Sassan at at the Empro. So I would have said to him, look, be a bit more strategic with the shows that you choose, you know, cuz like I mean just there's an example, there's an example of where I would say, look, there's no benefit to you doing these two American shows unless they're after the main show where you feel you can definitely qualify. Say Empro had been first. They need one Empro. Then I'd say, mate, it's, you know, if you got a few months to the Olympia, go and jump in the New York Pro, go and jump in a show like Pittsburgh. But the fact was these two shows were before and now because he doesn't like traveling. He's done two shows. He's burnt out. Well, he got burnt out, but he says, "No, no, I want to go into my offseason. I don't want to do I don't want I'm tired. I don't want to prep anymore." And now us Kriso fans are not going to get to see him at the Olympia. So, I'm really disappointed by that. But I think I think his sponsors need to think more carefully about whether it's better for him to be seen in these shows like New York Pro or Pittsburgh or for him to get a qualification and to see him at the Olympia. And personally, I think it's more important to see at the Olympia getting sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth or something like that than there is to coming third in the New York Pro. Well, that's that's cuz he missed last year's Olympia because of his shoulder. Exactly. Two Olympias in a row. So, exactly. When he gets to the Olympia in 2026, theoretically, that's going to be three years since he's been on that stage. Ron, I could have predicted this. When I heard he was doing New York Pro in Pittsburgh, I was like, what's the point? go and get go do what Andrew Jack did and go do a show that you know you know that like imagine if he if he'd have jumped in Fibo and you know and say Andrew hadn't or whatever or maybe he had maybe he could have beaten Andrew I don't know I probably I don't know stranger things have happened maybe but like I would have said to him mate you know look at the lineups look who's find out who's doing what maybe just do a show in Europe go to Italy go do Spain and then just shut it down and go because we want to see you at the Olympia and then yeah jump in Prague afterwards because obviously Prague is is are his sponsors the EBS people are his sponsors Right. So, obviously they want to see him there, but wouldn't it be better to see him at Prague after he's just took eighth place at the Olympia? I mean, come on. Absolutely. I mean, it's it's unfortunate. Uh I don't think his sponsors had any idea that he wasn't going to be able to beat these guys. Oh, they must have known. Come on. What if they don't? Then they don't know what they're talking about. I mean, you're not beating He's not beating Derek. He's not beating Nick. He's not beating Bonak Martin. Exactly. these guys are just a slightly higher level up than he is. Ron, this is exactly my point. And if even if say um say Tyler said, "Look, we've put this new show together. I'd love to see Kriso in the show." Maybe just say to him, say, "Well, look, actually, we just want to kind of get him qualified for the Olympia." You know, there's no there's no pressure in saying no because I would have said to him, I would have said to him like, "Well, is there any is there any chance that he's going to beat guys like Derek and Nick and Bonak and Martins?" Probably not. No. So, I would have said, "Look, our main priority is to getting getting him qualified, getting into the Olympia where it counts." You know, it's like um it's like people going on about Nick Walker hadn't stepped on stage and done this and done that. It's like, well, look, he was he won the New York Pro last year. He's and people were saying, "We don't care about that. All we care about is how he does at the Olympia." See, there you go. There. That's the point I was trying to make with people like Kriso, you know, and veto. There is sometimes you've got to be a bit more strategic rather than just doing just shows, you know, just because you've been asked or because you've um just I would I would have said I would have said to Chriso like if you say to come to me just say purely hypothetically and said Charles what do you should do? I'd say uh what do you think I should do these shows? I would say Pittsburgh and New York. Probably want to give them a miss. Maybe New York but um maybe go do like Feebo or Empro or something like that. Get yourself get yourself qualified and then just do what Andrew Jack did and then just shut it down and then just focus purely on the Olympia and then after. Perfect. Perfect example. Andrew did it right because he wasn't going to win Pittsburgh. Thank you. Thank you. So he knew I can go to FIBO. He wasn't 100%. He wasn't even close to but he knew it wasn't going to be that difficult a show and there's no shame in that because the Olympia is the prize. That's the goal. Everybody wants to win the Olympia. So and he got he needed to qualify. He wasn't qualified. He did it and then he can take the rest of the year. He had a little break, a little, you know, a little offseason. That's the way to do it instead of burn yourself out on all these shows where you're not going to beat the top five Olympians in this show. Exactly. Exactly. This is kind of the kind of leads on from my point about the whole veto thing. Do you know what I mean? Because people then get excited when they see certain pictures or or carefully selected pictures or photoshopped pictures or videos and and then they lose their mind. They're thinking he's going to win. He's going to win. It's like, oh, mate, there's levels to this. He's probably not. He's probably going to look a bit different by the time he hits the stage. No disrespect. He's a great bodybuilder, but you know, you got Derek Hford there who's Olympia champion. You got Nick Walker who's freaking incredible. You got to look at things sometimes a bit more realistically, you know, and you know, all you know what the fans are like? They all they want to see is their favorite guy. They want to see how they do at the Olympia because they want to see if that person's ninth, they can say that they their guy's top top nine or top 10 in the world. you know, it's kind of it's kind of what you know, like I said, the way the fans went on about Nick Walker last year, and it's like, look, he's still the current New York Pro champion. Yeah. And they're like, "Oh, we forgot about that. We don't care about that." That's kind of that was kind of their attitude. And some were actually even saying that. Yeah. You know, this like we we we don't care. We just want to see how he does Olympia. We want to see if he can beat Samson, if he can beat Derek, if he can beat [\h__\h] You know, so otherwise you your stock does fall. It does. And interest falls and fan support falls and everything. So, it's kind of like the whole qualifying system is set up to get these guys to Olympia to see where they fall, to see who's the best, see who's the sixth best, the fifth best, the, you know, who's, you know, just to see how good they are. That's the real test. Not So, you could win, you know, four or five pro shows. It doesn't People don't People genuinely don't care actually. No. I mean, the Olympias, that's it. Are you miss Did you win the Olympia? No. Oh, you only won an Arnold Classic. Ah, you know, the Olympia, it's always going to be the top title. So, while I have the chance, because this is going to be old news, if it's not already, the motorcycle stance, the current way the guys stand, and we're Stanley does it exactly this way, too. So, we're not picking on it's that's this is how most of the guys do it now. Uh, arms up very high, legs apart, the toes are obviously turned outward, showing more inner thigh. Uh, I want to show something from 1991. This is how we used to have a symmetry round at the at all the pro shows and they had to have heels together. Uh Lee Priest on the live I was doing this a commentary last night on a different podcast and Lee Priest said Wayne Demillia was always yelling at us, feet together, arms down if anybody tried to deviate from what they considered a true relaxed stance. And this is how it was. This is 1991, obviously a long time ago. And we're not saying these guys were better bodybuilders than today's bodybuilders, but in your in your eyes, Giles, do you think this is a better way to showcase the physique in a more relaxed, if we can use that term, because they're not relaxed, they're tensing everything. But do you like this stance more so than the way they do it now with the arms up and the legs apart? Hang on. Are you talking about how they hit it now versus how they hit it or the fact that they should bring the symmetry round back? Is that what you're saying or No, they're not going to bring the symmetry. I'm just saying. Okay. Okay. Okay. Just the stance itself. Would you rather see the return to this or or does it matter? I don't care. I I saw all the all the people kicking off about it and I just thought I don't really feel strongly enough either way to have an opinion. I mean, all I know is that like, you know, you you just showed um Derek Lunsford there. when Derek Lunsford um came out at the 22 Olympia, that motorcycle stance, we want to call it, really suited his physique, when he came out and he lifted his arms up and because if you notice his waist isn't as small as it was in 22, right? If you go back and have a look at the 22 footage of when he walked out, I saw it's funny enough, I saw a picture or a video the other day and I was like, "Holy shit." I mean, obviously Derek has got a lot bigger since 22, but so is his waist. So, for me, when he hit that in 22, I was there. He was there second row. Everyone gasped when he came out and he lifted his arms up and he did that motorcycle stance. He looked incredible. And then when he did the frontal bicep and the shoulder to waist and then when he when he um came back last year after winning the Olympian 24, it kind of it just didn't look it just didn't look the same and the crowd was completely silent. So I think um I think it depends on however it suits your physique. And like I said, I don't feel strongly enough either way to to really really care. Fair enough. Yeah. I mean, I just think if he could put his arms down just a little, I just don't think the elbows need to be as high as they were. I don't think he needs to have I don't think anybody needs to have their arms down by their side like they did in the old days, but way up high. Yeah, I mean, they're he does he does pull it off. He's got he's got those crazy lats that you can see jutting out from the front. They're almost 90 degree angles. Uh, as far as putting the legs apart, do you think that's that's an effort just to try to make the legs look bigger for these guys? Now, I I just think it comes down to whatever the athlete feels suits their physique because they've probably been spent hours in a posing room, you know, going through it and they look say, "How do you think I look my leg like this?" Or like when Samson used to do his frontal or bicep and he'd lean on the one leg and then he was told not to. And I just thought it doesn't look as good. I like the way he used to hit it where he angled it like a classic guy, you know, like like Shawn Rhoden or the Victor Martinez like kind of hip tilt like a classic look. I think it whatever I think the athlete should be able to do whatever they feel suits their physique best and I I think Derek looks good in that shot. That front, you know, the front motorcycle. I have no no issues. I've um Is that when he won the Olympia? Yeah. Yeah. 2023 Olympia. Look at the leg legs a lot better there, aren't they? Yeah. Yeah. Do you know what? His legs have gone backwards. Well, they looked like this at the Arnold and then they went backwards for Pittsburgh. So, not as much. Not as much, mate. I mean, his legs look the best here. I I mean, I I mean, I had Derek clearly winning the Arnold Classic, which I didn't expect. I thought Samson was going to come in and and wipe him out, but uh I did, you know, it just shows you can't you know, it shows you also how close these guys are and whoever brings it on the day. But um yeah, so have you got any thoughts on on the Olympia yet? About No, too early. Okay. No, because I've been I've been I'm I'm flip-flopping again. Oh, as far as who's going to win? I mean, gosh. Yeah. You What have I been saying all year? Who did I think was going to win pretty much from Cincy Classic? Derek. Yeah. I I think Samson's gonna do it again. I I mean, Samson just needs condition. And that's it's not like he needs to bring up a body part or something. That's, you know, could he do it or could he I think anybody can get in great shape. Anybody. Yeah. Just a matter of suffering. So, I'm on I'm on I'm on the on the Samson train for this year for for this week and next week it's Hadi. The week after it'll be Nick again. And then I'll probably probably go full circle and come back to Derek. But right now, I think um yeah, I've got Samson and my I think I think he because I always had it when he won the Olymp last year, I thought I had in my head that he could win three. And I'm um I think I'm coming around back round to that now. Uh, I wanted to mention this guy because he is very good. Xiaoming. Gosh, what does he go by? On the score sheet, his name is Xiaoming Chan, but his Instagram is Leang Yan. I don't know. There's There's different translations, but this guy's fantastic. He's the one that I Weren't you there when he turned pro and he competed the next day in the pro show? Yeah. Romania. What was that? 22, wasn't it? 22 or 21? 21. Yeah, because he was there because he he was 100 kilos and um he won the he won the heavyweights and then um obviously won his pro card and then Radislav Angelov who ended up winning the 212 in Romania, we're back at the hotel and he says, "Jars, uh that guy that Chinese guy that won the uh the pro card, he says, "Do you know what he's doing tomorrow? Is he doing open or 212?" Yeah. Because he and he looked really worried and Radislav looked really worried. He says, "I'm really," you could see he's not doing 212, is he? And I said, "Well, to do that, he'd have to lose eight pound overnight." I says, "That's very, very unlikely because he's got to weigh in as well." I says, "I I if we see him, it's going to be if he does compete tomorrow as a pro, which he's obviously now he's pro." I said, "I guarantee he'll be doing the open. There's no way he's doing 212." And he did. And he got fifth in the open. Yeah. Which is good. Which is a bloody good result. So, he's very And he's doing open here in China. He's native, you know, he's a hometown favorite. So, yeah. Yeah. Interested to see how he does. I don't know if there's a stream or anything. The Dubai show. I cannot find much information at all about that show. They don't seem to have a website. Yeah, they didn't last year, did they? They didn't last year. They were really slack. So, I don't even There's got to be a stream, wasn't there? Was a stream last year, wasn't there? Well, I can't remember because I was in Milan. Oh, that's right. I think there was, though. But anyway, we wish this guy the best of luck. He's amazing. He stole my leg training routine. Definitely. I mean, I I've I've yet to see a pro from Korea or China with skinny legs. Ever. Ever. Yeah. They've always got weak backs, though, haven't they? I've yet to see one with a really impressive back at the same time. It's It's the strangest thing. I mean, and I would love some Asian DNA injected into my calves. I've never seen I've never seen them with those high calves either. It's always Yeah. Either Yeah. very very low insertions and big thick meaty calves. M I don't know why, man. We've been all over the place with this. Yeah. And also the next couple of days I'll have news of another tour and then next week there'll be news of another tour again. We're doing two backtoback next month. So there's big news coming up. I mean, if you've been paying attention to my stories on Instagram, you'll probably see that I've started to leak a bit of information already. But um yeah, so I've um we're only a couple we're less than a month away from the Euro Muscle Show in Amsterdam, which you will be a prominent part of. I would have been there, but shoulder turkey pressing. I gotta get my shoulder replaced. I can't wait. It's it's it's really hurting. So, you're gonna have a fantastic time over there. Matthew PCEL, promoter, doing a fantastic job. Uh info there is your muscle.com. Everybody, if you're anywhere within flying or driving distance of that show, it's going to be starstudded. Uh it's going to be a good time. Biggest biggest expo definitely in the Netherlands. Uh so Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was It was the first year. It was amazing. It was amazing. It's 42% bigger this year. Oh, wow. Thing with these expo halls, they can extend them. Do you know what I mean? Because they usually put curtains and and calling them off and everything. So, um but uh yeah, all good. And if you guys are lucky, you go there, you might get to meet Tiger. You never know. He'll be up uh he'll be up on stage doing some uh interviews and MC type of stuff, some rapping. Yeah. And that's it. Well, I think that's uh that's good for this week. We've been over an hour and it's the power hour. So, uh, I will be doing some coverage, guys, of the Dubai show, assuming I can find the stream, which I think I should be able to do. So, keep your notification bells on and we'll know about that. And that's it. Jos, thank you so much. Great time as always. And that's it, guys. Thank you for watching Power Hour and we'll see you next