What's up guys? Ron Harris here. Hope you're having a great weekend. Tomorrow is the Dubai Pro. Don't get confused. There is a show going on in Dubai today. It is the amateur amateur portion of the show. All the pro categories which are men's categories, no women's categories in the Dubai Pro. tomorrow. Tomorrow, uh we'll go to their Instagram so you can get some info on the pay-per-view if you want to take a look at that. But, uh what I want to take a look at with you guys are the final updates. This is the last chance these guys are going to have to post anything. Not everybody has posted updates, but most of the guys have. So, let's take a look. We'll start with the man from Iran, Beirus. So, the most recent updates are found on his Instagram. This was uh yesterday, I believe. That's like a magic mirror. He doesn't really need a magic mirror. He's enormous. The full body shots or what I'm there. He got his competitor. He's number 15. Good job. Uh who's he there with? I don't know who that is. Ali Stanoli. Anyway, the posing is coming up in a second. Here we go. So, here he is in his hotel room. Cropped his head out there. It's quick. You gota look, you got to be fast to catch it. But Bay Ruse is always always in shape. He's never somebody I worry about like, "Oh no, is is Bay Ruse going to be in shape?" He's always shredded. Always always full, too. I've never really seen him flat. Maybe you guys have. I think I've seen just about all the shows prior to that. This was posted a week ago. So, you know, that was very close condition. He's blocking part of his quad there with the sofa, but he's looking like the favorite. Of course, a lot of people have him favored to win. He won this last year. And he's most likely not going to be able to get into the United States in October for the Olympia. I'm sorry to say that's that's just the feeling I get u based on political climate right now with the US and Iran poised to uh poised to go to war with each other basically. So you know it's it's unfortunate that an athlete like Beir Ruse has to get caught up in the middle of this stuff but it's un it's just the way it is. you know, this world travel things have gotten really, really complicated with traveling from into the US since 9/11. Uh, it's never really been the same. It's been much more difficult to get inside the USA legally. That is illegally. It's actually pretty easy. Uh, so yeah, those are his most recent updates. Nathan Dasha, another guy I think has an excellent chance of taking this title. his most recent updates. Uh this was yesterday and he is looking razor sharp, grainy, big, full, doesn't really have any weak body parts. People will talk about his long torso, but you know, none of these guys, not one of these guys is flawless. You can always find find something somewhere if you really look. But Nathan Nathan's won a lot of shows. I think he's got 11 or 12 pro wins at this point. So, uh, I I see Nathan as still a heavy favorite. And he's he's looking looking phenomenal. You know, I knew he would. He wants that money. Who wouldn't want that money? Uh, see if he's got anything more recent in his stories. A look at all these stories. That's the same picture we just saw. Same thing. Same thing. Most of the time they don't put anything in the stories that they if it's a really good picture or video. They'll put it in the uh they'll put it as a they'll make it a post, not just a story. What do you say about tomorrow's a big day? Awesome stage. Looking witness bring home another trophy and that 140k prize money. Yeah, cool. I don't know who he's who posted that originally, but yeah, Nathan could win this, guys. Don't think he can't. There's a few potential winners. Got a fresh new fade. Yeah, his face is all drawn in. You can see when he smiles, the the skin is like stretched over his cheeks there like a Okay, he likes those pictures. He likes those a lot. All right. Uh I'm trying to go in order of how things might shake out in terms of the placings. Bonak has not William Bonak very very consistent guy. We know what Williams's going to look like. I don't think he's posted anything. Nope. Nope. So, you know, we just have to assume he's going to look like good old William. That was 91 weeks ago. That is not current. This is recently posted. So, this was a a quick workout he did there in a pump pumping workout there in Dubai with Chun Lee FTS. I guess she's from Asia, some influencer or athlete. I don't know. I don't know who it is. Uh but yeah, not not really seeing a lot of physique stuff there, so I'm not going to dwell on William. Let's keep going, though. Here's a guy that I I didn't talk enough about in the preview that I did with um Giles the other day, still up on this channel. Mo Fuda, Muhammad Foda. Um he's looking crazy. This was yesterday. Look at that. So big, full, grainy hard, separated, ready to rock this guy. Yeah, potentially. Could he win? I don't know. I mean, it would be it'll be a long shot for him to beat Nathan Beirus and Bonak, but stranger things have happened in bodybuilding. He won the Chicago Pro last year. Looked really good there. Muhammad Foda uh out of Egypt. Another great Egyptian like big Ramy and Hassan Must Hassan Mustafa. What the heck's Hassan's name? Gosh, getting getting did see my old age. I can't remember. Hassan with the big legs. He's only He just We haven't seen him compete in a bit, but you know who I'm talking about. So, this was 54 hours out because as you know, this is happening tomorrow. Tomorrow. This was two days ago. He's a big dude. He's a big guy. He's got a lot of mass. Really good shape and condition. Nothing to worry about. There he is with his his coach, Patrick Tour. Patrick Tour is also Keon's coach, as you probably know. So, he's in very very good hands there. Hassan Mustafa, there's his name right there. There you go. Thanks for reminding me who you are, Hassan. God, Ron, Ron can forget sometimes. So yeah, looking awesome. Awesome. Muhammad Fod. See if there's anything else. That's probably the most recent thing we have. Yeah, that was that was a couple days before that. Same poses. Now, his back was not the greatest when he won Chicago last year. He probably still doesn't have a phenomenal back, but uh I think it has improved. I I recall seeing some shots where it did look a little better. And as always, I go to the stories. What's he got? He's got some food. It's got him in the Is that a hotel room? And they they've got a Looks like they've got a a piece of cardio equipment in the corner there. A a stepmill right right there in the in the room. All right. Who else? Tonio. We got to check out Tonio. Let's take a look at the Predator. Is that what he calls himself? The Predator. Yeah, because he's got the Predator here. So, Tonio. Uh, I was concerned based on pictures I saw video that I saw a few days ago where he had just landed and he was looking really watery. So, this is a couple days later and I can see he's getting rid of the water. It wasn't body fat. It was in fact a lot of water that he was holding and it seems to be shedding right on time. So if this was uh taken today, this is well over 24 hours to go. You can lose a lot of water in that in that span of time with like a you know mild pharmaceutical diuretic. And I don't think he has a ton of water lose. He's he's looking close to where he was when he won Legion. He just needs to tighten up a little more. And again, that's probably just an issue with the water from all the flying. It's a very long flight because remember he had to go all the way across the USA. He lives in Reno, Nevada, way out west. Had to go way over to the east coast probably to Trent to connect and then from there to Dubai. So, it's a lot of flying. A lot of flying. Antonio, there he is. He's number five. I could see one's got their competitor numbers. Uh, that was two days ago. That's that really cool sunlight dappling in through the wind the window. the window shot that a lot of us as bodybuilders when you're in shape. Very cool artistic shots. Of course, they do hide a lot of the of what you're trying to see because a lot of it's in shadow. But isn't that a cool shot? I think everybody when they're in shape and they're in their hotel, every one of us takes a picture like that or gets somebody to take a picture like that. So, this is a couple days ago. Some more footage. What we saw uh in the at the initial start talking about Tonio, that was that was more recent. So, this was two days ago. So, the water's coming off. This was a little more watery. Uh, that was the same day, but these are still shots. Uh, this is what I was concerned about when I saw this. This looked really watery when he turned to the side. Actually, I wasn't sure if it was water or body fat. I didn't I didn't think he had accumulated a bunch of body fat. But, see there? That's That had me worried. And you can see how much better he looks now. This was five days ago. So that's how that's that's how much water he had to lose five days ago. And then this was today. You could see a real difference there. He's tightened up considerably. Much much better now. All right. Who do you want to go to next? You want to I bet you guys want to see Neckzilla. Guys love Neckzilla. He doesn't have anything full body from what I could see. Oh no, there it is. Okay, there he goes. Okay, loading. He's loading. I didn't even see that. That's it. When I was looking for updates a couple hours ago, that wasn't up yet. So, he just posted that. So, we'll see how he does. Rubel, he's a big big dude. Got some freaky freaky body parts, his neck, his quads. Crazy. Uh, he also posted some stuff in the gym. Mñana Sarah Elia, what's it say? That's a little motivational quote he's got up there. I assume that's his coach. Uh, I did see a cool shot of him posing with Angel Calderon. Any Calderon Freeas. And there it is. Yeah. So, there they were together. I'm guessing that was in the oxygen gym in Dubai. It's the the promoters of the show, the gentleman that owns that gym. It's Bad Budai who also owns the oxygen gym in Kuwait. And Angel there on your left, he is definitely the favorite for 212 division. Uh we do have some other guys in 212 who are really, really good. We're going to take a look at 212 guys. Um, last guy I'm going to look at in the open. Unless you guys have any suggestions. I'll get to you guys in a minute. I want to take a look at who was it? Ali Edgar Edward Carbo. Yeah, Ali Edward Carbo. He was fourth place last year and he has definitely added some size since then. So, we go to the stories first because sometimes the most current stuff is there. Nope. What's he saying about Ronnie Coleman? Only Ronnie Coleman understand when it's hidden. I I don't get that joke. Uh, he's number 10. Okay. Some driving by pro. All right. That was a shot we'd already seen. I'm curious. That was a week ago. H. So, this was posing a week ago. I hadn't hadn't seen that. This is a guy with a lot of size, really good shape, really full muscle bellies, thick. Look at the thickness in the pecs there. You don't see a lot of super thick pecs like that anymore. I remember his back was something people were criticizing a lot last year. Uh, I think it's better. I think it he's managed to bring that back up considerably. Yeah, it's it's a good thing when, you know, some guys can't take criticism, but the smart ones are the ones that listen to constructive criticism, things that they can actually improve on, and they really just go to town, go to work on it, come back with an improvement in that area that was lacking. And that's how you move up the ranks when you have less weak body parts. You fewer areas that are vulnerable that other people can can catch you slipping. So, good for him. That was Quint Beastwood commenting on him. I think he's saying, "Yep, he's talking to God there." Big dude Ali Edward Carbo. Uh, I'm going to look at your comments for a minute before I start looking at 212. Hopefully, I've had the volume up this whole time. Yo yo yo, keep going strong with your channel. Thank you. I I plan to. Masterpiece. I plan to. Is there no live feed run? So, there is um there is gonna be a live stream. Might as well go to that go to the info for that now. Um it it's kind of too bad that a couple because Fouad did a free live stream and the Arnold Classic did a free live stream. People get really angry now that that they still have to pay for live streams, but unfortunately most of them. So, this is the page you want to go to. Dubai_pro_Event and there is a link right there and that gives you the uh a link to get this the stream. So first day you can't buy the second day. That's odd. Let's see. First day $25 US. I did see it's a payw wall. I did see something for the sec. They don't spell frist. It's first. They misspelled that. Um yeah, I don't know why. Second day. Okay. So, $30 for US dollars to watch tomorrow. And you can follow that link on Dubai_pro_event. Um, I guess I'll leave somebody up while I'm talking. I got to I got to get to your uh got to get to your comments here, guys. All right. So, do a live stream tomorrow. So, I'm going to do a watch party, assuming I can find somebody that's pirating the stream. When I say that, it's because you're not supposed to show a stream that's a pay-per-view live while it's actually happening live. That is copyright infringement. um you're basically stealing their live stream that they want people to pay for. So, I would never do that because I don't want to lose my channel. However, there are people that they take that chance. They don't care. And I find them and I stream from their channel. So, I'm not streaming myself from the pay-per-view. It's secondhand. And I make sure you can see who, you know, it's someone else's logo and all that. It's not me. Uh I do plan to do it. It's going to be early in the morning because they are eight hours ahead of East Coast time in the USA where I am. So, it's going to start at 400 PM. The judging and finals, I believe, are going to run all together for the Pro men's pro event tomorrow at the Dubai Pro. That is 8:00 a.m. my time. I probably won't go on till 9:00 because again, I don't want to be exactly live. Plus, I need to walk my dog and eat. So, I do plan to do a watch party. So, leave your uh notifications on and you'll you'll find out. I think Mr. Liverpool Nathan will win. That's a horrible horrible Didn't sound anything like Liverpool. Sounded like uh Scottish or something. So, yeah, Nathan has a good good chance to win. Him and Hottie won't be there. Who won't be there? Hottie? Well, oh, you're talking about at the Olympia that Yeah. I'm realizing these comments were made like 10 minutes ago. I think Heidi has a better chance of getting to the USA for the Olympia because he's been here three or four time I think four times already. He is an employee of Eva Nutrition technically. He gets a paycheck from them every week or every month, whatever. So, he could get here on some sort of work visa, I'm assuming. Um and even in that announcement about countries that couldn't come here in Iran the ban on travel from Iran to the USA there was uh a clause in there about exceptions for people com competing in high level athletic events which I think the Mr. Olympia would would certainly qualify for that is allowed to come in the country to bother will object and stand up for him. Well, Joseph, they can stand up all they want, but you know, the US government, uh, ICE, what, whoever's in Homeland Security, whoever is in charge of admitting people, um, customs, immigration, they they're not going to care about a bunch of meattheads signing a petition, whatever, Joseph, unfortunately, you know, but, uh, I'm hoping gets here. I really do. Yeah. Mark says that will do nothing. It won't do anything. I mean, you really think the government officials are going to be like, "Well, we weren't going to let anyone from Iran in, but 10,000 bodybuilders signed an online petition to get hottie, this guy, Hottie Tuped. I guess we'll do it. Can you check Nihad Kai?" Yeah, that's He's going to be in 212 and getting to 212. As soon as I get through these comments, I'm going to take a look at the 212 guys because there's some really good ones. What's up? What's up? Uh, overcast. That is Leo Marhoffer, Austrian Powers. He has an awesome podcast. He said some huge huge names on in the past few weeks. There's Davey. Davey Mice have an awesome I hope I didn't miss you because I'm so late getting to this. Yeah, Davey is a a new client of mine. He's in Louisiana Bayou Muscle. Big dude. He's getting into awesome shape. Former college football player. And uh wishing can't wait to see uh how Davey looks by the end of the summer because he's already making changes and it's only been a couple weeks. It's Beiru's Olympia. Absolutely zero chance of him losing. This is Beiru's Olympia. Yeah. I mean, assuming Beirus is never able to get to the USA, which I'm sorry to say, but that might be the case. He might never, you know, unless the political climate changes drastically. You know, maybe if Kla Harris had been elected, she would have opened up the borders even more and he would have had a much easier time. But we have Donald Trump as our president and his stance on immigration and people coming into the country is very very different. So I don't think there's any chance. So yeah, Beirus is treating this I'm sure like his Mr. Olympia because he's qualified for several Olympias now. I think three in a row and has not been able to get over here which is that's so bad. Von Fuks prediction Beiru Nathan Bonak. I would not bet against that. I would not I would not try to say I'll bet you not even $2 against I think that's a very very likely top three placing there. Very very likely. He might be top five at the Olympia but not top three. Well, I think what he was saying was this is this is the Olympia. The Dubai Pro is his Olympia basically. All right. So, let's take a look at the 212 guys. We got some really good ones. Um, since we were since someone just brought up Nihhat, we'll take a look at Nihhat because he's only 22 years old, I believe, 22 years old, something like that. Um, already made improvements as you would expect. Someone So, this was last year. This is how he looked at age 21. Uh, he did this show last year. I'm not sure how he did. Yeah, he said 21 years old. And the structure, you can see here, he could be a little thicker. He's not not thick enough to really win too many 212 pro shows. Needs a little size, but size is something you can put on. Structure and shape. Those are those are given to you at birth. And if you don't have them, you don't have them. You're never going to get them. And this kid has it. So, let's look at let's look at how he's looking. This was a day ago. Great lat spread. Look at those lats flaring out. You could see them very, very well from the front. Nice cap delts. He's number 26. Yeah, Nihud is is considering he's 22. Can you imagine how good he's going to be by the time he's in his late 20s, 30? I mean, it's I know we're talking a long time away. He got a haircut, but he's going to be he's going to be so good, this kid. And he is a kid. I don't have a problem calling him a kid. Young man, whatever. Uh see if he has anything more recent in his stories. He's coached by Patrick Tour as well. Dr. Tor is very very well well known as a coach. Ah, this was a good one. This is legs. Side leg shot from yesterday. Wow. Look at every little fiber in this kid. Look at that. This kid is in shape. Talk about condition. I want to see the quads again. Hit the quads again. They were they were nice and nice and feathered. I love seeing detail like that because, you know, size size and shape are great, but when you can add the extra detail in there, it's just this whole other level of impressiveness. So, I always say that's that's really one quality that set Phil Heath apart from most of his competitors was just the detail in the muscle groups, the separation, the striations, you know, because I don't want to just see big blueofy smooth looking muscles. So, I don't think that's I'm not that impressed when I see nice detailed muscles that are that are big in great shape. Now, that's I got to I got to apply for that. Patrick. Patrick. Okay. So, I think Okay, so here was two days ago. Here he is with his coach Patrick doing some last minute posing. Yeah, he's he's put on some good size since last year. I think Giles said he was 20 pounds under the limit last year. So something like low 180s last year. I bet I bet, you know, we'll find out, but I bet he's up another 10 pounds. And you know, at 2122, he was 21 last year. This is these are prime growing years. Prime growing years. Look at that. He is this kid is really good. Very impressed with him. So yeah, he'll be he'll be in that first call out 212. There's there's no doubt in my mind. Anything else? This is back. It's kind of kind of dim. Can't really see too much, but yeah, nice thick back. Thick from top to bottom, side to side. There he is. Doing some last minute cardio three days ago. A bridge. That's about it. I don't think we have anything to And that was four days. This is four days ago. Nihhat Kaya, he looks phenomenal. And you know, another I know it doesn't matter, but he's 22 and he looks 22. He doesn't look 40. Some of these, some of these young guys, the gear makes them look a lot older than they really are. He still has that baby face. He looks like a 21 22 year old kid. Doesn't look like middle-aged man. So, all right. That's Nihhat. Uh let's let's go to the favorite. Favorite has got to be Angel because he's won so many shows. Talking about Angel Calderon Frias. So he posted this. This is him and Nexzilla. Rubial Mosca. They're both Spanish speakers. Angel from Spain. Rubel from Colombia. There's some bathroom bathroom bathroom posing. Yeah. Structurally, he does have kind of a short torso. You can tell he's a shorter guy, which I always say, ideally, you never want to be able to tell how tall someone is or short. Look at that thick. Look how thick his chest is. Perfect proportions mean you don't know if they're 6'4 or 5'4 when you see them alone because they just have ideal torso length, limb length, good proportions to the bone structure. Whereas a lot of times taller guys will have really long arms and long legs and shorter guys the opposite stubbier shorter limbs and it's it's very evident that they're shorter. So he doesn't have a perfect structure but he is loaded with muscle. All right. This was act this was the MRO Classic last year which he won the 212. He's won a lot of shows over in Europe. He's won some open shows. He's won a couple open shows as a and he was competing um at the MRO just last weekend. Yeah, he's very very good. But we're supposed to be looking at recent updates. So, see if he's got anything else in his stories. Do they have the same sponsor or something? These two. I'm not sure. Backstage. Uh okay. So, that was Angel. Um, I wanted to look at this guy from Iran because they didn't didn't show him at all. Didn't talk about him at all on the preview that I did with Giles and uh there were a bunch of comments mostly from the same guy over and over again, but he wanted me to check out this guy from Iran. And you know, usually when someone does that, it's just their fan or their friend or something, but this guy's legit because like a lot of times I'm like, ah, they're not that great. This guy's really good. This is Mie Medie Jabari. This was five weeks ago. So that's that's the condition he was in five weeks ago. Uh that was him competing at this show last year, I think. Or no, no, this is 71 weeks ago. I don't know when that was. All right. This is more recent. This was an hour less than an hour ago this was posted. So Medi Jabari, big big guy, great arms, great quads, nice vtaper. Yeah. Uh he's he's going to be in the running. He's going to be right up there in that first call out. I'll say it right now. Oh, this photo was 10 days out. It says, "But due to the war situation in my country, I was unable to attend these competitions. I can hope I Oh, is he not making it?" Oh, no. Oh, geez. H couldn't even leave Iran. Oh, I'm sorry. So, this guy's not even going to be in the show. Oh, that sucks. That sucks. He didn't get out soon enough and they must have shut down the airports or something. Obviously, Beirus got out. I don't know if Beirus lives in Iran or he lives in Dubai. I think he lives in Iran, but he must have gotten out. They must have shut the airports down or something. Oh, that's awful. That sucks. See, let's go for the final 10 days. But then again, yeah, he posted this an hour ago, so I guess I guess he's not going to make it. He was on the competitor list, but I guess he's not going to be there. That sucks. So this poor guy, I mean, he was ready ready to go. He looked phenomenal and uh God, my hope is only in you. So at that point, I guess he was worried about traveling. Um and yeah, his his worries were justified because it looks like he got stuck there and now he's not going to be able to make it. That's awful. Sorry to hear that, man. I'm really sorry to hear that. Athletes should not have to deal with all this with war. You know, war is obviously wars. It's so horrible. It's so awful that to to make make an athlete not being able to get to competition. The most significant part of it is is really trivial to do that. But this he looks really good. So, here's another guy that's going to be up there. He is uh is a Hungarian Radoslav Radlav. This was posted yesterday. He's doing some collabs in the gym, I guess. He's a thick dude. Looks like a shorter guy like a lot of 212 guys. I'm not bagging on short guys. I'm not the tallest guy myself. Obviously, we all know this. I'm actually shorter than ever. Every year I seem to be down about a quarter inch. I should be two feet tall by the time I die at this rate. If I live long enough. That's love. Uh this was earlier in the week. Great lighting. That's the lighting from below. So, he's probably I know a little bit about lighting because I did major in film in college. I took some I took a lot of film classes. I had to take a photography class and we learned a lot about lighting. So, he's probably either got a light shining from below or there's a light shining from behind him reflecting on like a white marble surface. I know I'm being ridiculous, but I'm trying to explain why this looks so cool. I I could see where the light's coming from. So, he's uh he's definitely going to be a front runner. He's won some shows. This was a week ago. This was 10 days out, it says, from Dubai Pro. Really complete physique, nice back. I think I'm sure he tightened up a little bit. That was 10 days. Obviously, in the last 10 days, the guys do their typically carb depleting, carb loading. They drop their water in the last day or two and they tighten up a lot. And then, you know, he doesn't have a tan here. That's that's normal skin color. When they're all painted up, they look better, too. So, got another guy, Zagar. I want to check out this guy from Italy who's really good. I've seen him compete. Zagarella. What's his name? Christian. That's why I remember his name. He's got the same name as my son, Christian Zagurella. So, I had seen him at New York Pro a couple times. This was five days out right here. Is he still at home in Italy? It doesn't that doesn't look like a hotel to me. Could be wrong. Yeah, I imagine not everybody had to get there way ahead of time cuz Italy to Dubai is probably I don't know a few hours flight. It can't be that can't be more than like six or eight hours at the most. Like some of these people are coming from all around the world. America to Dubai. USA to Dubai is a long pretty long flight. Yeah, I was going to say he looked pretty smooth until he stepped on his glute there and I saw it ripple. So, oh, watch your watch your gut there, man. He doesn't have a gut, but everyone needs to keep their keep their midsection nice and tight and sucked in at all times, even when you're in those transitions. We saw what happened. And I mean, Nick Nick Walker probably lost to New York Pro because at the very very very end in that tiebreaker round and they needed some excuse, some excuse to have Derek beat him. That's what it was. He was relaxing his midsection. So this was that same five days ago. Christian Zarella from Italy. Great name. Name my son Christian. He's in great shape. eyes Christmas tree striations. And there was one more guy I wanted to look at. No, that was all the 212. Uh, take a look at Dool in Classic. Michael Dool is coming back. It's been a been a little while since he competed and he is always in shape. This was five hours ago. Looks a little on the flat side to me. He's probably he's going to do some carbon up. He's never been the biggest guy, but condition is definitely his strong point. He never fails to deliver. Dry as a Sahara Desert, I think he says, because he is a Saharan eagle. It was a cool shot. So, this was yesterday at the uh is that that same gym? Yeah. Oh, no. This is Bedus. This is the other gym. Beu's gym. I know because of the plates. those those red, white, and blue weight plates. So, this is a gym that uh Andrew Jack trains at. You probably recognize the plates. Um very well very well-known gym. So, Dool looking phenomenal. He is number 39. Here's some more gym posing. A gym like that you can get away with posing in your underwear. Not every gym will will uh be cool with that, but this is a very bodybuilder friendly gym, a very influencer friendly gym. There's a ton of fitness and bodybuilding influencers that live in Dubai these days and I think a lot of them train at this very gym we're looking at right now. Beu's gym. Let's Let's [\h__\h] go. Saharan Eagle. Yeah, there he is with a regular gym guy. That was 36 hours out there. He's showing off quad with I don't know who that is over there. Not really sure who that is. Uh there was one other guy in classic I wanted to look at and unless you guys have some requests for people that you think we should take a look at because I I'm always unaware of certain people. This is Richard Naggie. Uh I keep thinking he's from UK, but is he? I'm not even sure. So he won Romania last year. Yeah, he was the classic physique winner in Romania last year. Uh but we're trying to look at these days. So this was 12 hours ago. Very good class of physique competitor. Looking phenomenal. Where's he out of? I keep thinking UK, but I've been wrong many, many times before. You certain people love to point out every time I'm wrong. It's like, ha, I got you, Ron. I got you. Yeah, it's not that hard. It's not that hard to find find me being wrong. Trust me. There's a good shot. There's a nice shot. Yeah, this guy's this guy's the real deal, too. He'll be right up there. He'll be first call out. All right. So, I think I'm going to put it on the Dubai the Dubai Pro one of their little stories while we're talking. Important announcement. Uh, I don't want to see that announcement. Okay. All right. Let's go back to your comments. All right. Be a Ruse, Nathan, Bonak, Tonio, and Rubial. Who didn't make top five in your scenario? Uh, FOD didn't make Mo FOD didn't make your top five. Ali, Edward, Carbo, but everybody can't be in the top five. I think that's a very likely top five as well. You have the same top three as was it Mark? Mark Bates. Yeah, that top three is I don't want to say it's guaranteed. Nothing is guaranteed, but that's a very very likely top three. Very, very likely. Dubai, I don't want to see all your men's physique. Pro will start 5:00 PM. Okay, so that's 9. Wait a minute. 5:00 p.m. minus 8 hours. Yeah, it's 9:00 a.m. for me tomorrow. Yeah. So, everyone was asking about the pro show today, and it's not today. Today they're having the amateur show. Uh, bodybuilding class physique. Wait a minute. Pro shows start at 5:00 pm, but then their next post says 11:00 a.m. What the heck? I'm really confused now. Oh boy. I think they've already Yeah, they've already they've already got new pros from from the amateur show today. Good job. Yeah, it was a huge huge amateur show today. There's Sid. That must be the overall bodybuilding winner he's talking to. Took a shirt off from the Dennis James podcast. Was that Rubio? Probably. Yeah. All right. Who knows? Bonic is blasting fully could be second when Nathan is looking insane. Yeah, thank you, man. Thank you. Whoose, you understood wrong. Yeah, he can never get the Olympics to shows his Olympia. Yeah, Beirus, I wouldn't say there's no chance Beirus can lose. Anybody can lose. If anybody comes in a little bit off, which you know, Beirus Tobani has never been off. I've never seen him off. I've probably seen him compete six or eight times now over the past couple years. He's never off, so that's not in dispute. Nathan is going to be in excellent condition as well. Nathan's going to push him. Bonak's going to push him. It's going to be tough. Uh Bon, remember Bonak beat him last year at the MRO show. Um you know, that was somewhat controversial, but he did beat him. I don't think Nathan Nathan has never beat him, but Bonak has beaten him. We did establish that. We looked we looked back and found that rookie. We get a Fouad update. I I don't know anything about what's going on with Fouad. Sorry. Good. Glaz Glaswig Glasco. Well, I just watched the movie 28 Years Later last night and nobody told me it was going to be in the whole movie was going to be in Scottish Brogue. My hearing is awful anyway. I usually have all I always have the subtitles on when I watch TV and I wish there had been some subtitles. I I I got most of the dialogue, but my son was next to me in honestly. He'd be like, "What did he say? What did he just say? You know, I don't have any forad updates. Sorry. Fouad got in a motorcycle accident. He didn't uh he didn't kill anybody. No more hostile. No, the company's going to be fine. Finally, for lose some weight being in a hospital. Lose some weight. He wasn't overweight. He was just buff. He's muscular. He wasn't like fat. Oh, that big Steve Weinberger over there in Dubai. Good for him. Okay, first three pro cards. It looks like Is that AJ? No, it's not AJ, right? Kind of looks like AJ, doesn't it? It does look like AJ, but it's not AJ, is it? Ah, it's going to kill me not knowing now. Who is taking these pictures? These pictures are great. These look like uh Gilo pictures for God's sake. All right. So, I'm just gonna leave that up. Their little commercial. Kamala. That was funny. Yeah. You know, it was cool seeing my name on lawns Harris Waltz. But yeah, I mean I I didn't vote for her. Let's put it that way. Oh, hey Randy. You're going to knock the surgery out of the park when we have a pro card to get. You have a pro card to get, not me. We say we. Well, she means me. This is um Brandy, my longest my longest running client. God, this was 514. This is how far behind it's 533. Yeah. Randy is uh 54. She's done Masters Nationals once. Uh she won the show down in Virginia that Carlos Thomas Jr. won right before he won nationals a few weeks before that. She's had a heart attack. She survived thyroid cancer. Uh she can't be stopped. So yeah, Dragon Cous. How can someone look like that at 21? Yeah. Nihad Kaya. But you know what? If you go back in bodybuilding, like Rich Gaspari when he turned pro was only 21. We've had people that were Lee Haney I think was only was only 22 when he turned pro, 23. We've had a lot of young guys over the years. I'm not going to these fouad things are in uh I'll go to Milo's page see updates. Thank you. Good good call there. He is the man. Milos has uh been his coach for quite some time now. All right. So, Milo Sarv, do you block me? No, he didn't block me. I hope he would never block me. All right. So, go past the pin comments. Oh, this is an hour ago. Okay. Yeah. I mean, that's Beirus. He's He never disappoints. He's always always delivers on show day. Look at that closeup. And these aren't even this isn't even great lighting or or uh not the most clear pictures. And you can see the condition. Yeah, he's ready. He's ready to rock. He's ready to ready to win this thing. I mean, if he doesn't win, I'd be kind of surprised. I think a lot of people would be surprised if Babus doesn't win. Yeah, he's he's he's just so tough to beat. cannot believe he has only 20 22 look like that when you start working out while he was still injured. When someone's got great genetics, you know, most of these guys obviously they have great genetics. They all have great genetics. Who are we kidding? Um it usually doesn't take more than a few years for that genetic potential to be realized. I mean, if you look at guys like uh if you go back in time, most of the guys who were top pros, by the time they'd only been working out for a couple years, two or three years, they already looked way better than than most competitors did. Yeah, he is. He is. Nihhat Kaya is a 212 competitor. 212. Yeah, he can't he look he looks on to be on the shorter side when I see him next to other people. Great amount of muscle. Why is it sad? Oh, sad. that's sad about uh the uh the gentleman FOD, not FOD. Who was it that's not going to be able to get there? Not Beirus. Oh, it was Mie. Mie Jabari from the 212 division stuck in Iran trying to focus on you on place like said Brazil knows like Iran bringing a whole new look. Pretty great to witness. Yeah, Brazil is the thing about Brazil is apparently they always had crazy crazy talent, but it was very very difficult to get a pro card down there. The federation was very stingy with who they allowed to turn pro. So, we didn't see their best talent until the IFBB split in 2017 into ProLeague and elite. and pro league started having more qual proqu qualifiers down there in Brazil and giving out more pro cards various divisions and then almost immediately we saw so many great athletes coming out of Brazil that they were there all along but we just never we never knew Dubai pro takes to win tomorrow that's elite foresight well thanks Ionic but I I I can't take too much credit for saying this guy Beirus Tabatani is going to win I mean he's very very tough to beat lose too many shows Ron's top five predictions for I I pretty much agreed with I have Beirus, Nathan, Bonak, Tonio. I think I I think I'd put Mo FOD ahead of Rubial. Honestly, FOD's got better overall balance, structure. Rubial is a freak, but I don't like I don't like his front lat spread. I don't like his front double bicep. His structure from the front looks really weird to me with like a it's a wide waist. It's just his side shots are the best. He beats them. He beats everybody in the side shots. Talk about Nick Zilla here. Rubel Moscara. Uh back shots, they're they're pretty good, too. I gotta admit, it's really just the shots where the the two front shots, I should say three, because you also have the abdominal and thigh. He does have a thicker blocky waist compared to some of these other guys. And that unfortunately in those front shots, it it detracts from the the flow of the physique. What's up, Blue and G? A couple Brazilian guys, really good guys coming for Classic. Not going to Oh, Classic. Yeah, I mean the classic has a 30 over 30 competitors in it. I think it was 34. You know, I didn't recognize a lot of the names, but I bet you there's a few guys in there who are already like, you know, Olympia caliber. No, when they say 11:00 a.m., Katherine, they're talking about their time, I think. Yeah, they're not going to bother when Dubai Pro posts a time. But that was confusing because there was two posts in a row there with two very different times. First they said 11:00 a.m. in one post and then they said 5:00 pm, but obviously they're going to make uh so I don't know if they're uh I don't know it's like I said whoever's running their their web their their Instagram page English is not their first language and I think they're more concerned about uh you know the so here the pro show will start at 5:00 pm. So that's 5:00 pm Dubai time. That's 9:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. That's Boston where I am, New York City, Florida. That's all Eastern Standard Time. 9:00 a.m. So, it'll be 9:00 a.m. for for me and for everyone else on the East Coast of the United States. But the post right before that, then they said, then it says the pro show, the show will start at 11:00 a.m. And they've already done the amateur show today, so I don't know what they're talking about. Let's see the translation. Oh, okay. I see. So, this was posted No, no, no. This says the amateur championships tomorrow, but they already did the amateur championships. We just saw all the pictures. So, I think they were talking about today. No, 22nd is tomorrow. Is there another amateur show? Because what are all these pictures? Yeah, these were this was the amateur. They've already done the amateur show. So, I don't know what's going on, guys. My confusion is real here. Dubai Pro Stage. I don't know what that means. Yeah, they did the amateur show already. So, I don't know what that post is all about. Honestly, I'm so confused. I'm very, very confused by that. What's this? Is this their commercial? Not really sure what this is. And clearly they have top-notch production. So, the stream is going to be very, very high quality. I can see that already. If if the quality of the video that we're seeing is any in indication that's uh what's his name? He's a gosh, what's his name? Ahmad Ashkani. Ahmed Ashkani from Kuwait. Look how I say look how short he is. Like I'm making fun of short people. I'm down to 5'7 and a quarter. I've lost a whole inch of height. Goodness gracious. Dubai. Dubai. Dubai. Let's see with the bodybuilding winner. I guess I'll go back to uh Beirus. I'll leave Beirus up. Does he have anything in stories? Milos with uh Beirus. Yeah, the China Pro is also tomorrow. I was unfortunately I say unfortunately because all the talk right now and all the the attention is being focused on the pro show in Dubai which is understandable. Okay. So no looks like he saved it. So this is this is the update with Beirus that everyone's talking about. Yeah. Beani. He's treating us like his Olympia because there is unfortunately a very very strong chance we may never see this man on the Olympia stage unless something changes drastically with the politics between the US and Iran. Hello fellow Iron Warriors. Praying for Fu. Wish there was some updates. Yeah, what's up Paul? Um, I think they're just they're they, you know, they want to keep their privacy on this matter and there's probably not a lot to to report on. Uh, the accident just happened a few days ago and he's probably like in intensive care and you know, there's probably there's probably nothing for them to tell you that would he's stable. His condition is stable and all that. His life isn't in danger. It's just quite a bit. Nathan, they must meet 5:00 PM local. I I think all their whenever they post anything on their website, it's Dubai time. They're not going to they're not going to post any other time zone. Swing spears YK1. Mark my words. Antonio beats Beirus. Wow, that is a bold bold prediction. Paul Bartlett. Very bold prediction. Well, if he beats him, uh he's not going to beat him on condition. He definitely won't beat him on condition. Uh, prejudging, it looks like they're going to start everything tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time in the USA. 5:00 PM 5:00 PM Dubai time. They're eight hours ahead of me. He wins rather place ahead of Beirus. I'd be very surprised, but no, I'm not going to cover the China Pro. No, I can only cover one thing at a time. And the China Pro doesn't have a very strong lineup compared to this. Prey, you know, their biggest name is Andrea Prey, Lewis Breed. Um, it it's it's a smaller show in terms of uh the names, the name factor. So, I'm I'm not gonna be not gonna be trying to za. My prediction is Bonak. Okay. You're the first person who's predicted a win for Bonak. So, I'm sure he's going to appreciate you doing saying that. Be Rubio Asha. Huh. Dash. So, I I don't think Rubial has a chance of beating Nathan. I'll be totally honest with you guys. Potential winner. Uh I think Bonak could possibly win. Be Ruse could win. Nathan can win. I don't see anyone else. I don't see Tonio or FOD as beating all three of those guys. Um they're all going to be in shape. So, I I don't know. Yeah, amateurs would say, but you could see fresh prints that posted theirs was very confusing because it did say I think they just screwed up. They said amateur show 622, which is tomorrow's date. And we know that the amateurs have already happened because they have tons of video and photos up on their on their Instagram page already. Bonak for the win. Bonak for the win. James Hong Show is not a hostile athlete. That's a mistake I made before. Who's he with? I don't know. It doesn't matter. He's not with Hostile. Yeah, that was Ahmad Ashkanani, the 212 champ. He's won the Arnold Classic 212. He's been top five at the Olympia many times. Compact physique. He's probably 5'2 on a good day. I always say Elf Bade, you never know what's going to happen in general in bodybuilding. There's I've seen so many so many crazy things happen in these shows. People that we weren't even worried about coming out of coming out of nowhere just because nobody was talking about them. Nobody was considering them as a potential winner. and they've won shows. Um, and then we've seen people that had a lot of expectations on them. They were the front front runner to win. They were they were the heavy favorite and they they come in a little bit off or something and and they blew it and they get beat. It happens. You know, these bodies can change. We're looking at these guys. Some of these photos and videos we've been looking at are less than 24 hours away from when they're going to hit the stage. And some of these guys are going to look a lot better than what we're seeing. And some of them are going to look worse. Things change. things things go right, things go wrong. They move the O around the world. I don't I don't see the I don't see it happening. They've been in Las Vegas so long. They're so entrenched in Las Vegas. You know, they know all the logistics, the venues, the everything. Everything's down to a science with Las Vegas. I don't see them bringing it around to other countries. It's Ahmad Ashkani. You were close. Amir is a different name. It's Ahmad Ashkani. Ahmad. What's polit? Yeah. Politics. Oh my soul. I didn't Google it. Well, you didn't get it right. So, I know you didn't Google. Beu is twice as wide as Antonio Peeled. Yeah, Antonio is not the widest guy. He has a phenomenal physique, but it reminds me of Dexter Jackson in some aspects because Dexter wasn't the widest guy either. He wasn't narrow, but he wasn't super wide compared to some of the guys. And he still beat pretty much everybody at one time or another. Does it hurt competitors that can't make the Olympia buy one representative? Well, it hurts it hurts them personally because every athlete, all these guys want to get to the Olympia. That's the ultimate goal is the Mr. Olympia stage. They all want to get to that stage. And I'm sure Beir Rouge is heartbroken every year when he qualifies for the Olympia with a win and then he can't go. They he can't get into the USA for the Olympia. Um it's the top title. You know, the Arnold has stepped up $750,000 for first prize, which I think the Olympia will uh I'm not going to I'm not going to say this is guaranteed, but I would not be surprised if at the very last minute the Olympia raises first prize to $1 million this year just so they're ahead of Arnold because Arnold's already said 750 for next year's Arnold. I think Jake Wood, Dan Salman, they're going to get together and go, we got to we got to beat these. We got to beat them at their own. We got to come up. We got to give away a million dollars. And um it's just like Jimmy Men said on a podcast I was on Muscle Discord a few nights ago. The first person the first contest out of those two to get to a million dollars, they win because after that it'll be like 1.1 1.2 1.3. The first the first first contest that hits $1 million for first prize, they're going to be the winners in this, you know, bidding war for the for the froze. Bonak third, Tonio one, Beirus two, Asha four, Rubial fifth. It's an odd order that you put those in. So you have Tonio winning, you have Beirus second, you have Bonak third, de Asha, it's De Asha, Nathan D Asha. There is a space between De and Asha. Rubio fifth. You don't have FOD up there. I think Fod is going to be in the top five. There's that one African guy, Ollie Edward. Yeah, we looked at him. He looked he looked pretty damn good. Yeah, I would. He was fourth place last year. I mean he could surprise a lot of people. Be predicted he would be second. Be Ruse himself predicted he would be second or he predicted someone else would be second. Ron Bayz Beus forget to control his mist Bon Bon wers bonus. Um it it would be one of those situations where Steve would probably run them through if they're very close. Steve will have them run through the poses over and over and over again to see not who drops because I don't think anyone's going to drop, but just like they did with Nick and Derek in Pittsburgh at the very end, they had they Steve had to come up with a winner. He had to. And it was it was a dead tie. And because Nick started to let his midsection relax a little bit, I'm sure he was exhausted. That was all it took. He's like, "Okay, finally we got something where somebody slipped and now we can give it to the other guy. Antonio first place Paul. Yeah, that's what Paul says. Yus preps for the Olympia too. That's the horrible thing is I think for the last three years he's qualified at a show that's been you know weeks or months before the Olympia and then he's kept prepping and he's got the visa application going and all this and he's trying to you know he doesn't know up until the last minute whether he can or can't go but he preps as if he can go and then three times he prepped all that extra time for the Olympia for nothing because he wasn't wasn't allowed wasn't granted a visa and was not allowed into the Say Nick Walker will win best hair pose at the Mish Olympia. They should jump to 1 million. Yeah, that's that's I that's what I just said. It'll happen. It'll happen. Will photo probably sixth. Wow. You're not a photo fan. He looked pretty good last year. He looked really good. I mean, let's look at him again, man. Give Fod a chance. Foda. Foda. It's Fuda on his Instagram. Oh, Fuda. I know that's some wacky lighting, but look at that. This is Muhammad Fod, guys. He's He's legit. He's pretty damn good. Oh, Nathan Pose a bit. Can't believe guys without qualification. Well, everybody can't do every show. I mean, I I talked to a few guys and that, you know, they said, "I can't go to Dubai because I'd have to go on my own dime. It's expensive. It's expensive to fly there. It's expensive to stay there. It's not a Dubai is not a place for people who are short on money or worried about money. You got to have I always say that about Vegas, too. If you go to Vegas and you're low on cash, you're not going to have a very good time. It's a place for people to have money to burn, you know, money to play with. Uh not a fan of the look. Doesn't look like real muscle to me. What What What looks unreal about it? Heard your bike prize money taxree. What in cash? Is that what you're talking about? Well, legally, you can't come back into the US with more than I think it's 8,000. Is it 8 or 10,000? There's a there's a limit on how much cash you can bring into the USA before you have to declare it and pay taxes because they want, you know, Uncle Sam wants our money, wants our tax money. So, like the guys used to go over to Fibo, the big convention in Germany every year, and they would uh they would sew cash. They would they would take cash for everything, their pictures, their videos, their t-shirts that they were selling, and they would sew the cash into the liners of their jackets or hide it somehow from the customs agents so they wouldn't have to declare it because then they would have to say, "Well, this was income and now I got to give you a third of that." So they'd come back with 40, 50, $60,000 in cash that they were hiding and didn't pay didn't pay taxes on. Von Fuks, Ali Carrop, and Dennis James. Nathan hasn't been there lately. this chemical look or chemical look. Come on, Paul. They're all on chemicals. The chemical look, bro. They're all We We know everybody's juiced out of their skull. I mean, that's if that's what you're going to dislike about the guy. It's all right. You don't have to You don't have to like his physique. It's fine. You want to get into the US? Do Are you on Clen, too? No. That's sweat. No, I'm not on Clen. I actually even had to stop my TRT, so My last shot was uh so Wednesday was Wednesday, my preop appointment was June 11th, and they told me, "These are the medications you can and can't take." And then I got a call the next day, Thursday afternoon, and they said, "Oh, the doctor wants you to stop your your testosterone." I'm like, "What? Why?" He said, "Well, you know, just to decrease the risk of blood clots, which, you know, he doesn't want me to die. That's a sweat. That's not Clint. Um, it's hot up here. And, um, I took my, as soon as I got that call, I said, "Well, you know what? I'm going to take one last." I I took 100 milligrams. I said, "That's it. It's 13 days away from from the surgery. I think I'll be okay, but it's been a while." The new muscle chemical look. Why not pay the debit card? I don't know if there's any way for them to It's We all have to pay our taxes. I mean, I don't want to pay taxes. You don't want to pay taxes. Nobody wants to give up their income to the government, especially in the US where we use so much of our tax money gets wasted on the dumbest [\h__\h] The dumbest [\h__\h] You know, Elon Musk was for a couple weeks there was trying to expose the whole scam to the world to all of us as US taxpayers of how our money was being spent. It was it was disgusting to see how some of that money was being wasted. Anyway, Dubai show a live stream. Yes. So, go to the Dubai Pro Event Instagram page and there's a link there's a link in their bio. I should go there link in their bio that you can click on for that. It's not free. It's $30 tomorrow. Uh so, right here you can see see where it says watch. There's a little link thing. It says watch. You click on that and there's info to get the stream. Ronnie Coleman wants right to say you can only present your best look once you're only once. Yeah, he believed that. I don't know if that's true for everybody. I I don't think everyone is incapable of looking great at one more than one show a year. We need to watch your shoulder video. Thanks. Please watch all my videos. Saw somewhere Beiru's uncle is also doing Dubai Pro. Mazaher Tabani. Uh I don't know if that's true. Mazaheri. I don't think he was on the list, but I'm not even gonna look into it now because I have to go soon. The lineup is not top-notch. A few good names missing. Well, yeah, you're not gonna have all the best guys there. No, come on. I mean, a lot of the a lot of the better guys were in the spring shows. They, you know, we had like Nick and Martin and Derek. They hit a bunch of spring shows, so they're they're done. I want Elon Musk to promote short term. I'm sure you don't stop TRT. Uh I you know I I obviously I was not happy to hear that but blood clots are a very real threat uh after surgery and people die that way. You know blood clot gets stuck in your brain or in a any anywhere your or your lungs you know you're you're gone or that's it. I don't want to do black backdrop. What time is the ground turkey meal? Uh that's 6:30. actually gets pushed back today to about 6:45 because I'm running a little bit late. But yeah, you're right. Say I eat the same [\h__\h] every day. Say make Dubai because of warh. It's not live free with time to predict. You will be live. Well, I'm going only going to be live if I can find someone else streaming it on their YouTube channel. Um I've been able to find that uh the past few shows, so I don't think it's going to be a problem. But I do plan to start at like 9:00 a.m. 9:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. Uh, I want to start streaming pretty pretty pretty much right away as soon as I can find a stream because again, I won't be stealing from the stream. I'll be taking it from someone else's YouTube channel and they're the ones stealing. So, technically, I should be off the hook, right? Let's hope so. Oxygen owner runs Dubai shows and that explains why Andrew refused to do it. Yeah, I've heard that. that Andrew, even though Andrew Jack lives right there in Dubai, it would be very easy for him to do that show to qualify, but um he's loyal to Binu's gym owner. Binu I guess is his name. Bu, I don't know. And the promoter of this show is uh Ber Budai who owns the oxygen gyms in Kuwait and now they have them in Dubai as well. The amateur shows all over. I don't know why they made that post. It was very confusing. But if you have your notifications on, tomorrow I do plan to do a watch party. So if you see a notification pop up say Ron Harris is Ron Harris muscle is live. Dubai pro watch party. Click on it and we'll be good to go. We can all watch together. Yeah. All right, guys. It's that time. I'm going to go walk my pitbull branch, the Bas. He's been waiting. He's a very patient boy. He's a good boy. So, thank you guys so much for checking out these final updates for the athletes for Dubai Pro tomorrow. Please leave your or have your notifications on. Ring that bell if you don't already have that going. And uh that's it. If you can find a review stream. Yeah. Yeah. I I can't give you an exact time, but I'm I'm planning on being being live tomorrow by like 9:30 at the latest in the morning, Eastern Standard. That's what I'm planning. All right, guys. So, that's it. Uh, thanks for watching and I hope to see a bunch of you tomorrow as we're able to watch this together live. Peace out. Bye-bye.