 vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent vent weeks from tomorrow night. We're going to take a look at some updates and we're going to finally make some predictions, which we may revise in a week's time or so. But yeah, we're going to go for it. We're going to go for it. Giles, you're still on the Andrew Jack train, as are a lot of people. I guess we really should start, get this out of the way. So Hadi Chupan is an Arnold Classic champion. He's, along with Andrew, he's the favorite to win this. But the past few days, the past couple days, yesterday in particular was a huge day on the internet. Announcement was made and has not been confirmed, not at all, that Evagen Nutrition has dropped him. So it's been reported on a bunch of outlets, but we have heard crickets, crickets from Hadi himself and from Evagen Nutrition. So would you expect if it was fake news or if it was real news? Either way, wouldn't you expect some sort of post, something by now? Yeah, I think it's real. Otherwise, like you said, I mean, you put it perfectly. They would have said something. They would have put something out instantly. I did see on one of the posts, Brian Powers, the co-promoter with Arnold, he said it's fake news. And I'm thinking Brian is probably going to have the inside scoop. He's probably going to be, he said it in capital. So I'd imagine he wouldn't say that unless he had concrete, you know, information. So I think it's real. I'm to be honest, I'm not that bothered because what's he he's got, he's lost potentially what sponsor, which means he's going to lose a paycheck for two or three months because someone of his magnitude, he's going to get picked up by another company, likely an American company. It could probably work out the best for him in the long run because he might be able to get an even better deal. You don't know. Because I know people were like, people are kind of freaking out online. I'm like, guys, guys, guys, like, yeah, it says Evagen ends partnership. We don't know whether even Hani was prepping Hani, Hadi last year. Was he? Because obviously Hadi Hani announced his retirement from coaching. But when that was only last year, wasn't it? Well, it was right after the 2024 Olympia. So theoretically, it could be possible that they haven't worked together since then. Although most people seem to think, and I agree with that, that he's secretly been coaching him this whole time, just unofficially coaching. So 2014. So it means he was likely coaching him for the 25 Olympia. I mean, he would have things people would know either way because he would have been with him backstage. He would have been. I mean, I wasn't at the Olympia. You weren't. So do you know whether I think it would have been noticed if Hani, because no one of Hani had he, because he flies in, he's training with him. You know, he's pretty much, they're pretty much glued to each other. So I, I mean, I can't, I can't actually quite recall what the situation was, but regardless, he did very well last year at the Olympia. He won the prejudging. So with or without Hani, he can, it's not like his physique's going to fall apart. So like I said, even if he is working with him and secretly, he did great at the Olympia last year. Many feel he should have won it. If he wasn't, then, you know, he's bringing this kind of package and, you know, there's plenty of people that can prep him. So for me, this is a bit of a, it's not a non-story because I think we will, we're all sort of, we're all interested in the story behind it. We're interested why they've dropped him because at the end of the day, he's their golden goose. He's their number one athlete. He's a huge name. And also, as I was saying before we started filming here, in terms of Evagen, I can imagine Evagen, because all you need with the, I've been working in the supper industry on and off for 26 years. All you need is one good territory around the world. And pretty much you've got a pretty, a pretty good business. So Hadi with his influence just in Iran and the Middle East, even just product sales. Cause I'm, I'm, I'm obviously good friends with Kamal and Kamal for many years was used to like distribute supplements and container loads. He's been doing this for like 20, 30 years. It's how we made a lot of his money to set up a lot of his businesses because he used to buy off of one of the couple of the companies I used to work at. And then he was putting in huge orders. So all you need is one or two good territories. So basically what I'm saying is if, if Hadi with the pressure of everything that's been going on with the Iranian people and everything, if they've, if they've lost business or say Evagen has lost a big distributor, um, because of what's been going on with Hani and this, you know, supposedly supporting the leader and all that, uh, the, you know, the obviously who's been slaughtering tens of thousands of their own people in the streets. Um, it's, uh, it's gonna really, I think that for my, I think my gut feeling tells me, cause obviously at the time recording this, we have very, very limited information. I think it's, um, I think that's, I think it's to do with that. I think, cause if you, if you lose a distributor that accounts for 30% of your turnover and you've seen how it's been like a, it's like a stone dropping, it's not been a gradual sort of thing. This has been like, they all love him. Now they all hate him. And that's going to reflect in the product sales, which is then going to affect the distribution. Um, I mean, I hope it isn't because I don't want to see companies take those kinds of hits. Um, I mean, we saw the video of, um, Hani literally and his wife literally crying into the, into the camera over, you know, the people being killed. Cause obviously, you know, the Iranian stuff, the, you know, the, the, the Persian background or whatever, they've obviously got, you know, they've probably got people that were killed. Do you know what I mean? They probably know or families or there's some sort of, there'll be some sort of connection there. Even if it was just the love for your people, um, you know, your, your, your, your home country and stuff. So, um, it's, um, I think it's connected to that personally. I think it's connected to those two things. What do you think, Ron? Yeah, I think it's a combo both. I mean, for sure. Um, you know, Armin Adibi who does podcasts with King Kamali and they both have strong ties to people in Iran. I think Armin's also Persian. Um, yeah, they, they've said it was, Armin was saying it was all business. It was sales had dropped drastically. Yeah. I mean, if you're paying him, I took a while ago, I just pulled this out of my ass. I said, I bet it's about two 50, maybe, maybe more, but let's just say it's two 50 a year. You're giving a guy 250 and he's now costing you millions of dollars. It's any, any business, anyone who owns a business would recognize that that's just a horrible, horrible way to, to run a company. And you would, you would cut, cut your losses and get rid of them before it gets worse. Ron, that could be the difference between a company being profitable and not profitable. Because if you think is you kind of got your eggs in a lot of eggs in one basket there by having an athlete like Hattie, who is so, or was slash was so loved in his own country that if something like this happens and overnight everyone just turns, you know, I mean, say it's, say it's a $10 million a year turnover company and you lose $3 million of turnover instantly. Cause I'm trying to think of, of any instance. Well, I've certainly, certainly not in any, in the companies I work with where that kind of drop, I've seen it on, on upturns. Like when Ronnie joined BSN in one year, it went from a $10 million a year company to a hundred million turnover. Wow. Yeah. That's why Ronnie had the highest contract paid contract of, you know, it was at the time it was groundbreaking. The money he was being paid, they signed him on that. It was a several year deal. And this was in the day when they only ever did one year deals. It was just as the whole supplement contract were really starting to explode because, you know, trends change. Like now we have athletes getting equipment company sponsors where they're getting gyms full of free equipment and stuff like that and partnerships. And it's like, you know, you see how, you know, now there's so many more endorsements that bodybuilders can get back in the day. It used to be supplements and publishing contracts, you know, like MD would have, you know, like what's half a dozen, 10, 12, you know, bodybuilders, you know, the George Farrah's, the Bob chicks, the Dan Solomon's, the Pete McGoff's, you know, people like yourself, people on staff that would, you know, have contracts and, you know, but now obviously publishing is gone and now things, the industry evolves and changes. You know, now we can make money from social media. We didn't even have social media back in our day. Right. So, so, so yeah. Yeah. I mean, we, we don't know. And I'm, I'm, I'm going to text Hani and I don't know if he'll answer me back, but I would love to, I would love to hear his side. I don't know if he's willing to go public. Like, you know, it's, it's such a touchy subject. You know, that country is in such, such turmoil right now. And, you know, him and his wife are both. I think Hani, I think Hani immigrated here as a small child. I think him and his wife are both originally from Iran. So is he actually Iranian, not just slash Middle Eastern? Oh no, he's Iran. He's, he's Iranian. Iranian. Okay. I wasn't sure. I mean, you can be, you can be upon that part of the world, but not necessarily Iranian itself. So he's really, really tied to that, to that country. Yeah. So, yeah, I mean, I, I really, but as far as how this affects him as a competitor at now, two weeks out from a, the biggest payday, any bodybuilder has ever had an opportunity to win $750,000. How will this affect him? I mean, the fact that these updates and some of these that we're looking at are fairly old. I mean, the newest one where look, we saw was like a five week out point. He's looking very, very good. I think this was three weeks out this shot. So this was probably earlier this week. Yeah. He looks like he's right on track, whether Hani is coaching him or not. And he's going to have to be his very best to beat Andrew Jack. I mean, Andrew is, he's deadly. He's very formidable. There's, there's going to come a time where nobody's going to be, be able to beat Andrew Jack. And, you know, that time might be coming much sooner than rather than later. Yeah. But I mean, I, I, I'm rooting for both of them. I'm seriously rooting for Hadi because of the backlash. This, this guy's trying to prepare for a huge, huge contest. And he's always had the support of his whole country behind him. And now that's been ripped away. He now has them hating him and taking down his pictures and burning his pictures and calling him all sorts of terrible names. And, you know, disparaging his character because he hasn't spoken out to their satisfaction enough against the Islamic regime. It's in control and it's been murdering their citizens. Yeah. But Ron, come on, you don't need the support of your country to get ready for a bloody bodybuilding show. I mean, you know, I used to get ready for bodybuilding shows with, I always used to do them compete when I was single because I didn't want any, I didn't need any support. You know, sometimes when you, when you're training, eating, sleeping, you know, anything else outside is just a distraction anyway. So, you know, I know they make a big deal of it. You know, I do it for my country and stuff. And they're kind of not really, he's doing it for the prize money. He's doing it because he's an athlete. He's doing it because that's what he does and that's what he loves to do. So I think, I don't think that this is going to affect him at all. It's not going to affect his income because he's got a decent amount of money in the bank. I'm sure, you know, he's going to, what all he's going to lose is going to lose a monthly income coming in for probably two or three months before another country, another company snaps him up. So let's be, let's be real here. I mean, come on. So, um, I don't see this. Uh, and the thing is, I mean, look at what, okay, let's, let's, let's see what he did. Remember when you and me were at the 2019 Olympia and it was one week before that he, he even knew that he was flying in. So what within the space of a day or two, he's prepping for a show that he didn't know he was going to be able to do. And then what within the space of like a couple of days, I'd imagine he's getting on a plane and he's flying out to Vegas knowing that he's going to be competing in one week's time at his first Olympia, you know, and then he ended up getting third and he looked sensational. His conditioning was probably better than Brandon and Bonax who, you know, got first and second. Many think he should have won it. So I think, you know, a true elite athlete like that, something, someone of this level, um, and obviously with the updates as well, you know, he's, he's looking on, he's not, it's not, it's not going to phase him. I don't think it's going to phase his physique or how he looks. He might get a, I don't think to be honest, and in Columbus, uh, in America, obviously when he does the Arnold Classic, I don't think he'll even get any boos. I think you might get one or two at the back, but I think it'll be drowned out by the, the people that are just excited to see him, um, you know, going up against Andrew at the Arnold Classic. So I, I just don't think, I don't think it's going to affect him in that way. Um, I think it's more, to be honest, I think a lot of this is just online. So if I was him, I wouldn't go near my phone. I wouldn't go near my phone. I remember I spoke to you in the last few weeks and I'm feeling more and more strongly about these pros that really at the, you know, like you've got people like Martin and Samson blocking everyone. I'm at the point now where they don't need to, I think rather than just blocking everyone and athletes, sorry, uh, fans and media and all that we talked about, you know, in last weeks and the week before, I think it should be more just staying away from your phone altogether. I mean, I just wouldn't even go near it. It's like, even when I message Andrew now, um, I mean, I'm really trying to sort of not contact him at all because obviously we've got the tours coming up and, um, and I'm saying to people who are asking me for requests, like videos and stuff, look guys, this is absolutely necessary. I'm not even going to contact him, you know? So, um, so stuff like that, you know, it's, uh, he, he's locked in. He's not, nothing's going to deter him now. In fact, if anything, you know, when you talk about the real top of the top, if anything, this is kind of probably spur him on. It's probably going to make him more focused because, um, you know, I've seen people who've had, um, you know, like people, uh, family members or whatever die, pass away when they've been, you know, prepping for a show. And then they turn up looking their best ever six weeks later, because it actually helps them to zero in and focus, you know, cause something when you, you know what it's like when you're prepping, you're like a robot. You're almost like, you don't, you don't have emotions in some, some ways. And sometimes some of the best times for the worst to happen is actually when you're on prep, not when you're off it. Oh, I mean, when you're in grief and mourning to have anything that can really distract you from that psychologically is a, is a blessing. Yeah. Because otherwise you're just in your own head and you're crying and feeling awful. So, yeah. I mean, so honey, how did you, I do that all the time, honey and hottie, they sound so similar, but hottie, hottie is 100%. 100% we've seen. I don't think we've ever seen Andrew Jack's 100% and his 100% keeps moving up, keeps, keeps improving. So that's the question now. Cause I still, I still think it's, uh, what a, what a horrible thing to say, but it's a two man show in my head. I, I, I would be very, very surprised if anyone other than these two men we're looking at, uh, hottie and Andrew wins the show. So it's, it's all a matter of can Andrew, well, let's just assume hottie's going to be just looking just as good as he did at the last Olympia, which was fantastic. Andrew looked great. He brought a little fuller look to Romania, uh, which, you know, we've never seen him look quite so bursting full and round with very good condition, but the condition was a tiny bit off the Olympia. Are we going to see a little bit more size and better condition condition more like the Olympia? That's, that's the million dollar question, I guess. I, even if he comes in as big and full as he was at Romania with the Olympia kind of conditioning, I think that's going to be good enough to win. But as for, um, because I think is, I think I like say that say Andrew was 85% of his potential of what we know he could be capable of bringing in the next few years, because he's not even anywhere near his ceiling. Cause he's only been around a couple of years. Whereas Hattie has kind of been looking as good as this since 2017. Let's be honest. I know he's, he's bigger and he brought a lot of different looks, but so for Hattie to get better, you're talking points, points, something of a percent. Whereas, you know, uh, Andrew could go from 85 to 92%. Do you know what I mean? Cause there's a lot more that he can do with his physique. Whereas Hattie, it's kind of, yes, if he gets better, it's going to be, it's going to be tiny, tiny, you know, decimal points. Do you know what I mean? Whereas Andrew can, you know, his ceiling is a lot, lot higher than Hattie's. So all Hattie has to do is just make sure that he turns up in condition, nice and crispy and from the back. And, um, and he just stays on course with all this potential distraction going on, which, as I've said, I don't think will affect him. In fact, I think it'll help him. So, um, it's, I think, um, I'm more interested in seeing how improved Andrew is. And also if he gets that combination, right, because to be honest, right now, you've seen what he brought to the Olympia. Like if you take his legs, for example, he loses a lot of size of his legs when he dries out. And, you know, and he doesn't want to, he doesn't want to over, over carb and overfill because if that midsection goes, then cause it's not just tight midsection, but it's nice. It's flat. It's very detailed. Um, but I don't want to see him lose his legs or like we see like with like guys like Wesley, you know, like people say he's got bad legs. I'm telling you, I ain't got bad legs. It's just, he loses them in those last few days, which we see a lot of athletes do. So if he can, if he can get that fullness to conditioning ratio, right, I don't think, I don't think Hadi's going to touch him honestly, but it's whether he's going to bring in, um, I mean, if you compare like how Andrew looked at the Arnold Classic last year to how he looked in Romania, I mean, it's almost like two completely different physiques. So I'm just kind of hoping we find a happy medium with, um, with nice full legs, um, the nice tight midsection. He comes in nice and full and hard, but without, you know, cause right so far, I don't think he's actually got it right. I don't think he's got it right where he actually comes in dry and hard enough to do well at like a big show like the Arnold Olympia, but ever actually kind of always looks a bit stringy. Um, but then we saw in Romania, he comes in nice and full. I mean, the only thing I could, the only knock on Andrew from Romania was his quads weren't quite as dry as they were at the Olympia, but they were a lot fuller. So I think this look here, if he can just come in with slightly drier quads, I think it's a wrap. I really do. So we know that you're a good friend of his trainer right now, Kamal O'Garni. I'm going to call him his trainer. Um, are you, are you, have you been messaging as Kamal said anything to indicate, you know, that he's, he's bringing something better than we've ever seen before? Because Kamal would tell you straight up yes or no. No, I haven't. Okay. No, I haven't. To be honest, I have been meaning to do so wrong. Um, but, um, I should have done it this morning, really, but, um, yeah, I just, uh, I will, I will message him today. And, um, and like I said, if it's because there's a few hours between recording this and it going on the live, um, I'll see if, uh, cause, uh, Kamal usually will respond pretty much immediately unless he's actually, you know, asleep or training Andrew. Um, but also, um, I was chatting to a Chris Cormier's guy on, uh, Reloji, um, talking about, cause he said I was the first one to give public sort of, um, acknowledgement to what Kamal is doing. Cause we feel like, like Kamal isn't getting the credit he's deserved here because you saw if, if Kamal is responsible for what he, what happened here in Romania, like those changes were quite drastic. And that wasn't just, like I said, an issue of fullness. I think that was an issue of actually gaining muscle. I mean, people are disagreeing with me and people are agreeing with me, but I mean, I, for me, I'm, I'm pretty certain that, um, he actually gained muscle and that was not just fullness. Yeah. So that's something, like I said, I've never seen before, but, um, I just, I just really, really hope. I just want to see what he looks like with the, like I said, that kind of crazy fullness he had in Romania, but just that little bit dry, especially in the quads, you know, and the, and the, the glutes in the hands were fine, but I just love to see that little bit of dryness without his legs kind of shriveling up because I mean, um, I just, I just hope that, uh, Kamal really, Kamal and Chris Aceto really keep a close eye on him because I just, I just want to see it personally, just myself. I mean, forget about winning or whatever. I just want to see what that looks like. A 300 pound bodybuilder with that men's physique type midsection, the crazy, the crazy type midsection. I mean, it, you know, it's going to be something to see. It's going to be like, like Samson, how Samson looked when he won the Olympia like that, you know, when they come out to the finals and you're just like, wow, you know, Flex Wheeler 98, Flex Wheeler 93, Ronnie, you know, 98, 99, that kind of just like that iconic look that you know, is just going to be admired and talked about for years to come. Dorian 93. I think it's going to be something like that. I think it's going to be of that magnitude, um, for not just Andrew fans, but bodybuilding fans, because when you get somebody this big with this kind of shape and, and, uh, and these kinds of lines, you know, when it's, when it's all brought together perfectly, which I think the capable that, um, with Chris and Kamal, I think they're capable of doing it. I just, um, I just, it's going to go, the crowd's going to go nuts, mate. And I'll be going nuts as well. When he walks out on stage, it's just going to be mayhem. Yeah. So many people, you know, I do want to just, the elephant in the room is people are going to, in the comments, anything, any video I do that Andrew is part of, they, they're all about oil and synthol and everything. And looking at those arms, they're, they're crazy big. And the shape is astonishing. But I remember the Larry wheels videos from 2020 and 2021 before Andrew was quote unquote, even a bodybuilder. Uh, you know, he had never competed. He was a guy who had done, I think CrossFit for a while. And he was just starting to focus more on, on weights and trying to, trying to build his physique. Even then I remember, geez, look at the arms on this guy. They were, these are better than like 95% of all the IPB pros. And this guy's never even stepped on a stage. So they're a little bigger now. Cause he's, he's put on some sides in the past six years, as you would expect. But I don't know, I don't see, I don't see it. So you guys want to blast me? Go ahead. Well, look at the, um, look what he's doing. The lateral line extensions, not the close grip bench. I mean, you can see like all the fibers in the, in the, in the inner head of his, the big bulky part of the tricep. Um, he does have crazy, crazy muscle bellies. Um, like flex wheeler, like if you look back at flex wheeler 93, he was smaller, but he had those crazy, like it's mostly in the triceps. Um, you know, the chest and everything he's just got crazy, crazy development. Um, I mean, I, I don't see what, what I see in like Hattie's shoulders. I don't see that because the muscle does move properly. You know, it contracts, it moves, it's, it's separated. And also when he does that most muscular, you can see all the separation between the brachialis and the, and the bicep and everything. And you know, me, I mean, I'm not just cause he's, I'm friends with him and stuff. It doesn't mean I'm not looking. Um, but, um, I don't know, me probably maybe does pin the area. I don't know, but it doesn't look, it doesn't look bad to me. I just think he does have crazy muscle bellies. I've seen those arms up close, you know, bloody, he was sat next to me in the bloody car for a week. Do you know what I mean? And most of the time he had like a sleeveless top on and he just like, I mean, I know he crashed a couple of times, just like, you know, just triceps hit me in the head every time he, uh, when we take, he was taking his jacket off once in the car. And that was like, I was like, next time you're going to have to do that when you have to have to get out of the car to do that, mate. Cause bloody arms were in my face. Never. Cause it's, they're just ridiculous. But, um, some guys just have crazy genetics, um, crazy muscle, but I don't know. It's you could, we, we're probably going to blow the comments up now by saying that, but, um, I, yeah, I don't, I mean, I don't see the horrible shine and the lack of detail. Um, but, um, if he's doing it, he's doing it right. That's all I can say. Well, we've both been called fucking idiots before. So nothing new, nothing new every day. And I, I, the dumbest thing I did regarding this whole thing was saying, wow, look, he's training with how did you pound remember? Oh God. Oh, Ron step. That's up there with me. Uh, I came up with the Trey Brewer nickname, the barely legal freak. I'll never live that down. Oh, really? Yeah. I thought of that stupid nickname. So let's look at Nick Walker because every, every time I do a video about the Arnold people keep saying, don't sleep on Nick, meaning stop discounting or writing him off, which I never did. He won the Arnold classic before 2021. Um, he's, he's done very, very well for himself. Could he win though? That's, that's the million dollar question. Can he get past both? How did you pound and Andrew Jack? Oh, you're asking me? Yeah. I'm asking you. No, I don't, I don't think so. I don't think so. It would be a stretch. I, uh, I, to be honest, I'm quite concrete with what I think I, you know, cause obviously you've got the, the, the different teams up team ups and matchups, and you've got your top two and your top four and your top six. And, you know, uh, like I've got my top two, my top three and four are quite solid. And then for me, I've got like three or four guys fighting for fifth. So for me, first or second, I'd be very shocked if it doesn't go either way with Hadi or Andrew. So I think that's going to be the top two, unless of course we have to use the, have to caveat that unless somebody, let's say, um, uh, Hadi, you know, the stress does get to him and something happens or, you know, he misses his flight or, I don't know, or something like that, then, you know, something goes horribly wrong. Um, I don't see, I, you know, then obviously things can go wrong. They, they, they do go wrong, um, often. Um, but, um, from time to time, sorry. But, um, yeah, I've got, uh, I've got Nick personally, I think Martin will beat him. Um, I think Martin, unless Martin is, uh, cause like we haven't really seen much from Martin and he was off at Pittsburgh last year. So it's, it's not like he's so consistent that you know exactly what he's going to look like. So, I mean, if Martin is off, like he was at Pittsburgh last year, then he could probably fall out of the top four. Um, but I think, I think, um, with what he did in Prague, um, uh, on stage, um, yeah, I, I, in terms of, um, yeah, how he looked, um, I don't think he's going to be looking to bring in anything less than that. In fact, in fact, if he brought Prague look, I mean, I could see him beating Hadi. I mean, I could honestly, I, to be honest, I think he's better put together than Hadi right now. He's actually got better symmetry. He's got better, um, the conditioning and the detail. In fact, that is a much more, that for me beats Hadi. Well, you asked me last week, would this have beaten Derek at the Olympia and Derek beat Hadi at the Olympia? Exactly. Yeah, exactly. I begrudgingly acquiesced. I said, yeah, this was a crazy look. This was, you know, I, I just, I hope for his sake and, you know, I have nothing personally against him as, as odd as a, as much as I don't like his attitude. And I think he needs to grow up and become mature, whatever. I put all that aside when I'm talking about physiques, I'm just talking about physiques. And I think, I hope this wasn't a one, one-off deal where sometimes we see people nail it just perfectly one time and never again. Uh, if he can duplicate this, doesn't even have to be any better than this. I mean, no bigger and no harder, nothing. If he can duplicate this, he does have a legitimate chance of winning this, uh, Arnold classic. I, um, I was just literally just about to ask you, actually, do you think you can duplicate this Prague look? And I'm literally studying it now as you're playing it. Um, I mean, that was, that was peaked beautifully over both days. But for me, um, that's a more pleasing, more aesthetic physique because another thing I said about Martin in 2024 was remember when he did, because he, he didn't get the invite to the Arnold classic and, and then he went and did Detroit and looked sensational. And I think probably the Arnold organizers were thinking, shit, we really should have invited this guy. Um, he, he, I've never seen it before where I, I, I, I'm sure I could think of an example if I really thought and slept on it where somebody gets bigger, but they also get more aesthetic because Sean Roden, Sean Roden was one when 2012, when he really started putting size on, he actually, his aesthetics actually improved. Normally when guys get bigger, they, they get bigger. Yes. But they just lose that little bit of aesthetics. You know, the guys that when they were amateur and they turned pro, they had really nice aesthetic physiques and then they feel that you have to get bigger to be able to be competitive as a pro. And usually that is the case, but there's a guy that actually managed to do both. He actually managed to get bigger and more aesthetic. So I like this look because he's very well balanced. Um, had he's got imbalances in his physique now that necessarily he didn't have before. Um, but he is still very, very deadly. Um, but, um, so, so, so, so if we've got Andrew winning, I could see, I could, I could see like a second and third, sorry, a call out with second and third fight, you know, with, um, between Hadi and Martin, I would love to see that. So this is all depending on whether Martin brings something as good as Prague. I'm not sure. I mean, I'd be absolutely, you know, I'd be, I'd be very, very happy if he managed to get better than Prague, but, um, you know, he's going to have to have kept that really, really quiet because I feel like the word would have got out if he was looking noticeably better than, than Prague. I feel like, I feel, I feel like we know about it. I just, I just got, I've just, I've just got this, this gut feeling. So he's been very, very, uh, what's the word? He hasn't shown much. Uh, we've not seen one full body picture or video in this prep. And even though we're both blocked, I do have plenty of people that can send me screenshots and so forth. Ron, he's been quiet. He's been quiet in one way, not quiet in another. And it's, we want the opposite, mate. We want to, we don't want to hear you slagging us off. We want to hear about, you know, and see how you're looking, mate. You know? So the thing is, it's all that does also, also all that does is distract away from what we really want to know. We just want to know how he's looking and how he's doing, because when we do these prediction videos, I don't know whether he's going to look like he did in Prague or whether he's going to look like he did in Pittsburgh last year, because we don't want to see him crash and burn. Um, you know, because, you know, if he's on, if he's on an upward trajectory, we want to see that continue. We want to see him, you know, continuing to get better and better, you know, not like Samson where he, you know, last year and he, he fell back and, you know, we were kind of hoping he was going to look as good, if not better. So nobody wants to see these guys looking not as good as they did when they took a step up in their last show, which is what basically Martin did. So I really want to see, I want to see an all time. We want to see all these guys at their best, obviously. And if they can come in improved and they're best ever, then, you know, it makes the show that much more exciting, especially when they've got this kind of prize money. And, um, you know, we want to, you know, obviously the promoters and everyone is going to want to, and the fans are going to want to see these guys deliver because it's like, you know, guys, you've got to work for this money. Do you know what I mean? If we're putting this kind of prize money, Jesus Christ, we want to look at Nick. It's like, sorry. Um, yeah. So, oh God, I guess what you mean? Well, I mean, well, okay then. Okay. I'll quickly say just for, for past Passover, if Martin can look as good as he did at Prague, if not better, um, I've still got him third. Okay. So what if Nick, who's coaching himself, what if he brings that streamlined waistline that he used to have a couple of years ago? He won't. He won't? Okay. Well, I mean, you can't tell from the updates that he posts, they're very carefully curated as most updates are. Uh, but you know, even leading into the last Olympia, his waist looked a lot smaller on Instagram in the photos he was taking than it did on stage, which I don't know if that was an actual carb up issue or if we were just being sort of misled by the way, the photo, the update photos are looking, but I don't know. I think it's, there are two shows there. It's going to be hottie versus Andrew, assuming they're both a hundred percent. And I think it's going to be Nick versus Martin, another, you know, I don't know who's going to come on top of me. Martin right now is, is on paper. He's ahead of Nick, but Nick's beaten Martin many times as well. Um, I think it's with Nick. I'll be honest. I don't, uh, I think a lot, I think the problem is a lot of fans and people, not fans of Nick, but fans of bodybuilding are basing what they, how they think Nick is going to do by what they're seeing in his updates. And I would say three out of four times with most athletes, you can gauge how somebody is going to do by what they put out on their updates with Nick. I've just feel like I've been not missed. Well, yeah, misled visually so many times because we see the pictures of the bathroom picture with him angling the phone down. It makes his waist look small. Everyone then gets excited about how he's brought his waist in and then he gets on stage and then it's worse than ever. Um, I, I, I don't, I personally, I go from how he did, how he looked and how he did at the Olympia, basically the last big show he did, uh, based that upon what is realistic of what you can do within the time from the Olympia to the Arnold classic. So I'm not, I, I'm, I never ever get overexcited or disappointed or whatever, uh, with Nick's updates because I just find them. I just don't find that, you know, from, from experience of where I've seen so many shows of him posting these pictures and videos to them, what he brings. Um, I'm, I'm, unfortunately, I'm programmed to basically not go on them. I'm, I, I, I just don't, um, I don't tend to base my opinions of how he's going to do and predict upon what I see from those updates. So, um, going on that, uh, in fact, I mean, could he even struggle to get both? It all depends. You know, one thing that did give me a pause was when he posted a few days ago, this was less, less than three weeks out. He posted that he was 280 first thing in the morning when he wakes up and he's Mike Cox can confirm this because Mike says he's five, six, because Mike says I'm five, six. And we were totally eye to eye the last time we were around each other. So that's too much weight. I really wish he would dial it down to something closer to like 255. Maybe. I think that's where he was when he was placing third at the Olympia, when he was winning the Arnold classic, when he took second to Samson, the Arnold 280. It's not about height and weight, but you don't need, he's, he's somebody that being bigger. He, he passed that point at that last Olympia. Now you're too big and your, your midsection is suffering for it. You got a blocky, blocky midsection. And it looked awful to me. It just detracted from the physique. He's stubborn, isn't he? I mean, personally, if I, I think this is why probably he burns through so many coaches. Cause I think maybe the, maybe if I was coaching him, I'd say, I'd say, look, I'll, you know, let's, let's analyze what happened at the Olympia, how you looked and you know what we can do moving forward. I would have said to him, don't do the Arnold. Let's go do a later show, like an August show or something like that. And use that as a, with a couple of shows. So you make sure you qualify for the Olympia, but we, we, you know, like Ruli did in, what year was it? 2000, whatever. 2013. Yeah. 2013, where it's like, okay, we really need to take a minimum six months and we take active, you know, we, we recognize and we acknowledge the problem of the waistline and we take active steps to, to combat that. We can't just keep ignoring it and, you know, keep putting out misleading photos from, from very flattering angles. We need to be realistic here, you know, and stop fooling people and fooling ourselves because, you know, that's, that's the person we lie to most is, is ourselves. So I think he needs to sort of, you know, I think he's going to, I think he's going to get another harsh lesson again. I think he's going to, I think he's headed for disappointment because I don't think he should have been doing the show. I think I, I would have been looking at the lot more long-term of, okay, if I truly believe I can win the Olympia, because like you said last week, anyone in the top five can win the Olympia. He was sixth place last year. So he's not, he's not exactly a million miles off. Do you know what I mean? And we know that a Nick with a, with a nice tight waistline, you know, in absolutely crispy condition, he can go toe to toe with anyone, you know, and on a good day, you know, we've seen, look how Brandon went from, Brandon Claybrook from fifth to first. I know we didn't have Rami and, you know, and, and Phil and all them and other guys, Sean Roden, but you know, we know what can happen. So we know that there's no dominant champion at the moment. We know that there's any, okay, let's just say let's, there's, there's six guys that can realistically win the Olympia. Nick being one of them, if he fixed certain things and came in absolutely bang on, but I just don't think he's going to achieve that. I think he's going for the prize money. I think he's looking to kind of redeem himself and get a bit of, um, claw back a bit of momentum. He lost by that. I mean, I know it keeps, people keep saying, you know, sixth place Olympia was a disaster and all that, but I don't think it was. I thought he, I thought his condition was fine. Not one video he posted. I don't look good there, but, um, I think, um, I, I would, I would be saying, look, mate, you know, I think fourth is, I think fourth, I think fourth would be a good, good, good placing for him. I don't think he, unless Martin comes in off, I don't see him. I don't see him placing any higher than fourth. Um, and if he really messes up and the waistline looks really bad, and if the waistline is even worse, cause that thing is, mate, we, we've got to prepare ourselves. It could look even worse. You don't know by the time he puts all the carbs in and cause he's doing the, and also when he's taking these pictures, he's probably checking himself and he's getting validation for himself. Like, but that could have been fasted. That could have been, do you know what I mean? But when he's on stage and he's got a few meals in him, you know, it's, it doesn't take a lot to bloat that midsection. So he, I mean, he has to be starving on stage and his stomach needs to be absolutely empty of empty, empty for him to, um, to not to look bad on stage because it is an issue. And I don't think he's going to fix that in a few months, Rob. I guess we're going to find out in two weeks time. Well, so we've got our top, our top four is pretty much locked up. Now we're going to start trying to figure out fifth place. So I'll start with my fifth place pick at this point, because he's looking a lot better now. And that's Raphael Brando. Still not as crisp as I would like to see. This was yesterday. Uh, but boy, he, he shaped up pretty fast based on how he looked about, uh, about three weeks ago. I was thinking this guy's probably going to be eighth or ninth or something like that. Uh, now I'm not, now I'm looking at those. I'm not really. Ron, did you, did you read the comments on that last post? Because, um, in fact, I funny enough, I was going to message you, Neil. I was speaking to Zach Kahn before you, before we came on here and he was asking, Zach was asking me yesterday how Neil was, because remember I was the one who hooked them two up to start working together back in 2008, 2009. And, um, he was asking how Neil was and I was, I was chatting because I think Neil's now living permanently in Vegas potentially where obviously Raphael goes and trains and stuff like that. So, and the one thing I was going to ask him was about Raphael, because I was going to ask him if that video was, was recent because, um, he's not, he's not looking how I'd want to look at three weeks out say. Um, but, um, and I know that Neil, Neil will tell me straight. When was that taken? So this was two days out. So this was two and a half weeks out or two days and or two weeks and two days. Cause they're going to be judged on Friday night. Um, when, when, when was that photo taken? Two days ago. Oh, two days ago. Okay. Um, that's that very nice lighting. I mean, this, yeah, it's from the back in it. This was yesterday. This lighting is not as flattering at all. It's, it's a program, but it's look at, look at the glutes, look at the glutes at the back when he, when he hits the pose run. He's, I mean, that is not, I'd be worried. I'd be worried. Neil will be worried as well. Cause Neil's like me. He's, he's a stickler for conditioning. Now I'm already revising my, my plate, my, what I said, I already said fifth place. Now I'm changing my mind. I, if you'd been, if he was bang on, then I think he'd be a lock for fifth place. I think he would be, um, I mean, I, to be honest, I'm always hesitant to ask Neil because I know Neil will give it to me straight. And if he's worried, he'll tell me. And then I don't want to kind of spill that and, you know, and kind of, and Raphael hears and messes with his head. But I mean, Raphael had a lot of issues last year with that stomach. I mean, that was a real, that was a real knockback. I mean, Neil was really like last year, Neil was really concerned. He was like, shit, this is like, you know, this can take, take athletes out completely, you know, not just short term, but these are things that, you know, you might never, ever fix. I mean, these are problems that cause people to retire. So, um, I'd imagine that Neil's actually quite happy and Raphael is quite happy and his sponsors are quite happy because, you know, these Brazilian athletes, yes, they get paid mega bucks, but my God, I mean, I've Patrick Tour and Neil and other people have told me the amount of pressure they have on them, uh, into shows. It's honestly, Ron, it's unreal. It's almost like you, you'd rather go with a sponsor that pays you half as much, but gives you hassle you, you know, it's, you'd almost be going for that, you know, rather than the more money, but all the, the, the pressure that comes with it. So, um, so yeah, I, um, I, I don't have Raphael in fifth. If he'd been on and he was absolutely bang on, I would have probably had him in, in, in, fifth place. But, um, uh, so this is, that's who you got for fifth or are you changing your mind, mate? Yeah, I changed my mind already. Unbelievable. I'm the worst. Yeah. I changed my mind. Okay. No, come on. Just, no, just tell me, tell me. Yeah. Okay. Just be honest. My fifth right now is between Brandon Curry and Mo Foda. Um, Mo's never beaten Brandon Curry. Um, Brandon's still, even all these years into his pro career, he's still top 10 in the Olympia. Uh, I don't know if this was, this was posted yesterday, but I don't know if it's a recent photo. He doesn't do a lot of updates lately. I know he never does. He never does. He does. He's got like a t-shirt on or something like this is, this was a new video, but all we can see is yeah. Great separation in the arms there. So I don't know. He looked really good. He looked really good at the Olympia. I mean, I expect him to look like that again. So does that look beat everyone except the four guys we've been talking about up to now? Um, well, I, I, I mean, I had fifth place as a battle between the three you've just mentioned, Mo Foda, uh, Brandon Curry and Raphael. That's, that was my battle for fifth. But if I'm pushed, um, I mean, I was, I'm going to message, um, Patrick as well about Foda, um, because he's, he's looking to be seven pounds heavier than we last saw him on stage. And Mohamed Foda is looking insane in condition. I mean, his condition is really good. And I can sense there's a real excitement from Patrick and Patrick doesn't get like that unless he's genuinely excited. And, you know, cause he doesn't like to jinx it, but I can always tell that it'll just the way he posts and what he says and, and just the, and the frequency at which he posts, I can always tell whether Patrick is secretly jumping up and down, you know, with excitement because he knows what's coming because I tell you what, I mean, I've been back in 2018. I've said this many times. I was really, really hyping Foda when he was still amateur. I remember on that original show I did with, uh, Rosie, that muscle news, was it Muscle News Weekly I used to do. Yeah. And I used to, I was hyping the shit out of Moama Foda, um, because nobody knew he was. And, um, and then he, he took way longer than it should have for him to turn pro. I don't know whether he was just choosing the wrong shows or whatever. And he's kind of, cause he won, was it Tampa or Chicago? Chicago. Chicago. Yeah. Yeah. Chicago. So, you know, he's, he's, he's traveled. He's, he's won, he's won good shows. He's done Olympias. Um, for me, I mean, I said back in 2018, I said, I'm, um, well, 2018, 2019, I said, this guy's Hattie 2.0. I think he's a similar mold if you squint. I mean, he could be, I said, Hattie stunt double. Um, I think he's, um, I don't know whether he could be as good, but I think he's, he's look at that because everything looks volumized. Do you know what I mean? Everything, the shoulders look wider, but he's kept the waist small. Everything is, he's kind of done exactly what you'd want to do. He's got bigger, but he's managed to retain the detail, the aesthetics, the, I mean, to be honest, I mean, there's a guy, could he get better? Could he get even higher than fifth? I mean, could you see him beating someone like a Nick? I could. Hang on. Hang on. Hang on. Hang on. Hang on. Hang on. Hang on. I just need to just take a breath now. If Nick is in fourth, if his Nick is in fourth, could I see a drastically improved Mohamed Foda beating Nick? Uh, do I, do I commit to that or do I, do I back it up? Do I chicken out? Well, I don't know. The Nick fans are going to roast you if you, uh, no, no, no. I think he's, um, I think he, I think he could take fifth. I think he could take fifth because, um, but things with him, it's, um, I've noticed I've never seen someone who in a readable bicep, it makes their waist look small. Look how small his waist looks. Obviously the way he's hitting the shot, but look at like the X frame and the, and the shape, like his waist disappears when he does a rear, when he does a readable bicep. Crazy. This is 2025 to 20. This is a one year difference or less. Seven pounds. And on a guy that height, um, seven pounds is actually quite a lot of, and it's, and it is lean, hard tissue. There's no, you know, that is, that is, that's not seven. But you know, like when guys say they're 10 pounds heavier than, yeah, they might be four pounds of muscle, uh, you know, heavier, but then the rest is just fat and water. So these pictures were at five weeks out. These pictures we're looking at, well, the one on the right, I should say the one on the left is before Dubai pro looks a tremendous difference. Seven. So that was July of 2025. So this has been done in a pretty short amount of time. He doesn't have a week. Ronnie doesn't have a weak shot either. No, he doesn't. I mean, look, look at that. Yeah. I mean, I, I like that shape better than Nick shape. And he's, he's got plenty of mass. I mean, Nick, nobody's going to outmass Nick Walker, but shape and structure. These things do matter in bodybuildings. It's not all just who's the biggest guy up there. He's like, he is like almost like, um, I mean, if he, if he is like a sort of Hattie mold, I mean, even like, I don't know, Hattie 2017, 2018, is this similar? I think, uh, I still think Hattie's better. Yeah. But if you, if you talk about in terms of progression, but I mean, you don't know what he's going to look like. I mean, that front lat spread and everything just looks, it's impressive because he's gained quality tissue. And it's, it's, like you said, it's real, you know, he hasn't lost any detail, hasn't lost any aesthetics. He's lost, he's lost no lines, no everything. It just, everything just looks, it's the kind of gains you want to make, you know? Well, you can look at his back, the rear double, because that was his weakest pose before. Even in July, in Dubai pro last July on the left here, you can see it's pretty shallow there in the lower lat, the lower part of his lats. He's sticking that up considerably in a short amount of time. So he's gone to work, hasn't he? He's gone to work. It's all about eliminating your weak points. Yeah. He's really, he's really improved, man. He's really, I mean, that, that is, that's about as successful an offseason as you can get. I mean, thing is, that looks really good for Patrick, because since working with Patrick, he was, he was, he was a good pro, you know, like when, like with Samson, you know, and then John Meadows and Milos came along and then they just go to another level. It's like, this is what you want to see happen when a certain coach, the right coach gets with the right athlete and it just works. You want to see the magic happen. And I'm telling you, this is where the magic has happened because this is, you know, wherever Muhammad places, he's going to, this is going to be a really successful showing for Foda. And saying that, I think, I'm just trying to think if I haven't beaten Brandon. Yes. Yeah. I've beaten Brandon. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, no. Yeah. I'm going to have him fifth. He's my dark horse for fifth. And, you know, Giles definitely doesn't hate Brandon guys. Giles and Brandon have been toured together. They're, they're not on. Love Brandon. Love Brandon. So, all right. Well, there's our fifth place. So now, uh, probably have, I have probably a Brandon in sixth. Yeah. So I guess I would throw Raphael. I'm, I'm really, I'm now that I'm looking at those recent updates, you know, Neil, cause I had Neil on, um, very recently and Raphael did get sick. Uh, I think earlier in the prep and it took him a while to bounce back from that. Uh, so, you know, we'll see what they can do in a couple of weeks, but Oh shit. We've missed out. Tonyo mate. Well, Tonyo's not in the show. Oh shit. Hang on. What? Oh, hang on. No, no. Sorry. I remember. No, I remember. Yeah. But why do they, I don't know why they didn't replace this with a different graphic. They've had plenty of time to do that. I mean, the Arnold, they're on the ball. They don't, they don't screw up like that. Cause you know, the system they have, they don't, the athlete doesn't necessarily, isn't necessarily prepping for a show. Like I've heard, I think it was James Holland said last year, he didn't know he was even prepping until he got the invite. So then he's like, okay, I've got the invite now I can start prepping. I'm thinking, cause it's almost like they just maybe just automatically sent the application. Um, and then they just kind of forget about it. But like, it's like, surely you'd already start prepping. Even if you're getting ready for different shows, like saying, okay, I'll get ready for Detroit, but I'll put my application in for the Arnold and then just hope for the best. But it seems like a bit of, um, like the year when the last year they did 212 in 2018, when they only had seven 212s. And it's like, well, you know, uh, we invited 10 and only seven showed up. It's like, well, invite more guys then, because you know, that if you know that a certain amount aren't going to like Tony was saying, well, I had no intention of doing the Arnold, you know, then have, have a backup, you know, have a system where you let the athletes know, look guys, you know, you're not second choice, but we do have a first choice, but just to let you know, you're on a, like, like with the, the, the point system, you know, you know, that, you know, you, there, there is another chance to, to be invited. It's not just cause obviously the, the, the, the Arnold is an invite show, not a qualifying show. So I think they should have like a secondary list. Maybe they do. I don't know. I don't, I've no knowledge on this, but I feel like they should have a secondary list of guys that say, look, okay, then if someone, so if Tony, if one of the guys like Tony or Hakeem decides not to do it, or wants to pull out for injury early on in the prep, you know, or say you've got some, or you know, who's doing Detroit, have a list of like throwing out. Cause I mean, if you, if someone's getting ready for Detroit and they, uh, 10 weeks out from the Arnold, they get something happens and they get an invite to do the Arnold, then they're probably going to jump in and do it in all sense. So I think, um, because I don't want to see like nine, 10 guys showing up to the Arnold classic. I want to see a minimum. I want to see a minimum of 14, 15 guys. Well, it's, it's never more than 15. I think that's an absolute cap for any division. Yeah. What's your feelings on it? Do you think, cause I, how many, how many is actually in this show in the open? So with Tony out, we have, let me do some math here by counting one, two, three, four, five, 10, seven, eight, nine, 10, 10. So everyone, everyone made the top 10. Uh, or jump right into Hassan because I saw some very mean spirited videos of, you know, other channels who are as Martin Fitzwater say garbage because they'll do titles like is Hassan Mustafa even dieting, which I would, that's so mean. I would never make a video with that title, but I'm looking at these pictures and geez, this was, this was today. He posted. Oh shit. That's today. Yes. Look at that. I mean, that's not, that's not two weeks out at all. Hang on. Hang on. And I saw, did I see a shot of his legs and they were looking really soft? Yes. That's the next picture. So he posted this. Oh no, that's not two weeks out. He'd be panicking. This looks offseason to me. Oh no. Do you know, Ron, do you, to be honest, if that is two, three weeks out, do you think something's gone wrong? Like with his health? I hope he's the nicest guy. I really hope he's okay. We'll put that aside, Ron, but I'm telling you, let's be realistic here. Like he's going to know, looking at these pictures, he doesn't look two weeks out. We're not being mean because I love Hassan. I think he's a lovely guy. Let's just, like I said, put that aside for now. We're not being haters. I mean, look at the calves. I mean, he's got, he's got bloody practically got cankles there, mate. I mean, the legs are just soft and smooth like butter there. You can't, you can't sharpen that up in two weeks. The thing is, he's got that kind of muscle that he has to be in condition or he does look like a blob because his muscle is so full and round, you know, especially with the guys, especially the shorter guys with the massive legs. How many times have you seen it in the amateurs where you see these guys with huge, huge legs who haven't quite gotten, ever nailed their conditioning in there, but every year they're getting bigger and they show up and they just, and there's no separation in their quads. You know, the guys are hitting abs shot and there's no abs and they're getting on stage like that because like, obviously Hassan is so gifted when it comes to actual muscle per square inch, unless he looks like he did here at Vancouver, which is how he kind of needs to look at every single show. It doesn't look good, mate. It doesn't look good. I mean, I hope, I hope he doesn't crash and burn too much at the Arnold and just turns, people are just like, you know, like the commentators will be going quiet when he walks out and probably nudge elbowing each other. Like I've done at shows where you're like, what the fuck do we say? What do we say? You know, you take, you're pressing the mic button off and you're saying like, taking the headphones off and saying to the person next to you, what do we say? You see, this is where it comes in. You've got to be quite skilled at trying to sort of not completely rip these guys a new one. But I mean, could he, could he pull it around for Detroit? I hope he's got more than a couple of shows planned because, you know, if he, if in say eight weeks time, he does a show and finally gets himself in condition and say qualifies, you want the image and that result to kind of burnout how he looked at the first couple of shows because he's not going to be able to pull that around in two weeks, mate. Not a chance, not a chance, Ron. And I feel bad because I love Hasan. Yeah. I mean, his pattern is that he's typically nowhere near his best at the first show of the season. He does that he keeps going and going. I think Vancouver was his fourth show, third show. He typically gets leaner and leaner because, you know, he realizes his condition was off when he's, when he's on, he's very, very good. But when he's off, he's just a big blob. But Ron, this is the Arnold classic. You can't show up for your first show looking like that. If your first show is a small show, fine, maybe. But, you know, if your first show is the big one and it's not like, if this was like his third or fourth show and he's looking like that now for the first one, I don't think any of us would be that bothered. But, you know, the thing is, there's only so many times you'll get the invite as well. Because if you're known, look, he knows he's not going to win. He knows he's probably not going to be a top three guy, even if he shows up in his best ever. But at the end of the day, it's good for him to be in a show, to be invited in a show as big as the Arnold classic. So he, he wants, he doesn't want to keep showing up. He doesn't want to show up looking really, really bad because otherwise they just won't invite him. The thing is that the sponsors and everything and all the fans, they like to see their guys, even if they don't, you know, place well, a big show like the Arnold classic. The fact that you're being invited is, is an achievement in of itself. True. We're looking at Akeem now and Akeem at his best is very good. I, so this was four weeks ago. So this was six weeks out. Obviously wouldn't expect condition to be that great at that point. The most recent thing he's posted was right here. This was yesterday. And it's only basically the side standing side relaxed. So we don't have a lot to go on there. But that condition is not thrilling me either when I'm seeing him. No, he's, he's, he's a, yeah, he's a bottom placer guy, isn't he, really? Um, I think of Akeem, you've never seen him like in a t-shirt. You've never been sat next to him when he got a t-shirt on or something like that. It's, and it's funny because he reminds me of those, those big, like those big, huge pros or top, big, super heavyweight amateurs that are like offseason and they're in a sweatshirt and they're that big. Like they're literally, they're like 310 pounds, but you know, they're probably going to come down to like 240. This Akeem is like that, but he's, when he's in condition, like the level of like the traps and the shoulders, you know, it's kind of, he's got that kind of, he's carrying that kind of like body weight and muscle that, you know, you expect these guys who, when they've got a ton of fat and water on them, but he's, like you said, he's just that big, you know? Um, I like Akeem. That is cool. It's cool. Well, this does, uh, I do think this leaves a room open for some guys to place higher than we thought for sure. Uh, Anthony Williams, the last, we covered all 10 of the guys in the show. Uh, he's looking damn good. And I don't think he's going to be, I had him in last place just based on, I don't think he's quite big enough. I don't think he's last place anymore. He's going to beat a couple of names in this show. Yeah. Well, Akeem and Hassan. Probably. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I got, yeah. Beating Hassan. I mean, Hassan just looks, Hassan might withdraw from the show at this point. I mean, I hope he doesn't, but I don't know what's going on. I really hope he can pull a rabbit out of his hat or something. Anthony here, this was four days ago. He's coming right in. So I go back to Hassan, a competitor, that experience, I'm thinking that something's gone wrong with the prep. I think something is, um, he's got some gut issues or, um, I mean, I don't think you're pulling Nick Walker and say he had fake gear or anything, but, um, I think, um, I think there's something that's gone wrong now because I don't think he was, he would knowingly on prep, you know, be looking like that at that stage. So, but going back to, um, sorry, you, you took, sorry, I'm sorry. I'm talking. No, I was just saying, um, I actually reached out to him for an interview and he says, not yet. I'll wait, I'll wait till, I'll wait till after a couple of shows. He didn't feel a couple outlets have reached out to him and he's like, not yet. I'm not ready for interviews until I've actually proven myself on a pro stage. I, um, I've spoke to him a few times back and forth and, um, I get a very, very good vibe from him. I think he's, uh, I, I think he's, uh, I think he's a superstar of the future. He kind of reminds me of, um, uh, 2011 Sean Roden, because that was the year Sean Roden got 11th at Olympia. And then 2012, he came back the year following year, got third. Then he won Dallas. Cause I was there, I was at the 2012 Dallas show. Um, and then he won like a series of two or three pro shows on the trot. And then he went to the Olympia and got third. And then that was the, the big jump up, you know, like when Gustavo Badal went like 22nd to third from 2002 to 2004. I think, I think, um, I think he's on the verge of like that kind of, you know, I think this is going to be a very good starting point for him. I don't really care where he places, whether he places eighth, ninth or 10th. I don't care. I think as long as he turns up looking good, I think he's going to make an impact in terms of, you know, arriving and people knowing who he is and his standing and his stock in the industry. But I think potentially, um, if he, if he does the right steps in this next couple of years, I think, uh, I think we've got a new superstar in the making here. Cause I think he's, I think he's phenomenal. Um, the front of a bicep, the ab and thigh, it looks like he's been almost like Photoshop, the midsection, beautiful midsection. Uh, I get real Sean Roden vibes. Um, I think he's absolutely phenomenal. I just, I really fingers crossed that he, the, uh, the next couple of years, I think are going to be very, very, as a fan to follow this guy. I think it's going to be really, really exciting. Like following us the last couple of years to see his rise, you know, it's almost like a talking point of the year, but look, I mean, look at the, it's the front of the bicep and the front, the nab and thigh for me to make it wrong. I think he looks absolutely tremendous. He's amazing though. But the, the waist is so small. It's the, the, the difference between the huge full arms and chest and lats and then tapering into that little waist quality wads. Yeah. This guy. So anything better than last place is a win for him. And I don't think he, I had him in last place a few weeks ago. Not anymore. Not anymore. I think he's going to beat a, beat a couple of guys who have been established on the pro circuit for years now. You know, I mean, if you've got like eighth place, I mean, I honestly, it's like when, um, Oh God, Morgan, what's his name? The big guy. Morgan asked. Yeah. Morgan asked. I couldn't remember his last name. I mean, remember he, we knew he was going to get last place at the Arnold classic, but he showed up in the best condition of everyone. And like completely was a talking point of the show. We never forgot it. I was writing about it in my MD column. I made him one of the main features, you know, it's like, you don't remember the placing, but you remember how they looked and you remember how he looked. The thing is, like I'm saying about, um, like Hassan, you don't want to be showing up looking off to the really big shows because you want to be remembered for looking good at the big shows. It's like Bonac always looks his best at the first show. And the first show is either the Arnold or the Olympia. And then he kind of just doesn't, it's not like he gets worse, but he doesn't quite, he's not quite as good, but that's how you want to have it. You want to be looking your best at the, you know, um, you don't want it to have it the other way around. That's the other way around is disastrous for an athlete. So, um, so yeah. So, uh, yeah, in terms of, um, this guy though, um, I think he's, I I'm excited. I'm excited to see what he's going to do this next two years. So we won't talk too much about classic, but, uh, I think we should touch on the top couple of guys. We have defending champ, Mike Somerfeld. Uh, Mike also, I think had a little bit of a illness earlier in the prep. So he was behind at one point when I was talking to Neil, but he's, he's got it together now. Um, so he'll be lighter than he was last year. We know that, uh, last year at the Arnold when he won because he was, they hided him at five, nine last year. And I think now they, they have him at five, eight. So, but you know, the, the, the problem with the last year's Olympia was that that happened. They got that announcement about having to re-hide on Saturday before a Thursday weigh-in or Sunday. So they only had four, five days at the most between that announcement to try to get him down to a lighter weight. And now that they already know he's not going to be, they're not going to hide him at five, nine. He doesn't have to, he's not going to try to be 212 or whatever he was when he won the show last year. Um, people were saying they thought he was behind. Do you think he was behind? He was, he was, I mean, what we were looking at the, um, couple of weeks ago, was it last week? I mean, he was, he was looking behind, but I mean, I know, I mean, I spoke to Neil, well, Neil, like I said, Neil sends those long voice notes back and forth. And like he said, Neil said like the stress of that, he says was really, um, cause I, obviously you know that the athlete's going to be stressed out about these kinds of things happening. But, um, like the, the coaches as well, they, they, they carry a lot of that, a lot of that as well, because they're the ones responsible for bringing them in and, you know, making sure that they get to stage and they look their best and they do well in shows and, you know, fulfill and, you know, and also like, you know, predictions like this. I mean, imagine if like Mike came into the show and plays eighth or something, you know, it's, it's Neil that, that gets the brunt of that. So, um, it's the, yeah, that was that really, really affected Neil. He said that was a real, like, uh, that was a real big stress last year. So if at least they're preparing for a different scenario, um, then I just hope he, I hope he looks, I hope he looks as good as we want him to, because, um, that whole height thing was just, I still think there's still a lot of questions left unanswered with that, but let's put that aside for now. Um, but do you think, um, do you think Mike's still your, your favorite to win? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Me too. Me too. This was a, this was with, I don't know, 10 pounds more. This was last year's Arnold where he won when he was, when he was allowed to be about 10 pounds. I think he was close to, probably around 210, something like that here. 10 pounds is a lot more weight. And now he's got to be, I think 197, I want to say. I'm going to get a little sleep. Well, let me know in the comments guys, because some of you follow it very, very closely and you know, the exact weights and heights and everything. So let me know. Cause you know better than I, but I don't see that much of a difference physique wise between this, uh, and the updates we're seeing. Now the Olympia was a different story because his legs clearly, whatever he had to do to lose 10, 12, I think they said it was about 12 pounds that he dropped him in four or five years. Chest and back. It's like his chest looks thinner. Do you know what I mean? It's not, it's not as round and full. I know it's the thing is we all want to see his best physique and we know this isn't his best physique. Um, see part of me, part of me selfishly, and I'm sure I shouldn't really say this, but it's almost like part of me selfishly wants to see him do badly in this armor plastic. So then he switches to two 12, because we know if he came in as a two 12, you know, you'd see the best version of his physique that he can bring. I don't think he can bring his best physique now if he's 10 pounds lighter. I mean, how can he, you know, whether he can strategically do better as a classic for me is irrelevant because as a bodybuilding fan, I want to see him, you know, when I look, even as an athlete, if I was, if I was him, I'd be wanting to look at those photos and videos and think that's, that's not, that's not my best physique. So almost like part of me would love to see him not, not, that's a terrible thing to say, but obviously like as a bodybuilding fan, as a purist, you know, regardless of placings and, you know, and, and, and obviously all the, the, the things that brings, you know, in terms of success and sponsorships and stuff, it's almost like part of me wants to see him not do one in this show. So he switches to two 12 because I just know, cause I think the thing is though, even as a two 12, I think he'd still be like you said, first call out at the Olympia. And I agree with that, Ron. I think, I think he'd be, I think as a fully fledged two 12, cause I think if he came in as a two 12, I think he'd still struggle to, to, to really make it down into two 12 because he's, this guy's got a lot of muscle. In fact, what do you think if you, if he had no weight limit, right? What do you think his best, best physique, what body weight would he be at? What do you think? 225. Yeah. Oh no, not quite 225. Well, if he had no restrictions, he could be as big as he wanted. I'd love to, I'd love to see him. But as far as the two 12, Neil Hill, shut that, shut that down when we interviewed, he said, absolutely not. He's too tall. He's going to, he would stand next to a Keon and a Clarita and he would not look, they would just, they would, they would be so much thicker and rounder and fuller than him because they're so much shorter. He's five eight. That doesn't sound very tall to most people, but for, for the two 12 division, that that's like a giant that's too tall. It's just a shame now. Cause you know, he's going to really struggle on every single prep now to keep his body weight down. So he's kind of like, he's kind of like stateless, isn't it? He's not, he's not in this class. He's not, I mean, really the only, the only class that he could really bring his best physique in. Then if you're saying all this, he's open. And I don't, I don't see that happening. Even though he turned pro as a heavyweight, he turned pro as a bodybuilder. And also he had a bit of a stint in the two 12 before he switched to classic. And then it took a few years to kind of get the formula right. Cause he was like a top 10, someone you could always guarantee would, you know, around the top 10, but not like, cause I think there's a big difference between the Olympia top 10 and the top five and even the top three. And now he's risen up to the top of this. So really he's just going to have to have miserable preps now just to basically be successful in a category that he can be successful in. Well, see, I think he is very successful and he won the Arnold classic last year and run rep at the Olympia for two years in a row. He's one of the greatest classic Z competitors on the planet right now. So, yeah. So why would he switch? And so he's just going to have to suck it up and just basically not be a bodybuilder. Really? He's, he's really having to be a classic pro, not a bodybuilder because a bodybuilder would want to grow and develop their physique. And that's what bodybuilding is really. But unfortunately he's in a category that unless they changed the formula, he's kind of, he's kind of stuck where he is for now. So he's just, like I said, he's just going to have to suck it up and, and, uh, and endure these horrible preps and really, and obviously keep the body weight down in the offseason because his body, like you said, probably wants to grow. I mean, I think 225 might be a bit of a stretch, but then again, I mean, how tall is he? Oh, good question. A little over, a little over five, eight, I think. Uh, five, because I mean, there's only, uh, Zane Watson and George Peterson that ever did well as, as two 12s. So he's probably a little bit too, but then again, he'd be less of a stretch to get into two 12 than it would for classics. So I don't know. I don't, I mean, he's, if he's, if he's going to win, if he's winning Arnold classics and he's making top two at the Olympias, then he's just going to stay where he is for the next couple of years, at least. So the other guy is the gentleman that won it the year before the flying, not the flying Dutchman. That was the flexing Dutchman was very demanding. But we're talking about, you're talking about a train. Yeah. So this was how Wesley looked two years ago when he won the Arnold and he went on to the UK Arnold and won that as well. His legs. So yeah, his legs were beautiful. Not fantastic. I mean, they, the separation of shape. Yeah, no, they look good. I mean, we still want to see bigger legs on this guy. And as you said, that that's a last minute issue that he seems to have keeping the legs. So I wonder if he's figured out a way to a way to combat that and keep his leg fullness. It's a shame. Cause I mean, like Andrew Jack, I mean, imagine looking at your legs three, four days out from the show or a week out and they look like as you know, they don't look like weakness at all. And then, you know, when you're going to be doing those last minute things to kind of ensure that you make down to your weight, you know, that they're going to be by the time you hit the stage, they're going to be gone. It's like Andrew, you know, Andrew's legs at the Arnold Classic last year. I mean, they look like a real weakness, but they're not a weakness because it's only for those few days while he's, you know, dry out and everything that, um, that kind of becomes a weakness. But, um, cause I'm telling you, I've seen, uh, Wesley's legs up close. I mean, they're just, cause he trained legs. I said three times on that tour in the week. And I remember he was doing the adductors. I mean, his wife, Jim in, um, uh, Essex were doing the adductors and I just, the sheer amount of muscle on his legs. Cause obviously they've got, he's got long femurs as well. I mean, it was just like, uh, he's gigantic. He's absolutely gigantic. So I'm really, cause I know that last year was a real disappointment for Wesley because in 2024, I mean, you know, you're on booking the tour. It was easy to get bookings for him, you know, cause his stock was really high. And the thing is he's, he's kind of from a, like from, from a tour manager's whatever point of view, these are the kind of guys you want to see do well. Cause they've got personality. They've, you know, they're enthusiastic for media and interviews. And these are the guys that we're, I personally, I'm really rooting for as a media guy, as a tour guy, you know, these are the guys you want to see do really well because you know, they're the, they're the ones that, um, you know, they kind of tick every box in terms of everything that I want to do with them. Do you know what I mean? So when they don't do well, it's, um, it's, it's not good, you know? So I hope, I really, really hope to see him back up there because, uh, yeah, well, I'm going to message you much earlier. I've spoken to him for a while. On paper, Mike beats him cause Mike's beaten him. Yeah. Several times, but you know, could it, could, could Wesley pull it off? I mean, who knows? I mean, he's got more, a lot of people believe he's got a more quote unquote classic look, classic critique that he's truer to what the ideals of the division were, were meant to be than Somerfield, which is debatable, but it's not out of the question, Ron, because don't forget where I'm thinking of, um, Mike Somerfield, you know, without that 10 pound off. So with, uh, with the 10 pound off less than, you know, the best physique that I know, uh, Mike Somerfield can bring, does that make it more even for him and Wesley? I mean, I, I, I wouldn't be, I suppose it wouldn't be a massive shock if Wesley beat him, but I, I mean that version of Wesley with the version of Mike Somerfield with 10 pound less muscle. Um, yeah, but that's definitely, see, this is what he looks like three days before, before he makes the cast. So I told you, this is what I saw. I took this picture. That's a 400 pound, that's a 400 pound Wesley. I mean, yeah, I suppose, I suppose actually with the 10 pound less, it makes it a bit more even for Wesley to, to take someone like him. Because I would have said like, uh, Somerfield way out in front because he's got so much muscle, but if he's, if you strip 10 pound of muscle off him, then, uh, yes, it does. It does give Wesley much more of a fighting chance to, to, to beat him. Yeah, I would say so. So this was, this was a while. This was last year. This is before last year's on, his legs were gone there. They were just. Yeah, it's gone. His glutes, everything's hams, everything's just withered away. So if those are fuller, sure. And with a smaller, slightly smaller version of Mike, who knows what's going to happen. Uh, is there anyone else in classic you want to talk about? Cause we, we spent a lot of time talking about Hottie Choupon earlier on. Bring, bring up the, bring up the, the, the competitor list. And I'll, I mean, Kim Angel, obviously, I mean, I think he's tremendous. I mean, he really, he really caught, I knew, I knew of him, but he really, really got my attention when I saw him in Prague. I just couldn't believe in the flesh. I was really, really surprised by him. He was absolutely phenomenal. Um, I can't see it. It's really, can you bring it up? No, I can't bring it up. Well, you want to look at Kim Angel. Kim Angel is Joaquin Trump's angel. Yeah. It's too, that's too small on my screen. I can't see it. So here's him now. This was a week ago. Yeah, that was a week ago. He's good, isn't he? It's very good. I mean, I could see him in third place. Yeah, I think that. I mean, um, I think, I think Wesley's got a more distinct shape. Um, you know, and he's got a bigger kind of structure. And like I said, more of a classic structure, but, um, Kim Angel, man, he's big, he's conditioned, he's symmetrical. Uh, he's, um, he, I, I, I knew he was good, but I like to see these good new guys, like on stage in front of me, like when I'm doing commentary at one of the shows, I always like to see that because then I can get, I can get a really good feel, especially when you can see them, you know, right next to the guys that you consider to be a level above. And then you actually realize actually when he stood next to him under the lights, he's, uh, he's, he's on that level, you know? So here's a guy to watch out for. I think he's, he's absolutely tremendous. Did he win the Prague show that you were at? Uh, I think so. I think he did. Was it? How do I remember? No, no, no. Terrence did it. Oh, that's right. Terrence did. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Terrence. My boy Terrence. I think I need to do another tour with Terrence, actually. I think, cause I did promise him last year. I promised a European tour. Um, you know, like with like posing workshops and stuff, because when we, when I did the tour with, uh, with Terrence, it was a little bit different. Like he, like Wesley would do half sit down seminar, then he'd get, take everyone else to the gym floor and he'd do that. So it was like a, that was a nice mix up, but with Terrence, you've got that posing element. So, you know, if you come to one of my tours with Wesley, and then you've been shown how to train and how to leg press and all this, and then you come to the next one in your area where Terrence is, and he's showing everyone how to pose. It kind of mixes it up a bit. It makes it more, you know, rather than the standard sit down, you know, uh, listening to Ronnie talking about the vodka coffee store and stuff, which everyone loves, but maybe some, but maybe next time you want something different, you know, maybe, you know, maybe a friend who wants to compete in classic wants to come along and wants to be inspired and Terrence takes them through their posing and, you know, stuff like that. It's, uh, I'm always thinking of new ideas, you know? Of course you are. So Sam's not going to win the show, guys. Sorry, sorry fans, but, um, he is, he's bringing a lot of attention, a lot of eyes on the show. Uh, I think the, the live stream, I hope it's not a pay-per-view. I hope it's another free live stream. Um, there's going to be a lot more people watching specifically because they're fans of Sam and they want to see his pro debut. Uh, I did a video last week cause I don't think he's going to be last anymore. I think he might beat one or two guys, which is not fantastic, but he didn't even need to beat anybody. Just showing up on that pro stage is a huge win for him. Um, the Arnold, the Arnold did a, they made a post, uh, trying to, trying to pit him against Summerfield. Where is it? No, come on. Yes, they did. I swear they did. Yeah, here we go. See right there. I'm sorry. But you know, do you know what, Ron? Yes. I mean, I know obviously these are probably well-taken pitches, blah, blah, blah, et cetera, et cetera. But you know what? He's made some serious improvements in the last year. Cause I, I, I, I mean, I, I like the kid anyway. I didn't think I said, he's not really on my radar. It's not really my demographic of what I want to watch and stuff like that. But you know, he kind of had like my respect or whatever as a, as an influencer, just talking about training and food and just being big. And cause as a teenage kid, you know, the kind of people he's appealing to, that would have been my jam. That would have really appealed to me as a kid, you know, cause I, I've got myself in their position. But, um, as soon as he turned pro, like I was like, Oh shit, it's almost like a kiss of death for him now. Cause it's probably best if he never competes as a pro. And then when he won the Arnold classic amateur, you know, then he has to be invited to the, gets invited to the pro. But I was then thinking all year, I was like, Oh no, we better, you've had a good run there, Sam. You'll make the most of this next few months because you're going to crash and burn by the time you get to the Arnold classic. Cause this is another level, not just another level, the pros, but pro classic, but you've got the pro classic at the Arnold classic, you know, it's just like jumping straight into Olympia in that your first or second show. It's a big, it's a huge leap. So, but having said that the improvements he's made, mate, this guy has really been working hard. I mean, he's like, he's taking his physique from like an average amateur to, I think, um, I think he's going to, I think he's going to stand up well. I think he's really going to, I think he's going to do himself proud. Even if he, like you said, he's not highly doubtful he's going to be top five, but I think he's going to, I think he's going to do himself proud mate. And I think, uh, I think he's going to earn another level of respect from everyone in the industry and, um, and good on him because he's, he's clearly been working his ass off in the last year. So good on you, Sam. All right. Well, I'm so, I'm so, I'm so, I'm so, I'm so, I'm so, I'm so, I'm messaging Jay Cutley the day and I said, Jay, I said, can you, can you, have you got Sam's contact details? And I said, um, cause I could get him some, cause I've got between the Arnold classic, um, UK and flying Andrew in, I've got like four or five days where I could, if he flies in for the Arnold classic UK, which he's doing, I could get him a few appearances. Cause I've, I've literally got, I've got the book. I know exactly who I take him to. Um, and they've already agreed, you know, if you could, you say, get some Sulek and I've told them like, you know, what kind of money I'd be sort of think that. Yeah. So I instantly, I could get a mini tour. So, but, um, I don't know. He said anybody watching that knows Sam personally message Giles, I'll make yourself some De Niro, make yourself some cheddar. He's right here. Uh, at Giles underscore tiger on Instagram should be able to find him fairly easily. And also we could, um, maybe if he stays the extra J we could do like a day, we could do a collab with Andrew. Oh, there you go. Perfect. Yeah. Do a video. We'll go for Nando's as well. Now I always put you on the spot first with the predictions, we're going to do more predictions, but I'm going to do it. I'm going to break that. It's not fair that I always make you go first. So, okay, here we go. I'm already, I'm already hated enough. This is my top six right here. I have Andrew winning still, uh, Hottie in second. Although I, I could see them flip flopping, uh, and I could see third and fourth. I could see those go either way, but right now I'm, I'm hopeful. I'm optimistic that Nick is going to bring a more streamlined package. If he doesn't Martin beats him. If Martin beats the pro brings the prog look again, I think he beats almost anything Nick could bring, but we'll see the Martin fans and Nick fans. You can argue amongst yourself in the comments. I got Mo Foda in fifth place. He's looking fantastic. And I have a former Arnold classic champ. I think he won it twice. Brandon Curry and Mr. Olympia. That's my top six. Okay. Tiger. Mr. Tiger says, but Mr. Jack's first. Yeah. Uh, how do you second? Okay. So far we're on track. Martin third. Okay. But if Martin brings what he brought in Prague, I wouldn't be shocked if he beat Haddie for second. I could see stranger things about it. Yeah. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, cause you know, say the stress affects Haddie or he brings something not as good at Olympia and, and, uh, and say Martin brings something even better than Prague that could, uh, in fact, he pushed Andrew, he pushed Andrew. Um, you know, and, uh, sorry, uh, Nick in, sorry, Nick in fourth. Yeah. And then, uh, same as you fifth Foda, sixth Brandon, seventh Raphael. Oh, you're going, you're keeping it going. Eighth. Akeem. Hang on. Seven. Raphael. Eighth. Eighth. Um, Williams. Oh, okay. Good job. Good job. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think you're right. I think you're right on that one. Uh, I think Akeem ninth. Why are you going to keep going? And then, um, do, um, Hassan intent because what I'm seeing there is not good. Yeah. Sorry guys, but you know, prove me wrong. Prove me wrong. Prove me wrong. No, absolutely. That's Giles. So guys, you see Giles is top 10. I only was lazy. I only did six. Giles, the shoulder is killing him right now. Yeah, it's really bad. It's really bad. I trained him last night. I shouldn't have done it. I shouldn't have done it. Podcasting is terrible for the shoulders, but, uh, that's our top six and top 10. Of course, guys, you probably might, some of you might have slightly different top sixes, top tens, drop them down below. I will, I'll answer. And you want to call us brilliant. You want to call us morons, whatever. It's all good. It's only when things get really personal that I start deleting comments, but it's a rarity. Most time I let you guys get away with murder in the comments. So drop some comments in there and let us know what you think. And, uh, man, this has been almost another hour and a half power hour, but I can't say power hour and a half. It doesn't sound quite as cool. Power hour. Do we talk about Prince Andrew being arrested? If you'd like. Nah, no, that's huge. That's all over the news over here. Cause that's really, yeah, that's, uh, He's not the prince. He's no longer a prince, right? Yeah. They boot him out, but, um, they reckon the King knew for, the King Charles knew for a while about all the stuff was going on. And that's why they took his, they steadily took away all his titles and everything else because they knew what was coming. I think they'd been feeding information to the police actually, I think, because they, they really want, because they want to hold him accountable. Cause it's really, it's disgusting. You know, Who's the other prince? The other one's Harry, right? Oh, he's an idiot. He's an idiot. Did he, is he the one that abdicated his prince position? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then, but he still wants to try and use the name when it benefits him when he's in America. I think he, I think, I don't think he realizes that Brits can, the rest of the world will see what he's up to. And it's, uh, yeah. So she's, she's all about the money. She's all about the money. She's a, she's a status climber. She's like, not a failed actress, but she's someone that really tried to latch onto him and, you know, a hundred million dollar deal with Netflix and all that. Woo. Oh, and all the books where he talks about killing 28 Taliban and all that. It's like, because the one thing, like my dad was in the RAF, uh, it was a plaintiff's police. He was like anti-terrorism and stuff like that. Yeah. And I mean, I found out through not even through my dad directly of the kind of things that he did. Do you know what I mean? You know, like serious things, you know, as serious as it gets. So for, uh, Harry, my uncle, you know, these, these, these, these have done, these people have done serious things. So for him to, but they never talk about it. Then they never, do you know what I mean? I remember trying, at my sister's wedding, trying to get my uncle drunk when he was already drunk. I'm trying to tell him to tell me about some of the stuff. Well, yes, yes. And he kind of looked at me to say, I'll never tell you, you know, it's just, it's just the dumb thing. It's that respect for the, the rules of war engagement or conflict, what do you want to call it? It's like the real, you know, so for Prince Harry to say, Oh, I killed 28 Taliban, you know, from a, from a, uh, a helicopter gunship and all that, whatever the, uh, the, the gunships, you know, the, um, the black Hawks and stuff like that. It's like, it's just, you don't do that. And it's probably the, it's probably the ghost rice that probably extracted that from him anyway. And so, Oh, I'll put that in there, you know, but he, he went along with it. He should have, he should have, um, not, he shouldn't have signed that off. So stuff like that. It's just, um, but Prince Andrew is in big shit now. So they don't think they can get him on the old Epstein stuff. So they're getting him on some passing on when he was a, he was a trade envoy for about 10 years and basically was just lining his own pockets the whole time and traveling and, you know, cause they basically, they wanted to think the queen wanted to give him something to do. So now he's, um, he's just been, uh, he's basically, they've got him on passing secret information, like in a, in an email, which they've got, which is, uh, like against the official secrets act. So they'll get him on something, you know, like with the Al Capone, they got him on the tax. They couldn't get him a racketeer. They couldn't get him all these, they couldn't get anything to stick. Cause no one would testify against them because otherwise they get plugged. So they got him, they'll get you on some technicality or something just to get him, just to let you know that you have not gone away with everything. So, well, you know, you're, you're a Brit, you're born and bred to the monarchy, the Royal family. He, those are his, those were King Charles's only two heirs. Were they not? So what does Charles have more than two kids? Or was it just those two? That's his brother. That's his brother. Andrew's his brother. Ah, see, put a moron on him. All right, so who are Charles's kids? Oh, um, uh, William and Harry. Okay. So, uh, are they both, do they both, one of them gave, Harry gave up the position, right? Well, we will have a King William. We will have a King William. When Prince, Prince, well, King Charles dies or whatever, and he will pass on to, uh, to Prince William, whatever. But William's a good guy, man. He's a cool guy. He's a cool guy. Uh, I read that Charles had to wait longer than any other Prince. Yeah. Since they start having Kings 1200 years ago or over long. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's the one who had to wait the longest for the King or Queen to die, to take the throne. Correct. Well, he's in his eighties, right? He's in his seventies. But as soon as he got Susie, like his, obviously his mother died, the queen died and he got, he got the position. He got, um, all that shit with Harry, which completely distracted and detracted. Then you had all the stuff with Andrew and Epstein and then, um, and then he got cancer. It's like, so the poor guys, I barely had chance to get going. So he's really like, he's, he's working hard. You know what I mean? So imagine like how many months out, you know, not being able to do the engagement, do all these things you wanted to do for all the decades, you know, because he was way ahead on that climate change. I mean, I think it's all bullshit. Don't get me started on climate change. It's nonsense. I think he was like talking about it 50 years ago where, you know, and he was, he was, he was basically ridiculed for it, you know, but now it's like, you know, widely accepted that it is a thing, you know, but, um, yeah, he's, he's, uh, yeah. So anyway, he's not, he's not at the best, uh, best luck. Okay. But I didn't know if there was an error. I can't believe I thought Andrew was his son. Oh, anyway. Well, he's, I think he's, we got arrested. Was it yesterday on his 66th birthday? Yes. That's awful. I mean, yeah. I mean, it's like what? Even you couldn't have waited two weeks to drop honey or hottie. And I couldn't, couldn't they have waited until the day after Andrew's birthday to arrest him? Yeah. Well, they probably did. They probably waited. It's like, Oh, it's around that. Oh, should we just wait for his birthday? Let's just, let's really make some headlines guys. I mean, that, that was kind of, I, even if he is an awful person, that was kind of a, kind of a terrible day to arrest somebody. But what did you ever see that interview he did when he says, I think the lies he was coming out with. And he said, after he's not thinking I went rather well, don't you? And he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, because of some, um, some, something happened in the Falklands war when he fought, he said he doesn't sweat. He doesn't have any sweat glands. So, and then, um, cause there was something that the girl said, Oh, he was all sweaty. He was all over me. And he says, well, I, that's impossible. I don't sweat. And also, um, yeah. And he was, oh, some of the lies he came out with was hilarious. It was hilarious. He said, um, when he found out about Epstein and, and being a, you know, like a pedo and stuff, he said he flew out there and stayed at his house for five days. He thought it was the honorable thing to do. I flew out there to break off the friendship, but then stayed at his house for like five, six days. He must have either a great publicist or he's, uh, incredibly clever coming up with these things. And you can see his bed. It's got little teddy bears all over it. And he's a complete, he's a complete moron. He's the, uh, there's, there's been a book written about him called entitled. And it's, it's just ripping him. What he's like, the classic stereotypical entitled, you know, the sort of completely spoiled, you know, overprivileged, you know, child prince. Yeah. He's just completely just living in a, just living on a, in a, on a different planet with a completely different set of rules to everyone else. And it's catching up with him now. So, you know, be careful. Karma will catch you up, man. Eventually, if you believe in all that, if you, you know, and the long, longer it go, it's, it's put off, the more it's going to eventually catch you up down the road. So that's why I would say guys treat people well, you know, don't be an idiot and, um, you know, and, uh, just be kind to people and sort of be decent. And, uh, cause otherwise, you know, I think, I think you, in life, you get what you deserve, good or bad. Fair enough. All right. Well, that's a good enough place as any to wrap it up. It's with the life lessons from Giles. So don't listen to me. I'm full of shit. Give him a follow there. Give me a follow on the Instagram. Giles underscore tiger at Ron Harris muscle. I'm available for life coaching. So whatever advice you get off me, just do the opposite. And we'll be back in a week when we're very, very close to the Arnold. And I am planning on doing a watch party. If they're doing a free stream again, which they've done for the past couple of years. So we'll see if we can keep Giles up till four or five, six in the morning again for that. I'll have to order some more crack cocaine like I did for the Olympia. Hey, whatever, whatever it takes. So that's it guys. Thanks for watching power. Thanks as always to Giles, tiger, Thomas for being so generous with his time over there in the United Kingdom of old England. Get done from here in New England. I bid you all adieu and thank you so much for watching. And we'll see you right here on power hour next time.