Hey everybody, it's been a while, but it's time for another episode of Ask Dr. Testosterone, starring Dr. George Tulados, brought to you by his book, The Bible of Bodybuilding 2. Over 700 pages, full of everything you need to know about training, nutrition, supplementation, and of course, peeds. Get that on Amazon.com. While you're on Amazon, pick up a copy of this great book, Real Bodybuilding by Ron Harris. And now, all the way from Athens, Greece, please welcome George Anulatos, the good doctor. How are you, George? How are you, Ron? I wish you speed recovery from your last. Look at that. Yeah, I'm I'm becoming part machine, part like an like a cyborg. But, uh, I'm so happy. I'm so happy I got a new shoulder joint. I can't wait. it. I should have got this done 10 years ago. I waited I waited way too long. So, anyone out there, if you need a shoulder replacement, don't be stupid like me and wait years and years. Just get it done. You know, I lived with pain for years and I didn't have to. But, the problem was with the bone with the with the humorous and the and the scapula. Yeah. So, the top, you know, I was bone on bone for for about 12 years. So, it was rubbing the bone was just scraping. No, cartilage. No, cartilage was gone. My cartilage was gone like almost 15 years ago. So, and the X-ray, I don't have them on screen, but about the top half inch of my humorris was gone. It was just worn worn away. Uh, so, but luckily, uh, luckily I was a good candidate. U, my rotator cuff was intact, so they didn't have to do a reverse shoulder replacement where they do they put the socket where the ball was and a ball where the socket was. So, mine's anatomical. Um, so I should be I should be up and about. I just have to wear a sling for about the next three weeks and then I can start getting back into normal activities again. I don't know. I'll be I don't think I'll be bench pressing 500 pounds, but uh you know what? I'll be out of pain and I'm I'm very happy. 2013 you competed with a with a shoulder pain, huh? Yeah. because um in 2011 I had arthoscopic surgery just to clean out the joint and make some more room so it wasn't uh rubbing together and but that that lasted about three years and then everything started back again. So and I did cortisone injections for I probably had 20 cortisone injections over the years which are it's not good to have those over and over again. They weaken the the soft tissues in there but it was masking the pain. It was just like I was just avoiding putting things off, procrastinating. But, uh, yeah, it's all set now. I just just need to heal up and I'll be good. Yeah. All right. Ready for some questions? It's been a while. Yeah. Here's a good one. Doc, to produce testosterone, do you need five egg yolks or is that too much? I've heard that a lot of cholesterol turns into LDL. Well, it depends on your liver. if you're genetically predisposed for that. I mean 80% of the cholesterol is made up in the liver and 20% is only from the diet. So there are people that um they eat a lot of cholesterol but the their liver does not make that much of cholesterol and vice versa. They they don't eat cholesterol but the liver makes but certainly cholesterol is necessary in order to make um to make testosterone but you can eat steaks as well. However, I believe the egg yolk is far superior than than the uh the steak in terms of nutrition aspect. And um I think that eggs raise less cholesterol than the the steak. Well, I'm talking about the links. Okay. Let me minon and um the clean cuts from t-bone for instance. Yeah. Um, by the way, lowering cholesterol by the status will lower, of course, the testosterone because you don't have the substrate to make uh testosterone from cholesterol. Yeah. Yeah. It's because, you know, a lot of people, you've said this before on the show, that cholesterol is very important in the process of the body manufacturing sufficient testosterone, but you know, especially in America, we're terrified to eat egg yolks. So, we're worried about cholesterol. Red meat is supposed to be bad for us. Um, but the old the old school bodybuilders, like I remember reading about Franco Franco and Arnold, they used to go to breakfast before they trained and it was always steak and eggs. That was their breakfast every day. Yeah. Steak eggs. Very anabolic. I mean, also in the um in the Venice Firehouse restaurant, they have steak. The classic uh low carb, high protein um breakfast but I'm having on a on a daily basis three eggs three whole eggs as a normal. Okay. Yeah. And of course I'm taking also my starting very low dose. Yeah. um just to to prevent any uh you know plaque in my carot because my coronaries are are clear but um I think having very low LDL as cardiology um requires is not so unabolic sort of leads us in our next question talking about plaque in the arteries so someone says I just had a cardiac CT scan and my calcium score is nine I'm 52 82 years old, 5'11, 180, very lean, train five days a week and eat super clean. Any advice to help? Is a level of nine problematic? No, I don't think you also have a low plaque, right? Calcium score, but No, I I thought it was and then I had to meet with a cardiologist to get cleared for my shoulder surgery and my last seat, my last calcium score was over 400. So, I guess I do have more calc I do have some more calcification than I thought I did. No, you need to stay on the Lipur. Yeah. Uh I stopped taking Lipur, but I am on that rapatha injection every two weeks, which best thing. Yeah. Conor said that. Yeah. Yeah. So, so this guy has only a nine, which it says that's minimal. Okay. But try to stay that way. All right. So, don't do steroids. Don't smoke of course. Don't eat crap. I mean, I wouldn't say that much of breaded fat, but trans fat and refined sugars, okay? A little bit of shredded is not bad. The point is if you mix it with simple carbs is a bad thing into inflammation. All right? So, having a steak with salad is not bad, but having a steak with white r with white rice, with white bread, with white pasta is not a good idea because you spiked insulin. Yeah. I mean the classic the classic side dish with steak here in the US is a big baked potato with butter. So that's white potato. It's again that's going to drive your insulin up too. Uh did what did you have a calcium an overall calcium score recently? For I mean the last time was 20 22 it was zero but yeah. Wow. Uh I'm going to do now in my 50s another one and let you know. Did Did you just have a birthday or your birthday's coming up in a couple weeks? Yeah, I think it's it's next next month. Next Wednesday. Next. You'll be 52. Yeah, still a young man. All right. Great. Well, I'm in the second half of my life. Yeah. I mean I mean your grandmother was 109. 106. Yeah. 106. Wow. Hopefully people of the 21st century, they have to live up to 100. We have so much knowledge. We have so much supplements. We have so many uh medications, you know, we we we have the knowhow. We know how to train, how to eat. So supposedly we have to live up to 100. Wow. I mean, the problem is is we're not having babies anymore, at least in America. So there's going to be all these old people and no young people left to take care of them. Thank you that want to lower the population. Yeah, it's called uh I can't remember the graying of America. I always hear in same in China they punish you if you have more than two children you pay taxes you pay something like a fee if you have more yeah it's 1.3 billion I mean it's the 20% of the world global population yeah there was like there were a billion years ago I bet there's like a billion and a half Chinese now the problem is that you have old people like here in Italy you have you can't afford the state to pay the pensions right that's what I'm saying didn't that happen in Greece Yeah, because there was just not enough young people working to support all the old people because that Mediterranean diet keeps you guys living forever. Very healthy people. All right, next question is, Dr. T. I took saw Paul Meadow for my hair and lost my libido. What do I do now? I think this is overkill. It's too much. Uh, well, supposedly it kills the DHT. Um but what about if taking DHT blockers like finasteride dutasteride for instance or even uh progesterone? Um so what to do? Just go back uh without say or take proviron take DHT or even increase your testosterone dose. Um, all right. Because DHT is good for the sex drive and the clarity, but on the other hand, if you are prone to this, you're going to have her thinning. All right. Okay. Yeah. You know, it's we talked about uh so I'm on an opiate right now. Just the Oxycontton just for a few just for like a week. It's lower to testosterone, but not to you because you're taking testosterone. Well, my I can already tell my sex drive is it's like it's gone. even though you were on TR. Yeah. So, it's it's very powerful these these opiates, they're no joke. Those people that are stoned and they're not on testosterone. Yeah. They're they would have zero sex drive. I wouldn't say I have no sex drive, but I'm not thinking about it all the time like normally I would. So, that's actually a good thing. Well, you just talked about finasteride and dutasteride. So, that leads right right into which is better for my husband to control hair loss, finasteride or dutasteride? Is oral better or topical on the scalp which has fewer side effects? Definitely dutasteride works more but has more side effects. Finasteride has less side effect but doesn't work so well. And of course perosta means oral it's more effective than topical while the topical has less side effects. So the more side effects the more it works. Well so I guess you pick your poison right. We covered somebody that I was very um you know devastated and um I wanted so badly to have her. Apart from the transplant, I will go on the dusterite and testosterone for six months. Take also finasteride. All right. Kill my DHT literally take biotin takeonol and take also minoxidil and progesterone and wait for six months to have my my hair back. And it works. But the point is you have to forget about sex for those this time window and you're not going to be so optimistic about you can have it all. There's no free lunch. Just go to Turkey like I did. Go to Turkey, everybody. Once doesn't it's not enough. You need at least two operations. I mean, so I'm pretty happy right now. I can't complain. I still have a little It's pretty It's pretty thin up here still. It's not like it was, but I can't see I can't see the back of my head. Anyway, you had a haircut now for one year. Yeah. So, I had it done in February, early uh February of 2024. Uh and so the full result is this is it's not going to get any better than this. But no haircut. The what? Do you have a haircut? Oh, yeah. I have haircuts all the time because if you don't, you're going to grow more. True. But I mean, I don't want to have shaggy hair. I don't like having long hair. Just I don't It's not my thing. Is this our last question coming up? Yes. Okay. Last question. I'm a woman who is very anemic. Can testosterone injections help increase my red blood cell count or does that only work for men? What do women think injections would be the best idea? You can use the cream. Okay. And you can stack it with DHA as well. not realization is the other thing that the the the voice dipping the clitordis enlargement and the heritism uh but yet you can try 1% of or 0.5% uh cream of testosterone along with DHA all right and of course you need injectable cobbalamin folic acid and also IV iron otherwise take uh iron with vitamin C in order to increase your hemoglobin. Okay. Yeah. You know, my wife is on testosterone now from Frontline Alternative just like me for her menopause symptoms, but not only testosterone plus estrogen progesterone, right? Uh no, she's just on testosterone. I think one she needs three hormones. Come on. Well, they only give her 25 milligrams of testosterone a week. Yeah, but that's one part of the equation. Okay. You need also estrogen, progesterone. this file. Yeah, I don't think she's on anything else. I'll have to look into it. Maybe I'm wrong. I've been wrong many, many times before. Cool. Well, so far she doesn't she doesn't feel any different anyway. It was for her energy levels and things like that. So, yeah, we'll see. But, uh, that's it, man. That's our show. Uh, let's let's get some questions in, guys. Submit some questions here in the comments so we don't have to wait another month to do a show next time. We uh we are here and very very fortunate every week to have a medical doctor who's also a champion bodybuilder available to ask your questions that your doctor can't answer for you. So thank you doctor uh for for being available for the people of the world like this. Uh very very appreciated. And that's it. So drop some questions and comments below guys and we'll see you right here next time on Ask Dr. Testosterone with Dr. George Tulatos.