What's up, guys? The Fibo Power Pro Bodybuilding Show wrapped up judging a few hours ago. Sorry, I had to go train legs with my wife. But this was supposed to be a very easy easy win for Andrew Jacked. Sneak attack. Didn't let anyone know outside of his inner circle that he was doing this show. his name just popped on the list Monday, late Monday of this p of this week and we thought, okay, he's got some good competition. Sassan Herat is very good. Just looked really good in Detroit, taking second to William Bonak. Sergio Leva Jr. should be looking pretty great in his comeback. And some other athletes, too. But, uh, we're going to look at some some footage here. Uh, there was no stream, so we're going off everything on Instagram. He showed up, Andrew, at about 90%. Um, not quite as lean as he usually is. I don't think it was intentional, but uh, we'll look at the comparisons. But first, let's look at Andrew by himself. Here's how Andrew looked today. Big as a house. Of course, Andrew is always massive. Beautiful shape, structure, so wide. He's got that height at 6'2. Helps him look even more imposing. Hasn't had a whole lot of time since the Olympia to make any improvements. Curious to see the side shots to see if those hamstrings look any better. You can see the glutes and the hams kind of soft. Glutes are soft. There's no there are no striations in there. Back looks really good. You know, Andrew Jack is one of the the best in the world. He was fifth place at the Olympia. He's Arnold Classic UK champ. He's got a few pro wins under his belt. Two Texas Pro wins. Was it three? Phenomenal. Okay. Yeah, Ham's Hams maybe a little bit better. He hasn't had much time. So, I'm sure his plan was win this, get his Olympic qualification, then have a little bit of an offseason before he had to start prep for the Olympia, which is until October. And, you know, he still he still looks phenomenal here. Don't get me wrong, guys. But, is this is this 100% Andrew Jack? No. This is probably just slightly off what we saw at the Olympia, which was slightly off what we had seen at the Texas a couple months before that. Now, of course, this is just looking at Andrew by himself, which doesn't mean anything. You got to wait until we see Sissan in a minute, but I want to finish up with Andrew because he is a great great competitor. He's a great pro. And you know what? He could still win this. There's nothing's been decided yet. So, that was Andrew. Now, let's take a look at Sassan. This is all from AJ, but I'm not really sure. Was this another another view of him? Yeah, I want to get to Sassan. So, here we go. Sassan Herati from the UK, Persian just like Hotti Jupan, just like uh uh who's a guy that can't get into the US all the time. So my mind sometimes I'm trying to think of 20 things at once. But Sassan brought his agame. Sassan is in great condition today. Structurally he is not Andrew jacked. does not have that that width to the shoulders, that tiny waist, that natural vtaper that Andrew's bone structure gives him, but he's packed with muscle. See how much leaner he is from the back. Uh, significantly leaner. You can see, you can see how much tighter the glutes and hams are. The cuts are more clear and deep. Can hit that lats. Christmas tree. Nice and clear there. Not the greatest lighting. You know, this is somebody's iPhone, I'm sure. Obviously, that's all we had to deal with. Yeah, you can see in the comment here. Seth Ferrochce says, "Sass, he's most complete and best on stage today. Andrew's a bit off. Incredible shape, muscularity, of course, but I think SAS edges him out today. We'll see how the night show goes." Jose Raymond right under that looking sassy. Okay, let's take a look before we get to the comparisons. I want to see I This is the first time I'm actually looking at these guys. I haven't looked at these all day, all mornings. Sergio Oliva Jr. in his comeback. Hasn't been on stage since June of 2023. He took all of 2024 off. Still has that great structure and shape. Of course, uh condition. I was a little bit concerned when I saw how he was looking a couple weeks ago from the back particularly. I don't think this is his full size. Doesn't look to me like he's got 100% of his size and fullness. Nice separation there with the hams. I do like to see that. You know, he's a fierce competitor, Sergio. This is what I was waiting to see. And yeah, he could be he could be harder from the back. And you know, we we say that almost about almost everybody. Almost everybody could be harder from the back. All in all, this is a good look for Sergio, but um as we'll see with the comparisons. Oh, and look, some glute striation. So, Boss of Outlaw first prep with Boss of Outlaw. I think they did a fantastic job bringing him in on their first collaboration together. uh conditions better than I thought it was going to be. I didn't think his glutes were going to be in remotely and I can see good striations there. Of course, he has great arms, shoulders, quads. You know, Sergio's only only weaker points, I would say, like upper chest and back thickness maybe. So, all in all, good showing for Sergio here, but we want to take a look at some comparisons because everybody at this level looks amazing by himself. It's all about how they look in the group. So, let's see what we got for group shots. This is one I used for the thumb. You can see SAS was in the middle in this particular comparison. Andrew was in the in the middle in others, of course. Uh, yeah, Sergio is definitely a solid third, but Sasson is definitely edging out Andrew in terms of condition. Will that be enough? Because Andrew is so much bigger, structurally superior. Um, I I'd actually be surprised if Cassan is able to pull off the win. Not because of anything he didn't do enough of. I think he did everything he needed to do. He brought tremendous condition, nice pop, nice and full. Um, but Andrew, Andrew is, you know, he's the better bodybuilder, but on any given day, people can get beaten if they come in off. And this is not bro, this is not 100% Andrew. This is not 100% Andrew. So, let's look at some comparisons. Should we go to a video in a second? Uh Mark Smax Muscle put them all up in a in a comparison. Yeah, let's do that because there there's no video. There's a good shot of Andrew and Sergio next to each other. So yeah, I'm going to share I'm going to share the YouTube video and then we'll get to some of your comments, guys. So, let's share uh stop that screen and we're going to go to uh a video that MarkX Max Muscle put up. I encourage you to check out his his channel, Markx Max Muscle. Nope, it's still showing. I did the wrong one. Sorry, guys. Sorry about that. Share screen and I want to go to YouTube. Okay, here we go. So, yeah, this is uh his video. Mark's Max Muscle, guys. Subscribe. Check out his videos. Oh, now I have to watch a commercial. My bad. That's what happens when you're going when you're taking other people's YouTube videos. So, you got to watch his commercial for a second. We'll get into it in a second, guys. Commercial's almost over because I think he did a great job of compiling all the uh all the comparison shots. Oh boy. Why' we went to the wrong video? My bad. Okay, here we go. Let's hit play. Oh my god. Sorry, guys. And reject. I hit the wrong button. That's why. Okay, here we go. All right. All right. So, let's go full screen. Frontable bicep. Okay. So, we're going to watch this together, guys. Uh, I have Andrew winning that shot. Not even a question. Andrew looks phenomenal. The front double bicep. Got those crazy high peak biceps. Sassan's arms in the front double, not so great. Sergio, great arms in the front double. Uh, they all have really good quads. I give this shot to Andrew though. Andrew takes this shot. Put your comments up while we're watching. from Italy. Insera jacked. Does that mean he's winning? I don't know what ins means. Walter Martin who's doing the uh Masters Olympia in a couple months says Sash should have this condition wins. Don't care if Andrew is big because he's soft. Yeah, I I I agree with you Walter. The the condition on on Andrew is lacking today based on what we've seen from the back. You know what you'd expect SAS to have. I think it's the lighting here. I don't think this show is lit particularly well. Certainly not like the Detroit because Sissan Sassan's condition is probably just as good as it was in Detroit. Um, but the lighting in Detroit had the black backdrop and you know you you it highlighted the condition better. I think the the lighting in Detroit. Cassan is leaner than he than he appears to be here. But you see structurally from the back Andrew is just so wide. Look how wide he is across the shoulders, across the upper back. Um, I wouldn't call him soft. I wouldn't say he's soft. He's not way off. He's just a touch off. Big legend from Italy says very monster. Okay. Hopefully judges punish Andrew for not bringing the condition. Yeah, that remains to be seen. And uh as we're speaking at 6:41 p.m. already over there in Cologne, Germany, where this is being held. I don't know what time the night show starts. I imagine the finals start fairly soon. So within a couple hours, I think we'll have this all wrapped up. But yeah, Sassan, you can see there with those with those really clear crossations. And this is somebody's iPhone from a few few rows back. So that tells you how good the the condition must be if it still shows in this type of quality lower quality images versus, you know, high-res photography. SAS has far superior hamstrings to Andrew. Andrew's Andrew's hams look very flat in comparison. Uh, even Sergio's got better hams. Yeah, I have a tough I I can't give can't give Andrew that side shot. No way. Yeah, Sassan. I don't know if he was just uh he should have that back spread out right there. I'm not sure if he was getting into the pose when this photo was taken, but you could see the glutes. We always stare at the butt to see the condition. Finish Malone doesn't win, folks. Yeah, and it's true. This is judging is done by a total package. So, they're looking at everything. They're looking at size, shape, structure, conditioning, even presentation and posing factors into it. But condition is one thing, but the most conditioned guy actually very rarely wins. Only when the best condition guy also happens to have other attributes going for him, like size and shape. Uh I I see a lot of shows where second, sometimes second, even third call out guys are in better condition. You'll see someone who's in better condition than the first call out group. Look at that tricep on Andrew. You know, he's been accused of putting things in his tricep, but I just think he's incredibly gifted. Look at that tricep. Uh Sass, I I have a hard time giving him that shot. Ab and thigh. Okay, that's that's Cassan all day. Look at those dugout abs. Those nice strided quads. Beautiful sweep to the quads. Yeah, built to laugh continues the whole package. Cassan easily place easily. Sergio. Oh, you're saying Cassan's second place easily, Sergio third. Yeah, I tend to agree with that. Hey, you know, I I understand where people can get upset thinking, you know, that's not fair. He's he's in better shape, but I said, um, is Andrew lean enough? Is he in good enough shape to win? I think he is. Andrew wins not conditioning contest. Yeah, we see that again. Glen, what's up, Zionic? Saturday vibes strong. J Andrew Jackson looking like he ate the offseason for breakfast, dude. It's huge. Yeah, I mean, it's hard to deny someone who's that big. Oh, how do I get rid of all that crap? Oh, that was the end of the video. I gotta put it back. That's This is Mark's Max Muscle, guys. I used his footage for this. Mark's Max Muscle, so give him some love on uh on YouTube. What' I do there? I want to see the faces. What' I do? Play. Oh, I see what I did. Uh, okay. Play. Play. And think I want to go full screen. Exit. Full screen. Yeah, let's just do exit. Okay. So, we're back. We're back on that. Uh, get back to your comments, guys. Sorry for that little uh little pause there. We look past the top three. Just feeding looks really nice. Yeah, let's go to uh let's go to Instagram again and see what else we have for footage. Uh who else we got there? Because yeah, it's it's not fair to just focus on three guys, is it? So, this is uh Justin Musol from Germany who I was pretty impressed with. Oh, I got to stop this one. Sorry guys, I gota stop that screen. Go to Instagram. Okay, so this is again, this is Justin Musil from Germany. I'm just going in order. Uh, tell me guys what other Instagram pages you see really good footage on, too, because you I'm just sort of hunting around the top channels that I've I'm familiar with. But Justin, big dude. He's a young guy. He was sixth place in Detroit. Just missed the top five. Uh competing in his home country. So that's that's pretty pretty prestigious. I mean, I'm sure because Fibo didn't have an open bodybuilding show for a couple years. So when it came back, I'm sure guys like Justin saw a tremendous opportunity. I can compete in my own country in an open pro show. Hey, you know, obviously the goal was to qualify for the Olympia. It's not going to happen today for Justin, but uh this is a guy to keep an eye on. Definitely a young guy in his 20s, late 20s, I'm thinking. 27, 28 would be my guess. Uh and yeah, the only knock I had him on Detroit was wasn't really controlling the midsection. And as the top comment says right there, it looks like he's doing it there. So that's Justin. Let's see who else we have there. Let's go to who is the best bodybuilder. They usually have some good footage. Let me know guys some Instagram pages to check out. Joseph, let's see. I'll look at Joseph Katon. Joseph. See if he has anything on his page. He does not. So, you tell me, guys. You tell me where to find where to find Joseph or or other people because uh I can only show you what I what I have. All right, let's go back to your comments. Conditioning is the only factor and Phil should have won 21. Yeah, Phil Clayar 21 tip. Pro hats off for a great pack. We'll see how they look at finals. Said same about Sergio. Yeah, Sergio solid solid third. I I don't see him getting past either of those two guys, but it was still a very solid comeback. Yeah, Sergio's missing upper chest back. Not great. Uh when I saw I saw uh some updates from Sergio, I was a little concerned. Just want to look at that. Look at Sergio real quick, guys. Let's take a Sergio. Sergio's updates because he had some footage on there, too, I think. Yeah, because there's no stream on this, which is really odd. This video. No. Yeah, this was this was the picture he posted that had me a little concerned because he looked really flat. Obviously, he was probably depleting there. That was three days ago. It was probably the end of his depletion. Does he say anything about that? Yeah, he just arrived in Germany here. He was depleted. Uh chest chest looks very flat to me there. Very flat. That that's something he's going to need to work on. You know, he's got great limbs, great arms and legs. Uh the back has always been something he needed more of. And the chest, same thing. More chest, more back. It's very, very common. And you see it a lot with guys with really great shoulders and arms, which leads you to think that maybe they're activating or having a having trouble activating their their pecs and their lats when they train because biceps and triceps tend to take over. But this was Sergio a couple days ago. Let's see what he's got on there for footage. He's got some pictures from the judging. Yeah. Any he looks very respectable. Front and side shots are really good. Beautiful structure on Sergio. So wide. Yeah. Cassan, he looks great there. The only the only disadvantage is structurally he doesn't have wide clavicles. They're average. They're not there. There are no pro bodybuilder open pro bodybuilders with narrow clavicles. You wouldn't have he wouldn't have turned pro. Uh average clavicle width, which is sort of what we saw with Phil Heath. And he built so much mass on top of it that it no longer became an issue. Back shot. Yeah, Sergio. Sergio came in much leaner than I thought he would. He's certainly in better condition from the back than Andrew. And you see Sass and Sergio have the striations in the glutes. Andrew, no, not one striation to be seen. Side tricep. Uh, you know, people could criticize the way Andrew hits that shot. Uh, I think Sergio actually hits that shot the best. Sass has the waist nice and nice and sucked in, though. But uh it is an awkward awkward pose for uh Andrew, but he looks phenomenal because look at the size of those freaking triceps. Of course, the most muscular. Yeah, I don't know if this is the best most muscular for Andrew. That hands on hips thing. Sergio the crab works best. Sass has figured out hand sass actually has a great hand on hip most muscular as well. Uh go back to your comments, guys. Such a shame that Sergio doesn't even speak Spanish. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I could comment on that because he's half Cuban. You know, my kids are half Cuban and they don't speak Spanish either. Uh, try to speak very much left. Oh, we're talking about Kamal. Okay, we're talking about politics. Compare video or live picture is more accurate than still picture. Yeah, Goku. There's unfortunately we don't have there was no stream for this, so we don't have uh any video. If you guys know where there's some video out there on Instagram, please let me know. Please let me know. Gabarda says, "We love an under underdog story, but Andrew has this in my opinion." Yeah, I as as much as SAS, you know, he brought his agame and andrew did not. So therefore, you could easily argue, well, SAS deserves a victory. But not about who deserves it. It's about the best overall package, the best total package on stage that day. Reformed Tuesday. So I'm doing well. Thank you. Thanks for joining us. Kion, thank you. Is it Andrew show or SAS got enough to upset him? I I I don't think SAS is beating him. Uh this is Sassan's a clear winner condition wise. Absolutely. Um it's just tough when Jeez. Go back to the pictures again. Go back to that. Stop the screen. go back to YouTube so we can look at the photo comparisons that Markx Max Muscle compiled on his video. All right, nine 10. Okay, we're running on we're rolling on that. Yeah, I don't I don't think Cassan's got it, guys. And I only say that because structurally size-wise, in terms of size and structure, Andrew beats him all day. condition. Siss has him. There's no doubt. If Thomas Andrew is still working full-time as an engineer, they must give him extra holidays. Yeah, he must he must do like contract work. I I'm just guessing. Um, so he sort of makes his own schedule and does things on his own time, you know. But that's commendable. I mean, not only is he an engineer, which how many pro body rollers are engineers? Not many, I'm sure, but certainly not at his level. At the top Olympian Arnold Classic level, SAS wins. Big Andrew family is a tad off. judge should award the Well, again, guys, I agree that if you want to reward condition, Susan Herati deserves the win. No question about that. No question at all. I just don't think it's going to go his way today. They're giving it to Andrew. Yeah, I think they're giving and it's not going to be a politics or a gift. It's judging on a total package. I mean, look at the look at how much wider he is there from the back. Look at how much thicker his back appears to be. I mean, he's he's even though Cassan's got better condition from the back and so does Sergio relative to uh to Andrew, Andrew's got the better back. It's the better rear double bicep pose there. And pull out Victor here. Would you earn his Olympic qualification? Yeah, you can. Any show, any pro show is uh a win at a pro show is is a ticket to the Olympia if you didn't know that. It's not only certain shows, it's every single show. So, we have a lot of pro shows coming up, guys, and they're all Olympia qualifiers, every single one of them. So, there are four Olympia qualifiers next month alone. Pittsburgh Pro, New York Pro, California Pro, and Legion Sports. So, four weekends in a row, somebody's going to qualify for the Olympia next month. Georgia, you look pretty good here. Expect Yeah, I based on the updates and even the way he was looking when he when he arrived in Germany and posted some pictures, I was thinking, "Oh boy, he might not even be top three. He might drop down a few places and get beaten by some of these other guys who bring a better package. I don't know what that means. Muscle has Andrew routine. Okay. Uh I think we have a lot of actually think there's a we have Andrew posing on a few different poses, but I'll go to RX Muscle just to see what they have for for footage. Maybe there's I'm really looking for some video comparisons and I have not seen any of those yet. I don't know what people are filming. Why aren't they filming that and posting that? Don't know. Don't know. Does RX have any? No. RX has all the same stuff. Yeah, it's all the same things we saw in the other one. Oh, there's a couple more guys. We got Joseph Fen, Dennis Friedrich. Okay. Well, we'll go to that because it does we'll go to that in a minute because they do have a couple more routines. One other guy anyway from Germany. Back to your comments. Back to your comments first though. He just says, "As far as superior structure, balance symmetries, all that condition." Yeah, I agree. And it's it's not like he's way off, guys. It's not like he's fat, sloppy looking. He could have been sharper. This was like 80 85%, you know. This is a little a little less than we saw at the Olympia in terms of condition, which was a little less than we saw at Texas a couple months before that, but I think it's enough. I think it's enough to win. So, United has almost every routine and story. Okay. Story will be second. Okay. Muscle United. I'll I'll give it a try. I wasn't even familiar with Muscle United, but thank you. So, there's a site I wasn't wasn't familiar with at all. Muscle United TV. Okay. Okay. Ah, here we go. All right. Let's go to them. Let's stop this screen and go to Muscle United. Let's check it out because it looks like they actually have some some video. Uh, so we'll go to their posts first because it look like there's some video. Yeah. Okay, here we go. Now we're talking, guys. Now we're talking. Finally, some moving images, some video. So, yeah, your top three. It's a very, very clear top three. In what order? I I'm I would bet you guys money. Protein powder or something. It's going to be Andrew. Sassan Andrew first, Sassan second, Sergio third. And I understand condition-wise, Sassan beats beats Andrew. But that's just one factor. Like I said, Andrew beats him in mass. He beats him in structural how much wider he is. That Vtaper that he has. Cand doesn't really have much of a Vtaper. You don't see his lats very well from the front. Uh whereas Andrews, you do see those sweeping lats coming out. Uh, you know, I I have no skin in the game. I I I respect all these guys. I like Sergio a lot. I've only met Sassan a couple times. He's a cool guy from what I from what I recall. Andrew, obviously, very very laid-back, chill guy. Everyone loves Andrew. Yes, sir. Chenedu Obea, that's his name. Okay, so that was the comparison. Let's see. We have this footage and then we'll go to this another. It's a final call out. So yeah, of course they always bring out the top top two, three or four in the final call out as they're trying to figure out where to place these guys. It's like one last look, one last chance for the judges, too. I shouldn't say last chance because there is going to be a confirmation round. Confirmation round later. Uh yeah, confirmation round. I apparently I didn't know this. I know I should have known this. Open men is the only only division where the confirmation round counts for the score. Uh, I always thought it counted in all the all the uh divisions. Otherwise, why what's the point of having it? All right, so that was that. Let's see who else we got. That's Andrew. We've seen Andrew, but this is different. Looks like a little better footage, a little more clear. It's only two poses. All right. So, you wanted me to go to their stories. Let's go to their stories and see what we got. Okay, that's the two classic division. Sorry. Big Kent. These are classic competitors. Classic. Classic. Uh, that was the first call out. It was Joseph, Sergio Oliva, Saserati. Interject. So that was your first call out. Yeah, Joseph looks good. He's, you know, probably a solid fourth. Not bad in this lineup. He was third in New York Pro four years ago. I was there. Big, big guy from Czech Republic. This is Dennis Friedrich, also from Germany. I said great great chance for the German competitors to compete in their own country without having to travel too far and you know the home home field advantage. I'm sure they have plenty of friends and family in the audience here. I I am a little surprised that Fibo did not do a stream because I don't think they're hurting for money. They have over a thousand exhibitors. Uh a lot of those are equipment companies with with big budgets. I find it hard to believe they couldn't scrape together. It's about I think it's about 20 grand roughly to put on a you know an average quality live stream. Probably more if you want to do a super cool 5K thing. Serate's routine here. Yeah, there's a little again the lighting not spectacular. And this is also shot with somebody's phone. We have pretty good cameras on our phones, video cameras, but it's not the same as like what you see on a Gilo. Like if we were seeing Gilo footage, and I don't think they're there over in Germany right now, but if we were seeing Gilo Productions footage, everybody would look better. Everybody. There's Joseph right there. Ysef, also the name of the son in the first John Wick movie, the Russian mobster son, Ysef. Yeah, Joseph looks great. Thick dude. Look at the condition. I mean, conditionwise, he's better than Sass. He's better than Sergio. Certainly better than Andrew. But, you know, he just doesn't have the pretty shape uh that everyone else has. I didn't write down everyone's name, so I don't know who this Bal Balas. Don't know who that is. There's Andrew. I haven't seen Ali Ali Edward Carbo, who was uh from UAE, and uh I thought he was going to make an impact on this, but he wasn't the first call out. Now, I'm wondering if he's even in the show or if something happened and he had to drop out. Happens all the time. All right, let's see. Andrew going into the next story. Okay. Well, it's just a crowd. We don't really care about that. Jordan Gomez, who is apparently James Hollingsstead's training partner, looks really good. He's a 212 athlete, I believe. And even though there is a 212 here, he decided to jump in open. Why not? Because, you know, 212 guys have been doing pretty well in open. Diego Nunes from Portugal. Great condition on him. Grade 10. Keep that Keep that gut sucked in, dude. Keep that gut sucked in on the side shots. Nice quality striations on those quads. Those crossstriations. Love seeing that. Love seeing those seratus all clear and cut up like that. Great shot. Yeah. So, they're starting the finals, I guess, uh, now. Right about now. Right about now. Okay. Okay. Great job. Yeah. Just leave this up for now. We go to some more of your comments. Andrew will be second. Well, I don't know, Captain. I don't know. I've been I've watched a few of these. Paul says, "Sass wins easily. Andrew four weeks out with weird body parts. It's a good time judges put their foots down, your feet down, and finally punish Andrew for being four weeks out." Well, they haven't punished him yet. So, why are they going to start now? Sass conditioning in that most muscular is crazy. Yeah, he's definitely got the condition down, guys. No, no question. Uh just curious if anyone else has some really good stuff. Maybe Bodybuilders without borders. Sometimes they have some good stuff. A lot of times, you know, bodybuilding to see what's out there, guys. We're scavenging Instagram, guys. Scavenging Instagram. That's a good compar. That's a good side by side. Sergio first. Wait a minute. Didn't you you think Sergio's winning, catcher? No, Sergio's not winning. Ramy, do you see any striations in Andrew's arms? Adults. How could it must be this big with zero striations? He might be sight enhancing. I don't know. I don't know. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna agree or disagree. I I have no idea. But I agree. I would like to see more detail in those arms and shoulders. I'd like to see some stripes in the shoulders. Sergio Lur looks identical to his dad at this show. Uh I think his dad was bigger. Joe Joseph, honestly. This is either Phil. Phil Phil Clayhar or his wife Patty says, "I agree with all the comments about condition doesn't always win." Correct. Oh, yeah. This is Patty. Phil would have won 2021 Tampa if that was the case. Exactly. I mean, condition is very important. You need to be conditioned, but you don't have to be the most conditioned guy to win if you have enough of the other attributes going for you. Size, shape, structure. And Andrew is just very, very gifted with his structure, with his shape. He's got a beautiful Vtape X frame. Ver Jack ends up qualifying soon lifelong love. No, if he's if he's if he wins this, which I do think he's going to win, that's it. We won't you're not going to see him against the Olympia. It's silly for it would be silly for him to compete again after this when he was fifth at the Olympia and he wants to move up and his best chances of doing that are to rest up after this show, get a little bit of an offseason going uh before he needs to start prep again. Hey everybody. Okay. See you learn lines. Yeah, I mean I agree with you. I agree. It's it's kind of odd. Uh, okay. I need to get away from that. Okay, let's leave that for now. FIBO top six. That's fair. Leave that up. Okay, leave that up. Yeah, I agree. Stage lighting here is not great. Plus, we're also we're not seeing high resolution images. We're seeing people's iPhones, their iPhone stuff. Carolyn Kishman. Yeah, trouble is, you know, we're all I'm a conditioned snob. I want to see everybody shredded shredded to the bone every time, but we're not we're not always going to see that. And like I said, it's just part of the equation. You want you want to see great condition, but you also want to see size, tons of muscle mass. You want to see it with great shape. You want to see it on a good structure with a wide clavicles and a narrow waist, nice flaring quads. You want to see all these things together. Conditioning should be required. Yes. So Andrew is not he's not way off guys. He's a little bit off. He's not way off. He just happens to be not as lean as you know and we see a couple of these other guys in the that are not in the top three. They're probably leaner than anyone in the top three. And they're not why are they not in the top three? Because they don't they don't compare in terms of some of the other attributes these guys have. A lot of bad bods out there great condition horrible shape synructure. Hence Nick Walker. Not a fan. Not a fan. Oh, I mean there's I I've seen horrible guys who have horrible physiques, but they can come in shredded. Um that's just a matter of, you know, figuring out their bodies and some guys are naturally a lot leaner. They have a much easier time getting shredded than others. But yeah, you'll see people are consistently shredded, but they might be lacking mass. They might be missing a body part. Their structure might be a little wacky. Now, shape part, Paul, shape matters in every division. every single division, whether we're talking classic, 212, even men's physique, shape matters everywhere. You know, we're judging physiques. So, shape always matters. Otherwise, you would have big, blocky, stumpy guys winning shows. And we never we don't see that. You're never going to see somebody with a super thick waist that's as wide as his shoulders winning a show. You're never going to see that. And that off exactly still has detail this guy on their conditioning badge. the openness for being jacked in condition. Don't blend the condition. Well, well, Paul, I've been I know you're you're not a youngster, but I've been I've been around the game a very very very long time. Uh my first pro show I attended was the 91 Pro Iron Man. That was my first Olympia. So, anyway, I can just tell you that the era of guys winning without great shape has come and gone. Uh we saw that we saw some guys winning without great shape for a little while. Uh but then the judges they put it they put that to a to arrest. People with such a huge fiction of the Bible looks in Africa. I'm German. I'm not happy to call this stage of marketing. Yeah. I mean obviously they're they're money maker. They make their money from the expo. These exhibitors pay a lot of money to exhibit there with uh a lot of floor space. You know, as Giles was pointing out in our preview a few days ago, there are a lot of equipment companies there and they take up a lot of room. So they they're not buying just like one booth space. They're probably buying 10 to 20 booth spaces. They need all that space to lay out all their equipment like a gym so people can try out their their pieces and see if they want to buy them for their own gyms. Who I got winning Matt? What's up, Matt from Muscle Discord? I have uh I have Andrew winning. Andrew Jack. Well, Paula, you say LOL, but what are you going to say in a couple hours if you wins? So, you're going to say he was robbed or okay, I get it. It's a total package that the judges are looking for. And Cassan did have better condition, but that doesn't necessarily mean he should win. Not not necessarily at all before I did an extra job last weekend. Free live stream. Oh, that was actually a few weeks ago. It was two weeks ago now. When was when was Detroit? How How far has it been? Detroit was Yeah, two weeks ago. It was two weeks ago. I agree. Free stream, your guys are always peeled. I agree. Middle Eastern guys typically come in. Be Ruse is a guy I couldn't think of earlier. Dennis James front of the show. I don't think so. Spir show. Sasker makes him all look like children. Yeah, you can't deny someone who's that big. Someone with that kind of shape. You just can't. I mean, I understand. I understand you want to see the guy rewarded for conditioning because, you know, in our minds that means he worked harder. He deserves a win. But, you know, that doesn't mean that doesn't really mean he deserves a win. It just means he got into better condition. Uh, once asked to win as a UK fan, you guys have all educated when it comes to total package injection. Win-win. He's this freak. Yeah, it's a better physique, guys. It's just a better physique. Yeah, you can pick it apart. It's not a perfect physique, but is it the best physique on stage right now in Germany today? I believe it is the best physique up there. That That's my opinion. And I have a very educated eye. He needs to compete more though. never brings back super text pro. Well, pretty sure he's skipping Texas this year. Keeps skipping my messages. What was your message, Zionic? There was one that I couldn't even understand. It was something about Hanukkah or not Hanukkah. I don't know what you were saying that you wanted to what you said. I didn't skip your message, Zionic. I I highlighted it. No, did not did not skip your messages. Uh, Andrew was amazing. Even 85%. Exactly. Phil Heath did it. Jack just a lump of big body parts. Wow. John SAS all day long. Weak frontal bio more complete. More condition. Honestly, I think Andrew beats him in beats him in a few poses. Sass looks great, guys. Don't get me wrong. Feel like Ramadan gives Middle Easter survivals a sense of how to peek out. Just gives him a practice at going 12 hours without eating. Good stuff from these athletes. SAS is the champion. Well, we shall see. We shall see. Sass has bear condition. Yeah, that's that's one one aspect. One aspect, guys. Let me see if uh there's any new footage up on AJ. AJ is a great compiler of footage and photos. I don't see anything up up though. Do you guys know where there's any better footage? Any video footage? I haven't seen anything. I haven't seen anything. Yes. Yeah. Sass's arms, Sass's front double bicep is it's not a good shot for him. And Andrew has a great front double. Sergio has a great front double. Yeah, he's he's Sassan's just not very wide overall. He doesn't have a wide structure. You know, it's not This was a classic, guys. Going to Now we're looking at other divisions. Oh, boy. We're way out of way off there. Getting into some wacky stuff. I'll just leave that up. I'll just leave that up while we're talking because I'm going to head out in a couple guys. Andrew, the same mistake of DA and AC. This finalist too late for recovery the title. I I I would be very surprised if Cissan wins this, guys. And it's it's not because he didn't work hard enough. Uh he clearly came in with the best condition of the top three. I do see some other guys in the show that look like they have even better condition, but they didn't make top three because it's not all about condition. It's about a lot of other things. Sess I'm going to guess Patty. I think he's about So if Andrew is 6'2, Sergio's right around six foot. I'm going to say he's like 57 looks like. I don't think he's super short, but he's not he's not a taller guy. Yeah. Anyway. Yeah. All right, guys. Uh I'm going to head off until we get to uh the results, which should be in a couple hours. Oh, 5'9. Is he that tall? Okay, he's taller than me. A lot of people are. It's not much of an accomplishment. Sergio looks like his father with the mustache. He played his his father in the movie Bigger, the movie about Joe Weider. Sergio actually played his dad, Sergio Senior. Now Sass is 5'8. Now he's 5'9. Make up your minds, guys. Norm Spirits. Yeah, how dare you? How dare you argue with me, right? Anyway, guys. Yeah. So, I'll be back in a couple couple hours with the results. Uh I'm guessing it's going to be Andrew. Um we'll see if Sissan does pull it off. That will show you. The judges are going to reward superior condition overall package. And I have no skin in the game. I'm not Andrew's best buddy or anything like that. Uh, but I would give I would give it to him just on what he has, the size, the shape. He's just an incredible bodybuilder. He's fifth in the world, guys. Cassan is not at that level yet. We'll see how he does as the season goes on. He needs to Oh, he said in the Menace podcast he's 5'9. Okay, we'll see what happens, guys. If San gets it, good for him. But we're going to find out very, very shortly. It's already 7:14 p.m. The finals have started. So, I'll be back in a bit, guys, with the results. So, thanks for watching, guys. appreciate it.