What's up everybody? Welcome to Power Hour with me and Giles Tiger Thomas and we are fired up. The Mr. Olympia contest, the Olympia weekend is now just a couple days away. We're recording this on Tuesday. All that action starts on Friday. Giles, uh, there was a huge story. We're going to start with the Mike Somerfeld controversy because I have done zero mention or coverage of it in any of my videos. U but this blew up for some reason like just about four days ago and it's it was all over. I was I was one of the only people that didn't do a video about it. But uh let's play this first. So this was uh all these old clips of Mike are popping up now. This was one of him talking to Dennis James about his height. This was four years ago. So, here's what he said back. >> Okay. So, at that point, he was saying he was 173. I've taken the liberty of uh putting some of these. So, uh 173. So, I've seen him I've seen him. People say he's 5'7 or even shorter. We'll get to that in a second. Which would make him 170 centimeters. That's what he just said he was, right? >> In that video. Y >> um but he but then he said to Dennis James, this was four years ago, that he was claiming to be 173, I believe, which is the next one up, like 172. I messed up. It should say centimeters, not kilograms there. However, uh he's been competing, we're going to find out, at the weight cap for somebody who's over 5'9, meaning they're measuring him at over 5'9. Uh this is the cont. This has gone all over the place, too. This is them getting his height. Uh I think this is last year's Olympia. >> Oh, [\h__\h] >> And that is a lot of hair. Look at all that hair. >> Yeah. I mean, the thumbnail, people have done these AI renditions I put in the thumbnail that show what his head would look like without all that hair. It's it's it's a good inch, maybe closer to two inches of hair. Uh, good lord, it just goes on and on. And I'm going to play one final clip. This is probably the most damning. He was on the Cutler cast with Jay Cutler and manager Matt just a couple days ago. Uh, and this is from a video, a short video that Ivan Bodybuilding, another Blackstone Labs guy does great work. Ivan Bodybuilding put this together, but I want to play this last clip before we start talking. >> What's What's your weight cap in in Classic? >> Secret. >> No, weight cap. What's your cap now? How much do you weigh? >> How much can you weigh for your height? >> What's the cap in your height? >> Well, no, it's public. What What is it? What is the cap in men's >> 12? In order for his weight cap to be 212 pounds, his height needs to be at least 5 foot n after comparing him to Jake Cutler who is supposed to be 5 foot n and comparing him to Kan Pearson who is supposed to be 5'5. Also Derek Clansford who is 5'5 and this bodybuilder right here who is also 5'5 next to Beck Stabani who is 5'9. You guys tell me what do you think? What is Mike's actual weight and how the hell is he even competing in classic physique? Is It's not looking good, Giles. It's not looking good for Mike, at this point as far as uh I don't know how tall he really is, but based on everything we just saw, he's not 5'9. There's no way. I mean, I remember I I've only >> Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead. Continue. >> Yeah, this is not good. I mean, I I like I said, I was um I was actually on a different podcast last week and they were asking me about it and I said, to be honest, I've not really paid much attention to it. I'm not really that interested. Um, but then I started seeing all mostly Brazilian Instagram accounts. And I'll be honest, I didn't pay that much attention to him at first because I thought, okay, it's Brazilian. They're trying to favor Raone. They're trying to get him pulled out the Olympia, whatever. But, um, it's I didn't realize quite how how bad it was. I saw the Dennis James clip before and he says I'm 170, but I say I'm 173. And, um, so that would make him 212. But I actually saw this last week and I thought at the end of last week and I thought what I'm guessing he's going to be doing now he's going to prepare for a worst case scenario because I think it was the next cap down was 204 which I mean eight pound you know if you weigh if he weighed in um and they measured him in and um he was like 211 or something there's nothing you can do in a couple of hours you can't lose that much 78 pound but if he's got a heads up a week out then that it's more likely that you can get eight pound off so I'm guessing I I would predict that he weighs in at about 203 204. Um thing is I actually worry for the guy's health as well when it when you come in at that kind of that kind of drop when you're already because his cheeks are already sunken in. He's already rock on. I've seen the pictures. I've seen the updates. He looks sensational. Um but thing is if he has if he has kind of technically cheated then this kind of because we've always been it's always been of a bit of a mystery about Mike Summerrfield. Why has he why has he got twice as much thickness as everyone else? Why does he look like a 212 not a classic? it would really really explain um all that. So I mean you can see there with the hair he's I mean he's there's a good couple of inches of hair there at least but the thing is if they're doing it with him then they're probably doing it with other athletes as well. So I think we're going to have a big reset next week and I'm glad that they the email went out where they said they were reme-measuring everyone. Um, I know that's supposed to be kept secret, but um, you know, because thing is I think we do need a bit of a reset and certainly would help the um, it would help um, whittle down the numbers for the Olympia because if if if Mike's kind of guilty of um, of kind of um, manipulating, you know, the the the end result, then I'm guaranteed other athletes are as well. So, um, right now Ron, I'm very very hardline with stuff like this. if he's been knowingly and it is cheating. Let's be honest, it is cheating because you're trying to get extra body weight which which will you know at the end of the day I know it's classic. It's kind of not technically bodybuilding but it will and it can give an advantage over the other athletes mate. So um I bet he's sweating right now literally in both senses of the word. But um I mean I really I I think this could be this could be quite a big storyline because imagine if he gets in and they they say you're this height and even if he comes down to 204 what if he's the category the hype category below and it's still too much um you know the favorite for the Olympia win is going to have to pull out of the of the show mate. >> Yeah. You know some people who are you know uninformed ignorant they don't know any better. They say you could jump in at 212. No you can't. You can't jump into another division at the Olympia. It doesn't work that way. So, if he misses his weight, he's out of the Olympia. He's not competing in the Olympia. He's going to have to find some other show to do. He could do 212 at any of the post Olympia shows if he wants. I'm sure they'd love to have him. But, so >> if he is So, he's been competing at uh 212, which means he is over 5'9 by their measurements. Uh we're thinking he's gonna try to get down to 204, which is eight pounds. But what if he's actually if he's as short as it would seem he might be compared to all those he was standing next to Lunsford. I mean I understand there might be they're not exactly you know their heads weren't level but I think Derek was a little bit in front. It's hard to say but still here's a good one. Here's him next to Logan. Uh this is another thing from Ivan's video. So Logan Franklin is he's 5'11 or six foot. Let's let's say he's six foot. Mike looks significantly shorter there. Uh it looks it looks it looks that's more than a three-inch difference. So, we're gonna find out. I mean, there's no there's no hiding anymore. If he's going to have his height, they're going to push that thing down. They're going to squash his hair. Uh and we're going to find out how tall he really is. But gez, if he ends up being under under 58, if he's see, so 204 was between 5'8 and 5'9. that allows him to be 204. However, if he's anything under 5 foot8 uh up to including 5'8, he's gonna have to get down to 197 89.4 kilograms. I mean, if he was planning on being 212 and now he might have to be 197, that's 12. That's >> 15 pounds. Wow. That is a lot of weight to have to to shed. And yeah, you talk about health. Yeah. And you know what kind of lengths these athletes will go to if he if it is say he's say he gets down to 204 and it turns out he's got to be what was it 197? >> Yeah. >> You know you know the kind of things that athletes will do to get down in weight. I mean and you know we've and we've had deaths before. We've had so um and also like the stress as well. I mean I've been looking at his comments on his in I mean I'll be honest some of them I I I have got a quite a dark dark sense of humor. So, I've been reading some of the comments and some of the the gifts and stuff I've seen on his comments. I mean, they're bloody funny. And some of the AI stuff I've been seeing, the memes and everything. I mean, it is funny, but you know what? It's actually not funny when it comes to it because you think about how you know this Olympia and thing is it's not just if it's him. Just say for example, he is found to be caught out and obviously because we all know our own heights, you know, and especially when you're in a in a category that requires you to know your height. Um there's no kind of making excuses for it. But it's not just the competitors that are at fault. It's the people taking the me measuring. >> Yeah. Yeah. You know, I I just want to add, you know, we we've both known Neil for many years. This brings us this brings me no joy to to report on this, but I would be remiss if I didn't if I didn't talk about this. It'd be a glaring error of omission because this is big big news. Class Classic is a major division. It's a growing division. >> It's so popular and this this is the top story right now. So any any athletes who have been skating by with big hair? I mean Bon's another guy that comes to mind. Bion's got a lot of hair. >> I mean anybody where I'd >> Yeah. >> The thing is Ron you know when these guys are getting measured in there's going to be all eyes on those whoever's in that room is going to be paying very very close attention. So there's no oh look over there and then we'll get the measure and write it down. I mean it's going to be it's going to be like all eyes are going to be on that height scale. And thing is um somebody posted on um Instagram yesterday. It says, you know, Logan and and Ruff might be the only two left on stage because they believe that they're the only two that you know over the top guys that are actually not lying about their their height and weight. So it might not just be >> R um Summerfield that get that comes out because I I I there's no sort of thing is if bodybuilding wants to be taken seriously as a sport, you know, you have to have rules in place. remember um I was watching a documentary a few months ago about Lynford Christie. Do you remember the the the 100 meter sprinter? Lynford Christie. >> I remember the name. Yeah. >> Yeah. Well, he he jumped the gun I think it was twice and he jumped the gun twice like by a split second at the Olympics and they disqualified him and he was like he was probably on track to win with his with his with his timings and everything. So then he had to wait another four years before he could have another crack at the Olympics. So bodybuilding, if it be taken seriously as a sport, if you don't have these rules in place, then you must follow them. You can't have you can't have a 220 guy in 212, you know, just go, "Yeah, yeah, you're 212, mate." You know, it's um these the these these rules have to be maintained and they have to be um you know, because otherwise he does he does have an unfair advantage over the other competitors. So, I'm going to call this this next weekend, you know, for the classic a potential I'm going to call it the big reset because we might see some top names not actually make it to the stage and uh and think about what that will do to their careers. >> Uh I would just feel awful. I mean, but it's it's I don't want to say it's it's it's their own all their own fault because like you said, the officials who have been measuring them, they have to take some sort of responsibility for this because they're the ones who did the official measurement. So if if they were letting these guys get by with bigger hair or whatever, you know, another thing they said is Somerfield's got so much gel in his hair, the hair, you could push down on it all day, you could probably hit it with a hammer, it it wouldn't move. I mean, I have stuff I put in my hair is spiking glue. This stuff's like a helmet when you when you put enough of it in there. Um, but I think they're going to have to do the I don't know if they plan on doing the heights and weights publicly or at least with media present, but I feel like they're sort of obligated to now because if they don't, everyone's going to suspect, well, they just let Mike skate by, they let this guy skate by. It's it's just going to be a especially fans of, you know, I'm not going to put them on the spot, but the Brazilian fans, if they see that Mike was allowed to compete at 212 again, um, and they and no, there were no media present, they're going to assume there was some kind of funny business going on and their guy Raone, you know, Ramon's been struggling to make weight for for the past couple years, too. So, yeah. I mean, >> yes. >> Have you heard Have you heard anything about the media being present during that? Mhm. >> Now, have you heard anything about the media being allowed to to witness the classic guys being hided and waited? >> I don't know, but there should be a certain amount of people in there that care enough to pay close attention, which I'm sure there will be, if you know what I mean. That that's my point. Um, but uh yeah, because imagine if he wins and then they find out. I think that's where they have to do it properly because if he ends up winning and then you find out you know you're gonna you're gonna it's like bloody um like when the Ben Johnson failed the you've found positive winstrol you know all your hard work gets undone. So, um, and thing is if he's it sounds like potentially that he's been that it's it's not just like half a centimeter out, it's like a good few inches, >> you know. So, um, I just if this is the if this happened, then I don't understand how they thought they could have get away they could have got away with it, mate. >> Yeah. I mean, like you said, for the past the first time I saw him, especially last year when he took second and bumped it, I just couldn't understand how he was able to make weight. To me, he looked so big for a classic guy. So much muscle mass. It just boggled my mind. And I asked him, >> he's a he's a nice guy. I interviewed him, geez, about it's been at least six months now. And I I can't even remember what his response was, but he probably deflected the question a little bit, but yeah, it's it's it doesn't make sense because that's Class of Physique was created. these weight caps, which have gone up twice since they started the division nine years ago. They've bumped it up, but it's still not good enough. A lot of these guys want to be as big as they possibly can while still being in condition, which is that's that's open bodybuilding. Um, so yeah, >> go ahead. >> Yeah, but one, remember what you said a few weeks ago? You said that you thought that if Summerfield went into the 212 Olympia, he'd be first call out in top five. >> Yes. Yeah. >> So, what does the thing is, what does that tell you? It's like the thing is I have to have faith that even if he did compete and if he did make it on stage that it's still going to be judged as classic, not bodybuilding. Because I remember Pittsburgh and New York, I said if it's judged as bodybuilding, Josema will beat Terrence. But if it's judged as classic, Terrence wins. So, I have to have faith that it's going to be judged because I I I look there and I think I see a bodybuilder. I see a 212 guy posing very classically, but for me, he's not even proper classic, mate. I just I just I just Yeah. I Yeah. So, and thing is like you you put him next to guys like Logan or Terrence, he looks like he's got twice the amount of muscle, mate. >> Yeah. So, it's going to be very interesting. And I think they're going to the uh whoever's doing the weights and the measures or the heights and the and the weights, >> you know, all eyes are going to be on them and they they're not going to they're not going to be able to to do anything underhanded or shade. They're going to have to really squish down push down that measuring stick on the top of the heads otherwise. >> Yeah, >> I think they should live stream it. >> Oh, I agree. That's actually a great idea. I think there should be I think there should be several cameras on that uh you know one zoomed right in on the on the measuring stick. There should be one, you know, the thing is everyone's going to be watching. Like there you watch there like ter tamer's not paying attention. There's a couple of people paying attention like two people that I can see plus this cameraman. So there's maybe what three, four, five people paying any sort of attention. But now you've just drawn so much attention to this uh to this situation, everyone's going to be watching. So I mean it's it could be scandalous. It could be really big talking point. And I hope it doesn't overshadow what else is going on at the Olympia, you know, it's the Olympia and um and thing is like no one wants to see guys being booted up off stage, you know, not allowed to get on stage or to be called a cheat or anything like that. No one wants to see that, you We want to see how Summerfield, Raone, Terrence, you know, and all these guys, Jo, all these guys shake up cuz say like Summerfield and one another gets kicked out, then Terrence wins or Raone wins, they're going to be like, "Yeah, but it's a hollow victory because so and so didn't turn up." You know, it's um we'll put an asterisk next to that one. So, I mean, I'd love to obviously I'd love to see Terrence win um against all these guys because I think he is true classic. You know, the presentation, the posing, the symmetry way that he's to me, he's just going to look small next to Summerfill, mate. >> I mean, he already I can already see looking at him now the thickness is is a different level, several levels below what we see with Summerrfell. Yeah. >> What is classic? Is classic's not supposed to be about >> size is a factor. It's not like you you you shouldn't have any size, but it's not the overriding factor. It's not as important, say, as it is in open bodybuilding and 212 bodybuilding. Uh where bigger men, the bigger men tend to dominate. Uh, but still, yeah, I mean, Terrence is probably the he's my logical pick if if Somerfield gets disqualified or if he ends up having to get down to 197. You know, I don't know what him and Neil are doing right now. Are they contingency plans? I'm sure they're really figuring out how what's what are they really going to measure me at? How tall am I really? And that's what they're going to base the weight that they're going to they're shooting for. And they don't have much time. Today's Tuesday. I think they weigh these guys. I think they do that all on Thursday. >> Yeah. >> So, there's not much time to lose a lot of weight if that needs to be done. >> Ron, I'm guessing I I'll be honest. I've got Neil's number and I speak to Neil quite frequently, but I've deliberately stayed away from messaging him or calling him because I don't want him I don't want to put him in that position where he feel because he's always honest with me about stuff, you know, um various athletes. He'll tell me stuff that I'm guessing some sometimes doesn't want he doesn't want to be shared with anybody else or he'll send me pictures and say don't and he doesn't even need to say don't show this to anyone. So, I didn't wanna I didn't want to make that that kind of reach out to him for that reason because it's kind of a negative thing. So, but I'm guessing if as soon as I saw that last weekend, I thought they're going to they're going to try and pull down to 204 just in case because think you've got to prepare for a worst case scenario. Um, the thing is the worst case scenario, ironically, sadly, ironically, the the the worst case scenario might be that it needs to be lower than 204. So, it all hinges upon that bloody um that weigh in and height in or whatever you want to call it, the height measuring because that's uh that's when we're going to find out what's really going on. And not just with Mike, but with other athletes as well. >> Yeah. Well, I guess we should roll into predictions, but we want to look at some how some of these guys are shaping up, too. And since we're on classic, let's just let's just be crazy and start with classic. Uh, so the other guy who's in contention for the title, he's been runner up. We just talked about Ramondino. Uh, Ramon Rocha is his actual name, guys. He actually has a real name. Uh, these updates are in the dark. I don't know why it's so dark in this place. That was two weeks ago. They're all in Vegas now. Obviously, your Instagram is flooded with gym gym shots of these guys at this point. Uh, but Ramon Ramon is looking pretty damn fantastic, too. Uh, does does he have a chance against against Ruffin, against Mike, if Mike makes weight? >> Yes. I mean, I my top three is Ruffin, Summerfield, and and he said hers then and uh and Mike. So, I I see that I don't see anyone unless one of those three guys really messes up. I see that as the absolute solid top three. Um the only thing with Raone is um he can be hit and miss as we as he's proven. Um the I saw some posts a few weeks ago saying look how he's improved this and he's improved that. He looks amazing. But thing is you know he's got to make weight and sometime like Wesley Wesley last year two weeks out when he did that guest posing in Germany he looked like he'd improved certain body parts. you know, full round, but then when he crashes down into the weight limit, weight cap, they can lose everything that they've gained that you thought looked amazing six weeks ago. So, um I he's going to look as good as he's always looked. Um and of course, he's an absolutely a contender. Um but, um because I'll be honest, I didn't I I didn't really see the hype around Raone until I saw him at the 22 22 2022 Olympia. We were there and he walked out and I kind of saw I kind of thought, "Oh, I kind of get it. He is really good actually. When you see him in the flesh, he's even more impressive. And because sometimes you need to see sometimes the, you know, what the hype is and then when you see them in person, sometimes it shows and sometimes it doesn't. But with Raone, it really really did. So, um, he's he's really good and, uh, I think he's he's obviously a threat for the title. Um, I just really I just I really want to see him I want to see him next to Ruffin. >> I wonder how Bron's going to do. Bion has I don't think he's out of the top five ever yet in all these years at all. >> That's really He's been in every year since it started 2016. >> Yeah. And he was I don't think he's ever been out of the top five. So this was yesterday. >> Look at that. That is about six inches of hair on top of Bion's head. >> His hair's getting squished a lot. >> I mean, I don't know. They're gonna have to really They're gonna have to get some industrial strength. uh something. I don't know what they're going to do. It's It's going to be a challenge. I don't envy the task of whoever does this because everyone's going to be saying push push till they crack someone's skull open with that damn >> No, you just you just have you have somebody there. You have several cameras on it and you make sure it's done properly till it touches the top of their bloody head. There's no messing around. It's quite simple. It's actually very very simple. It's it is to me it's as simple as looking down and seeing what the weight is. >> Ah, true. I mean, the way I because I remember I used I actually more than one occasion when I was covering shows for MD and I would go to the the athletes meetings, I would sit there and live stream the weigh-ins, the heights, all that. They never stopped me. They never they never pushed me away and said, "Get out of here. Don't show that." You know, I'd love to I'd love to see that again. If they don't live stream it, I don't think they've ever live streamed an athletes meeting before. But but also if some of them are like over height then they're going to probably want to look that the the pro league and everything is probably on and the Olympia committee are probably going to want to look back and see who took those heights because I wouldn't want to be in that position if I took the height of say Summerfield last year and the year before and so and so and this athlete and that athlete. I'm not just trying to single out Summerfield. Like I'd be I'd be really sweating now if um because I would expect a call to say Charles, you know, you you measured him as this height and he's really not that height. what the hell is going on, you know, because the end of the day that's that's some they they're doing that for a reason, you know. Um because the thing is rules have got to be rules rules are rules, mate. And you've got to enforce them. Otherwise, what is the point? What is it? It's just a freaking It's just pointless. >> A free-for-all. >> Yeah, exactly. It's just it ridicules the sport and it ridicules all the athletes that have actually that have got their height and weight properly done. >> Yeah. So, another guy I think has got a very very strong chance of cracking. He was sixth place last year when he was only I think he had just turned 23 that week or something and he's I don't think he's even 24 yet. Jose Manuel Moz from Spain. Uh the conditioning alone that back his back is one of the greatest backs in the all of all of Classic Zeke for sure. I I don't see this guy being out of the top five this year. >> I've got him fourth. >> Fourth. Okay. OMA. Yeah, I've got him fourth. And if he if he doesn't make if he'd say he doesn't make top five, I really hope he goes back to open, mate. >> Really? Wow. Okay. I mean, I I I like his physique in classic. I mean, it's great that we have so many guys moving to open, but let's keep some people in classic for God's sake. >> Yeah. >> Oh, come on, Ron. Mate, the amount of I mean, you could have a different top five at the Olympia every single year and the standard would all be high. You know, there's there the the the depth of the classic is just incredible. I mean, every single week I'm seeing new guys that are just I saw the guy that won that show last weekend in um I forget where it was, but he he just completely blew my mind. The guy with a really nice vacuum and the he copied Terrence's routine, but I mean, a guy like that, I mean, he just looked amazing. >> And look at this is look at the look at the skull. You could see that I don't know what the name of that bone is right there. The cheek, the cheekbone is jutting so prominently from Jose in Jose's face right there. And look at you could you could stick a stick your fist in that gap between them. Unbelievable. So this guy this guy gets super super shredded. I >> I think I think I've got him I think I think he'll slip in around fourth because you know he's not going to miss with his condition. He's I mean the idea of this guy coming in anywhere near anything you can consider off I just think is completely outrageous. It's ludicrous. But then again, it's classic and everyone is on, you know. So, um yeah, I think I think fourth, uh the top three, Summerfield, Raone, him fourth, >> and then I'm kind of looking at um I think >> Who you got? Who do you have in first? >> Oh, first, um I think Sunfield. >> Okay, Mike. Number two, you have Terrence. >> Uh Ramon. >> Oh, you have Ramon. Okay. >> Yeah. Yeah. See, I'm not biased, am I? >> No, not at all. cuz Ramon's never done a tour with you. So, >> yeah, I think I think um I think Terrence is going to take a solid third. >> Okay, you have Josema in fourth. >> I've got fourth. Uh fifth, I think Michael Dull because he's he's very consistent. A very very consistent guy. >> That's true. That's true. >> And um and unless and if he's still holding his own, I think Bion will probably get six. >> Okay. Yeah, >> I think that's a safe bet. And then you got new guys like um Nile Darwin, the the One Punch Naz. People are thinking he'd be top five, but I think he'll look small next to guys like Joe Semer and Raone and guys like that. Um I think he's he's a top 10 guy. I think he was 11th place last year, but I can see him moving up two or three maybe even four spots. >> You know, I really I am remiss. I should have shown Dool because Doulool isn't Look at that. Wow. >> He always good. What was he seventh last year? I think was he? >> I believe so. But he's he's con again, you know, we're both conditioned snobs and I've never seen this guy miss the mark. Not even >> we've got don't forget we've got no Wesley, no Bumstead, no Z. And uh and with the Bull, he's like Joe Sema. He's very very consistent with his conditioning. In fact, the only person I compare his conditioning to is who how he looked at his last show. I don't compare him to anybody else because his conditioning when he's on is so far ahead. Sometimes I'll look at him and I'll be disappointed, but he might still be the hardest guy on the whole in the whole lineup in these kind of that non-Olympia shows. It's like his conditioning is that far ahead. I'm like, it's off for Michael because he looked better at the last show. But it's like I said, he could still be the hardest guy on stage by a mile. It's crazy. >> That's so You just reminded me of my one of my favorite Kill Bill references for fans of the Quentyn Tarantino series. Hattorii Hanzo was this mythical sword maker who made the the greatest swords of all time, katana, samurai swords. And uh one of the characters said the only the only thing you can compare a hattorii Hanzo sword to is another hattorii Hanzo sword. So >> like >> it's like Dexter when Dexter was a little bit off what we had ever seen him. He was usually still better condition than everyone else, but we're so we were so used to seeing him at 100%. If he showed up at 98, we be like, "Ah, Dexter's off." But Doulool. Yeah. Never never off. >> It's um it's a blessing and a curse at the same time. >> Yeah. Because people do once you set a standard, people will always expect that standard. >> Yeah. >> That was Dubai. >> Remember I remember Jose Raymond in 2012 when we saw him in a couple of shows, the New York Pro and then he did Prague and he did the British Grand Prix and every other show I saw him at, he looked off because he looked so crazy at those three shows. >> True. True. Yeah. I think we'll go in reverse order now. We're going to go to 212. >> Why not? See, you notice how I'm leaving my predictions out. I used >> Come on, Ronald. Come on, Ronald. Don't be a [\h__\h] boy. >> First of all, let me see if I even disagree with you at all. Mike, Ramon, I think I would maybe flip flip Terrence and Raone. That's the only thing I would do. >> Oh, Terrence's gonna hate me. >> No, I mean, well, Terrence, they don't care. There are there are people who refuse to ever interview with me again because of where I had them in a prediction. True story. >> See >> that that to be honest I find that so weak and so annoying and I've been in the same position believe it or not, Ron. >> No, I'm sure you have. I I know you have. >> It's very frustrating. Like or they block you or something like that or they won't say hello to you at a show and then you and then you find out through somebody else that oh well he didn't he didn't like this about you and that's why you refused to do an interview and you're like really? >> Yeah. So Keon, obviously it's kind of one of the one of those divisions where nobody seems to be in doubt. >> Who's gonna win 212? Everyone snap immediately. They say Keon. It's not even >> it's not even a question. >> He's winning the whole top five, mate. >> Yeah, he'll be first, second, third, fourth. But >> I heard they've already sent him the trophy. >> You could see he's bigger and thicker than he was last year. Last year, was he supposedly right at 200 or 2011? Well, I I put that message on the group chat yesterday because I I messaged Patrick. I've just lally heard from Patrick because they're doing some live stream together in Prague. Yeah. >> And I said, Patrick, I said, can you um because he was 20 200 2011 on uh weighed in last year. Patrick confirmed it was 2011. So that's 11 pounds under the 212 limit when he looked at won it quite easily. That's that's how he was. He was 201. >> Wow. This year he's been I think he's been 217 and um the goal is that 217 for several weeks and the goal is to get him down to 212 obviously which Patrick because Patrick's out there so he'll be keeping a very very close eye. >> So and by the time he hits the stage Patrick said he's probably going to be a couple of pounds heavier. The thing is it doesn't always happen where after the weighin that they fill out because I spoke to Derek Lunford in 2019 and I said um this is when obviously Derek was in the 212 and I said uh you know afterwards I said what was your stage weight and he says well I weighed in at 212 he says but by the time I hit the stage I was about 209 because you always assume oh they're pulling themselves down to 212 and then by the time they eat up and taking some whatever fluid or whatever they they actually fill up but some guys don't their weight their body weight keeps on dropping. I did in my last show. I was I dropped like six kilos. It was just from just like manipulating water. It's crazy because you think you're just automatically going to fill out, but I think he's going to be So, say he's 214 215 on stage at the by the time he hits the stage at the Olympia. That's going to be like 14 pounds heavier on a guy that's 5 foot five with lines like that, condition like that. So, the fact that I mean, and I saw this update this morning and everyone's just losing their minds over it. He just looks absolutely freaking crazy. >> So, if that's correct, he has gained over 15 pounds of muscle since last year's Olympia. Wow. Because clearly he wasn't trying to make he was so safely under 212 last year. It's not like he was >> losing muscle to get down to 201. >> Well, yeah, but hang on. Um Patrick didn't specify that the 20020 was what he weighed in at or what he hit the stage at. So he might have hit the stage at maybe 204. So it's probably more likely about£10, but thing is£10 still. And thing is you see the condition he's in. And I mean like the first year he won it, I actually had Karita winning it. I thought it was AI thought it was a super close one, but last year I mean I know Karita didn't look his best because he you know Jansen no dietited him and he didn't look his best and um it wasn't normal Karita but um Keon won it so was so far ahead of everybody else in that one and thing is if he's put another 10 12 15 pound or whatever you want to call it he's going to um there's there's no one to touch him mate I think he's um and thing is I thought it'd be like another couple of years before he started hitting the 212 limit and struggling to make weight but it looks within one year he's gone from 2011 to a guy that is actually really really having to be careful to even you know to that he's he's having to pay closer attention this year to making weight than he was last year. >> Yeah. I mean it's it's astonishing. And you're going to be in Prague. You're going to see his open debut which might be about 220, right? >> Uh well Patrick said to me he's been ready at 220 for I think Hang on. I could check the message. I mean, he's I think he said for several weeks, like three or four weeks, I think he's been ready at 220. >> Wow. >> So, we'll probably see what we saw from Bumstead without the classic limit where he was 241.5 weighed in at the Olympia uh 242 because that's his limit. And then uh without hair >> and then he was 248 uh at Prague. And that six pounds on a guy that's 6'1 made quite a big difference to me. I thought he looks I thought he looked incredible. Maybe it was just because I was there and I wasn't at the Olympia, you know, but to me he looked he looked incredible. So, think about like double that on a guy that's 5 foot five, not six foot one and uh you're going to see something quite different. So, um I'm starting to uh I'm starting to get very very excited about Prague. >> Oh, it's going to be a great show. So, Sean, you know, we me I'm not showing his updates because he's got, you know, 5XL sweatshirts on in all his updates as you he stays covered up till the very end. Clarita has either been the winner or the runner up for the past four years in a row. Now, um I would love to see him still hold on to that runnerup spot. We do have the young kid from Turkey, Nihot, who looks pretty damn amazing. >> But Sean Shawn still has all the tools that >> that got him to to the Olympia title, the 212 Olympia title, and have kept him fighting Keon. He's still got the round bubbly muscle, still gets in a great condition. We did see him slip up a little bit at the Olympia last year. He came in very very flat, but >> Oh, lucky he get second. >> Yeah, boss of Outlaw stepped up to the plate. I think he took him on right after that show. >> Yeah, Ron, I went to I've got a video of me. I was actually had my phone in my hand. I was filming it and I said to Sean, I said, "All right, Sean." Because Sean was coming off stage with his check. And I said to him, I said, "That's more effing like it, Sean." And he says, "Oh, bro." He says, "The Olympia was an effing [\h__\h] show." I was I'm fil Sean. I'm filming this, mate. He said, "Yeah, it was an effing [\h__\h] show." And I said, "Well, this is more like it, mate." This is more I mean this is the the Prague footage you're showing from last year now and that is more the Sha that um that we all know and love but I thought he was lucky to get second Olympia last year because that you know pulling him down it all came off his legs his even his back disappeared. I mean he was um I thought he was he was very very he should have looking back at that he should have been very very happy that he got second but um I think um I think he's going to look um a lot better than he did last year. So, I've got I've got I've still got Sean holding on to that second spot, mate. >> So, I mean, this is my pick for third place right here. This kid, 22 years old. You're a kid. This is Nihhat Kaya. Am I saying it right? >> 21. >> Nat Kaya from Turkey. >> I think he lives in Dubai now. This was back in at the Dubai show when he won that. Um, and that was July. And if you look at his updates, he already looks like he's filled out even more as you expect from someone so young. Uh, this is Oh, that's 13 weeks ago. So, he's another he's another Patrick tour client. All right, so this is more recent. This is nine hours ago. Condition crazy. I don't know why that's so small. Those delts are just insane on this kid. >> And there's no [\h__\h] in them, mate. dodgy dodgy delts. I'm stealing all your >> You know, that's my that's the thing that really bugs me and I'm getting some I'm getting a lot of hate for that mind. But do you know what? I'll keep pointing it out because I was thinking about this in the other day. I was thinking what who was the first guy to really start pointing out the stomachs when they started popping up 20 25 years ago when the guys were just getting bigger and bigger and bigger. Who was the first one to put their hand up, you know, either in the media or in the in the federation itself to say, "Do you know what? This is getting out of hand now. We need to stop. We need to sort of um we need to sort of start stamping this out. Um so I'm the same with the delts, mate. I freaking hate it. But look at him. He's got lines in his shoulders there, the fold, the rounds. He's lean so you can see all the detail. You can see all the different heads, you know, striations his triceps and everything. And you know, it's um the vascularity. He's not you're not just trying to fill it to try and make it look more voluminous. >> Yeah. Look, >> I think he's amazing. He's amazing. He's amazing. >> 22 years old. Wow. What a future he's got. I I mean I think I think with Keon in the driving seat, if he stays in the 212, then he's the best he can hope for really, let's be honest, is um second place. He's probably going to do what Cormier did at the uh the Armor Classic or or Jay Cutler until Ronnie started slipping and you know, time started catching up with him. I think he's going to be he could be like a four, five time runner up at the 212. Um so, and I'll message Patrick as well because I'm curious to know what he weighs. Um because I remember I was in Milan last year with uh with with Lauren and I was messaging Patrick because it was the weekend he won the show in Dubai. Uh or was he second? He was second, wasn't he? Second. >> Well, he won Dubai this year. I think last year he was second. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I said to Patrick, I said, "Is he is he going to keep going to try and qualify?" He says, "No, no, no." He said, "We're going to shut it down. I'm going to come back better next year." He said, "He's really young. He doesn't need to be going doing show after show after show to go and get several place at the Olympia." you know, it's um it's not, you know, because he I think Patrick kind of knew how good this kid would be and also what stage he was at in his career. So, it it paid off because he shut it down. He did that one show, got on stage, people saw how good he was, how good he could be. He shut it down, came back, won Dubai, and uh and now he's coming in as uh I mean, many people have got him beating Clarida. I wouldn't be shocked uh if it happened, but um I think he's AI think he's going to be a solid third place this year, mate. I don't see him placing any lower than that. >> Right. Trying to think of who else. Obviously, we got >> Carth. What about Lucas Garcia? >> We'll check him out in a sep. So, Carth was fourth last year. >> You can't discount anybody that's done that well at the Olympia. >> I mean, he always looks he always looks fantastic. That grainy old man muscle cuz he's no spring chicken. He's not a senior citizen, but you can see the white hair on the beard just like I'm starting to get. Jose got >> thing is Ron it's like with the open there's a lot of new guys coming in that are very very very very good this year. >> Oh 100%. So this is Gareth at the New York Pro. This is a little while two 2023. This was two years ago. Uh but he did the Texas Pro as an open >> and he was sixth place. Look at that. >> Looked good. Do you know what he weighed there? I I do remember him saying but I've forgotten now. >> I I want to say it was like 211. >> Yeah. So he was he was still 212 then. >> He definitely was. Yeah, I remember because >> uh Lori, his his partner, girlfriend, whatever. Uh she the title has always escaped me for people. She she wanted to keep it a secret until the show was over because, you know, we all assumed, well, he must be 215, 220. No, he didn't need to do that. He's got a fantastic physique that held up very well against some of those guys in Texas like Joe Palasios who are just hulkish, monstrous human beings. Hutchinson's like 250 guy. >> There three guys that could potentially knock him out of that kind of fourth spot. Um you got Francisco Barios who beat Calderon at the New York Pro. >> Yeah. >> You've got Melman, you know, Jose Merberry. >> And this Lucas Garcia mate, he won two shows this year and there's a lot of hype around him. Um and there's also I can get his name. There's a Brazilian guy as well that looks really really good. But um the thing is I I think Patrick potentially could have three guys in the top five. >> Patrick's killing it this year as a coach. >> Oh, also I I'm sure I'm okay announcing this, but he's going to be coming in on one of the categories or two two of the categories in Prague because I've Yeah. Um not open because I think it would be he needs to tend to key on and I think he's I don't want him to show any bias in the live stream. So he's um but so so I thought maybe a couple of the classes. So, uh, so Pat, me and Patrick tour are going to be doing some live stream together. >> He's going to recuse himself, as they say. >> Yeah. Me and Patrick about our moments. M. Me and Patrick have clashed. >> I know. I didn't know you were talking to Patrick right now. >> Well, it's, you know, it's like up and down. People talk to you, then they don't talk to you. Then you say something they don't like about one of their athletes that they disagree with and then they're upset with you and and then you say something nice and then you're all friends again and it's all forgotten about. It's just the way that the merrygoround goes round, mate. >> Boy, oh boy. So, Lucas, >> what show did he win? Wow, look at that. So, Prague, this is Prague last year. Must >> Oh, he's better than that now. He's better than that now. >> Yeah. Wow. >> Yeah, he's won two shows. Um, and to be honest, the improvements he's made now blow last year's away, mate. >> Wow. Yeah, these are more recent. These were yesterday. >> Yeah. Then you got guys like Marcus R. Marco Ruse. Um, who else? There's some other names. Middleman. People think he'll be top three. I don't know whether he'll be top three because for me his conditioning and kind of detail and maturity still I don't know I mean he could scrape in he could maybe make top five. Um I wouldn't mind seeing Melman against um Kerif because I think they've got similar kind of physiques. So it's just whether the the more established guys are going to be able to fight off these kind of new guys coming into the 212. But you know what I was thinking about this today as well. I felt like the 212 was a bit stagnant for a few years. I felt like there was, you know, Flex Lewis left and then, you know, then, you know, Derek Lunsford and kept it exciting and then Derek slip switch, you know, switched over to Open and and I felt like it needed a few it needed new blood to keep kind of keep it going because otherwise it's just the same faces over and over again. Um but you got guys like Nihart and Medman and um u this Lucas Garcia is really coming up and Francisco and you know we've got some really really good new talent coming in there and obviously Keon now has put so much eyes on the on the on the on the 212 because he is so good and uh I mean I see all the comments people saying he has the best physique on the planet right now. I mean that's I don't know about that but um he's certainly on his way and I make a prediction. I guarantee I think um I personally think that Keon will be doing the Arnold Classic in the open as well. >> I would love I mean people would lose their minds. I mean the two things I think most people want to see at the next year's Arnold Classic are Sam Solic in classic physique because he's got you know there's seven billion people on this planet and three billion follow him I believe on Instagram. So that's that's some good numbers. So, I don't think he's gonna do well, but still. And Keon, if he does open, it's going to break the damn internet. And I >> But do you know what though? If there is a proviso, he I he has to win Prague because we still don't know who's going to be doing Prague. I mean, I've I mean, I'm trying to get Andrew Jack to do it. I I've heard that might be doing it. And you know, you don't know the thing is you don't know how how he's going to look next to Kruzo. Kriso might completely dwarf him. I mean, yes, he's going to win the Keon's going to win the back shots, but you don't know. You don't know that. Um, you don't know how a 212 pound guy is going to look next to 270. You know, guys like Andrew Jack, 280, 290. We might get it and it might be like a bit of a let down, you know. So, you can't you can't just automatically assume that this incredible 212, this 5'5 guy is going to come in and just blow all the good open guys. I mean, and um Kriso's been seventh in the Olympia. >> Um, he's won pro shows. You people are just assuming he's going to come in and blow someone like Kriso away. It's like you can't say that because you don't know how they're going to look until they stand on stage next to each other. It might be a completely different story, Ron. >> Yeah. I mean, I I wouldn't be surprised if Kriso beats him. I wouldn't be surprised if Keon. I think it's the matchup. I think probably as far as post Olympia shows go, although we we have no idea who's doing what shows. Uh that's probably going to be the most exciting post Olympia show, just off top of my head. >> I'm I'm working on some other competitors. Let's just put it that way. >> Okay. I mean, >> I mean, I'd um I mean, imagine if Hadi or Nick or someone like that jumped into Prague? I mean, you know, so are you automatically going to say that Keon's going to beat all of those as well? What if, say, what if Derek jumped in or >> Yeah. >> You know, I mean, you don't know. So, um, you know, it's not necessarily a foregone conclusion. The thing is, you don't know how even guys like Z are going to next look next to Keon because yes, obviously Keon's going to blow him away from the back, but from the side shots and the front shots, you know, you might you might be like, actually, my eyes are drawn to hers a lot more because, you know, it just every physique has its own attributes. >> All right, it's friction time. 212, we we've got Keon in first place, >> correct? >> Uh, you have Kihot in second. >> Uh, no, I still I think Sean's still going to maintain the second place. Okay, >> good job, Sean. I mean, I'm rooting for we we love He's such a cool guy. I, you know, I always wish him the best. >> I He's one of the only ones I actually like watching his training content and I know it's it's just it's just a thing on a tripod. just him training and I love the way that his training is so consistent year round because you see some guys and they're obviously posting old training stuff and you know Sean's just there in his old school gym with no music and he's just grunting and screaming and and just wrapping his knees up and he's aggressive all year round with his training because some of these guys you know they they really turn it on three four months out you know and then the offseason they might they might not post any training stuff for a few months because it's not worth posting but with Shawn it's all year round and I really like that about him. Yeah. And I, you know, it's it's it's hard for people to stay covered up. Sometimes I wish he would >> do some updates, some posing updates. Occasionally he does at the very end, >> but here we are three days out. I haven't seen one one shot like that. >> It's funny because I don't really find 99% of the training stuff I see on Instagram or social, I don't find it motivational. It doesn't make me want to go train. Like when I used to watch Dorian Yates blood and guts every Saturday morning before I get on the bus for an hour to go do legs or I'd be training you know watching Shawn Ray or Ronnie Coleman or you know the UN like those those videos those that that scene that footage used to really fire me up but the only one that I actually fill that off is actually Sean Karedman. >> Wow great job Sean. Okay so >> keeping the tiger beefy. >> So four now we it starts getting tough once you get to fourth and fifth. I know. fourth place. What do you think? >> Uh do you think Kareth will hold on to that fourth? >> He could very well. >> I I think it's a safe bet. >> Yeah. >> But I just I think this um Franchesco maybe or or uh um middleman I think is at seventh. So let's move him out of the way. >> So that leaves um Francesco. Um, oh, hang on, Francisco. Or this Lucas Garcia. I think I feel like this Lucas Garcia is like kneeh. I feel like he's really moved up this year. >> So, you think we're going to keep Carton >> Yeah, I think fifth. Um, Lucas, >> sixth, Francesco, seventh. >> No, we're only going to sixth. >> Okay. Okay. No, seventh was a middleman. >> Okay. So six was uh Lucas. >> When are we doing the when are we doing the open prediction? We do that tomorrow. >> No, we're doing it in two seconds. >> Okay. [\h__\h] I need to wait. >> Do you need to You need to pee already. >> No, no, no. It's fine. I can wait. I can I'll try not to. >> We're going to keep this one to an hour. We're at 49 minutes now. Keon, Sean, Nihhat, Kareth, Lucas, Francisco. Okay. So, yeah, we're gonna jump right into open now. I mean, we've been talking about it for a while. >> Samson, >> I've actually Ron, sorry, just sorry to interrupt. I've actually changed my mind on a very, very, very vital placing based upon something I saw this week. >> Let's hear it. >> Well, no, you first. >> Oh, I don't some I don't know what you're going to say. >> Sorry. Go, go ahead. If you want to say something, go for it, mate. >> No, no, I didn't have anything to say. >> Okay. Right. Okay. So, you you want to go straight into the open now? Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, um, if we want to look at the couple updates real quick. I mean, Samson hasn't given us anything to look at. >> Uh, Derek just did come out with something. I wasn't I'm never super impressed with Derek's updates, to be honest with you. >> To me, he's one of those guys who looks better on stage. >> Yes. Which is what you want. Which is what you want because I mean, how many guys have we seen look amazing on Instagram and you get on stage, you're like, "Oh, shit." >> Exactly. I mean, it's always better to be impressive on stage after not being impressed otherwise. But so Derek, this is the area we're looking at always, this chest, arm, shoulders. So yeah, I still I mean, we've been looking at guys who you could see every single fiber, like hundreds of thousands of fibers strided and splintered all over the place. And I don't see that with Derek. But again, I never see that with Derek in these updates. >> I know what What is it? because I don't think he I'm not seeing any strange lumps or sight injected areas there cuz it looks it looks it doesn't look like it's filled. It looks looks fine, but is he he just it is difficult to tell because in some of these pictures and videos he kind of looks soft and you know the thing is I mean I was I'm a fool for underestimating Derek because I did not one of the biggest apart from the other biggest shock of the year for 2025 was being seeing what he did at the Arnold Classic because after like I thought he was I didn't think he was starting to slip because I know only one show you can have oneoff day or whatever or something goes wrong or but um I didn't see him coming in and beating Samson at the Arnold classic, but he did and he deserved to win it. He deserved to win it. So, I was like, uh, but like I said last week, um, sorry, go to go go go with what you give me your predictions, mate. >> Oh, boy. >> Or do you want mine? Or do you want mine? >> No, I think it's it's only fair that I do. Uh, I put myself on the spot. So, Ron, open. Okay, I'm gonna type it up first so I can't change my answers. >> Could you could you line up Hadtie's um Instagram as well, please? when you do mine. >> Oh, absolutely. He doesn't he hasn't put anything too recent though. >> Uh, oh boy. >> I'm going to piss a few Iranian fans off now. >> Well, the thing is, like you said, the Iranians, the Iranians, Persians, they're going to be upset either way because Beirus and Hadi cannot both win. >> I said that, too. >> Yeah. the amount of times I've said on I said that on Instagram this week and the amount of like likes and comments I got on that because you know because because I think it's amazing that Iran's got that many fans but they're not bodyguard fans they're fans of their guy because it's national pride and I get it. I get it and I love it. I think it's amazing in one way, but the other way it's like it's hard to get in a sort of um any sort of engagement when you're engaging with some sort of debate, you know, with someone that uh of people that kind of don't really know bodybuilding, but they just really really rooting for their guys. So, I I get it. >> All right. So, you can't do these without pissing a bunch of people off, unfortunately. >> Oh well. >> Sorry, guys. Here we go. Uh this is my >> tough titty. Tough titty. >> Tough titty. Samson wins. Congratulations, Samson. Nick Walker, second place. Good job, Nick. Derek Lens for third place. I can't believe Nick beat you this time. Had Chukan fourth place. Martin Fitzwwater goes drops from fourth to fifth, but very strong lineup. And I have the other Iranian. Beerus Tabani in sixth place. >> Andrew Jack's not your friend anymore. H. But if Andrew shows up, if Andrew shows up better than I've ever seen him, I could see him as high as second or third. >> Yeah. >> You have everybody in that top six. >> I know. I know. Don't worry. But mate, my In fact, I'll I'll tell you my top 10 actually. And I've really agonized about this over this over this week. Okay. Samson in first, but I had a thought. I had a thought. I am I can't say for certain whether this chasing condition is he gonna is he going to hold on to the size he had at the finals last year because if he looks like he did at the he size-wise and everything in the way everything the way his physique is put together if he shows up like he did at the finals at the Olympia last year in in this new condition then I'll be honest I think the gap between first and everybody else is going to be it's going to be like when almost when Ronnie was kind you know, like when Jay had be coming in and getting second, but the gap between Ronnie and Jay was quite quite a lot, let's be honest. You know, certainly 2003, 2004. >> But um I was thinking about what happened in Romania in 2023. Do you remember it was a week after the Olympia and he just got third in the Olympia and I know he went because he would have gone back to UK then he would have flown out to Romania and um I I was watching I I watched because I was doing it for I was reviewing it for Global. I watched the full live stream and I it was like a completely different guy that had stepped on stage the week before because he'd lost fullness >> and when he loses that a lot of what makes his physique so special completely vanishes. In fact, um I actually the last ever episode of Global that never went out. I actually got a bit of a telling off from Derek who was doing the producing because I was watching the live I was doing a live stream review and I was going I was going hard at Samson. Derek says after me even said to me we actually recording he says oh I think you're being a bit harsh there mate and I says no I was posing routine and as just and and as soon as it's it was the prejudging as soon as be ru was moved into the center for another round of posing Samson's it was like you could physically see Samson just start to like disengage and freak out because I just think he thought he had it in the bag and he was it's like his confidence just went like that in a in a in a flash um because he could have been beaten by by by be there so his physique can change when it loses form So, but if if that doesn't happen and he still manages to keep that silhouette and everything else, then it sounds like I'm praising him and I'm criticizing at the same time, which I kind of am because I think he'll win. Um, but I I'll be honest, that Romania thing did make me a little bit nervous, but I still think that uh because I don't want to come out and look kind of small for him because when you're stood on stage next to guys like Hardy, uh, Nick, and you know, all these other guys, it's Yeah, lost you there for a second. Lost your audio, Giles. Let's hope you come back. Can you hear me, Giles? Well, we're looking at Samson, guys. Let's take a look at the guest posing. Hope Giles comes back in a second. So, Samson guest posing in Romania. Ron's open. Let's hope Giles comes back. Come on back, Giles. Ah, there you are, Jileles. Can you hear me? Yep. >> Okay. We lost you there for a second. >> So, yeah, you were saying um as far as Samson, yeah, if he loses if he does lose too much fullness, uh I don't see him holding on the title either because >> the upper body looks a lot smaller there, mate. I know he was just flat and everything. He probably didn't do anything special and the lighting's not as good, but like bringing anything like that is not going to win the Olympia B. In fact, I think he'll drop out the top three if he looks like out of the Olympia. But I know I know I'm sure the Samsung fans are going to be going crazy at me right now. But thing is 6 weeks out is is somewhat of an indication of how you'll look at the Olympia in six weeks, but um to me the it looks like he's chasing condition too much there and uh fullness and size is is um is a lot of it's gone there. I think I wonder if he can get that back. Can he get >> We'll see because he's only got I you can't tell his face. He's got that caved in face. I've never seen his face look like that before, first of all. Um, >> but we've been we've been on his ass for the last couple years saying we want to see that crispy condition. So, you know, you >> I feel I do feel bad for him because you can imagine like even when he won the Olympia, people are going about the lack of condition. You just won the Olympia because at the finals he was the best man on stage, but no, he did not have the best condition. So, now he's kind of given them what they want. Imagine if he comes and gives them what they want, brings condition, but loses kind of all his fullness and pop and then drops down to third or fourth or something. I mean, that's going to be because a lot of people have got Samson like fourth, fifth. Um, and I think they're they're just trying to trying to gauge the um, you know, the what what they've seen so far, you know. >> Yeah. Look at that face. >> Yeah, it looks good. No, I like it. You know me, I like the I like the uh the sunkening face. But can you go to Hadtie's Instagram, please, mate? >> Yeah, of course. Yeah, it's it's it's it's crazy how much older people look immediately when they get, >> you know, if you're down to like 3% body fat or whatever that is. >> Now, go down. No, no, go to the go to the main page, please. Uh down go to the Where's the one where he's doing the laterals from behind? >> Oh, >> side laterals. You saw that one. Yeah. >> See where we're going with this? >> I'm gonna say nothing here, Ron, and just let you uh let me give you what what what's your opinion on this video? What your first impressions? >> The delts look very pointy. They look like they're pointing skyward. >> Uh, and this was five days ago. >> I mean, I don't know how much they can quote unquote calm down in five days. The but for me, the back looks soft. The triceps are climbing up the arm, which is an indication of wear and tear, which comes with with with age. And, you know, like he's been at the top now for eight years since 2017 when he did his first open show in San Marino. I'll be honest, the back looks soft to me. The triceps don't look good. The shoulders look absolutely ridiculous. I heard a rumor that um I don't know whether it's true whether that Han's really been on his case about stopping what he's been doing in his shoulders. Like I heard a rumor that someone said they'd seen some exchange of messages on a group chat and they said uh says, "Stop pinning the shoulders. Stop doing that." So like I said, that's I don't know whether that's true, but that's I've heard a rumor from a very very good source. Actually, >> I find it hard to believe Hottie Chupon and Honey Rambout are on a group chat. >> No. Well, whatever it was, whatever it was, but um somebody saying sounded quite certain in there, they're there a source I trust. >> But um like for me, I had Haddie in third and from what from that literally that post alone >> um I'm swapping him with Derek. I'm giving Derek third and had fourth. But like I said, I'm not awarding anything. It's just my opinion. So um you know had he's very consistent but is he going to be hard from the back like he was at the Arnold Classic last year because he's very very rare that's the only two times the old in the old UK where he's been as hard from the back as he has been from the front but then at the Arnold Classic in America he was hard from the back but he lost a whole lot of fullness in the in the in the in the process. So if he's full hardened from front and back um but the shoulders I just don't like the shoulders. I'm sorry. It looks ridiculous. >> Well you're certainly entitled to your opinion on that. So you have you have Derek in second. That's why we're here. Derek in second, Hottie in third. >> No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Nick in second. >> Oh, you do have Nick in second. See, you do. >> Yeah, yeah, yeah. Nick in second. I've got I've got Derek in third, Haddie in fourth. >> Derek third, Potty four. Okay, I've got Andrew in fifth. >> Uh, see, Andrew still likes you. He hates me now, but okay. >> Great job, Andrew. stay in the top five. >> Uh, I've got Martin in sixth. >> Okay. I was going to say, where's Martin? >> Can I can I give you my top 10? >> Yeah, we're we're already at six. Go ahead. >> Yeah. Seven. Beerus. >> Ah, great job, Beirus. >> Uh, Brandon Curry, eighth. Sorry. >> Huh? >> Yeah, Brandon Curry. I think he's I mean, I just don't see him I just don't see him and Bonak falling out the top 10. >> Okay. So, Bon I think Bonak in ninth. >> Okay. And then I think Antonio will take the final spot in top 10, mate. >> Wow. So, >> but thing thing is thing is wrong, we've got a lot of new guys coming through like Jordan Hutchinson, Rubiel, um Sassan, um who else is there? Who's the other other new guys? And we got a lot of new guys in the show, but I just I don't know. >> Sorry. Go on. >> So, we here are the guys that did not make top 10. There's 20 of There's 10 of them. So, Brett Brett, I mean, this is a tough show. This is the toughest show in the world. Brett, >> Brett's going to look Brett's going to look the best he's ever looked. Hakee's going to be absolutely monstrous. >> Uh, so Brett Hakee uh sleep on a good veto didn't make top 10 in your in your >> Yeah. Yeah. See, people got him like six, fifth, and all that sort of stuff, but >> Rean Sassan, >> Chang, Shen, I didn't have in the top 10. Nexzilla, no top 10. >> No. >> Jordan, oh, Germany's going to hate you because you have Earth in your top 10. I know, but who's who do you think will be the highest placed of all the new guys that you've just mentioned there? Rubel, Jordan, Sassan, who? Veto. Who do you think the first time Olympians, who do you think will be the the guy out of that lot that gets the highest placing? >> I'm thinking either Urs or Veto. If if Veto's condition is bang on, he beats Urs, I think, at this point. Uh, if he's a little bit off, Urs will come in shredded. >> He's still a work in progress. So, I know the back needs needs to be thicker and everything, but he he could slide in there. >> I think Jordan is underage, you know, because I think it's he's like is weak from the back. Let's be honest. He doesn't have very good separation. He needs more sides from the back, but Jordan's very complete. He doesn't really have a bad pose, you know. So, um, and Veto, Veto is not as complete as Jordan. He's bigger. He's a lot bigger, a lot freakier, but he's not as complete. He doesn't have as many good compulsory poses. I think Rubiel um purely for the conditioning unless he brings something all new that we've never seen before. Um I don't see him I don't see him placing that well actually. I think he's I think he's when he turns to the back mate he's going to look four, five, six weeks out, mate. >> He's I've never seen him look conditioned from the back like we want him to be like what we expect. >> This is the Olympia mate. This is the Olympia. >> Yeah. I mean, anybody who's anybody who we've seen Olympias where guys who are shredded to the bone are in the third call out >> and they're sometimes they place out of the top 15 just because it's such a tough show and other guys have simply better physiques. >> And if you really want to try and if you want to take all the new guys like won two shows, Rubel won two shows, Jordan won two shows. If you really really really want to analyze it, look at who they beat. >> Oh, 100%. you you have to be if you're beating a bunch of guys who have never been on the Olympia stage or maybe they were but they weren't even top 15 that doesn't give you any indication of how you're going to compare when you stand next to all those other guys. >> I mean I think out of all of them I think Öza has probably got the most potential because I think in two years I think he's going to be knocking on the top six m 100%. With Ruby I don't know. I mean I know Ronnie said he thinks Rubel could become Mr. Olympia, but unless he brings something new with his conditioning and then thing is if say he does get that condition and he loses he loses something in the process. You've seen that happen many many times when guys finally nail condition but the physique just doesn't doesn't look the same. >> I mean it's I'm going to sound awful but I don't think he's ever going to be Mr. Olympia only just because of the structure. >> He's got a really the front double bicep if I could find a picture is a strange pose for him. Uh, is this does he do it here? >> I mean, look at the back. Come on. I mean, the back shots. I It looks like bloody like uh Bert Fox 83 condition, doesn't it? It doesn't. Sorry. It looks like guest posing condition. >> Yeah. I mean, this was the winning. This is this is enough for the a good enough to win in Dubai. But this is the Yeah, look at that right there. Yeah. >> I reckon if I hugged him, he'd be very squishy. >> Yeah. So, that was whatever he weighed here, we'd need to take a good 10 pounds at least. at least on a guy that size, mate, 10 pounds would that would just that would barely scratch the surface. I mean, and I mean that. I remember I remember when Zach qualified for um in 2009, he was he weighed in 279.4 and um and he had shredded glutes and Neil Neil Hill took 23 pound off him to get him to the to get him to get his pro card at the British. He brought him down to 257. 23 pounds he took off that because I was like he said to me in the audience, "What do you think he needs to get off?" And I said, "Well, oh, at least 12 to 14 pounds." And he says, "Yeah, I think more." And I was like, "No, no, no. He come, you know, he lose too much size." And he brought him down 23 pounds. But that's what sometimes these guys need to do to really, you know, do well. Because like I said, he can thing is Rubio can carry on winning, you know, probably one or two pro shows every single year for the next five years. But, um, unless he improves the conditioning, mate, I don't think the thing is thing is he might lose his calling card, which is his freakiness and his fullness and his thickness and his density. Um but um maybe he's just one of those guys that's never destined. You know, remember a we used to get very frustrated with a is he ever going to get condition and then all of a sudden he started nailing it. But you got guys like you know once he sorts those back shots out and he gets more development and detail and everything from the back and he looks like as good as he does from the front you know that those are the guys that move up. That's why I think Jordan Hutchinson is uh quite underrated from from all the new guys because we're all talking about the freaky Ruby and because he's got huge fan base and people and he is good. great posing, great presentation, but um guys like Jordan, I mean, you look at if he doesn't have a bad compulsory shot, he doesn't really have a weakness. >> No, he doesn't. He's a big guy and look at that condition. He nails the condition. >> Head to toe, mate. Top every angle, side, front, back. He's as good in from the front, the sides, the back as he is every single shot. He doesn't really have a weak body part. He doesn't really have a weak pose. And those are the guys you got to watch out for, mate. Because at the Olympia you the judges are going to try and they'll look at hers and go right okay his back shots are weak okay let's move him out the way let's you know because they're looking for at this at this level they're not looking for strengths they're all the guys are strong they're looking for weaknesses >> you have to I mean look at this these guys I mean we don't we didn't have none of neither one of us have Regan's got a massive fan base >> looks amazing >> but I don't see him in the top 10 this year I don't this is >> and Veto I mean Veto looks great I don't know top 10 is going to be tough. >> Oh, >> it's going to be very tough. >> Is there really a benefit from being top 10? >> I mean, I would do it if I was going to be like 80th place. That's me. >> So, yeah. >> I mean I mean Veto Veto is good and I won't say he's an Instagram bodybuilder, but I'll be honest, he what he what he puts on Instagram is I'm not putting him down because I think he's fantastic and he's won pro shows. He won the Arnold Brazil. He's amazing, but I don't think he's quite there yet. I think he's like I think he'll need another year or two to really start being a threat for top 10 or even top six. >> Yeah, this the condition that he won the Arnold Brazil or South America was not fantastic. >> It's okay. >> It didn't need to be. It was good. It wasn't great. I mean, the Olympia, you have to be so good at the Olympia because everyone it's it's the best show in the world. Uh they want >> So So who do you think potentially could be the surprise of the show? >> Oh boy. Geez. Oh lord. >> I I you know what? I wouldn't I wouldn't be surprised if Derek does what he did at the Arnold and just shock everyone and and uh push Samson for the win. I mean I could see that happening. I could see the thing is because there's so many new guys coming through and there's so many existing guys like Hakee, Brandon, William Regan, you know, there's going to be some um I think there's going to be a bit of a shakeup because you've kind of got the old guard just at the end stages of their career, you know, because Brandon Bonax is his last year. Brandon, is he realistically going to be going on many more years, but still holding holding on? Um, you know, and then you got Rean, you know, is But you've got all so many new guys that are coming through that are really, really good. I mean, Rean next to Jordan. I mean, how would you have that? >> Uh, I'd probably get shapewise, I I prefer Regan's physique. I think he's got a better flow and structure and shape, but condition and muscle density, I would I would give it to Jordan. So, >> see, I just beating him. Yeah, it's tough. It's tough. I think it's going to be it's going to be quite of um it's going to be a rough Olympia this one because thing is also when we have these kind of names in when we've got like really like all of them are good. I mean every single one of those guys are really really good. Um you um it's uh we usually get dropouts. >> Have you noticed we haven't had any dropouts this year? We usually get at least two three guys that in the last six weeks. Yeah. One >> uh Raphael is the only guy. >> That's it. Typically, >> I mean, Raphael, would he have been at the top 10? >> Very likely this year. I mean, he's very good, but the talent pool, >> this is getting like the, you know, we say, "Ah, so much better in the 90s." I don't know. I don't know now. Now, I don't know if I can say that. >> I think it's very competitive right now. Very competitive. >> I think Tony will make top 10. I've got him 10th. >> Yeah. I mean, when you have guys some of these names we mentioned that we don't think are necessarily going to make top 10, >> Jordan, Urs, uh, Regan, I mean, that that shows you these are guys who have more than capable of being top 10, and they might still be. We don't know what's going to happen, but >> gracious is a tough one. >> And I wonder if Bonak or Curry are going to start to show like Dexter did that last year. Was it 2019 the last or 2020? 2020, I think, was the last Olympia he did, wasn't it? and that he just just until that last year he looked great and in the last year because he had co didn't he that in that year and he he didn't look as good he didn't look his normal self but for years they kind of hold on hold on so um like I thought Bonac was starting to fade when I saw him at the classic and then he just somehow managed to just improve and look amazing for all the all the consequent shows after that but um I mean Brandon and Bonak I I think they're going to look that they don't show any signs of decline from what I've seen from any of these updates >> yeah Brandon looks great I I didn't have him in my top 10 because I don't know. I forget. It's like there's so many good guys. You can't have 20 guys in your top 10. There's 20 guys in this show. >> No, I know. I get it. I get it. I get it. There's no um I don't think anyone really with half a brain is going to criticize you for not having so and so unless it's like that's the only unless they're just an fan or just a veto fan or because if you look at the if you look at this objectively if you really know exa every single one of these these guys and you know their history and you know and you've seen the updates and you know you can't um like I just can't I can't see Bonak or Brandon unless they mess up falling out the top 10. Like I said, when you got H because obviously Beer Ruse, we got the big news that Beer Ruse was jumping in. See, Beer Ru, I mean, people thinking he could be like fourth, third, and second and push Samson. I don't see it, mate, because his legs are weak, and I don't think his chest is that great either. And also, another thing, um, I know Beu was prepping, but did he are you going to prep completely 100% allin if you really really aren't sure that you're going to even be able to make it to the show that you want to make it to? I always wonder if maybe psychologically there's something that holds them back. What do you think, Ron? >> Yeah, I mean, and I I know he's been prepping and I don't know when he finally got the news. I think it was only it's been only a week or less, right, at this point. >> So, that's not a lot of time. I mean, he does look really good, but maybe it's the lighting. Maybe Milos needs to find a better spot for the lighting or something. >> The lighting's terrible. Lighting is terrible. The thing is, I mean, he's I've never seen him out of condition, but don't forget he was beaten by Bonak at last year's Emperor, >> so I don't know whether I mean, his back's good, his shoulders are good, there's a bit of a shine on them, but it's not not that noticeable. Um, his most muscular is incredible. His waistline's nice and tight. It looks like a men's physique waistline. Um, the legs are f great from the back. Sorry, great from the side, pretty good from the back. I mean, his glutes are very dominant. Um, but until he brings up his quad from the front, mate, I don't see him being a top five Olympia guy. >> Oh, I don't I don't think he's top five this year. A lot of people have him that high. I I don't see him doing that well right away. >> Andrew Martin would really have to be off. >> Yeah. I mean, I feel so bad I didn't have I had Andrew so low in my predictions now. Well, I didn't I only went to top five, but I would have had him right outside the top five. >> Okay, give us your top 10 then. >> Jeez. >> Come on, Ron. But I'm screwed up. Yeah. >> So, let's see. Right now, I have Samson, Nick, Derek, Hottie, Martin, Beirus. Okay. H, >> seventh. >> I'm gonna edit. All right. Seventh. Geez. And Andrew is gonna hate me for having him been seventh. I have Andrew. >> What if he wins it? >> I I'd be very, like I said, these are just my speculations. I'd be anybody that wins a Mr. Olympia, I'd be ecstatic for them. I mean, that's every bodybuilder's dream. >> I'd be very, very happy. >> Part of me, part of us always secretly wants some of the big names to come in off because then it makes it easier, you know, because we're going upon past achievements, where they rank, how we've how we how we've judged them from their updates. Um, you know, and and thing is that obviously that can change drastically because things can go wrong, guys. I mean, look at Martin at bloody Pittsburgh. I mean, who would have saw him coming in third? I saw Bob Chicks on a on a podcast saying that if Martin had been lighter, he'd have beaten Derek and Nick. And I was like, "No, no, I think Derek and Nick were pretty uh pretty I mean, that was a that was a pretty pretty uh solid top two." I thought I thought, you know, I think Bonak should have been third actually, that one. Um but um Oh, so hang on. Eighth Curry, nine Bonac 10. All right, Ron. >> I spelled it to Tono. >> Tonio Bono. >> Sorry, Antonio. Sorry about that. Let me >> I just I just really hope that Derek really manages to peak again because I didn't like how he looked in Pittsburgh. I think his legs had gone. I think he just looked soft. He you know I thought um I thought Nick took him comfortably. But I think Nick's going to be a lot bigger this year, isn't he? Like than he was back in then because he he was saying he's been using the retrotrutide and it's been it's really helped his appet you know his dieting. It's helped him coming fuller. It's um he's been on 150 gram of carbs and he said he's been going an hour and a half on cardio and it's been he said it's been a real game changer for him. So imagine another 10 pound on that on Nick. Uh and if it doesn't go to the waistline um I mean that's going to be something to see. >> It's going to be a tough one. It's going to be a late night for you or it's going to be an early morning I should say. >> Yeah, big time. Big time. >> Yeah, >> big time. So, who who do you think um who do you think potentially could be really slipping or or moving up this year compared to previous years? Not not not not um including all the new guys, obviously. >> I mean, it's it's I forgot I didn't have Akim in my top 10. Geez. >> Yeah. Well, >> I mean, the obvious answers would be just because of father time and the ravages of age on anybody. Uh, I would say Brandon or Bonak both have the potential to slip down because they're in the >> Yeah. >> They're not getting better. They're struggling every year to stay >> stay in that top top ranking. So, >> I I could see Brandon or or Bonak, you know, if there if there's any signs of things starting to slip. I could see them going down to 11th or 12th or 13th even, but um from what I've seen, I think they're going to maintain enough to stay in the top 10. >> Yeah. And I mean I I wish I could have had them all in my top 10, but Akee is looking fantastic. He's great. >> Neckzilla because he's got that freak factor if if he can bring better condition. Jordan Hutchinson very impressive. And even I should say even like he's awful. We haven't even mentioned Sassan. I mean there's some there's some >> He's looking good, man. I saw the update the other day. really like if I feel like he's got his upper body fullness back now that he had in 2018 because when he came back last year even when even in those shows I actually messaged him and I I commented on Instagram and I said mate I said what people don't realize I says you've just won two shows I said but this is still not you're still not back to how good you were and can be because his legs are always full and freaky and I think they've got striations in him in the bloody offseason but his upper body wasn't quite as thick as it was but it's it's back now it looks like he's got that density back in his chest his shoulders his arms Um, from what I've seen here anyway, I think like the one I think the one that we could potentially might be underestimating based upon also what we saw last year, I think Martin >> because I've heard Martin's 10 pounds lighter, >> because I I feel like I've got him I've got him sixth, but I feel like I mean he was so close to Derek last year. I had him beating Derek last year, so that would have put him in third last year. Um, he's beaten Andrew already. He's beaten Andrew before. He beat him with the Olympia last year. >> Yeah. >> So, if he's like really rock hard, I think I think with his symmetry and conditioning, I think I think um I think most likely sixth, but if he brings something that um like comes close to the the finals package he brought last year, I could definitely see him I could see him fourth or third. >> Yeah. I I hate to I hate to seem like we're discounting him because he was fantastic last year. We had most of us had him in third place last year >> beating Derek. >> And he's been Ron, he's also been very quiet. That's usually a good sign. >> Yeah, true, true. So, I mean, honestly, after I have Samson winning, >> I don't unless he unless he shows up over over dieted and stringy, >> that'd be disastrous, wouldn't it? >> That would be that would be awful. But I don't think that's going to happen. >> Yeah. I I I'm hoping what I'm hoping for with Samson is that he shows up like he did at the finals last year but with that next level conditioning but retaining the fullness. >> Yeah. So Martin could be as high as you know we could put him up in third or something. I think after after the after the winner this thing could shuffle around so many different ways different ways. I feel like it's a it might potentially be a bit of a changing of the guard this year because you've got like I said the Akims, the Curries, the Brandons, but then you've got all these new guys because sometimes there's Have you noticed some years there's only one or two new guys in the entire open lineup and now we've got like what's it six or eight? >> Yeah. >> Competing for the first Let's go through them. Go through them. Um you've got Jordan, uh Sassan, um uh Rubiel, that's four. Who else is there? Who else did the the new guys? We just reeled them off before. >> So, well, Brett Wilkins >> Veto Veto Brett. Yeah, this last six. >> Brett comp. He uh he qualified last year, but he had to pull out. >> So, Brett's never been up there before. Um Martin's been there. Brandon, good veto. First timer. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> I want to see um I want to see how compares with Veto. Yeah, that's going to be a hell of a matchup because, you know, Brazilian fans versus German fans, they're both very very passionate about their their athletes. Very supportive. >> I think uh I think has got more potential than all of them though. >> True. Uh I am figuring out how to do the watch party and show the pictures because like why am I going to stay up all night and we're going to watch the show and we're not gonna why would we not do that? It's it's silly. So, I'll figure it out. I have a few more days to perfect it. Uh because it's going to be it's going to be a hell of a show. Hell of a show. >> Can't wait. Can't wait. >> Only time in the of the year I ever stay up past midnight intentionally. >> Oh. Um yesterday Jay Cutler messaged me out the blue. >> Oh, what'd he say? >> And he asked me if I was coming to the Olympia. >> Oh, wow. >> And I said, "Not this year, mate." And he went, "Oh, okay." And I was thinking, did he want me on the Cut the Cast? Maybe. >> I think so. Yeah. >> Oh, no. That's the first thing that popped into my I thought, "Oh, he wants to be on the Bloody Cutler cast." And because I was all planning to go this year, then the whole Ronny thing kind of um you know, going uh tits up basically. Um basically threw my through our sort of summer holiday plans, Olympia plans completely out the window because obviously now you've seen that the Ronny tour is being rescheduled now >> and reannounced. So Ronnie announced it a few days ago, last Friday. >> Let's go to that. Yeah. Ah, so the new you got some new dates. So guys in the UK, check this out. Here's where you can go. Are they all are they different places than we originally planned? >> No, only two cancelled. One canceled because it was for their 20th anniversary, the gym anniversary. So, he didn't want to rebook and he'd had him before anyway. Um, and uh we got Strength Asylum who had him last year, wanted to rebook him because they they said they could have sold double the amount of tickets last year. They capped it at 140 and he said, "Jars, I could have sold 250." He said, "So, if you ever do another tour with Ronnie," he said, "I'll definitely have him back." So, um, he booked Strength Asylums 1st of November. And, um, yeah, and obviously the expo, we can't redo that one. So, um, we're taking him to a different expo. So, that's going to work. It's going to it worked out great in the end, actually. So, I'm really, really excited. >> Stoke Glasggo. I mean, Weston Super, that's a real place. >> Yeah. >> Super. The name Super was already there. >> Yeah. I used to go as a kid. I used to go to the um, donkey rides as a kid. My dad used to take us there because we there's a big roundabout uh well Rotary America you call them and it' be me and my two sisters in the back of the car and my dad used to take us on school holidays and we'd be driving round and round and round this roundabout arguing where we go because it was each each turning was to a different place that we usually go in the holidays. So I said I want to go to Western Super MAY I WANT TO GO TO BARRY ALLEN. I want to go to Alton Towers and uh yeah so Western Super May. Yeah. Yeah. Very good donkey ride. Highly recommend it. >> So Bristol you guys we have a Bristol Connecticut. We obviously stole that name from you. >> As far as to go clubbing back in the day, >> we have a Manchester or New Hampshire not too far from me. >> And Irvine is in California, oddly enough, >> is it? >> Birmingham. We have Birmingham, Alabama. I think there's a few Birminghams. >> Nice. And all these are all really nice gyms as well. The um Freedom Gym I've not been to yet. Nebula gym I've not been to, but all the others, Trident I've not been to, but all the others are really really nice gyms. Yeah, that's a good thing about going around the country. You get to sort of see because Chris who comes and does um does the merch with me, the the all the all the athlete merch, which we kind of all, you know, split equally. It's like an extra source of revenue for the tours. Um he has Muscle Lab Gym and um he he likes to go around because I think he likes to see what all the other gyms in the UK are up to, you know. So, he's always talking to the owners and looking around looking at brands of equipment and everything and it's kind of good a good uh good little learning experience to help make his own gym better. >> Right on. All right. Well, we've been going for almost an hour and a half. You probably have to uh pee your pants right now. So, >> and al also sorry also uh Prague as well. That'll be announced soon as well with the uh the live stream. So, I've just been sorted that out today. So, very excited about that. And uh let's hope we can get one or two more top top Olympia guys in that open lineup. So, maybe if Somerfield um doesn't make way, he can come do the open at Prague. >> Why wouldn't he? Why wouldn't he? Or >> with a shaved head with a shaved head. >> Is there no 212 in Prague? >> Uh yeah. Yeah, you could do 212. I mean, imagine that. I think thing is what does he do? Just say just say the absolute worst happens and he comes down to 204 and they measure him actually at the weight that that he so he's 197 and he can't do it and he has to pull out the limp or they disqualify him. I don't know how it works because I know in other c like Fabian Mayer um when he did um when he he wanted to do classic at Portugal and he was a couple of pound over jumped into the open and got fourth. >> Yeah. >> You can't do that at the Olympia can you? >> No you cannot. To clarify, guys, at the Olympia, you have to qualify for that division. Even if you're an Olympia champion. >> Wow. Wow. >> Missy. Missy. >> Yeah. Miss Missy had to recall. Missy is a four-time Olympia winner. >> Three. Three. Three times. >> Say she won the fitness Olympia three times. She's doing figure this year. And she had to go qualify. She had to win a show. She won two anyway. But >> yeah. >> Yeah. It's it's very strict rules and regulations for qualifications to it's not like you can just I'll do this, I'll do that. No, no, no. >> Do you agree with that? >> Yeah, absolutely. I think it's a good idea. >> Yeah. For the Olympia, >> you want to keep lead because we don't want to see five 500 people on the stage. Uh even if they're champions, let's let's see them qualify in another division. If they want to be Olympia champion in a division they've never competed in, qualify for it. What's wrong with that? >> So, say like say like um Bumstead last year was um he weighed he's supposed to be 242. Say he weighs in and he's the last one to weigh in and he's 244. You think you you just have him out at the Olympia? >> If he didn't make weight for the Olympia, is that is that shame? Yeah. He can't then you can't >> Yeah. Just say I mean say his his weight is 242. So just so you just you would not have him would you because personally I'd rather see him just go say it's not like a bump stick just using him as an example. >> Say he was like one or two pounds over something something happened on the flight and he couldn't get the weight off and you know he had a bit of stress and his body cortisol and he's 244 and it's like they're shutting down the weight the the the weight you know the the weigh-ins and stuff like that. I mean I would rather see him just go jump in the open like like these other guys do. Um, I just think like say Summerfield is just say he's it's it's absolutely it's you know he's he's measured at a certain height and there's no way and he's you know then that's it. He's not on stage at all then. >> Well, let's say you're in so 212 would be his next logical option right at that point. >> Yeah. If you're a 212 competitor and you're you had to win a show to get there, wouldn't you be a little upset that they're just letting this guy into your into your Olympia category who didn't earn his way there? >> I I don't know why it's different for the Olympia than it is for the for the other shows though, the normal pro shows. >> The Olympia is the only show out of every pro show that you have to qualify to be on that stage for. That's why Arnold is invitational and everything else. It's, you know, you want to be in the New York Pro, you want to be in Pittsburgh Pro, >> you throw your entry in, you throw your hat in the ring. But the Olympia is the only show you qualify for. >> But it hasn't actually happened. Oh, yeah. I see your point. I see your point. It hasn't happened yet where someone has not made weight a classic. Not that I know of or 212. I mean, as far as I know that every single one of them always makes weight or their height, you know, the classic or 212. I mean, I just uh >> Yeah. interesting. I mean, it's I suppose it's never it's never happened. It's never really been an issue. But I think this year, um, imagine if like 20 of the classic guys aren't allowed to go on stage. I mean, imagine all that prep and all the sponsors and all the and all the people, the family that's flown to the Olympia to be there and and now like, oh, no, your height's different, mate. You know, it's um it's God, it's going to be in major major drama that one, mate. >> Yeah. I mean, I don't know what, you know, it still remains to be seen. That's going to be a big it's going to be a big fiasco if a bunch of guys are not allowed to compete because like you said all that time and money and energy months and months just poof. Sorry. See it. Try again next year. >> Yeah. But you know you're you you know your if if you're in a in a in a show that um depends upon your height and weight and there's a maximum weight you can be then you have to know your own height. So if guys are going in and they're like 180 and they they they measured at 183 or vice versa. I don't know how it works. You know you you just you be like oh few that was close. It's like you know you know you should you have to know you have to know. So there's guys knowingly kind of cheating isn't it? It is cheating. I mean I don't know why I don't know how you can really um explain it as anything else. >> You know it's it's obviously weight is easier to to know exactly what you weigh. I think height it does vary a little bit during the day. We're taller when we wake up in the morning. >> Uh if you get a chiropractic adjustment for the next, I don't know, few minutes or whatever, you're a little bit taller. Uh and maybe the the way they're measuring themselves because I can measure myself at a at a doctor's office and get like slightly different heights a few different if I try a few different times. >> I've been measured 5'11, I've been measured six foot, I've been measured at 6'1. I've been measured 181, 183, and 185 cm. There you go. There you go. And you're not even trying to make a a weight cap. >> That's not a bunch of poofy hair, right? >> Well, >> no, that's I mean, that's with your actual going to the skin. So, you're not you're not cheating. >> It is. >> Anyway, interesting. Guys, let us know in the comments what you think about this whole heightened weight cap controversy going on with Mike and how it might affect him or some of the other guys. Let us know your top 10. Let us know if you think Tiger and I are the greatest prognosticators. We're just geniuses at predicting or if we're completely out of our minds idiots. Uh, and who do you think we missed? It's probably fans. You're probably a fan of this particular B. Who do you think we really underestimated at this Olympia and is going to surprise everybody and definitely do better than we just said they would? We're going to find out very, very soon. It's only a few days away. will be doing a a watch party on this channel, so keep your notifications on. Giles, thank you so much. I wish we were both there again. It's been a couple years. >> Uh I wish we were both there and covering it in person, but we'll be there in spirit and we'll definitely be here with you guys online on this channel. So, thanks for watching Power Hour with me and the Tiger Giles Tiger Thomas. We will see you next time.