Welcome, welcome, welcome to Power Hour sponsored by Eurom Muscle Show. Joining me today is the inimitable, the one, the only Tigeric Giles Tiger Thomas. Giles, we woke up to some crazy crazy news this morning. Good vito. Vitali oungikov. He's out of the Pittsburgh Pro. I don't think he was gonna win anyway, but uh let's let's take a look at his official explanation before we get into anything. So, Veto posted this. Uh it says, "With great sadness, I announced I will not be participating in Pittsburgh Pro Championships due a major back muscle injury I suffered about a week ago and did not report before. Trying to alleviate the symptoms by preparing my body for the championship following a strict routine. In addition to the intense pain I'm willing to endure, the swollen muscle does not allow me to pose properly and negatively affects my proportions. I came to this championship to be a worthy competitor. My goal was to look better than I did a month ago since that's becoming impossible. Along with my coach, a decision was made to focus on recovering my body getting ready for Mr. Olympia. This is not a complete rupture of the muscles in the back. I don't know which muscles, a lot of back muscles, but a minor rupture of muscle fibers. One month from now, we return to my training routine. Thank you to everyone who supported me. So yeah, kind of a disappointment, Jiles, especially for an entire nation of I think there's 350 million people in Brazil. But so there's the tear. You could see there's a bruise there. It does look like a little tear of the I don't know. I've never seen a a bruise right there before, but uh you know what what do I know? Uh but condition-wise, looking at him here, I don't think he was anywhere near ready anyway. Do you? Hang on a minute. It was a week ago that he posted that where we all that filtered picture that Dennis James did the podcast on and everyone was saying, "Oh, look at him. He's going to beat Nick. He's going to beat this guy and that guy." And I was thinking like, "Okay, so that was a week ago." So, you know, they they choose carefully selected pictures. I mean, where is that picture anyway? Because everyone was losing their minds over and it's like, "Oh, look, you can't filter that. It's, you know, the the flare on the lats and all that." But, um, I I I mean, that one I didn't I don't I didn't get any I didn't change my opinion. I didn't change my opinion when I saw that, Ron. Um, so hang on. When was that posted? Uh, let's see. So that says, go back, Ron. Come on. Uh, five days ago. So hang on. Tourist left a week ago. So when was that? It says 10 days. So when was that picture taken? 10 days out. So that was uh if we're three, this was a week ago. So now he's gonna Yeah. Okay. Okay. So yeah, this was a week out. But that's Yeah. You know, I I cook my pictures. Not I don't know how to Photoshop, but that's if those of you who edit your photos on Instagram, the structure thing when you put it all the way to the right, that's structure all the way to the right right there on the on the filtering. Yeah. But he looks freaking great in that shot, doesn't he? Yeah, he looks fantastic. But um I didn't my opinion didn't change when I saw that picture because um I mean I've just been going back and forth with some casual fans. I mean, I I keep promising myself I'm not going to get pulled into these debates with these casual fans that, you know, like like remember two or three years ago, the crazy Nick Walker fans who thought he was going to win 10 Olympias and I'm like, and you you go on and you say anything to the contrary and they just lose their minds and they just they swarm you like a bunch of like hungry sharks, you know? They're like, "You're stupid. What do you know? Europe and they start they try to like really um to try to go you into sort of getting into an argument and they'll say things that aren't true to try and trigger you and everything like that and I'll go back and forth just literally keep him a call spitting facts but um I mean I personally I didn't have him in the top five. I mean, you know, people say, "Oh, yeah, he would have been top five, top three." It's like, okay, realistically, who's he beating? You know, top five. Who's he beating? Are we Is he going to beat Derek? Is he going to beat Nick? Is he going to beat Martin? Is he going to beat Bonak? You know, considering how good Bonak looked in um Detroit, is he I mean, Kriso looks abs. I mean, look, I mean, I know that obviously his body's been probably flooded with cortisol and he's he's probably freaked out and he's smoothed out a bit. So, in those pictures, I'm not going to expect his body to be, you know, what happens when the body is like injured and under stress and also the stress he's feeling like he's going to be I remember when Roelly um was it tore something to his shoulder and um and he went in he was supposed to be competing and then he went in and he and he just looked like he was full-blown off seasonason and this was like the same day he torn it or the day after or whatever their I mean look see that that looks nothing like that picture he posted that's that the front double bicep but like I said I mean he's not just holding water He's holding body fat there. Yeah. So, unless he's been picking out for the last week, um that's not just water. So, I I kind of expected that to to see that when I when I found out he got the injury because sometimes, you know, bodybuilders like, they'll try and hope for the best, hope that they can make it on stage and they'll uh they'll put ice on it and stuff like that. But, you can see he's, you know, that he's clearly blown his diet in the last week, but obviously he's under a lot of stress. I mean, I feel like he should have announced that he wasn't doing it maybe a little bit sooner, but maybe like he was kind of hoping. Um, but remember remember Nick, do you remember Nick's stomach? You know, when he was um when he announced he wasn't doing the Olympian, he was crying on that video at home. I mean, he looked like his waist was w it looked like his waist was wider that, you know, more circumference than his chest, you know, and this is a guy that was supposed to be competing, you know. So, um I I you know, I um I had no illusions that he's going to be top five. And to be honest, I think this is a good thing for him because now he's qualified for the Olympia. He can rest up. He can ride off the hype from from from winning the Arnold Brazil. Um I still don't think he's a top 10 top 10 Olympia guy. I think he's AI think he's a solid 11th to 15th. Um depending on how many guys qualify. I think he is that. I think he's awesome. I think he's improving. But let's be really really honest here. Let's be really real. He didn't really beat anyone of any note in Arnold Brazil. Um his condition was pretty good. But for me, I mean, this is this is this is the phrase a lot of the judges that I speak to and I know this is what they would say. They probably they say his legs are fantastic, but there are holes in his upper body that he needs time to fill. And I think he's going to need at least another year to two years to fill those areas out. Um, but the problem is you you argue with casual fans that will look at his legs or they'll look at one pose and they'll be like, "Wow, look at him. He's absolutely awesome." But they don't see, you know, the people with the trained eye don't say, "Okay, he needs a bit more of this, bit more of that. There's lacking a bit of separation here." You can, but for me, he's he looks like one of those guys that's just still a work in progress. I mean, he's still very very young. He was better than he was last year, but I still think to to for Pittsburgh to be really competitive and really be competitive against those top five guys, the five guys we just mentioned, I still feels like he feel like he um he needs another year or two. But um you know so I'm not I'm not getting caught up in the hype because you and I know what constitutes a winning physique and you know full well based even based upon what he brought to the honor of Brazil he would have struggled next to those guys. I mean Kro the condition that Kriso's in Bonak Bonak Bonac like 70% of what he was at Detroit this year last year beats in Spain. I was there front row next to the judges doing the commentary you know and he's a and he's a lot better now. So, like I mean just I've literally just before we came online I was arguing with someone said there's no way that um Bonac would have beaten VTO and I'm like oh Jesus Christ you know it's like and then you're saying okay then okay let's let's put aside the the the past Bonak that's been second in the Olympia won Arnold Classics won numerous pro shows been third in the Olympia top five Olympia um let's just let's just look at what he's achieving now and how he's looking now because he's kind of on a bit of a resurgence but um you know and then there's veto that there's one what two pro shows, you know, kind of lowquality pro shows. Let's let's let's be honest, he hasn't really beat any any top A-listers and he's not even done Olympia yet. So, I think I think the fans are probably get a bit of a rude awakening, I think, this year. Um because I could see him, you know, 11th, 12th. Um I wouldn't be shocked if he made top 10, but um for me, there'd have to be a lot of improvements before that happened. Yeah. I mean, this this training video, I think they're in Pittsburgh here. You could see there's not one line in his shoulders, his arms. This is two days out or this was two days. So this was five Yeah. This was five days out. Beyond J score. Ron. Ron. Ron. He looks he looks what eight weeks out there? Six weeks out. He looks you know I'm going to give him the credit benefit of the doubt. And it's a lot of cortisol. And I'm sure the injury really messed with him. But the body that's some that's body fat there too. That's body fat. See the thing is you you and I though you and I know the difference between body fat and water. And like I said before, his body is under stress and he's probably, you know, like I said, you know, that you see we I've seen guys smooth out like over in a couple of days and you know, the body's not playing playing ball. Um, and also the not just the the physical stress, but the mental stress as well of thinking, [\h__\h] am I going to be able to do that? You know, I've traveled all the way to Pittsburgh. I'm I've I've signed the contract to compete. Um but um I mean when you compare and thing is like I said people are all getting excited by that that front wall bicep he posted a week ago and that's what all the fans now we're going to speculate would have won Pittsburgh you know when Pittsburgh is all said and done next week you know so um it is impossible to try and argue with these people because they've got something fixed in their minds and he's their guy. Um but um yeah I don't know maybe I shouldn't just get involved with these these debates. I just can't help myself though because like you know I'll give facts because I know the placings I know the bodies I know I know that there's different levels to this industry you know there's in pro bodybuilding you know you've got like I've got a pretty clear idea of if everyone's on how Pittsburgh is going to go this weekend right well I want to I want to pull up Derek's latest video because he actually posted something we haven't seen you know it's not like we were doubting that Lunchford was going to be in shape or anything of course he's he's Derek Lunch he will he will yeah for God's sake uh so let's take a look This was uh five days out. Let's take a look. Yeah, I mean he he he doesn't need to post updates. He's somebody that I think we're fairly confident. He just won the Arnold Classic. He's got Chris Aceto as his coach. Obviously, he's going to be in shape. So, yeah. Yeah. Training a lot with Ramon. They're buddies now. Oh, cool. Well, they're both STO guys, aren't they? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, a lot of there's a lot of STO guys. So, he looks pretty There's the back, obviously. I mean, come on. It's crazy. I I I think he's going to look just as good as he did at the Arnold. If even if he's 95% of that, he he he beats everybody here. Well, Ron, look, I just had AI was literally just I was I was kind because I kind of kind of go through my opinions before I come on here this morning and I've been really kind of pacing around the room talking to myself, you know, as I do on the treadmill and all that. And I kind of got I kind of had it in my mind. I thought, okay, then there's going to be three kind of outlooks with Derek. He's either gonna look not as good as the Arnold, he's going to look as good as the Arnold, or he's going to look better than he did at the Arnold. And I had to honestly ask myself, all three of those outcomes can still mean that he can win this. Yeah. So, I you know, so even if he's I mean, because I I'll be honest, I I watched bits of the live streaming for the Arnold, but I said I was in that gym, a different gym training legs, four or five weeks ago, and I was looking up and they had a big massive widecreen TV. It was on a huge screen and they had the Arnold live stream playing. Oh wow. And that's and I in between sets I was looking up in between leg presses and I looked up and I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] he won that clearly." Like I'll be honest, I thought it was a bit, you know, like a like a bit of a flip of a coin. But um when I watched it and then I saw Andrew and Samson, I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] he I I mean, not I don't think any of us I think maybe there's 1% of people that you know are Derek believers and Derek fans that believe that he could actually come into the Arnold Classic and beat Samson. Like I don't I didn't see that coming. Like I said, I think it's I mean I've got a pretty good track record of my predictions, you know, like like we've been doing this, you know, the the prediction show since 2018, I think we started doing these. Yeah. And uh and obviously we've got good trained eyes, but I didn't and I love being proved wrong, but I honestly I I I thought there's not there's not an outlook where I I would have thought that Derek would have come in and ended up beating Samson. I just didn't see it happening. But, you know, when you see things with your own eyes and you think, "Okay, okay, I think the best man on the day here is Derek." Like it was at Olympia when I was like, "Okay, the best man on the day here is Samson." You know, and I I just um Yeah. So, yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, he did post a couple still pictures, so let's look at that. But the video tells a story. He's full. He's ripped. I don't see I don't see any any impediments on his way to winning the inaugural Pittsburgh Pro. So, there's the crab. Do I have it? Is it showing? Nope. Looks good. Yeah. I mean, that's that's the Derek that beats everybody pretty much except for, you know, the only Oh, wait. I should have got I should have waited for the video because he did some posing at the end. Oh, did he? I don't know. A little Well, he's got the So, so how many days out was this? Uh, so that was five days out. Let me um let me go back to the let me put the uh YouTube video up because that's uh it's moving. I like when videos move. So, yeah. So, Derek Ler, we'll do our predictions at the end. Obviously, I don't think they're going to change a whole lot. I'm I'm I'm pretty Yeah, I flip-flopped a little bit on first and second. Oh, okay. Yeah, that's right. Well, you're not the only one. We've been hearing some even Dennis James and and Milos kind of they see Nick having a legitimate shot now, but shape Derek, you know, I interviewed Crezel last night and I wish I wish Derek had all that detail in the shoulders and the arms and the chest. Oh, I'm so I'm so glad you said that because I would have got a lot of [\h__\h] for saying that. I' have said, "Oh, he's pro- European. He's pro this." But for me, the most impressive conditioning out of the all the Pittsburgh guys has been Kriso. And again, I will applaud him for having all the detail and separation and and uh conditioning and fibers fibrous, you know, I mean, he's probably got some of the biggest arms in bodybuilding right now. And they're completely they're rock hard. There's so basically obviously what I'm trying to say is there's nothing going in those shoulders and arms because as you know, I'm not going to mention names, but these people know who they are. There are a lot of bodybuilders now and they are just I think because some of them maybe I'll just jab in every day, you know. Um they they'll just go, "Okay, I'll just pop it in my shoulder, you know, no one will notice. I'll pop it in my lats. I'll pop it in my, you know, my in my arms, you know, and no one will notice." But unfortunately, um and I'll be honest, the only reason I bring that up is not because I'm trying to be a dick and point it out. Because if I can see it, somebody that been around a long time, these trained judges who are just who are told to look for these things because I've spoke to I'm going to be in Sweden this weekend. I'm going to be sat with I'm going to be with the judges, you know, we're going to be having dinner afterwards. I talked to them. I asked them about the way they judge and what they look for. And when you got so many top top guys who are absolute champions of champions at the top level like Pittsburgh will be this top five this weekend. You know the the thing they're not looking for is oh how did he look last year? How did he it's it's that doesn't matter. It's not about paying your dues. It's about who you're compared to and how who looks the best. So it doesn't matter what you've won or anything like that. And also they're looking for the flaws so they can go oh thank god it's close between Derek and Nick but you know Derek or Nick has got this that I don't like about their physique and that's something I'm gonna so that's going to give me my reason to put Derek or Nick ahead of each other or somebody else say like I said I'm not trying to be I'm just trying to make a point basically. So um so yeah they're just like I said if so if I can spot things like that then sure as hell they are. Of course. You know, and I'm glad you say that because people I hear all these stupid conspiracy theories. They're gonna they're they were going to expect this from Nick or Derek. It's not about expecting. It's how they look on that day compared to everyone else. And they're not judging. They're not judging Nick or Derek or Martin on how they looked at their last show or Exactly. Exactly. Otherwise, Otherwise, Derek Derek wouldn't have got third at the Olympia. He would have been second. They would have said, "Okay, Sansa looks a bit better, but he's Mr. Olympia." Ramy in 2022 when they gave him fifth, he showed up and if that been his first Olympia, I mean to be honest, would he have even been fifth if that was Ramy's first Olympia in 22? I don't think so. I think Samson would have beaten him. I think a few other people would have beaten him. But um yeah, I just um and thing is I think that's the question I'm asking myself now is so say Derek turns up and he doesn't quite peak as well as he did at the Arnold Classic. Is that still enough to beat Nick, Martin, Bonak, and Cruz? That's the question I've kind of got in my mind now because I don't think he's going to miss but you know like Ronnie said he says you don't you can't really peak bang on more than once a year and Derek kind of did nail it at the olymp at the Arnold and that was only what how many was I can't remember six eight weeks ago eight weeks ago yeah so maybe the body and thing is and also let's let's be let's be perfectly honest here like you know you've been on pre-contest you're going to be on gear for at least 12 weeks before the show then you've got another show eight weeks so you're not going to be coming off for those four or five weeks you're going to be staying on. Now, you know, I've done it when I've done four shows in a row and I've literally been on gear for like four or five months and I'm telling you by the end you you you either get sick or uh and it reflects in your health and how you feel, but also your body gets stubborn. The the the the receptors get saturated and also the body just gets tired. So, like Derek has taken a huge gamble this year by doing this show. I I really hope he doesn't do the New York Pro. I really don't. Oh, dark. I think he's I think he's already said he's not doing No. Oh, good. Good. I I really because I really want him as soon as he gets off stage this weekend. I want him to just go straight into an offseason because I really want to see him fresh at the Olympia because I hope that by doing Pittsburgh it doesn't, you know, like like I think Samson looked a bit burnt out at the Arnold Classic this year by constantly, you know what I mean? By going from prepped Arnold to Olympia to Arnold. I think um and I'm hoping that won't affect him for the Olympia this year because we you know we all want to see we don't want to see him get like third or fourth. I want to see him look at his best and because thing is it's not like they're not working hard they're working hard but sometimes you know what you you must have experienced it yourself when you competed. I had it when but my first four shows I I peaked at the second one and then by the third and the fourth show I just looked like [\h__\h] and I felt like [\h__\h] Uh, I remember when my voice went and my hearing went. I mean, your immune system goes to [\h__\h] when you've been very low body fat for weeks and weeks. Anyway, you know, you're susceptible. You catch every cold that's going around. But, uh, let's talk about Nick here. People, first of all, people were accusing him of photoshopping his waist. And I pointed out that's a posing room at his gym and the light looks like it's got an overhead light. The shadows are being cast in such a way that make his waist look a little tighter. But he's not intent. He wasn't intentionally trying to deceive us because he knows he gets on stage. There's no you can't hide a damn thing on stage. It's going to be bright lights big city up there. Uh but Nick, you know, I I Milos actually thinks Nick has a chance of winning, which Yeah. I mean, I know you can like like a lot of um Sorry, no, I was gonna say Milos. Milos loves aesthetics, but he said, you know, hashtag musclebuilding. That's Nick. Oh, you said that. Go ahead. Look, I I I don't particularly like that style of physique, the big I mean, I like big physiques, don't get me wrong. Um, but I would kind of I kind of um I kind of got like when I was at the Olympian in 22 with you working at MD and stuff, Nick came on stage and that was the first time I'd seen him on stage actually in the flesh. I was sat second row and like Lauren was going crazy because she's a bit Nick Walker. She loves his physique. She loves his stage presence and I was like, "Okay, I don't like his physique, that style of physique, but I think he's going to get third." Do you know what I mean? I kind I can kind of work out how the judges are going to perceive it because sometimes I think people because they're a fan of someone or because um they have they like a particular style of physique or because they don't personally like somebody else, they'll place that person accordingly. It's like, well, no, you're not being objective here. If you're being objective, you got to know what wins shows and what judges go for and you know what the sport's all about. So, it's like the the Proud Show last year. I had Bumstead winning over Martin. two completely different styles of physique, but doesn't I wasn't shocked that Martin won. It's just that, you know, like Frank Zayn versus Franco Columbo, it's two completely different sorts of physiques. So, with Derek, I mean, sorry, Nick, he carries a [\h__\h] ton of muscle. He brings great conditioning and um and we'll see about the waistline because I mean that probably is I mean he's obviously every physique has its weaknesses and I think people are going to be looking, you know, if there's anything that's going to hold him back, it's maybe going to give the advantage to Derek or Martin or Bonak. It's gonna be it's gonna be the waistline. So, I mean, it's like, you know, when um it's like when you see fat chicks when they take pictures, they always take pictures from photo. They look upwards like that because they're trying to they're trying to hide the size of their bodies. Do you know what I mean? It's like sounds awful. Sounds very awful. You I know I get cancel, but you know, but you can you can angle pictures. You can, you know, and the thing is if you take like um remember that video the Kardashians posted once, Kim Kardashian, I saw it online and she was saying she it was about how to take the perfect selfie and she says, "Okay, on average, if you're going to take a selfie, you're going to post it. Take about a thousand pictures and this is how you pick." Yeah. This is how you pick the best one to post. It's like, who the hell has got time to take a thousand pictures? The thing is now, so you've got that and then you've got photoshopping, then you've got filters, then you got I mean I mean God some of I mean you saw that picture I put on the group chat that girl her mom posted it of her daughter and it's a clear beauty filter. I'm thinking her daughter probably looks nothing like that. This is the problem because we're all we're all fooled by carefully selected pictures. You can have a photo in a mirror so it makes you look wider. I mean there's a mirror in my gym that I always always I'm always walking in front of and I'm pumped. I was doing Ron. I was doing it last night, mate. I'm like, [\h__\h] I why my shoulders look so [\h__\h] wide and this my chunk waist looks tiny. My arms are popping and I go to the other and I'm like, okay. And everybody everybody watching this knows exactly where to stand in the gym. We're the best lighting everybody. Well, we're all guilty of it, mate. But the thing is with this bodybuilding is it's it's a visual sport, you know, and if you've got somebody who's got the time to like like a like somebody who's like a training partner or a manager or a trainer, a coach and they're going through all their pitch and they're thinking and they probably sit they they might sit for an hour deciding which one to use and they go just just sharpen it up a little bit. They've got a bit of put a bit of Photoshop just you know just I mean there's so many people guilty of it and the thing is you can't take that on stage. So, you know, you're always always going to get exposed when you get to the stage. So, um I mean, but based upon what we're seeing, I think Nick's I think Nick's the only one that could potentially beat Derek. And if Derek's a little bit off and Nick comes in, you know, like like like what we're seeing here and he's impressive as I as I think he will be, um I think I see this coming down to a twoman show. I' I've to be honest, I've not changed my mind on that in weeks. I think it's going to be Derek versus Nick all the way. And I really do keep flip-flopping back and forth. You know, I we think we said this in the group chat, too. We thought Samson was a clear clear winner for the Arnold, but we said, "What if what if Derek wins the Arnold?" How crazy would that be? And how how exciting would that make the Olympia? If Nick Walker, some way in some crazy scenario beats beats uh Derek Runsford Saturday, dude, the Olympia would be bonkers. bananas. I would I would actually start thinking about I got to get my ass to that show. This is going to be one of the greatest Olympias of our generation. Dan, Dan and Jake will be pulling party poppers because you know we all we like in our heads really. I mean really for sort of I hate the hate this word like experts or whatever you want to call us or people that kind of know their [\h__\h] you know, not just casual fans that been around five minutes, people have been around a while. We kind of kind of mostly 95% of us agree that the Olympia is could come down to three people. Samson, Derek, and Hadtie because you can have Haddie who's going to be fresh after a year. You got Derek who's just coming in like a man possessed after he's beat the Arnold the Olympia winner at the Arnold Classic. The thing is, if Nick now beats Derek, even if Derek kind of looks like he did at the Olympia last year and something goes wrong or his body's just kind of given up by this point from all the the endless prep because he probably didn't even come off prep very long after the Olympia, you're probably talking a matter of weeks. Yeah. Like a few weeks, maybe four or five weeks, I don't know. But um just say his body's not playing ball. And even if that's the reason why he kind of loses to say Nick, um you the Olympia then is going to be a four-man race. You're gonna have to put Nick Walker in there. And thing is the storyline that's going to develop with Nick then pulling out of the Olympian. All those fans that turned on him and called him Nick talker. I still see it now. In fact, you know, do you know what's happening now? Now he's posting all these updates. I see the hate. I mean, a few a few months ago, it was like the the the barrage of comments he was getting on on his Instagram from his followers was just it was it was brutal and relentless. And I really applaud him for having the mental strength to kind of get through that because I can imagine you look and you and you're pissed off and disappointed you didn't do the Olympia for the second year in a row even though you won the Note Pro and everyone's forgotten about that. Um I just the you know I I kind of so so now I see now these updates are coming out. I see his I see the good comments coming back now and and the bad comments are just doing that. That's what's happening now. So, um, so if he does win this, then you're going to see it. You're going to see the kind of shift in in in fan response that we saw from Jay Cutler in 2009 when he came back and won the Olympia again. I I think we're already seeing I've already seen a lot more support for Nick. I mean, there was so much hate for Nick after this after he withdrew from the last Olympia. I'm already seeing it reverse like about 50 He's like about 50% back. His fans never left him. his real fans, but I a good a good half of the casual fans turned their backs on him after that and a lot of them seem to be getting behind him right now. We need to stop calling these this other 50% these casuals, we need to stop calling them bodybuilding fans because I don't think they're proper fans. Because I think if you if you're a proper fan of bodybuilding, not just one particular guy, then you have to look at things objectively and you have to look at things like an analyst would and say like like having the argument that there's no way that Bonak would have beaten Veto and it's like okay well let's look at the I was literally just before I came on here look at the statistics you know and then you think about how that person looked at their last show and because like I mean Bonak looked even better in um Detroit than he did at the Arnold Classic. I mean he looked fantastic in Detroit. I didn't expect it. It's like when Ramy did that Arnold Classic after he got fifth Olympia. I mean, I didn't expect him to look as good as he did. He looked phenomenal at the Arnold Classic. It was a real comeback. And you know, all bodybuilders like Derek Lunch with the Olympia last year can all have a bad day and something can go wrong. And so, um, so, okay, this is the this this for me is the big question mark, Ron. Yes. Yes. Martian Martin Fitzwwater because I mean, in a in a lot of scenarios, he can beat he can beat Nick. He's got much better shape. He's got much better balance. Um, you know, technically it's a better physique if if you're into aesthetics and shape and structure and things like that. Fitzwater beats Nick in those categories. Mass, he's a big guy. I don't really necessarily see these improvements in mass because wasn't he supposed to be up 30 pounds or something from last year? Well, I heard 10 pounds, but I'll be honest, I unless he swallowed a dumbbell, I don't see where it's come from. Dumbbell? Yeah. I I thought I thought of that one in the bathroom before I came out. I was like because like because thing is like you know bodybuilders sometimes you know I mean I'm not saying he's lying about his body weight but a lot of bodybuilders do. Yeah. Yeah. So when and when I saw I know the thing is I don't we only judge by what we see and we saw that guest posing with his top off you know and to me he didn't look three weeks out from the back and I know he had no tan on and he was probably no pump and you know but to me if I was looking like that three weeks out I'd be panicking. Now um I know a lot of physiques have you know a lot of physiques are quite can be quite watery until they pull sodium and water you know they can transform dramatically in a couple of days or even overnight or even a few hours you've seen you've seen how physiques can change from prejudging into finals I've seen it happen unbelievably in 22 when he beat Brett Wilin that was that was phenomenal like how he improved as soon as his silhouette came out I was like holy [\h__\h] what's he done I messaged me loss on my phone while I was doing the commentary and he says no he just had a bit of chicken and went for a lie down and you know as the day goes on, you put more food in you and your body fills out, you know. Um, but with Martin, I I don't see where he's put the 10 pound on. I think that the the the back that looked like he had quite a bit of body fat on there. Um, but you know, I mean, he's he he he did fantastic the Olympian last year. Um, he won Prague. Um, and um, I think he's probably got probably has he got the best real spread in body gun right now? I mean, it's up there with Derek. It it can stand next to Derek and Derek's bat blows everyone away pretty much right now. Yeah. Yeah. True. But um I I I I've got a question mark over Martin because I don't know how he's going to look because I I you never know how someone's going to how someone's improved until you actually until they actually walk on stage and it's that first look that you give them. That's when you look at them and go, "Okay, I see it now." But sometimes, you know, when we look at pictures and videos and um but I saw a picture of him just um posing with just literally his upper upper body and um he looked really tired. He had like dark circles. He's got it there. Look, his face here. I mean, it's the dark circles around his eyes. He looks tired to me. He looks tired. And I'm sure that's probably some would say that's how you need to look when you're on a hard prep, when you're going to that dark place and you're really working hard. So, I'll be honest. Um, Martin will likely be third, but I I don't know because if if he's not improved or he's not as good as he was at the Olympia, I think Bonak will beat him, mate. I really do. And I know we've been on the comments, we've been told they were absolutely crazy for saying that. Dare you. Yeah. No, seriously. No, because I get it. I get it because um I mean it wouldn't be out the question that he could come in and win this, you know, that wouldn't be I wouldn't be like a like absolutely outraged or shocked because, you know, he was he should he arguably should have beat Derek at the Olympia last year. Yeah. You know, and this is only like a few months later, so let's let's let's see. But if I was a if I was a gambling man, I would say, okay, then Martin is probably going to be third. Um but um you know he was close to Nick last year and um but I just I just got off I've just got a feeling. I just got a feeling and I just and thing is like we've just been talking about veto and that that frontal bicep when then you see a video of him training in Pittsburgh and you think well that looks nothing like that picture. Correct. So like I'm I'm try and I try and absorb everything that I see and and and you know experience and stuff you're showing me on here and I try to formulate opinion as best I can. But um Martin I honestly can't say because um some of the stuff I've seen I'm just like I you know then you see something of Kriso and he's just [\h__\h] fibers are popping and everything's you know but arguably hasn't got as good a physique as as Martin. Um yeah I don't know. I'm conflicted. I'm conflicted. What's your take, Ron? Well I just want to say that that when I saw that guest posing like everyone else I was like oh no he's behind. Yeah. He's he's not going to be in shape for this. And um looking at this, I know it's not a full body posing picture, but the face tells you a lot as we both know. That is AI hate I think we stopped using the term death face after body started dropping like flies during COVID, but that's a proper contest condition face. That's like a skull. His eyes are about three inches sunken back into his skull. He's got the hollows in the cheeks. Do you think you can see you can see the shoulders and the arms. This is a couple days ago. He's probably a little bit flat. I I think he just looks tired. Oh, he's definitely No, I don't honestly No, I I mean probably Oh god, I'm going to get so much [\h__\h] for this. I don't mean it in a bad way, but like he looks like his eyes are sunken, but it doesn't look like his face has sunken. So I might be I might be wrong, but to me I just I don't know. I don't know. I think he's had a lot of work to do the last three weeks and I really really hope because you can do a lot in three weeks. I mean, god I mean I prep for a show in five weeks before from scratch. I've done it five and a half weeks. I did it and I was shredded. Um, so you and thing is with he's got a very good coach who's not going to let him miss because kind of I mean I was at the um I was with Chris Cormier and AJ and stuff at the uh in Prague show. We're sat having dinner in drostanolone and we we um we shot we shouted over to Stefan and Martin and um I think AJ said a comment about are you going to uh coach so and so I won't mention the guy's name and he says no. voice he says I only want to work with the future and he pointed towards Martin because he realizes that Martin is a kind of his his main probably one of his main guys now that who's you who know literally has come into his first Olympian and took fourth place which is incredible so um I don't think boss or the momentum that now Martin is now building I don't think they would be kind of foolish enough to take their foot off the gas without one of us without some of us knowing right because I think he would have um six weeks out if he looked like he was behind you know Stephan, I'd be like, "Right, we need to really pull the stops out now to get you in condition." But like, like I said, we can only go upon what we see. And that that guest posing, I was I was worried, you know, I was worried, but you know, let's let's let's be let's be optimistic and and because I I I think we all want to see these guys at their best run. Yeah. So, this is a guy that could be as high as third, I think. You know, in a like I said, I think top two is is it's a twoman show. I you know, some people are gonna The Martin fans are very upset when we say that. I know. But Nick, Nick's just he's going to be hard to beat. I'm not saying it's a given, but I see Derek as the clear winner after that. I I see the strongest runner up as Nick. It could be Martin depending on what happens, but yeah, could could it could happen. Yeah, I perfectly accept that. But we can't write Bronak off. I mean, this guy's a proven entity. He's still he's still holding on to fantastic condition, his size, shape, all that, all the things that have made him a champion all these years. These are recent pictures. He's there with his his uh supple brand. I guess he's holding a picture there. Yeah. I mean, we know what he looks like. This was Detroit. Um if he shows up looking a little better than Detroit, because I think he could have been a little sharper in Detroit. He was good enough to to win fairly easily. But, uh yeah, I mean, he's When was this? This was a week ago. You know, we know what he looks like. Thing is thing is of Bonak, right? I mean, I remember back in 2017 when he got third at the Olympia, I actually had him second over Ramy that year to to Phil Heath. Um, and then I went to the Arnold Europe. I went to that. That was the last one just after the split because it was really awkward because you had Weinberger and you had Raphael there and everyone was there and everyone was looking over their shoulder. It was a really weird atmosphere because the Arnold Europe was still had to be organized, right? And it was a really everyone was like really jumpy and it was a real tense atmosphere. And then it was basically Bonak versus Ramy. And I've seen it in other shows where Bonak always seems to peak at the shows that really really count. The Olympia, the Arnold, and then any he does other shows afterwards and he always looks good but not quite as good. But in the last year, he's he's flip-flopped it. He's now gone from someone that like when he did Spain last year, he looked he looked okay in Spain, he beat Barus, he won, and then he went to Dubai and he went he looks so much better. I mean, he he looked he looked like the difference between the Arnold Classic this year and Detroit. It was kind that kind of difference. So, I think he's flip-flopped it now. So, if we take that into account, could he look even better than he did in Detroit? And if he does, then um don't be shocked if he takes third. Don't be shocked he takes third because you know me, I like separation. I like conditioning. And I think he's got superior conditioning and uh and separation to to Martin. Martin's a lot thicker. Martin's got nice aesthetics, you know, like his side shots are really nice. His side chest, his side tricep, but I'm telling you, I think and I people always always I've known Bonak compete. I saw him compete in the AL amateur in Columbus, Ohio in 2011 where he took third in heavyweights. And I'm telling you, every single year as he's climbed, as he's won all multiple Arnold Classics, he's been second and third Olympia, people never seem to give him the respect he deserves with where he's played. Every year they write him off and every year he kind of proves people wrong. So, I don't know why. I have no idea why because this guy has got an he's like a Dexter Jackson, you know, that Shawn Ray, that level of like, you know, consistency. Like, you never see him come into the Olympia and get 14th. Do you know what I mean? And then the next year take jumper back up to third or something. He's very consistent. I've never seen him out of condition. So, and if he's nice and full and everything's popping and everything's working, um I think he's going to I hope that he shuts a few people up. Yeah. I I finally came to a theory as to why we forget about him or don't give him credit or I I honestly think he's a victim of the social media age where he's not completely inactive on social media, but you know these guys like Derek and Nick and Martin, they're putting out content all the time, videos, Tik Toks, Instagram reels. Um, you know, that's not William. He's he's he's up there. He's over 40. Uh, he's just that's not him. Some guys just want to train and diet and and show their best on stage. they're not so worried about, you know, a video every day for the fans and all that. And that's that's why I that's why I think even I tend to sort of forget about him or think uh or rate other guys higher than him when justifiably he should always be up there. I mean you his accomplishments that resume you just rattled off. I mean there was there was a couple of years was it 2020 when he dropped to fifth and then 2021 was it he dropped to ninth was it? And he but he was looked like he was on the slide. It's like we're kind of not saying it, but we're kind of acknowledging, you know, off camera that, okay, he's probably on the the downward spiral. And then you've got and then you got guys like, like I said, Bonak, Akim, Brandon Curry, three guys that have all kind of done that, started to do that anyway, and then they all suddenly come right back up again. So, um, yeah. So, it just shows you that you could I'm Dexter Jackson in 2012, and he got fifth. I was at the Arnold Classic with you and he got fifth at the Arnold Classic in the yeah in the well the open and he had this lower ab distension because apparently George Farah gave him hamburgers to carb up on. This is what I heard. This is what I heard. This is 12 13 years ago. Don't shoot me guys. And then it was like okay okay Dex has been around like 13 years now. He's on the slide. Then he comes back a year later. They did the Masters Olympia that year in 2012. Looked sensational. One of the best looks he'd ever brought. And then ended up winning the Honor Classic the year after. So you know you can't write these guys off. Do you know what I mean? So, because like typically once guy there's a there's a peak and then there's a trough of a career. But, um there's three guys that I've just reeled off, Akim, Brandon, and William that have all kind of proved that wrong. True. True. So, this is AI was able to interview KZO last night with the help of his translator. He actually speaks a good amount of English now. I've I've had conversations with him. I I've literally spoke I mean at the after party in Prague, what was it 22 or 23? 22. Yeah. 22. Yeah. And I was at the after party and I was talking to him and he he understood everything I said and we we we kind of we didn't have like like an hourong conversation but we were talking we were conversing for a good few minutes and that was like three years ago. So his his his English has probably only got better since then. It's not going to get worse, is it? Yeah. Because you know his translator he did need the translator. It's not like we could have done the whole interview without him. But at times he would just pop in and start talking. I was like oh wow. Yeah. Cool. I mean look at look at the arms. Look. Sorry. You know me. I love I love the arms. the fact that there there's no [\h__\h] in them and you can see every fiber and every grain of detail. I mean, I've been posting about it non-stop. Like, I just I really applaud it because it seems, you know, trends in bodybuilding, they kind of when everyone does it, everyone's just like, well, he's doing it, he's doing it, he's not doing too badly, so I'm just going to do the same thing. Like, like years ago when the gut started happening and then the judges were like, actually, the pro league and the IFBB were like, okay, actually, we are going to start marking down for that. We're not going to give it to you if you have a if your stomach's hanging out. Um, and now I just like I said, I'm a big campaigner for this shoulder thing because you know some of them when they hit riddle biceps you it's just one big blob. You can't see the individual heads and but look at Krzo. I mean you can see everything flickering and and I just love it and there's nothing going in those arms. And if he is just say he is doing it he's doing it differently to the other guys. That's all I can say. Yeah. It's funny. He said, "Gile." I said, "Giles is, you know, we were talking about I I brought it up because I said, "Some of these guys have absolutely no detail at all. The shoulders, arms like blobs." And I I said, "The one thing Giles and I have both given you a lot of credit, especially Giles, is the detail in the shoulders and the arms." And he laughed and he said, "Giles always says the same thing." Yeah. Because I'm at least I'm consistent. Yeah. But I mean, it's true. I Yeah. I told him, I said, you know, I I wish Derek and Nick and these and Martin had the detail that you have in the shoulders and the arms and the chest. It would make their physique so much better. And just he didn't really have a response to it. He just kind of laughed. And also, Ron, you know, I mean, a lot of guys jab their lats as well. And who just tore his lap? Uh, VTO. Veto. Well, I'm not saying anything, but you know, just just just putting that hypothesis, potential hypothesis out there. you know, you keep injecting a body part, you're going to create scar tissue, you're going to create micro tears, and then you put some heavy stress on it and you know, one day when your body fat's low and you know that that's how that's how things get torn. So, it's because um I mean I've I mean I remember one one this was years ago and I I was top bodybuilder, British bodybuilder and um I went to his um went up to knock on his hotel room and he goes, "Th look at me, tell me what you think." I looked at I was like, "Okay, now you look awesome, mate." But he had like no triceps. He had no huge bice of no triceps. And then on the on the side there was two bottles of test of it vit test. It was um back then it was like 20 years ago. It was uh propinate test propeneate. And I said what's that for mate? And he says well I'm going to put 7 and a half mil in each tri and a half millilit. Seven three quarters of a 10 mil multi bottle dose bottle. Right. And I went whoa seriously yeah gives me a nice like you know nice little lift on my tricep. Um and then I saw him on stage the next day. He won and he did the most muscular and it was like like that and it was and the thing is then he competed a few years later and his arms just looked like sticks because he put that much gear and scar tissue like the muscle just got eaten away. It's like nerve dam you know this nerve damage thing. I think a lot of it is there is some cases of nerve damage and stuff like that, but but you know nerve damage is when that if you start stabbing all the nerves and breaking it down, breaking the muscle down, you know, you're going to you're going to spoil the muscle. Now, look at the shoulders there, man. Look at that. You know, there's no [\h__\h] going in them shoulders, is there, mate? I mean, it's just, you know, incredible. Yeah, I'm I'm a huge fan of that look. And uh yeah, I wish him the best. He He's actually remember he said he was like sixth, seventh place. remember he kind of predicted that for himself a couple weeks back. I don't know if you remember that. He's he's confident now for top five and I think that's very very realistic for him. He'll be top five. He'll be top five. I've got him first solid fifth. Yeah. I mean and fifth place in this lineup is nothing to be ashamed of. I mean Derek Mr. Olympia Nick Arnold Classic Champ third place Olympia Martin fourth place Olympia B you know to to come up to come up place directly after those guys there is no shame. Creo. Yeah. I mean I mean I still see him as like a sixth to eighth place guy at the Olympia this year. But thing is he's still got to qualify. Yeah. So you know there's there's I mean just say he goes to because he's doing New York. So that's two shows in a row in a different country because apparently he doesn't like traveling. So that's going to be out of his comfort zone. So he's he's going to be not be tired but he's going to be he's probably he might not beat Nick at New York Pro. So he's not going to qualify. So then you think, well, where where does he go from there? You know, does he gonna go to Toronto? Um, we got four shows, four weeks. Down state, he could do Legion. Yeah. Then he's gonna have to wait for Toronto or Dubai. And how long does he want to stay on prep for? Yeah. And then that's then that's really eating into your Olympia prep, isn't it? So, um, the thing is like guys can Yeah, guys can burn out, you know. So then just say I mean I'm not we're we're talking like he's going to be a guaranteed top top six top eight Olympia guy but he might not even qualify. So he needs to really think strategically now upon what shows he needs to do rather than just doing shows willy-nilly. He has to think about shows that he can realistically go in and do what Andrew did at FIBO. Just jump into a show because he's seen the lineup and thinks okay last minute I'm going to jump in and get my qualification. Because like people like Andrew and stuff like that now and veto they they cho they chose really really well you know I mean you had Andrew who did Fibo who was kind of it was shaky between him and Sassan I mean I love Sassan but he's got no business beating someone like Andrew Jack who's top five twice at the Olympia you know this is a guy who's never even won a pro who's very good but you know they he shouldn't have really statistically he shouldn't have been coming close to someone like an Andrew. So my point is Kriso needs to think strategically. I don't think he'll pull out a New York pro because you know probably you know he's committed to that now he's over in America but I think he for the third show I think he really really needs to think carefully otherwise potentially he might not see the Olympia this year. Yeah. I mean we've said it before every every year now there's going to be a couple guys who don't make it to the Olympia because they just get stopped by someone else and sometimes it's somebody who's already qualified for the Olympia but they want to keep winning shows and making money and why who who are we to say how dare you do that? You might Derek might just go completely apeshit and just go and do every show. It's like you don't know. You don't know. I didn't think Andrew was going to jump into Fibo and I speak to Andrew quite frequently. I didn't see that happening. So things unexpected things can happen. I didn't think Veto was going to pull out this weekend, but that happened. So yeah. So let's uh I I don't want to go through any more open because I want to talk a little bit about classic. And here is uh here's my front runner which I don't think is crazy at all. Terrence Ruff and Rough Diesel took a full season off, puts some puts some needed size on. Uh I don't really see a problem any problems with him going on and winning this show. This is the best version of him. I I you know, I I thought he had a fantastic physique years ago and now I think it's even better that the upper body is just a little bit fuller. Yeah. with um with Terrence. Um I said this before like I remember seeing at the Olympia a few times in classic and when he come out by himself you're like you and me were probably I remember a couple of times going whoa look at that he's that perfect classic. He looks amazing. He's going to win this and then you the rest of the lineup comes out the bumpers the bons and all that and he kind of gets lost in the lineup. I kind of lose him. I have to really look for him. Whereas when he stood by himself you're like wow. So, but the thing is when he came out in the wrestling land, he did look like he kind he looked kind of looked small, you know, classic in condition, beautiful presentation, but he did look kind of small. So, last year when he took that year off, um, yes, he kind of stepped out of the limelight for a little bit, but I think looking at this now, it was absolutely the right decision for him to do because he looks he's come back with the size that he kind of needed to kind of really because I think he's not just competitive for this. I think he's a potential with to to battle with Mike Somerfield and Ramon and all these other guys and you know and um Jose Sam and all these other guys Michael Depul for actually winning the Olympia this year especially now it's vacant now that Bumstead so everyone's going to be bringing their agame so you know because I mean before they were probably thinking oh well let's go for second you know because um you know Bumstead was so awesome but um like now he's this plan of his I mean I wonder if he knew that Bumstead was going to retire because he couldn't have timed this any better. True. You think about it. You think about with Bumstead retiring and him taking this year off. This could be his year. So, um he needs to win this one and win this quite well, he doesn't even need to win it. Convince, he just needs to win it. Go do the New York Pro. Win it. Come and do the tour with me. And then, uh and then he he needs to I I I I think personally um I can see him uh I mean, even um Tyler said that on one of the videos. He said, "I think with the extra size that Terrence has now clearly put on with the conditioning and the quality that you know he's going to bring and from all the updates we've seen, you know that he's um he's he's now a real serious. He's been second Olympics. He's won the Arnold Classics, two Arnold Classics. So, you know that he's now a serious contender to win the Olympia. And for me, you know, we have the debate about what is classic and what isn't classic. And Terrence is 100% classic. And do not even get me started on the beautiful conditioning opposing. Oh my god. Yeah. I mean they're very I don't know if he's the best poser but he's one of the only people No he is he is name me somebody better yeah I can't see you know do you know what sometimes people say things right and it's um and like you say well you know give me an alternative to that or tell me who could and you sometimes you put people on the spot and this is why I get into a lot of arguments on social media because you actually give them the realistic like veto can win it's like really he's gonna beat these guys. You know, like you said about, oh, so and so could be top 10. And I'm like, well, I could think of 12 guys that he'd probably struggle to get past. So, that's your top 10 at Olympia if they all show up and they're all on, you know, sometimes you got to think about it. You got to have that data in your head and all the the the names and, you know, because and there's always people we forget about that are already qualified, you know. So, um but um yeah. Yeah. So, who has a who has a chance of beating because everyone's got a chance, but I want to go to the 23y old from Spain, Sema. Come on. Where do I amazing? Yeah. So, he's he's won a few pro shows already. He was 22 uh when he got six place at the Olympia and his Olympia debut last year. 22 years old. He turned 23 a couple weeks later. This kid's fantastic. Uh again, you want to argue about what's classic? Look at that shot right there. That's Look at that vacuum. The lats tape. Those lats bulging the arms. He's got everything. Along with Calderon. I think he's Spain's best bodybuilder surely. I can't I mean I'll have to really think about this, but I think that he's probably Spain along with Andrew Calderon, like I said, in the 212. Yeah, he's probably their best athlete right now. Um but I saw Joe Summer on stage and I was chatting to him backstage at the the Empro last year when I did the commentary and um yeah, he's fantastic. He's I was really excited to see him when I heard he was doing it. Um he's bloody impressive. Um that shot he does where he does the relax with the intercostals and the obliques and the serus and stuff. I mean he's and and you know me I'm a stickler for condition and I mean that kid I mean I bet offseason he's sharper than some guys even on are on stage you know. Um but he's so impressive and you know sometimes we forget that this he is 20 what? 23. I mean that is he is incredible. He's incredible and I think um I can only see him moving up this year. So Terrence will have his hands full definitely with Josema. Um he potentially yes he could beat Ruffin. Um I don't see it happening personally because I don't think Ruffin's going to miss. I don't think Jo's going to miss either because um they're both very consistent in terms of their conditioning. But um yeah, this is going to be an interesting battle this one. And there's one other guy I know you're going to bring up next. I predict it. Yeah. somebody else who I think is uh to be honest is one of the most exciting prospects for the classic this year and I'm very very excited about him. Let's go to him. Let's go to him. So, Brazil, as you know, Brazil has given us some incredible athletes over these past couple years. Oh, where'd I put him? So, we're talking about Kiki. Is that who you thought I was going to bring up? Kaiiki. Kaiiki. Yeah, Kaiiki Pro. Uh he was in Boston for years. That's where he started off cuz we have a we have a very large Brazilian population here, but he's now in I think he's in Florida. It's hard. Someone's going to roast me in the comments for not knowing where everybody lives, but like it matters. But, uh, these aren't the greatest shots. He looks a little flat here, but geez, this was a men's physique pro. Uh, this is going to be his his classic debut. He took some time off, put a little bit more size on. He was one of those guys that was kind of already starting to be a little too big for men's physique anyway. So, I'm glad that he, you know, got the memo from all us cranky old guys and decided to move up to the classic. Look at that. Look at the delts. I Ron, I mean, his updates been blowing my mind. I mean, I I I remember interviewing him for Global back in 2018, 2019. It was AJ that would really had to talk me into having a men's physique guy on the term. I was like, "No, I'm not interested." We had him and we kind of, you know, got a bit of a bond going in with you. And, um, I bumped into him last year in Prague uh, and had a nice chat with him and I mean, I think it was offseason there. He's [\h__\h] He's really big, man. He's a really big guy. Like, I hugged him and I was like, Jesus Christ, you're like, you know, you're m he's massive. He's a really nice guy. But these updates, I mean, it's funny. You can't really see it on this screen for some reason. But like, he's got a his chest is I just hope that the physique translates to a classic. And I hope he flows. You know, when you see him in posing trunks, you know, we used to see him in board shorts. if he really really flows. I mean, he could he could cause some I mean, he could cause um Josema, you know, two top six and Ruffin, two top six Olympia guys. He could really really give them. I think he's really going to push them. Um I wouldn't be blown blown off the, you know, blown up my mind if he actually beat them. I' um but I think likely I think he's going to be a solid third and I think he's going to look absolutely fantastic and I'm so glad that he came over. I remember because he'd been top five in the um the Olympia in men's physique. I think it was I've got 2019 in my head. I think he was fifth in 2019 and he's he's been very consistent. So he's a real he's already a superstar in the industry and um the fact that he's come over to classic well I just he's he's just I mean look at his legs. I mean to think that his legs are being covered up in those awful shorts. I mean he really he's really he's always earned my respect. I mean he's got hu I've got huge respect for him but um if he looks I mean look at everything. I mean look at it the striations the detail the condition. So, I'm um I'm very excited to see Kaiiki on stage in the classic in Pittsburgh this weekend. I think he's gonna I think that's going to be that I don't see anyone penetrating that top three other than Kayiki, Ruffin, and Jo. Yeah. Yeah. One last thing. When he when he turned pro and started competing, I remember hearing from some people that knew him because he was training at a a gym that's a little it's north just north of Boston. had a lot of it's owned by Brazilian Maria Maria Diaz and her husband own it. Okay. So, it's a lot of Brazilians there. And I it came back to me from my friend Jason that he'd only been training seriously for like a year at that point. I hate those guys. I was like, this guy, but good lord, you can't deny this. I mean, the muscle quality, this was four weeks ago. He was already contest conditioned four weeks ago. Do you know what though? There is I can see why there's so much excitement around the classic because there is more talent, new talent coming in, fresh fresh stock coming into the classic division all the time. Like there's like I I could see in the next couple of years I could see like guys who've been top three and top six at the Olympia falling down to ninth or 10th because of the sheer volume of talent that's coming in. Because imag like Kaiiki, say he comes in and say he beats one either Ruffin or um or or Josama and then like goes and storms Olympia like when Z turned up and he took third in his first Olympia, you I I I can see that there's a lot of talent coming through that that potentially could happen which would then shake things up, you know, because the Open's the open I love the Open of course, but um like when Samson kind of kind of like went from sixth to third to first, fourth at the Arnold, first at the Arnold, you know, they they make that rapid rise for a number of years and they just kind of just basically just shake everything up and uh it brings so much excitement to the sport because we want to see new talent and we don't want to see like I honestly like I love Veto. think he's amazing, but I didn't see him as a top 10 Olympia guy this year. I saw him as I I still don't I I think he's 11th to 15th, but imagine like remember 92 when Kevin Neon came in and like if it wasn't for Dorian, he'd have won he'd have won the Olympia a year after turning pro. Yeah. Like you don't you don't see that anymore. So, um, I'm not saying the Open's predictable because you've got a lot of different storylines happening and a lot of exciting stuff happening like when Nick coming back and us talking about whether he might potentially beat Derek and Martin, everybody else. But, um, so for guys like Kiki, you know, who, um, who look phenomenal and, um, you know, all the indications are there that he's going to really, really do well. Um, so even if he gets third in this one, I still see him as, um, I still see him as qualifying for the Olympia at some point this year. and I still see him as a potential top six, if not definitely top 10 Olympia in his first go. Um, you know, when I looked at the IFBB schedule, I made a whole video showing people how many how many Olympia qualifiers they had for each division. And Classic had over 90 shows this year. 90. So, wow. Kiki will get to the Olympia this year, guys. Don't worry about it. Wow. Yeah, he's he's golden. I mean, I mean, just muscle I mean, just in Brazil and muscle contest, you could I mean, I don't know how many classic shows there are, but um probably like 10. Wow, that's incredible. That's incredible. In fact, I just had Brian, the um promoter of the muscle contest Ireland on the phone yesterday, and he says, "Are you coming next weekend?" And I still don't know whether I'm going next weekend. Um so, um because I've got Sweden this weekend. I've got the MPC Sweden show. I'm flying out tomorrow back on Tuesday. Um but um like and I said to him, I said, "Your your classic show because you got classic pro show there, Olympic qualifier there." And I said, "Your classic one's really coming together, mate." I said, "You've got Herman Pastor, you've got um Shane Cullen." And and he reeled off another load of names of a couple of guys from America. And I was like really happy for him because he he switched it from 212 to to classic because he knew there would be more numbers in the classic. And it's it seems to have really paid off for him. So I when I get back from Sweden, if I can um I get something to look after the cats and the pets and stuff, I might uh I might shoot out there and uh you know, go back. It's the thing is it's not the same venue that the Irish incident happened in 22. So, um, I've got I've got less fear about going over there and causing any drama because I think, uh, maybe I might get maybe it might something trigger me and if I if I walk back into that venue, it all happens. Oh, boy. You have is it a hundred different reptiles and so forth you have? Is it at that? No. No. I got I don't know. I don't want to count them. I don't reel them off now and bore everyone, but I got a few. Not Not a huge amount. So, 20, 30. Just give me a rough. No, no, I don't think I've No, I've got about 10. No, not 10. One, two. No, I've got a snake, a python, tarantula, mossy tree frog, crested gecko, uh um uh oriental firebelly toad, and I got two desert iguanas and two cows. Okay, I don't know why I thought you had this whole menagerie there, but anyway, let's move on. They have many divisions. Uh men's physique, Eron Banks is in there. VidC Chavez, they have some great I just wanted the last person to talk about because she's always been so kind, uh especially with the old MD channel. She was a moderator. Natalya Quao, former Olympia uh women's physique champion. She's doing this show. Good. Surprise. You know, she obviously she doesn't need to qualify. She's qualified for life. But there she look how tiny she was. Wow. Wow. Do you know what? Do you know it tells me like um like I I sometimes get a bit of [\h__\h] from saying that people should either switch divisions or or whatever. I remember back to 2017 when she was a figure and she'd won four pro shows as a figure and she won her fourth pro show and I remember seeing a picture of her on MD forum and she had these unbelievable quads and she was trying to hide them on stage by keeping it because obviously it's figure you can't have well now their quads are big but back then they didn't have big huge split quads and dry conditioning um and then she was holding her legs as close together she was like pushing them together to almost hide them and I went on the forum and I said she should switch to women's physique I said look at her quads I if she if she's probably holding back right now. If she like didn't hold back, she could she could do unbelievably well as women's physique. And I got so much [\h__\h] for it. I had so much like I did like I was just before I came on there where people are saying, "You know what you're talking about. Of course, Veto is going to be Bonak and all this bullshit." And um and then she went and um did a qualifier after that Olympia because she did figure and she remember got I got a picture of you with her at the 2017 Olympia and she got 16th. She didn't get placed in the figure Olympia in 2017. She did a qualifier, I think it was in Florida right after the Olympia, jumped into it, qualified as a women's physique, and came in the next year and took third in the Olympia. And I I'll be honest, mate. I mean, I'm I'm a pretty smug guy, but um I felt very smug after that one. Oh boy. I was like, just make a note of that one for the future, you know. So, so uh this is why this is why a lot of people this why some people these some of these fans don't like me because they don't like the truth. They don't like the facts because they've got their belief system and they believe it because they're a fan of so and so and they believe this and they believe that and they've been told to believe something by you know sponsors or whatever or adverts or you know forums or podcasts and you know they they kind of take they don't think for themselves and they take it as um as fact. So when you actually challenge these people they really don't like it and they really turn on you actually. So but I like I said it it um it really doesn't bother me. You know, I did a preview last week with Shawn Ray for this show, an early preview, and one of the comments said, "These are two has been who don't know who don't know anything pretending like they're experts." I said, "Well, I've been to a probably a thousand pro shows. Sean's probably been to 5,000 pro shows." I mean, I mean, come on, Ron. You've you've been like, you know, you've got what you're probably the most prolific bodybuilder writer of all time. You were, you know, employed for decades like I was, you know, in the indust. I mean, I'm literally this is I've been paid to fly out tomorrow to Sweden. I mean, you know, I was paid and and flown over from UK to America how many times? A dozen, 15, 20 times. Yeah. You know, because obviously my opinion clearly did count for something, you know, there's some credibility there. So, to say that you and Sha don't like and the thing is who's saying it some casual with a fake account on on YouTube, you know, but they the fact that people like feel that they can say that it just blows my mind. It's like I mean the fact that you can say to someone like Shawn Ray thing is if you don't know who Shawn Ray is then you're not a real bodybuilding fan as far as I'm concerned. You don't know your history. So you can't say to Shawn Ray you don't your opinion doesn't count and you are wrong because I think you are wrong. That to me is the very definition of uh of idiocy. I'm trying to find the post. They they announced Oh here we go. So live stream was announced uh two days ago as I knew it would be. And of course it's Gilo. It's going to be awesome. You called it. So guys, right there on I have a banner there for the website pits powerpro pits powerfitit, sorry, pitspowerfit.com. You can get the stream. There's going to be two different streams. All the men's uh event, the men's categories are going on Saturday starting at 9:00 a.m. Eastern. That's $29.99. It's not free. Sorry. You know, Fouad kind of Fouad and the Arnold Classic did free web stream. So live live stream like why can't everyone do it for free? Well, maybe they could, but why, you know, why were they going to throw away a chance to make some cash? So, do you think this I mean this show is if it looks like it's going to be a bloody big show, big expo, Sam Sula, all these other like stars are there. It looks like it's going to hit the ground running this one. So, I mean, could this could this be a show that like rivals the Arnold Classic in years to come? I mean, well, I mean, already the thing is, hang on, they've got the same organizational team that the Arnold Classic used to have when it was run by the um what's their name? The Loramas. the Lauramas the same organiz because I get the emails I get emails for the press releases and all that and saying you know applying for press credentials so these are these are not they they've not they've teamed up with some pretty serious people that are very well connected in the industry so I expect this show to be you know like the plastic the first year in ' 89 they said there was like Gpar was a couple of tables that was the expo it was a couple of tables a couple of small trade stands and within a few years it blew up and it just grew I can see the same happening to Pittsburgh mate I think this is going to be I mean already with the prize money it's attracting the big names Um, so this is a show that um, let's give it two or three years. I mean, maybe it might rival the Arnold Classic, maybe even Olympia. Well, they're starting off with a $100,000 first prize, which I think the only other show after Arnold and Olympia, I think, is Dubai giving away 100,000 as well. 140. Oh, 14 for first prize. Yeah, that's what I read today. Anyway, I don't know whe a few people said it as well, so it must be true. A few casual f a few casual fans said, so it must be true. Well, you know, regardless, yeah, they're coming out, like you said, they're coming out of the gate very strong with a a Mr. Olympia in the lineup. A lot of Olympians competing, big expo, big money. Uh, you know, so props to Jim Minion and the production team for making this for a first for a first time show. It's going to be pretty spectacular, I'm sure. Oh, watch out for that. You just brought him up there. Richard Ni, Nagy, Richard Naggi from Hungary. He's he's really good. He's been top 10 Olympia. I think he'll be um he'll be in that first he'll definitely be the guy before. He'll definitely want to show Justin. That's Justin from Germany. Yeah, he'll that that Richard Nate that him he'll be first call outer. He'll be like probably third, fourth. Okay. He's good. Really good. Is he open or classic? Classic. It's hard for me to tell these days. Unless they have the right trunks on. I tell you something I would like to ask you. Who would you Who would you think would be uh seeing that you've seen the the full open lineup? Who do you think will take sixth at the Open? Oh jeez. Like who's the best of the rest? I mean, I know that Leandro guy that um that Veto, let's be honest, barely beat in uh but is he the best of the rest? You got like um RPG Ronald P. Gordon. There's um there's some other goodness there. There is Justin Mully. There's some other really good physiques in there like the second the second call out guys. No disrespect, but there's levels to this. Yeah. I'm trying to get back to where the damn I'm trying to get back to where that list was. I mean, Ron Gordon, Ron Gordon's good. Little light in the legs. Justin from Germany's good. Yeah, he's coming up. Yeah, I mean, sixth place is wide open. I I had V. That was Veto's spot. Sixth place, as far as I was concerned. Oh, but there's I've just been there's a lot of casual fans that say that. Oh, here we go. Okay. So, All right. So, here it is. Let me try to try to do my best. But give me credit, guys. I did call that I said there would be a live stream and I said it would be Gilo. So, you did, Ron. You did. I know you're a has been, but mate, you called that one. I get I get onetenth Mystic Tiger point for that. Oh jeez. So looking at this list here, God Martin, Ron, I guess I'd go with Ron Gordon just based on what I've seen. This Justin from Germany, the young kid, he's only like 24. He's very good, too. I think it's going to be one of those guys in sixth. What about the Leand Leandro? Yeah, he's I mean Leandro. Justin Andro Perez. Um yes, there some It's tough. It's tough. But yeah, I haven't really changed my top five. Um I still have uh And guys, put your top five below. That's that's you know, I solicit comments of course. They're they're good for the algorithm. We'll tell you how wrong you are. Wrong. But you know what? Do you know what you know what really annoys me is when you do it because like say we're not psychic. We do and thing is you all be we predict upon everyone coming in on but sometimes people coming off or something happens or like you know we didn't think Derek was going to get third at the Olympia last year. We thought it'd be like first or second, you know, we did we No one could have predicted that. No one could have predicted Samsung was going to get beat by Derek. I mean, things happen sometimes. So, um, what's my point there? It's hard to say. I forgot my point. I mean, you know, someone said, "Your predictions are are stupid. They're meaningless because you never know what's going to happen." But what they do is they'll come back. They'll come back to the comment you made before the show, after the show when you were you made a prediction and you're wrong, and they're like, "See?" And I'm like, "Oh, that really annoys me." That does. Meanwhile, the guy got food poisoning or something. It was something that was completely out of our Because if if if I was 100% accurate, you'd think I had like a mainline to the to the judges or the proleal. That's what that's if I was 100% 100% 100% right 100% of the time. People would say he's he's got he's you know, he might be doing live streams sat to the judges, but he's got some influence. I mean, obviously it's total nonsense, but um Yeah. Yeah. Um um I I think I have the same as you. Yeah, I think I think I'm gonna go the same as you. Like I said, I I am I do flip-flop between Nick and Derek, but I think it's likely that Derek will win. Yeah. Um I'm and I'm again I'm I'm two in and throwing with Martin and Bonak, but based upon what we've seen, but um I think I think there's a 70% chance that that top five is going to be absolutely bang on, mate. Yeah. So guys, in the comments, do you agree with me and Giles? You think we're morons and we're husbands and we don't know what the hell we're talking about, but give me your top five because you know it anything could happen. We've seen some crazy scenarios and shakeups. Some people that we did not think were going to do well do very well and vice versa. Things happen. Physiques, even the updates you're looking at today, guys, we're talking on a Thursday. These physiques can drastically change in 48 hours. We've seen it. We've seen guys go from looking fantastic to, oh no, what the hell happened? Uh, and just the opposite. We've I've seen guys who look a little puffy like this. He's screwed. He's not even going to get first call out. Somehow it ends up being water weight and they shred. So, we'll see what happens. Guys, do you know what we like I said, I think we've been doing these preview videos, these prediction videos since 2018. So, we've been pretty much apart from the the the New York Pro which I missed when I was in hospital 22. No, no, it was um not the New York Pro, it was the the Indie, wasn't the one after the one I missed. I was really pissed off because you did it with Jose, I think. Um, I think if if one day if I have like a if if I have like a load of free time or somebody's got some free time, I'd love to go back through all those videos and check against the results so I could actually say and actually state as fact and show it on a website or something say, "Look, I have a 87% success rate of all my placings." Yeah, I'd love to I I wish there was some sort AI app or something that you could go back and analyze all those videos uh that we did all those like because we you know like I said we've we we put our money where our mouth is. We say it before the show, not after the show, you know, or on the day of the show. We don't say, "Oh, well, you know," when we've seen like stuff from the prejudging on on Instagram, you go, "Oh, well, so and so's first, he's second, he's third." Like, there's there's, you know, not many people can do what we do, right? So, I think um yeah, so someone called you someone in one of the com I don't know if it was on Instagram or YouTube, remember someone just said like, "Ah, this Tiger guy, he's never competed, you know, he's not competing. He doesn't know anything about bodybuilding." And you know, I had to remind him he's been in the industry for 35 years. 30. Yeah. 35 I started. He was a photographer. He's written thousands of articles, taken millions of photographs, podcasts. I mean, come on, guys. Manager, tourman, and you know, how many live stream commentaries you think you've done by now? Uh, I've been doing them since 21 because that's when they really started, wasn't it? Just after the pandemic. Um, I don't know. I've done pro shows, amateur shows. I've been all over Europe, all over the world. Um, what half a dozen Olympia, half dozen Arnold Classics, more pro shows. Uh, I don't know. I shouldn't have to reel off my bloody I know. I know. But the thing is like be funny like I'm not being big but funny like if you don't know who I am then you're obviously a new fan because I have been in the scene for that long on lots of different levels you know so I don't expect everyone but it just things with social media gives everyone that direct you know platform to comment so you get it. You don't you get the comment, you know, like boom, think about it. That's probably why bodybuilds are quite sens some bodybuilders are quite sensitive nowadays because when you read a magazine and you're reading a magazine in in um in bloody Boston, you know, and you're a fan, you're young Ron Harris, a young fan, and he says, "Ah, he's full of [\h__\h] I should I had him sick, not second, they're never going to hear that. They're never going to know that. They're never going to know that you've said that. They're not going to get pissed off. It's not going to ruin their day." But nowadays, you know, I could anyone could create a fake account or even go on as themselves and say, "So and so, Derek, Samson, Martin, they all suck. I've got so and so, Vito's better than all of them." And talk complete nonsense. But they they they it gives it unfortunately sometimes I think social media should be taken away from some people. But that's the fun in sort of debating with people and uh and just kind of going back and forth. Some I'll spend hours doing it, just going back and forth until they literally throw the towel in because I will I'll I'll work I'll I'll I'll basically I'll um I'll wear them down wear them down with facts, you know, and just pure stubbornness. Yeah. Yeah. I just want to throw it out there. one one the thing that impresses me the most about it's not just your eye it's here I am licking your bum but the fact that you can recall contest placings for hundreds and hundreds of pro shows going back 20 to 30 years you know you'll say oh yeah 99 British Grand Prix was Flex Wheeler uh Ronnie Cole you you'll be able to rattle it off like that I can barely remember like my own you know I I felt I I went outside and I I remember going walk in the garden and I hung my head in shame a few weeks ago because I was talking with AJ on on one of his posts about Sassan and I said, well, I said, you know, he's looking as good as he did when he took um fifth place at the uh the New York Pro in 2017. And AJ went and he says, no, no, he was sixth. He says fifth was Akim Giles. I was like, no. I can't even delete the comment now because you I just because everyone will see it, you know. I was I felt like such a failure because I got one placing wrong of one pro show from eight years ago with from you know. So yeah, I was trying to Yeah. Here we go. Um believe it believe it or not, Ron, this this might actually shock you. Not even I am perfect. No, I know you're not. Um I don't want I don't want to end on a downer, but I know there's a lot of animal lovers. I love my dog. You love your animals. I just wanted to uh because a lot of people knew, you know, knew about your your cat and everything. I just want to give my condolences and show this this cat. I saw him so many times when you were getting ready for podcasts. You'd have to kick him out of the room. Uh he was your boy. Uh I just want to give a little tribute to Milo because I know he was Ron. Oh my boy. Oh, bless him. How long he was? 12. Uh he was 10 nearly 11. Um, but he he got kidney problems and it was I was I'll be honest that night when we had to take him because he was really he wouldn't make the night when I took him to the vet that was um that was honestly one of the worst days of my life because we had to bring him back in the basket and he gone and I remember stroking his ears and he was it was all and he felt cold you know it was just I miss him so much mate. In fact, I've got him over there in the bag. I I I got his ashes back last week and they do this they do this service where they put his paw print onto these things which you can then frame. Um, they cut a bit of his fur off and I've got his ashes and I I've had it there for over a week. I can't go near it. I can't go near it. I keep thinking I'm going to go and deal with it, but I just I keep avoiding it. So, he was he was more you know, you have I've I've always had pets all my life. I've always had lots of pets. Yeah. But then you have that one that you have that really special bond with. Um, and that was my he was um he wasn't like a cat. He was more like AI don't know what he was. He was just amazing little being. I love I miss him so much. Yeah. I mean, a lot of us, a lot of you guys watching, you can you have a dog or a cat or you've had dogs or cats that I had a Shih Tzu dog for almost 19 years. And when she we had to put her down, I I don't know if I should be ashamed to say this, but I cried harder that day when in there with the uh the vet than I did um sorry, oh my god, for people that I've lost like aunts, uncles, I get it. I get it, mate. I totally get it, Ron. Yeah, I get it. I mean, it hits you hard because Ron, I was more I was Yeah. Sorry. Go ahead. Yeah. I mean, that's all I want to say. I I I to be honest, um I mean, obviously, I lost my parents. I lost my mom in 21 to cancer. A week after we buried her and we realized something was wrong with dad. A year and a half later, he died. And obviously, like I was very close to my dad. It wasn't really that close to my mom. I didn't really grow up with her. We had a tricky relationship. But um like something about you, some part of you I think I I think I' I've looked at it really analytically and I think I think it's got to do with how much interaction you have in a daily basis. Like I didn't I didn't live with my dad since I was 18 and I was close to my dad but you know you kind of go off and you do your own thing and you have your own lives and but then you have something like I work from home and you know like and and it's you interact with something on a with a real positive relationship you know they make you laugh you feel good they bring out they bring out the kind of the good qualities you know the caring nurturing loving you know caring side which is kind of what we all want to you know we we there's no negativity like sometimes people you you have in your life they bring out like really bad sides in you that you become a victim of of that environment, you know, but when you have something like a cat and you really bond with it and you know, you just feel nothing but joy and happiness, you can um it's it's um when you then remove that from your life, it's um it's [\h__\h] horrible, mate. So, so I get it. I remember I remember you were saying about Chewy, mate. I remember. Yeah. I mean, dogs dogs and cats, they're pure love and devotion. They're always happy to see you, you know? It's just it's just love and positivity. There's there's no downsides. A lot of people when you've had a bad day, they can't wait to get home to their dog or their cat because Yeah. Yeah. Well, well, Maya was like a dog cuz I come up from the gym and if he wasn't at the door like like waiting for me, I used to run through the house and I'd say to Lauren, I say, "Where's my child?" I used to say, "Where's my child?" And I'd go in and I just I was so affectionate with him. He was like I was more affectionate with him with Lauren. I was really like, you know, he slept in between us every night. I would I couldn't nap with ice. I'd have to find him if he wasn't on the bed and bring him with me and bring him in close. Yeah, I totally I think the thing is thing is if you really go deeply into it if I really talked at length about this I I kind of think I'm I even myself is saying you're nuts for saying this but you know some people that do have that bond they kind of understand it like you talk about chewy and I I I know exactly what you mean mate 100%. I mean I my dog now branch I mean he's he's seven years six so he's got some good years left in him but I'm it's like when you have you know I'm already dreading the day and I know hopefully it's going to be many years from now but I'm already dreading the day when something happens and maybe we have to put them down. It's it's inevitable these animals they don't live as long as we do. It's you know I wish they could. Well, thing is unless you get like a tortoise or a parrot that lives to 100, you know, that's the price you pay, you know, because I mean most what the cats live 18 20 years and May nearly died five years ago from kidney problems and then we went a few a year later because he had some viral thing and I said, "Oh, it's his kidneys is it?" And he went, "No, no, he's got some we've given him to be fine in two weeks. He's fine." He said the the kidneys had healed. So that was progressive disease that should have killed him five years ago. Wow. So really I got five years extra. So, um but um and I'm really I've got the other two cats which I really, you know, I'm putting extra attention because the girl cat, his sister was fine, but the boy cat um he for for a good four or five days afterwards, he was he was acting differently, very very differently. Like they they cats cats and dogs are much more empathetic than we realize. But certainly cats because people think dogs are the only empathetic ones and stuff, but actually I think all animals are. Yeah. Well, you mentioned tortoise. So, the last thing I'm going to say about animals is did you know that the same tortoise was owned by Charles Darwin and Steve Irwin, the late crocodile hunter? They both This tortoise is like 300 years old or really 300? Well, it's it's over 200 years old. It's still alive. They they can live for like 250 years, I think. A tortoise. I'm going to get one as a pet or or I'll get a Greenland shark because they live to about 400 years. Their heart beats about once a minute or something and they they exist in really really cold water. That's why the heart beats so slowly. Yeah. But um I tell you another completely unconnected thing. Um I was I was at Nando the other day and I was chatting to the manager and he was showing me pictures of his because he was a Pakistani guy and he showed me a picture of his grandfather that was 115 years old. O and he showed me a picture and I would have said that guy was no older than 70. What? Good lord. And he was and he I couldn't believe I was like well where is he? He said that that's that guy's 115. So, I was asking them all about the kind of diet they ate and their lifestyle. Yeah, it's really interesting. Well, I'm sure he wasn't a 300lb bodybuilder, this guy. Yeah, they don't I don't think that many of those will live to 150 if they stay at 300 pounds. But, um, yeah. So, Ron, um, I'm off to MPC Sweden tomorrow for the Gasp crew like I always do the live stream comedy with Minipali and Ashkan Agilli. So, I'm very excited about that. Haven't done any packing or anything yet. So, um, but I I'm the sort of person that packs about two minutes before I leave. So, I just go done. And you know when you travel that much you know you you know not to overpack or so um so tomorrow I'm gonna go straight to the gym. I think um Hunter's going to be there. Brett Wilin um who one of the other one of the other top uh gas Oh, Branch Branch Warren's going to be there. So um so I'm looking forward to that tomorrow. So I've got a taxi right from the because they pick you up in like a limo with a with a driver. And I said to him and I said to her I said like because they usually take me straight to the gym. So I messaged she says I'll take you to the hotel. Says no I want to go straight to the gym. I want to train arms. So, yeah, because I want to I'm doing legs tonight because I normally do that on a Saturday. I switched it around. So, I said, "No, no, I said," she said, "I'll I'll I'll change the the the pickup so it takes you straight to the gym." So, and then we're all going out for dinner tomorrow night. So, I'm really excited about that. Lauren in South Africa, so she's not coming this year. So, um she's out there for a month with her family. So, um Well, as you can see, guys, that's a free live stream on npceden.com. So, you can Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, we um our views every cuz Ash can whilst we're actually doing it because we have green screen because they actually superimpose us. There's a camera on us. I didn't realize this till about halfway through the show last year. Um you go backstage and it's on a big screen and you see us like live on the screen. So So I was making sure I wasn't like picking my nose or like sighting or or just looking bored, you know, when when like bikinis on or something. But um Oh, no. They're going to be doing the fit body, aren't they? Say what? Are they doing fit body? Oh, I don't know. We can't complain about that here. No, I'll have to um I'll have to sort of take a break on that one and hand that one to Mina because that's that's what the that's what we're all that's what we that thing is that's the beauty of having like I'll be honest I'll say it now I've done live streams where it's just been me and I will never do that again because to you know for the length of how shows are and to keep up the level of um um what's the word scrutiny that I like to have that I think you should afford to everyone I think um it's not a oneman job. In fact I think it's not even a two-man job. I think it's more like three, four people. So, you can rotate it, keep the energy up because like I said, I like to give the same level of attention uh on of the people on stage to the first as I do to the last. And sometimes these shows gone for especially the amateur shows 12 14 12 hour days, mate. You you're there at 9 in the morning, you're sometimes not finished till 8, 9, 10:00 at night. So, depending on the size of the show, the thing is all these shows are growing. You know, these NPC shows, they're getting bigger and bigger. I mean, so, um, so yeah, but I'm, uh, I love I love the Sweden trips. And to be honest, I think this is the I'll I'll also say this. I think this is the only amateur one that I will continue to do because I have such a nice time over there. I like to do the pro shows. That's my favorite one. But also, the amateurs actually appreciate your commentary more. The pros will actually you you'll hear back or you'll hear from other people that they're not happy with what I said or did. And I'll be honest, I don't really care to be honest because it's I don't care because I'm there to give my opinion and I'm not going to just sugar coat it or say stuff off camera and then not say the same stuff on camera. I'm very I I like to have integrity with stuff like that because I think what I'm saying is comes from a good place and I'm only helping these guys to be better and point out the things that the judges are going to point out. So with the um yeah, so um the amateurs seem to appreciate the feedback more because I think they've got further to go. The only way you could make all the pros happy at these live stream commentaries is to be like this. Great. He looks perfect. He's going to win. Next guy, he looks perfect. He's going to win. You know, that's that's not what you're hired there to do. You're there for commentary, critique, analysis. And then they and then they pull you afterwards, Ron. Yeah, Ron. And then someone um someone Oh, hang on. I'm running battery. And then someone says to you afterwards, um, Charles, you know, you had uh 14 people in your top three. You had 14 people winning that same category. You know, thing is I don't want something like that to happen. So, I'm always like like Lawrence kicked me under the table. Someone said, "Joe, don't maybe don't give your your opinions on your placings as much." I'm like, "No, that's what I'm here for. If you want to do it your way, you do it your way, but I'm going to do it my way." So, um, but like I said, more often than not, the feedback's it's pretty good. At the end of the day, I wouldn't be asked back if I was doing a horrible job. Correct. Correct. Well, that's it. The power hour is almost gone into an hour and a half. So, uh, I'm gonna let you start packing for the NPC Sweden. Say hi to Michael Johansson and Branch and all those great people are going to be over there. Wish I was going. I can't even watch the Pittsburgh Pro because I'm going to be busy. Oh, maybe I can show you this. Are you um, have you got the the right mic turned on this week? Yeah. Yes, that was AI was like, no, he left it off again. What a doofus. I finally fixed that. I know. I shouldn't even bother indulging this, but so I told him why I couldn't go to the Pittsburgh. Yeah. So, I'll show you what it I'll show you. Uh, hang on a second. I will uh put this up. He actually uh said something very nice. I just want to give him credit because no, my son has like three Instagram followers. So, so let's go. Uh, it's on screen now. The Instagram. Yeah, I think it is. Oh, I need to How do I do that? Oh, my son is competing Saturday here in Massachusetts. My son for Good luck for him. Thank you. He's gonna like hearing that. He just made his day. All right. Thank you so much, guys. That was all. All right, that was all. Giles is gone. Giles is gone, guys. I'm going to say goodbye. Uh, thank you so much, Giles. I think I lost him when I clicked on to that. So, thanks guys for watching. Leave your comments below and we will see you right here next time on Power Hour. Oh, there you are. Charles, you want to say goodbye? Yeah, I just said goodbye for you. So, peace out, guys.