 alimpia. So by this point in his career, a lot of people were saying or assuming that Flex had a ton of stuff in his body parts, a ton of oil, synthol, whatever you want to call it. So I will ask Flex, because it was assumed he had it in the shoulders, the arms, calves. It wasn't a body built on synthol, but a lot of people talked about it. Other pros made snide remarks. People in the media sometimes would make these veiled references to it. But I'm curious to see what he'll say. So that was 99, Olympia. This was Flex at the British Grand Prix. Yeah. All right, so Flex. Yeah. So we're looking. This is 99. This is when people assumed you had a ton of stuff in there, oil in the arms, adult stuff. So are you saying you didn't? Because I want to be clear on that. I want you to set the record straight. No, and you can see the definition between my bicep, my brachialis, and my tricep. It's like, how is that actually possible? If you go back and you see me do my rear double bicep pose, you see fully my brachialis, my bicep, and my tricep. I was just a lot fuller back then. And in my lats, they're always straight. I just didn't know about things like that. But you see here, again, when I come into my double bicep, you see all the definition and everything like that. There's no blur in that whatsoever. So no. And then the whole calf thing is, actually, I won't tell on who taught me that. But whenever you inject a quote unquote steroid, it causes muscle hypertrophy, right? So most people inject into their butt, and it causes lines to go away or knots and stuff like that. What I started doing is like, OK, well, I'm just going to do it in my calf, then, which is probably the biggest mistake I ever made. Because if you go back to 93, I had absolutely amazing calves. I just started buying into that whole bigger is better situation and getting heavy and heavy and heavy. And I think I probably should have shut down right around 230s, right in the 230s, because I could still be striated everywhere and have my glutes and hamstrings in. But at this point, I'm chasing Ronnie because he's the biggest man. So he's a pinnacle of the sport. So if you chase a pinnacle of the sport, and I got caught up into that.