Hey, what's up everybody? Ron Harris here and today I want to do a recap of the 1993 Iron Man Pro Show. This was a very, very significant show because it was a prodebut for two guys who would go on to become superstars of the 90s. First and foremost, Flex Wheeler, who would go on to win the Arnold Classic two weeks later. And a lot of times people mistakenly say that was his pro debut. It was not. It was two weeks prior, Roondo Beach, California at the Iron Man Pro. I know because I was there. And Paul Dlette, Paul had also turned professional the year before, just like Flex and this was his pro debut. So, take a little bit little look here at the judging. The footage here is all from a home video that the company I worked for at the time produced. American Sports Net. We did the American Muscle Show on ESPN. We did event specials for shows like the Mr. Olympia, the Miz Olympia, the USA. Uh, and somehow someway we were recruited to do the home video for the Iron Man that year. So, of course, I was there. I was associate producer. I was on the scene doing all the interviews, supervising all the camera work. Uh you could see already some of the guys. Flavio Bachanini there. Not sure who that is there. John Trilli from Australia. Yeah, this was a stunning debut for Flex. Now the the interesting thing is he was about 234 pounds here and in two weeks time he managed to go down to 216. So it was a it was a loss of what's that 18 pounds. It's a lot of weight and he got much much more conditioned in that time frame and as we know that's that's the look that a lot of people believe was his absolute best. That's Vince Taylor who won the show the year before. Another amazing bodybuilder from the 90s. Of course, everybody was just in awe of Flex. We had seen him win the USA the year before in Santa Monica. And he had put on significant size. He looked rounder. He looked bigger. He looked fuller. And he kept the same small joints, small waist. It was just an amazing physique. So, let's take a look. I only have footage of a couple guys, but I want to start here with Paul Dlet. So, this was the pro debut for Paul. Like I said, he had won the North American Championships the year before, which was held in the same venue, Roondo Beach, California. A lot of shows at that at that venue that I attended over the years. You could see just how massive he was, the shoulders, the arms, the width. He was about 6'1, 260 to 265 pounds. and just a freak. They called him Frankenstein. They also called him Jurassic Paul, which I may or may not have come up with that nickname. I think I did come up with that nickname, Jurassic Paul, but I cannot be 100% sure. So, this year, he would go on to do uh he took fourth place here. Two weeks later, he went to the Arnold Classic, got fourth again, and then he went to the Olympia that year, got sixth place, and his best Olympia showing was the year after 1994 Olympia, which of course during Yates won, he was fourth place that year. But Paul was, you know, he he was one of the greats. It was an era at the 90s where we had so much talent. It was hard to win shows. He didn't win a lot of shows. Took second place and third place in many, many shows because of the talent pool that you had back then. You had Dorian Flex, Chris Cormier, Nasser, Vince Taylor, on and on and on. It was very difficult to win shows back then because there were a few guys who if they showed up like Flex Wheeler, even when Flex was a little bit off, he usually won, but Paul was somebody we had never seen this this sort of width on a human being before. He was just so massive. The arms, everything was stunning. Um, posing was always a weak point for Paul. kind of an awkward poser. Uh I was never really impressed with it. He would shake. Didn't didn't hit the poses quite correctly. Made these facial expressions like he was in pain. It was something else. So that was Paul Dlette. And now we're going to go to the runnerup, Lee Labrada. And one thing to keep in mind here is Lee Labrada here was 32 years old. His son Hunter now is 33. So Hunter is older now than what you're going to see here with Lee Labrada. So Lee was runner up. This was sort of the tail end of Lee's career. At this point, he had already been runner-up at the Mr. Olympia contest in 1989 and 1990. Second place both times to Lee Haney. This show, he would take second place and the Arnold Classic. Two weeks later, he would take second place again to Flex Wheeler. And he would take fourth place at the Olympia that year. I remember uh a comment in interview in a magazine shortly after one of these shows where he said, "The writing is on the wall. They're going for bigger backs now and just more mass." He knew it was it was no longer going to be an era the 90s where smaller, more symmetrical guys were going to be able to still hold their own. The bigger guys with with great shape like Flex Wheeler were coming on the scene. And of course we had mass monsters like Dorian and Nasser uh that were just too much for him. So he didn't compete in 94. He came back one last time in 1995 to take fifth place at the Arnold Classic. He did have a great career though. In addition to those two runner-up placings at the Mr. Olympia. He won his pro debut, which was the night of champions. He did win six Grand Prix shows over in Europe as well. Uh to this day, he's considered one of the greatest posers of all time, one of the most symmetrical physiques of all time. When we talk about bodybuilders who inspired the classic de physique division, the creation of it, Lee Labrada's name always comes up. He was somebody who was not a mass monster, but everything was just so proportionate, so balanced, symmetry, proportion, everything was everything was what a lot of the old-timers saw as the ultimate ideals of a bodybuilding physique. Of course, as this decade went on, the Dorian Yates era, everybody started chasing size. And a guy who was 5 foot4 or 5 foot five and about 180 to 190 pounds at his very heaviest, really couldn't compete that favorably with these bigger guys anymore. But he had an excellent career legend. He went on to found Labrada Nutrition, which is still doing great today. And of course, we all know his son, Hunter, is a fantastic bodybuilder in his own right. So, now we're going to go to what was the actual pro debut for Kenneth Flex Wheeler. Let's take a look. So, the back shots, he had a ton of back shots because his back was fantastic. He did win this, his pro debut, which not a lot of pros can say they've done. Two weeks later at the Arnold Classic, uh the look he had when he won that show, is still to this day considered by a lot of people the greatest bodybuilding physique that they have ever seen. And that's counting all Mr. Olympias in their wins as well. Doesn't matter that he never won a Mr. Olympia. He won a lot of other shows. He would go on to take second place this same year in his debut at the Mr. Olympia to Dorian Yates. I was there at that show. Uh he won this Iron Man show five times. So this was the first time. He didn't win it in 94 because he had broken his neck that year and was out of commission for a year, but he won it in 1993, 95, 96, 97, and 98 five times. Nobody won the Iron Man show more than Flex Wheeler. and he almost had the record for the Arnold Classic wins or he did hold it until Dexter broke it. He won the Arnold Classic this year in 1993, he would win it again in 1997, 98 and 2000. So we all know Flex had a tremendous career and even though he never won a Mr. Olympia title, many of us would say this is our favorite physique. If you ask me, this is my favorite physique. Tell me, tell me guys, do you agree, disagree? Because we can all have our own favorite physique. And it doesn't have to be someone who won a Mr. Olympia. You know, you could have anybody, somebody that never even competed in Mr. Olympia could be your favorite physique of all time because it's all a matter of opinion. But Flex Wheeler, to me, that was perfection. He looked like a comic book character come to life. The round full muscle bellies on those tiny tiny joints. He was a very graceful poser. Really knew how to showcase that physique to the utmost. Didn't just stomp around stage and hit a few clunky poses. and as conditioned as he was here, which doesn't really show through because the cameras we had back then were not like the 4K cameras that we have today. If we had the same cameras back then that we do have now and that type of super super super fine resolution, I think we'd be a lot more impressed with this condition there. So, we're going to go to the pose down here. So, this was the whole top five. Unfortunately, the whole top five did not have their routines on YouTube, but it was winner was Flex Wheeler. Second place was Lee Labrada. Third place, the great Vince Taylor, fourth place in his pro debut, Paul Dlet, and fifth place JJ Marsh. JJ had won this show, the Iron Man, in 1991. That was actually the very first pro bodybuilding show I ever went to, February of 1991. I just arrived in LA the month before. So, the pose down used to be judged as a round, guys. Believe it or not, there were two rounds back then that were judged that we don't have anymore. The first was a symmetry round. And if you've been listening to all this debate about the motorcycle stance and all that, you understand that it doesn't really matter as much now because symmetry round doesn't exist. The guys do brief quarter turns and they also hit a couple mandatory poses in the beginning of judging. Uh it's really just so that the the judges can get an initial look at all the guys, the whole lineup, so they get a a little sneak preview of who they might want to take a better look at once the guys come out because they do want the judging to move along at a pretty good rate. But this pose down used to be judged. And honestly, I don't know how you can judge it. What are you judging on? Because they're all hitting different poses. If somebody's more aggressive, too aggressive, does that count against them? Does that give them points? I honestly don't know what they were thinking with the posing with the pose down round. In the posing round, Ailos has been uh pretty illuminating on that subject. It wasn't really about who had the best posing routine because as we all know, somebody could just be a fantastic dancer or a fantastic poser or both and put on this amazing routine but still not have a very impressive physique while somebody else could have an amazing physique and not put out much of a routine. Uh, the posing round used to be really about who was showcasing their physique to the to the best possible advantage. So, it wasn't really about who was the best poser, per se, because guys who could dance around and do all that kind of stuff. They weren't really rewarded for that. All right, last thing we're going to take a look at is the awards. And I left it for the last two because it was a long, long awards ceremony. So, it was the new guy, the rookie in his first pro show with the season veteran Lee Labrada. This was what we're witnessing was a changing of the guard. Uh out with the old, in with the new. And Flex really did represent the new type of bodybuilder. There he goes getting the getting announced as the winner. The new type of bodybuilder that would dominate the 90s, which was a bigger guy. The Flex would get bigger as the decade wore on. He was about 230 here. Toward the end of the decade, he was competing more like 250. But like I said, most people believe his best look ever was two weeks after this when he was only 216 pounds. That's that's been verified many times by Flex himself. So his best look as a pro was actually by far his lightest stage weight. Uh I've also heard now I remember he told we talked about it years ago in those two weeks. Uh Flex did so much cardio. I think it was two hours of cardio a day. It might have been three hours. I think it was pretty extreme. He did it in a dark in a in a room with the lights off. No, no ventilation, no windows, nothing. Just like a monk. Uh just, you know, did whatever he had to do to get leaner because he wanted to win that Arnold Classic. This was a great debut and a great win, but it wasn't an Arnold win, which that really put him on the map when he beat all those guys at the Arnold Classic two weeks after this. So, there's John Ba, the owner of Iron Man magazine in that black and white sweater there. Not sure who the other gentleman is. Couldn't tell you, but uh congratulations to Flex on that. And we're gonna see some some credits. Some people who are no longer with us gonna pop up in the credits here. John Bick and Mike Nephew. They co-owned uh Iron Man magazine. Mike was the chief photographer. Of course, he did the lighting. People love the lighting. Lonnie Ter, it's actually one P. We made some mistakes here. Lin Conchrite, rest in peace. Uh she was she was behind the scenes. And American Sports Network, that was the company I worked for. My boss's name is going to come up next. Lewis Wick, he was my boss, a producer. and Ron Harris, the associate producer. Yes. Yes, I got my little credit there. So, that was it. That was a 1993 Pro Iron Man. Fantastic prodebut for Flex Wheeler. And again, did not make his debut at the Arnold Classic two weeks later. This show, the 93 Pro Iron Man, was his pro debut as it was also for Paul Dlet. Both of them would go on to have fantastic careers as bodybuilders in the 1990s and are still around today, thankfully. And that's it. Thanks for watching. Drop a comment below. Let me know what you thought of that show and I will see you guys next