What's up everybody? Happy happy Friday. Ron Harris here and uh we are coming up on the Prague Pro two-day show. It's going to be Saturday and Sunday. want to take a look at some of the current a update athletes, the most recent updates they've posted, then talk a little bit about Nick Walker. Uh where does he go from here? Because it does seem like he's parting ways with Kyle Wilks, the uh the gentleman that coached him for Pittsburgh Pro, runnerup, very close runner up, New York Pro win this year, and then sixth place at the Olympia. And that seems to be the uh the last show that they're going to do together. So, what's up, uh your mom's flip-flop? Let's take a look first. Uh Samson doesn't doesn't has hasn't posted anything since a couple days ago. That's just him doing some curls uh on the incline bench there. But we did see this update, these updates from earlier in the week. He has got the the majority of his size back or I should say fullness. I still think he lost a little bit of muscle tissue and that's going to take him more than just two weeks between a contest and another contest to regain all that. However, this is still a very, very deadly look. Um, assuming he gets rid of the water, which I believe he will, because anybody who's pounding food in water for two weeks to try to regain that lost pop, fullness, and size that they had, they're going to be holding a good amount of water. They'll get rid of that. Uh, I'm pretty confident. And then we'll get this uh 300lb version of Samson. Samson did say in a recent video that 300 lb is his benchmark. Now, he's not going to go on stage at less than 300. 280 at the Olympia, the Mr. Olympia, which was judged two weeks ago tonight. It's been two weeks now, guys. That was the uh the last time he will ever come in that light. He chased condition him and his wife/coach Marina. It did not work out as planned. And unfortunately, uh he dropped all the way down to fourth. I shouldn't say all the way because Rammy dropped all the way from first to fifth between 21 and the 2022 shows. So, it wasn't as precipitous age drop, but still not what he was wanting, not what he's expecting. I do see him as the hand heavy favorite for this. However, let's look at some of the other guys. Other guys are looking really good, too. So, Keon Keon also went on record saying he's not going to play the size game. He knows he's not going to be as big as Samson Dada. That's, you know, he's still a good 80 pounds away from that, give or take. Uh, but this is a gym in Prague, Czech Republic. He's already over there. He's looking fantastic. Pretty much just a slightly fuller version of what we saw at the Olympia, which I don't think he was off at the Olympia. Not really. I thought there were two shots. Did he take one? Ah, there we go. There's that front double. That is a beautiful shot for Keon, man. Keon is just it's going to be interesting to see because you know on one hand we say well he's he's so much shorter than Samson but you know what so's Derek so's hottie and they just beat him pretty pretty handily at the Olympia he's going to be giving up a lot of weight in terms of body weight but you know what does hottie weigh what is what does Derek weigh probably like around between 230 and 240 would be my best guess and they beat him so to say that it can't be done big my Cox, my man. Can you imagine if the Patriots fired Bill Bich after he lost one Super Bowl? Just talk about Nick Walker letting Kyle Wilks go. Now, that hasn't officially been stated, however. Uh, guys like Ivan's bodybuilding, they did note that it only takes a few click to do this research, but they don't follow each other. They suddenly stopped following each other on Instagram, which that's never a good sign. That's kind of like AI don't like you anymore. You're not my friend anymore. I'm not saying that they hate each other or anything. It's just it's a very clear sign that uh something's going on. He's probably going to let Kyle go and we'll talk about that in a few minutes. Can you imagine this next coach has one shot speaker for the Arnold? Yeah, Nick has stated he will be doing the Arnold Classic. He'll be going for a second. What's up, Ron? Dale from Wales again. Dale from Wales. Martin, I'm impressed with so far. We got Yeah, we'll look at him next. Samson, Martin, Keon, I think that's a very, very likely top three. Thank you, Smoke Dog. Keon has keep that tummy in check. Well, the thing is is some guy was arguing with me, not arguing, but saying that that big gap between his abs that Keon has, and we know this. It's not We're not making [\h__\h] up. He says it can be fixed through a few different ways. And I don't know if that's possible, but geez, does he really even have to? It's It's one minor flaw in his physique. Ronnie had that gap, too. not as pronounced, but he had that gap between the two rows of abs left to right. I mean, I I don't think that's going to be the difference between him him winning the show or not winning this show. He's got to get past Samson. He's got to get past Martin. Uh, but let's take a look at Martin. Martin has posted some updates that look like he is really pushing for condition. Tell me what you think when you see these. So, these are some very artsy shots posted four hours ago. Looks like he's hitting his favorite classic pose here. Uh, very streamlined. The waist looks really small and flat. He's looking a little flat right now in my eyes. But we'll see. We'll see what uh see what tomorrow brings, right? I swear there were two pictures there. Yeah. Weren't there two pictures here? Come on, Ron. You can do this. You've done this before. No. All right. So you can greet he's at the expo. There's another good shot. I mean, look at that waist on Martin. Great. Great shape, structure. Oh, there we go. It was three days ago. Crazy legs on Martin Fitzwwater. Also earlier in the week. This is earlier in the week. Five days ago. Yeah. And that was obviously the Olympia. fantastic job getting fourth place again at the Olympia two years in a row. Oh, I'm sorry. Fifth place. [laughter] He was fourth last year. Giles's Giles's comment there reminded me that he was fourth place that he should have gotten fourth, but he did get fifth place. Samson Samson Dotto was fourth place this year, which I just said literally like two minutes ago. But, you know, I'm down to three brain cells, guys. So, bear with me. I can't say I've been working hard in office all week. That's not my excuse. But Martin men, this was uh this was posted on Sunday. That's a shot from Not really sure when that was. This was multiple pictures. I don't know why I can't show you the other pictures. It looks like there should be multiple pictures there. Anyway, let's look at GTO. Creo hasn't really uh posted updates per se. Uh here is just sort of giving thanks to the the physiootherapy guys who have been working with him because he continues to have shoulder mobility problems even though he had that shoulder surgery. This was going back to uh 2022 Prague show. That was his first pro win. This is actually a post real real OG bodybuilding TV. Is that Chris Cormier's channel? I don't know. Uh Giles, it's Giles's voice. I'll let it go there for >> his first pro show and his pro debut and now he's going to the Olympia. >> But congratulations to Jan Turk. >> Yeah, he look I mean this is a this is his I don't think he's ever been higher than fifth or sixth. >> I know that's not uh that's not Kiso. That's Jan Turk. But Ko's coming guys. Ko wouldn't post all that on his own page if he's not in it. I'm sure. Right. So let's take a look here. But that's J is coming. >> I mean guess >> [laughter] >> Yes. >> Fantastic. >> Yeah, that was his first pro win. >> So, he's come a long way since then. That was three years ago. His first pro win was right here at the Prague EVLS Prague Pro in Czech Republic. He would love to win it again. I don't know if that's in the cards for him this time. Um, can he beat Samson? Can he beat Martin? He's never beaten either one of them before. Samson's a Mr. Olympia champ. He's an Arnold Classic champ. I don't see Kiso beating them. Uh, or even Martin, honestly, at this show, but [snorts] it's going to be a battle. If he could beat Keon, who's an incredible incredible athlete, that would be a that would be a great feather in his cap. Kzo. Yeah, I like KZO's physique a lot. does have it does have some issues. The obliques are a little overdeveloped there. You can see how they're bulging out on the side and his back shots, particularly his radial bicep, which you're not seeing here. But he has trouble hitting that shot mainly because of a lack of shoulder mobility. Let me get to some of your questions, guys. Uh let's see. Can't stop following each other. Yeah. Uh did Patrick I don't know if it's been announced. I can't people tell me things in confidence and I I swear myself to secrecy. So I heard whatever you're alluding to. I heard about uh over a week before the Olympia, but I've been very good about keeping my secret because if you tell someone you're not going to post or say anything to anyone and then you do, well, they're not going to tell you every anything ever again. So, uh yeah, Keon and Patrick. Uh it's very possible, let's just put it that way. It's very possible that Patrick's not coaching Keon and Keon might be doing this show all on his own without a coach. Saying he could beat Samson mean Keon. Yeah, the flaw is a minor. I don't think the difference between Keon winning or losing or beating or not beating Samson is going to come down to a gap in his abs. Martin is diced. Yeah, the artsy pose. I agree with you. I agree with you, Mike. I don't know what he's thinking there. Uh, I'll put up I'll put up Creo from New York Pro earlier in the year. Where did I put that? Creo. Creo. Creo. It's a problem with having a lot of a lot of things taped. Sometimes takes you a while to find them. Well, this isn't bad. This is pretty good. This pretty good footage of Creo here from New York Pro. All right, let's go back to you got your comments, questions, comments. Your opinion on Derek's apparently almost dying backstage. He was a dangerous coach. I mean, unless we know exactly what happened. Uh, if it was due to diuretics and overzealousness with diuretics, yeah, I guess you could sort of point the finger of blame at the coach. I mean, the athletes the one who did did it knowing full well what the risks were, but I don't know. It's we just know that he almost passed out and he was being forced to drink water backstage. Uh I don't know if he almost died. See, there you go with Kzo. See there, he can't rotate his shoulders forward. I'll show you what I mean in a second when I click out of that. shoulder mobility. Uh you really need you really need to be able to move your shoulders in all directions with a good range of motion just to hit poses. It's not even about just obviously you want to be able to train correctly and everything, but if you have a a real issue, a lack of shoulder mobility, there's some poses you won't even be able to hit. Like a lot of people won't even be able to hit a front lat spread, a side tricep if their shoulders are that messed up. and the rear double, you're gonna have a lot of issues. Uh, so what I mean by external rotation, so here you can see it sideways. So the further back behind your head, that's external rotation. Internal rotation is in front of your head. I still don't have a lot of internal external rotation. But if it's over here and you're hitting your rear dull bicep, you watching, can you see? I got to move myself a little more. If if your shoulders rotated inward internal rotation toward the front of your body, you can't show your full biceps. You can't even show your full delt. You need to be able to crank it back. I actually can do it. My my range of motion with this arm is a lot better. I can get I can get further back. So, Mike has a Michael my has a has an issue with that. Uh it doesn't look like a normal gap, but more so the ab split away from the eyeball. So, appear a bit unappealing. U let's look at some other guys because these aren't the only guys in the show. They are the big names. I understand. Uh we'll go to maybe we'll come back to that. I do want to check out Ruffin though because Ruffin is uh by far the heavy heavy favorite for the classic title at this show. Where did I put Rough Diesel? Rough Diesel. There he is. He's going against Michael Abdullah. Michael is very good. He's no slouch, but Rough Diesel is just on a little bit higher level. Uh what's this? Oh, this is his reel from uh Brazil. Show day in Brazil. He's got the full video on YouTube. I don't know why he's showing all the training stuff. Yeah, there's a good shot. It's a really good shot. Yeah, Ruffin is doing that. I'll just get through that and we'll probably start talking about Nick. Good day from Romania. What's up, Ben? So, you guys got a pro show coming up. Uh how many weeks between those two shows? Oh, it's just two weeks. So, Prague is tomorrow and Sunday, October 26th, 27th. Uh, Poland Pro is Saturday, November 1st, and Romania Muscle Fest, big show is November 8th. And that is going to feature Andrew Jacked. So, a lot of eyes on that show that day. Think it's a good idea, Nick, is switching coaches. H, it's it's I'll tell you your mom's flip-flop. I know you're only a young guy, so it's not good to keep switching coaches. simple fact that it often takes any coach, even the very best of coaches, uh, a few shows to figure out the client's body, how they respond to certain types of peeds, uh, gear. Yeah, I I said gear, peptides, food, especially different types of foods, fluid intake, sodium, the whole peaking process, uh, it takes a while to get it right. So, if a coach and an athlete nail it perfectly their first time together, that's a rarity. That's awesome. But it's really more luck because there are things that you learn in every prep with an athlete from show to show. And that's why they tend to get better and better in terms of peing a client every show if they're if they're taking notes every time and seeing, well, this worked out well when we added these carbs or took these carbs away or when we did this with your sodium or your water or when we introduced or took away this this particular peed. So they take notes so that anything that doesn't have the desired effect is not repeated and the things that are working, they'll do those again. Does Martin hit the AR? I think he will. I think he will, Mike. I mean, the money is just it's it's crazy money for a bodybuilder. $750,000 for first prize. Uh and I'm sure Andrew will be there. Heidi, I think Derrick's the only one. Uh because he has he has sort of hinted that he's done until next year's Olympia. I think it's going to be everyone but Derek, honestly. Martin's arms look very good now. Yeah. Next section runs a whole package for me. Uh, if you're talking about Keon or Nick, if only Martin could fix his front lato is so big. Kirst seem Nick Samson. Yeah, in terms of sheer, you know, height, width, all that stuff. He's he's right there with Samson. Samson has a prettier body. Uh, Kiso's got things that he doesn't have like that mus that crazy muscle separation. Go back to Creo. He has really good separation detail in the arms, the shoulders, the chest, like just every little fiber. Um, with Samson, not so much. Not so much. Yeah, I'm a big fan of Ko. I just I see some issues that are probably going to keep him hold him back from beating the very very top guys. Three days out video up on YouTube. Yeah, I'm not going to go to YouTube. Good morning, Ron everybody. Hope everyone has a blessed day. Only reason I say that is because I want to keep keep it moving. If it was a video all about uh CO Andrew Jack shows up the way he did the Olympia two weeks ago because Japan's return to Ohio, he's cashing in that big. Yeah, I mean hottie might hot might jump into that Arnold. He did it he did it in 2024 and he won and now there's even more money at stake. Yeah. And Kiso, I've never really seen him out of shape. Uh he was obviously when he had the shoulder surgery was the only time he looked like he went off gear for a little bit and he had a little softer, smaller look, but he wasn't training. He wasn't taking gear. So obviously he's not going to look the same. But I agree with you, Mike. I'm I'm always uh a fan of seeing crazy detail separation, those fibers, you know, the muscle maturity, the old man muscle, because we don't see as much of that anymore. It's confirmed they weren't working together. Uh, I don't I I didn't I didn't want to say anything until it was confirmed or it was out in public. Uh, I don't know if we're talking about Nick Patrick Patrick Tour and Keon or Nick and Kyle Wilks. Yeah, the Nick thing has not been has not been confirmed, but it's it's one of those things where you can read between the lines. The writings on the wall. Mike says, "Do you think these guys could peak themselves or need a coach?" They have the protocol. I'm sure they could a few trusted people with them. I don't know why they couldn't do it themselves. I mean, I understand they're exhausted. They're having uh a lot of trouble sometimes being objective looking in the mirror. But that's like you said, that's why you have a couple people that you trust and you know have a good eye and they can be your voice of reason. Because, you know, left to our own devices, a lot of us will either go too far in one direction or the other. people either we'll think we're really flat and small and we'll just eat out of control to try to fill out and we'll spill over or we'll say [\h__\h] I'm I'm still not lean enough and you'll go crazy doing like three hours of cardio a day zero carbs and you lose a bunch of muscle and you end up looking stringy and flat and smaller on stage. though. But if you have people with a good eye and you trust them and you listen to them when they say, you know, you're looking you're looking really flat or you're you're right on track or you're behind or whatever it is that they're going to that they're going to see because they know what they're looking at. And as long as you're going to listen to them, I don't see why that wouldn't be just as successful. Derrick was dying with that look. Yeah. I mean, I don't think he was in danger of dying. There's pretty plenty of medical professionals around. Not saying top three, the best most muscular side, chest, side, tricep. Even bodybuilding released video 35 minutes ago. He asked Patrick and Patrick confirmed they are not working together anymore. Okay, so I guess the cat's out of the bag as we say. So Keon is without a coach right now. He's going to dial himself in for the show, but from the looks of those videos, uh, if this was the day before the show, I think he's all set. Uh, I don't think he needs he needs to scramble and find someone to coach him for the last two days before the show. Keon is looking pretty damn fantastic right there. I mean, come on. [laughter] Look at that. That's a hell of physique right there. Interestingly, thanks to therapy, Cruz has better mobility in the operating arm than the other. Yeah. I mean, he probably had lost mobility in in both shoulders. It happens. I mean, arthritis, he's a young guy, but arthritis is something that will happen to just about all of us, all of us who train. Uh, mine got so bad. Uh, I did one surgery back in 2011, which helped for a couple years, but then things got progressively worse until, uh, this June 25th, I just had to have a full replacement of my left shoulder joint, and that was years of arthritis getting worse. So, Crezo, he's not there yet. He's still a young guy. He's in his early 30s. So, um, he can still improve that mobility to a point now he doesn't have that crippling degree of advanced osteoarthritis that a lot of us unfortunately are going to are going to experience if if we keep lifting and live long enough. Who you got winning the Prague show? Smoke dog. I got Samson winning. I got Samson winning. The only way Samson doesn't win in my book, in my estimation, is if he shows up really really over over cararved and watery looking. Uh, so this was this was a 280lb version of Samson that we saw two weeks ago. Even this version, I think, would still it it beat Martin. I think it would still beat Martin, Keon, and Creo. But he's going to look better than this. Assuming the condition doesn't suffer and it wouldn't be a matter of body fat. I don't think he's him and Marina are are dumb. They're not dumb. They're not going to gain any body fat between shows. They know that nothing is guaranteed. And he lost the Olympia. He could lose he lost the Arnold earlier this year. He lost the Olympia. He could lose this. Even this Martin's capable of beating him. They were close. They were very close. I don't the scorecard might not have indicated how close they really were, but a lot of people thought Martin had a legitimate chance or maybe even you could make a legitimate case for Martin winning. Sorry, beating Samson at this last Olympia. Yeah, his back was gone. His back was gone. These were uh comparison shots that Mark's Max Muscle did on his YouTube channel. That's 2024 Olympia to 2025 for Samson. So you're looking at a difference of 2025 pounds there on the left, 300 305 on the right. He did say 280. So it was a big big drop in size. Uh I do see the waistline came in. So I do like that. But he lost a lot of fullness. The two areas I saw it most pronounced in were his legs and his back. His back was definitely a lot smaller than we've seen it in the past. Just going to go to a side try. It's going to go into the back shot, but you can see even the tricep looks looks flatter there. But we're going to see something much closer to the version of Samson there on the left, which was the the winning form. That's where he won Mr. Olympia with that look at 300 lbs. Yeah. You see there? Look at the middle of the back. You see how the the midback muscularity, it was thick in the on the left in 2024. On the right, it was just gone. It's like somebody just squashed it, flattened it out. So, yeah, the back shots is to to me that's where I saw the biggest decline in his physique from 2024 to 2025. But don't get me wrong, guys. I would never say that he's all done. Oh, Samson. It's just one show where they went a little overboard on the I think they overdied it. I think him and Marina they they wanted to try bringing this condition that me and every other a-hole has been saying he needs. We were saying Samson doesn't get ripped, Samson this, Samson that. And in the end they they tried to give the judges and the fans and the media pundits, the critics everything that we wanted in terms of condition, but I didn't see any more condition. I just saw a smaller version of the same physique. I don't know if he's even capable of getting into that really crazy shredded dry condition. I don't I don't know if that's possible for him. If it's a thick skin issue, I don't know what it is, but he's just better off staying big. And that's why I agree 100% with Samson and what he said on his uh I think it was on his Instagram, but I've seen it reposted a bunch of places where 400 300 pounds 400 300 pounds is where he's got to be. He can't be less than 300 lb. If he does that, he can be beaten. Let's see. I'll agree with don't shouldn't switch coach. I'm not sure how long Nick was staying with his coach. You know what I'm saying? After a long time till the same one new one. Yeah. I mean, it's not confirmed yet, but I wouldn't be surprised if any any day now or any any hour now we see a post from Nick or Kyle, one one or both of them saying, you know, we had a great run and no hard feelings, but we're doing we're going our separate ways. nuclear stress tests. Andrew Jackson, wasn't he like he's on the is he on the $5 bill? I think Alberto uh we're watching uh Prague updates. We're going to start talking about Nick Walker in a second. He needs an ass. Oh, Samson needs more glutes now. Olympia Synthol sponsored. They do not lowkey people with fibers. Yeah, I don't see a lot of detail anymore. Yes, posing that three day out video. Every time I do that, you guys get mad because I don't have the YouTube Premium. But all right, I'll do it. I'll do it. Yeah, I I very rarely go to YouTube live to show videos. Uh, Kriso Kriso Kriso Road to victory. No. No. Two days ago. All right. What I'm doing now, guys, is looking for his newest video. My last back workout. And I'm going to wait until he gets to the posing part. He's training. He's training. He's training. Okay. Full screen. All right. Let's take a look, guys. Don't get mad if it's if an ad pops up. All right. Creo, how we looking? I mean, same creo. fantastic arms, shoulders, quads. The waist is thick. It's wide, guys. That's that is an issue. I mean, if he had a more narrow waist, he'd be a better bodybuilder. He doesn't have a bubble gut. It's not that it protrudes out like a turtle shell in his case. In his case, it's a little width, which I believe he has added by developing those obliques. Those obliques are the muscles on the side. You see them hanging over there on the side. I don't know if he can I don't know if those can be reduced at this point. They've been built up. He is hitting the rear double better. He's he's getting his his his arms rotated back better now than he was in the past. So, that's that's a a positive thing to see. Real. Yeah, I'd like to see more thickness in that shot. Anything with the arms is a win for Mike. Michael, he's his arms are incredible. He's got some of the best arms in the game, bar none. Is he going to finish with a crab? Come on, give us a crab. Give us a crab. Video's almost over. You better hit the damn crab. That's a great shot for him. That clasp lever mouse muscular. Yeah, there we go. There we go. Nice. Yeah, he's freaking fantastic. He's fantastic. So, escape. All right. All right. So, we're back. Crazy was good. Gito was sent punch Olympia is big [\h__\h] [laughter] They do it themselves. They won't have anyone themselves to blame. Simply won't take accountability. Nick Walker's mind Ramy was jumping from one coach bandwagon. So let's put Nick up while we're talking, shall we? Let's find you, Nick. Here we go. So this is Nick at the last Olympia. All right, get to your comments. Uh, no, he didn't. Well, Ram is not coaching being coached by anybody right now, Kian. He's he's retired, I believe. I don't think he's coming back. If you're pretty knowledgeable yourself, couldn't you coach yourself? Dorian did that. Sean did. Shawn Ray did that. Kevin Leone did that. Dorian's pretty smart. Uh, very few people like John Dwitt coaches himself, but he's a very renowned coach himself. He's got a whole coaching academy and a and a training academy. So, someone like that, it makes sense. British body Mark Hector is now packaging protege. Good. Mark's really good. Very close to 56. Went and got stem cells and peptides. So far, everything talk about the shoulder. Yeah, Martin was much better than Samson at the O. I had him winning. Mike, you had him winning. Jles had Jles had Martin beating him. It's the judges didn't see it that way. 2024 Samson at the Oo versus 2025 Andrew at the O. I think the 2024 Samson beats the 2025 Andrew. Yeah, granted that's the best Andrew we've ever seen. And Andrew is getting better. He's finally after a couple years where I was getting frustrated thinking this guy's just not he's not making improvements. I'm seeing Sam should play sixth. I mean, I'm not going to argue too much, but he will smoke Prague. That I'm not I'm not arguing that. I think he's he's very likely going to be the winner in Prague Sunday when it's all said and done. Was it Chris Tuttle and Knicks option for Kyle? Uh I don't know who he looked at or who he talked to before selling on Kyle Wilks. Uh Chris Tuttle obviously did a great great job with Jordan Hutchinson this year. Took him to two pro wins in a top 10 at the Olympia. Yeah, he was top 10, wasn't he? So I I think Tuttle would have been a great choice. Tuttle has coached people at the Olympia level before. Kyle had not. Uh but obviously every coach has to has to get started at the Olympia with with at least one client and then build on it from there. But we'll talk about Nick. We're getting the Nick. If you pay for YouTube Premium. Yeah, me too. I pay for enough crap. That picture of Keon looks nuts. Keon still covering that gut. I mean, that's the smart thing to do. That's the smart thing to do. Find Keon while we're talking. If you have a flaw that you can draw attention away from, do so. You'd be you'd be an idiot to not try to draw attention away from a flaw. Trick, we got to be skeptical pictures. True. Yeah. I mean, until we see them on stage next to each other, nothing matters. Nothing on Instagram matters. The stage is all that matters. Waist is thick. I think you're talking about Kzo Ron. Do you know Keon Fire Patrick? Yeah, I knew it. uh three weeks ago, but I was I was being good and uh keeping the secret like I'm like I was asked to. So, it was it was Giles. Giles had talked to Patrick and told me, but he said, "Don't tell anyone." And in the past, I've I've violated the trust of people and I've I've spread spread the gossip or the news. In most case, it was new. It was it was a fact, but I just was not supposed to talk about it. But now, I'm being better about that. But yeah, I knew that Kriezo looks like he's from another planet. Yeah, planet KZO. Seen KZO in person. I remember st me and Mike standing next to him at the 2023 Olympia at the meet the Olympians when I was interviewing him, but just standing next to him. He's a big dude because he's he's a he's I want to say 61. It's It's hard for guys like me and Mike to tell because we're we're well under six foot. Sponsor YouTube Premier month. No man, I'm good. Thanks for the offer. Thanks for the offer. Creo very power physique but a little bit straight up and down compared to Sam's Keon Fitz. Yeah, you talk about shape and structure. Creo is he's not on their level. Uh see what can Nick do with physique? He's almost too big now. Uh he needs to get back to where he was. We're going to go. You can coach yourself. Tricky part is learn how to peek yourself trying to stress out about the show. Yeah, stress makes you release cortisol which makes you hold a bunch of water. trying to go back to that 21 Arnold look. Uh I'll show you his 22 Olympia look, which I thought was fantastic. I That's my favorite look so far for Nick. Yeah, this was 2022 Olympia where he took third place behind Hottie and Derek. And to me, that's his best look so far. Ivan's latest video said Nick and Tuttle are teaming up. Oh, that's awesome. It's too far gone from that. Okay. I don't know if that's been announced. I don't know how I haven't found out, but good for him. I think Tuttle would be an excellent coach for him. So, who does Keon go to? Same for Nick. I mean, any top coach would take them. Uh, so I guess Nick is going to go to Tuttle is the rumor going around. As far as Keon, he could go to Aceto. He go to geez, boss of Outlaw. There's there's so many guys he could go to. Thank you. Thank you. He holds an MSU nutrition. He is RD2. Yeah, JW. John Jwitt uh former 212 now open pro is one of the most knowledgeable guys in the industry and definitely if we're talking about competitors, he's one of the most knowledgeable competitors. Thank you for the 404 uh dollars rupees. My bad. Quick off talk question. We'll do John question live again. Uh well, if I'm done with talking about Nick eventually, I can do that. When I The problem is when I do the general ones, the views are they're crap. So I need views. Gossip becomes a gospel if you disseminate it amongst some masses. Oh, these rumors they they they go fast. I don't think Nick needs to go back to 2021. Look, he nearly beat Derek Pisar. I think they just had a peaking issue. I don't think it was a peaking issue. And I'm going to get into that in a second. Dude's never a dull moment in the sport. I love Nick's 2022 Olympic look. We had trouble opening up that backlat spread. So, let's go to the Let's take a look at Nick. All right. So, uh, Mark Smax Muscle did some more comparisons and this showed his progression for all three New York Pro wins, which was 2021, 24, and 25. So, these will show you how Nick's Nick has changed over these past four years. 2021 which obviously the Arnold look was the Arnold was just couple like two months before that three months before that. Uh I I don't see a huge change in him. The the midsection has gotten thicker. I think the biggest change in the midsection actually happened this is actually a progression there. The biggest increase in his midsection to me happened between New York Pro and the Olympia this year. One more of those. Here's another one he did with the front double bicep. >> Yeah. >> So, here's the progression. Now, he doesn't the waist hasn't gotten really wider like I like I said it did with Kiso. So, it's a different issue. It's it's more of a uh like a bubble gut that he's getting. This is another progression that he's going to make here. I think he's going to go forward in time. This is Mark's max muscle. 21, 24, 25. Put 2,000 before each of those. 2021, 2021, and then he goes back back and forth. So, this is what I'm talking about, guys. I never reposted that picture. I thought that's cruel because everybody's pushing out their abs in the rear double because no one can see it. But somebody somebody who was on the side caught that picture and took a very unflattering picture. Now granted, most if not all these guys, if they really push out their gut, it's it's a lot bigger than you think it is. The issue is control. Controlling the abdominals, uh, not the abdominals, the whole midsection, breathing high, never letting it stick out. Nick has an issue with not being careful about that. Uh, let's see. Let me show you. So, Gilko posted some pictures of him, and I'm again, I said this before, but I'm surprised he didn't ask them to take a couple of these down because they caught him between poses, and it's not a great look for him. Takes a minute to load. There's a bunch of pictures here. Where is it, Nick? No, that's not it. So, it's it's really it's an issue of just keeping it keeping it sucked in as as often as you can all the time because anytime you're on that stage, people are looking at you. Okay, here we go. So, that picture that looks fine. That looks good. I need to make that smaller. Ah, there we go. Okay, so that's what I'll do. So there, I mean, there's just like no there's no taper there in that front double. Obviously, this is off a little bit off at an angle. It's not dead on front, but still, you could see how much thicker that midsection. And I believe a lot of this, I hate to say damage, but a lot of what you see with the midsection to me happened between these two shows. The last show that he won, the New York Pro back in May and the Olympia in October, he did say that he gained 10 pounds of new muscle. Well, it it might have been a couple pounds of muscle, but a lot of it seems to have gone to the midsection because it was not that thick before. It wasn't. I mean, when he has his hands in front, you can't see. The back shots are phenomenal with Nick. Not going to talk about that. When he's walking across stage, you can see it popping out a little bit there. He lets it hang. He just He's not conscious of it all the time. And you'd think with people being such [\h__\h] [\h__\h] like me, constantly drawing attention to it. I mean, he is a mutant. He's got so much muscle mass. That's the thing is I don't think it's a peaking issue. I thought he peaked very well for this Olympia. Does he look like he's out of shape to you? Really? I know he looked better Saturday than he did Sunday. I'm sorry. Saturday than he did Friday, but still. Yeah, these that's these are the finals, I believe, these shots. But yeah, I mean, look at how thick that is. Sorry. Uh, I just can't get over that. I mean, that's something that can be reversed because Roly Winkler had a big He showed up at I think it was the 2018 Olympia with a midsection that was much thicker and chunkier and blockier than we had ever seen before. Uh, and he got a lot of [\h__\h] for it, but then he came back the next year and it was a lot smaller. Oh, I was never even showing it, dumbass. All right. Wrong Harris. All right. Well, there you go. Now it's there. So half the comments are like we can't see anything, I'm sure. Uh, let's see. Abs are deeper than 21. Uh, the abs, they did look a little better. Yeah, Nick's legs got smaller. So, let's go back to that. I don't think his legs got smaller. I think they stayed exactly the same and his upper body got bigger. Uh so this is 20 21 24 and 25 there. I don't see any difference in the legs at all. Uh arms got everything got a little bit bigger up top. You can see up top because he was he was about 270 or 275 at this last Olympia. Uh and I think back in 2021 when he won the New York Pro and he uh he won the Arnold that year too. That was a great year for him. uh probably like 255. He was he was definitely definitely nowhere near as as heavy as he was now. Crystal also holds a master degree in sports nutrition. Oh yeah, I knew that about I've known that about Tuttle for a long time. You I remember when uh I used to go down to the the Powerhouse Gym in New Haven to shoot training videos with Evans Aani and Tuttle was his training partner in a few of those videos. And I didn't know at the time how well educated but Chris was. I think he was I think he had just finished getting his diet his his registered dietician credentials or license or whatever it's called. His early physique was crazy. Any views on the recent videos with comparison 90s athlete and the ones like Derek making high today. Um, yeah, I think people are looking at I saw one with Flex Wheeler and Derek Lensford, and I got into a little tiff with someone on there, a guy Lorenzo that I knew from the MD boards because he's saying, "Well, Derek's way better than Flex Wheeler ever was because Derek is bigger pound-for-pound, you know, in terms of how his height and weight, and he's got his glutes are in." like, yeah, those are two two issues. But if you're looking at the big picture, overall shape, structure, all those things. Uh, detail. I mean, Dererick's lacking detail. He's got great detail in his back and his glutes and his hams, but from the front, he's nowhere near as detailed, especially the chest, the shoulders, and the arms. Flex had great great detail in there. More pro protruding and widening midsection. Yeah. And I think this is something that can be fixed. He he needs to downsize a little bit. Downsize a little bit. Take care of his gut health if that might be an issue. Um might be some inflammation going on in there causing things to be thicker and more inflamed and swollen than they should be inside that whole midsection. Uh like again, we've seen Rolley and I'm sure there's other people that have that have reversed uh a sudden increase in their midsections girth. So it can be done. It can be done. Everyone looks like that in the back. Yeah, I and I I I made a point of saying that, but his Not everyone looks This This is really bad, guys. Come on. You have to have a pretty big gut for it to pop out that much. It wasn't like that before. I guarantee you if you took that same picture of him from the same angle three, four years ago, I guarantee you his his belly would not be sticking out anywhere near that as as much as it is right there. You know, I'm I'm [clears throat] not a Nick hater. I like Nick. I want the best for him. Uh I respect and admire all these guys because they work there. It's a very very difficult sport with financial rewards that are nowhere near on par of other more mainstream professional sports. Fad even said that. Yeah, I said it too. Yo, mom. I said everyone's gut pops out, but not that much. Not everyone's gut pops out that much. I mean, do you think Andrew Jack's gut pops out like that in his right old bicep? Even if you catch him on the side. No, come on. I'm not [\h__\h] on Nick, guys. I'm just pointing out something that is if it continues, he's not going to be winning the shows like he was before. He's not going to win another Arnold. He's never going to win an Olympia. But if he can manage to get that midsection down under control and a little bit smaller and flatter, yeah, he's still one of the best in the world. I mean, he did almost beat Derek earlier in the season, and I think it was the slight offseason that followed the New York Pro is where the damage was done. It's where he put on suddenly put on 10 pounds of new muscle. You don't put on 10 pounds of new muscle, someone who's already that big, uh, without it going to your midsection, at least a good portion of magazines are. Yeah. See, Mike's got a good point there. In the old days, we only saw curated photos. the magazines, the photographers, they would take thousands of pictures at a show. Let's say hundreds, maybe thousands, and they would pick out the 20, 25 best pictures for the Olympia coverage or the Arnold coverage. You never saw if they saw something that was really unflattering to an athlete, they would never publish it back in the old days. But now, you got everybody up there with their phones, sick pictures from every angle. There's no hiding from these guys. I miss the magazines more than you do. Trust me, I miss the money I used to make writing for magazines. It was good money. Nick definitely improved Saturday. Yeah. How was the Bible that everybody knows? Is GH increased GH muscle not growing with the orange so yeah GH and insulin have long been not hailed. They're hailed for helping you take your muscle mass to greater limits pushing past that envelope. But they've also done a hell of a number on increasing midsection size. Nick kept saying it was a peing issue. Yeah. I mean, it's that that's that's the issue is I don't see it as a peaking issue. If it was a peaking issue, he would have moved up from sixth place uh the second day and he didn't. Nothing changed. Joe Weer, Bob, you know, their magazine posts were real smart back then. They picked the best of the best ones pictures. Yeah. Because they were real fans. They loved the sport. they held no animosity toward the athletes where a lot of the people with Instagram bodybuilding accounts now a lot of the so-called fans they really don't like the body they don't they don't love them they don't even like them uh and they will they will find the most unflattering pictures and look for the worst gossip and just keep it negative a lot of a lot of the media outlets out there not all of them obviously get it together I'm trying man I'm trying you like my team Lunchford shirt though I prefer Use GH in offseason. Okay. Is waste of New York Pro2 was worse the Olympia but no one is talking about it. You think so? I didn't think it was worse. Huh. Go to that. I'm curious. I thought his waist was a lot worse at New York Pro. I'm sorry, at the uh at the Olympia because that's where he put the size on, the extra size. I probably have to go down about a thousand pages to find it. A thousand. Yeah. See, when you can't see the midsection, look at that. That is That's Mr. Olympia right there. That is an incredible physique. That's one of the best frontal buys in the sport. Uh if you're not seeing the waist, don't get me wrong, guys. He's still He's an incredible He's incredible bodybuilder. Where was this? I don't know what that is. him. Oh, this is Pittsburgh. This was a real good look. So, I don't think his waist would have changed too much between Pittsburgh and uh New York. Was it a week apart, but you could see it was bigger there. It was bigger there. When he keeps it in, when he keeps it sucked in, it's not bad, but he he needs to be conscious of it all the time. Yeah. I'm not talking about that rear double bicep shot with from the angle. Now, obviously, when you're hitting a rear double bicep to the judges and the audience, you shouldn't have to worry about your belly sticking out. Nobody no one should be catching your catching a glimpse of your belly in that shot in that pose. Um, but here, man, he doesn't need to be any bigger. In fact, I think he could lose a little bit of just a little bit of overall size. He would you wouldn't even notice. He's so massive. Would you even notice if he dropped like five pounds of muscle if that was what it took to get the midsection down? The overall impact of physique would be better. He would look better overall. So, uh I wish he would do something like that. Next sweep. Insertions are low. Can't fix gen. Yeah, the quad sweep is what it is. It's not a horrible quad sweep. When you see him with his legs relaxed sometimes when he's not really paying attention, that's when it's more evident. But normally you can't. People with a great crazy quad sweep that is just it's mainly genetics. It's they just got lucky. They got very lucky. Yeah. What was that? Was that this year? It's hard to say because he usually wears red. Looks good there. Right. That was a good shot for him. Yeah. But like there, he's so massive and wide up top with the shoulders and the upper back. If that waist could come in a little bit, just a little bit, not much, it would the overall impact would be stunning. It would look It would look so much more impressive. Just pull up a side by side of them uh in the front. Relax double. Uh who are we talking about? You can't. It's It's not that easy to pull up side by sides of people just like randomly. But I don't know who you mean. What are we talking about? Where would I tell me if where I'd find uh New York Pro 24 and 2025 and I'll I'll I'll go to it if you know where it is. Sweet Consortions. Stupid Frog. Nick the Frog. Nick the Fridge. Wow. Here's a story of Derek almost dying. Yes, I've heard it. [laughter] I don't think he was almost dying. I think he was severely dehydrated. Difference is a completeness of the athletes on compar the 90s from front to back, but that's what hottie is. Slight flaws. See what he does to his lineup. With all due respect, whoever considers Derrick Lensford better than Flex Wheeler smoking cartel drugs twice a day. Yeah. I mean, you're a fan of the old school. So, I knew you would you wouldn't agree with that statement. Derek is a fantastic bodybuilder in his own right. Flex Willer was a better bodybuilder. And I'll I'll say that all day. I will say that to Derek's face. It's nothing personal. When someone has a better physique than someone else, it's just that's my opinion. Uh many many people would share that opinion that Flex Wheeler was a better better bodybuilder than Derrick Lunsford. Uh but if you want to believe Derrick's better, that that's also your opinion. You can you're entitled to it. Derek's definitely not better than Flex. Even close. Dorian also chuckled when he said Derek would make trouble for him. That's why I love him. Yeah, Derek versus Dorian at his best. No, no. And this is 30 years ago. So, technology has improved. We have all these crazy new supplements. All these peptides these guys are on didn't even exist 30 years ago. They had peeds. They had plenty of peeds. They had growth hormone. They had insulin. They had all those things. But this whole new flock of uh peptides did not exist back then. But I I don't see the physiques. I see them. And when you say the guys are a lot bigger now, I don't know guys if if you saw Marcus Rule at his biggest, Nasser Elsati at his biggest, I don't think you would say Paul Dlet, I don't think you'd be saying that. Those guys were massive. They would still be huge today. Sad see. Yeah, it's it's a strided glu glute contest to a lot of people. Talk about animosity, Mr. Potato Head. Yeah, Matt has really got it in for me. I don't I haven't had any interactions with him at all. I haven't commented on him. In fact, I'll do this. I'm gonna actually give Matt uh Tinkerang or Muscle Discord and Phil Clayar credit because I believe it was their partially at least partially I'm not going to say fully responsible but uh them really making an issue out of the athletes of the Masters Olympia not getting paid. I do believe that played a big role in Jake Wood uh yesterday saying, "Okay, I'm going to pay everybody and he's going to get reimbured from the promoter whenever he hopefully eventually." But, uh, I do believe Matt and Phil over at Muscle Discord, they did help help the athletes finally get their money. Jake Wood's paying everybody. So, I'll give him credit. I give credit where it's due. He he would probably never give me credit for anything at this point. He's he's really got it in for me. Uh, so looking back, here's the only reason that that I can really understand why he's mad is AI stopped doing his podcast every week. Uh, and B is that I backtracked because him and Phil, they really were, they won't, they don't want to say they were bullying me, but they were really pushing me hard that Monday after the Masters Olympia to agree with them that Phil should have won. And stupidly, I caved in and agreed. And then I came to my senses shortly after said, you know what? No, I didn't agree with that. Why did I even And I backtracked and said, "You know what? He looked good, but uh he's got he's got a big belly that sticks out when he's not paying attention." Dorian was the better of the two. Neither one of them is awesome. Neither one of them would have done any better than, you know, last or second last at the Mr. Olympia, but on that day, I did feel Dorian was better. And so, uh, my flip-flopping, I'm a liar. I have no credibility. Whatever, dude. I've been doing this since before you were born. Okay. What's up, Ron? What's up? I'm not going to look on YouTube right now, but appreciate it. Uh, yeah, I'm not going to bother. I mean, we it it's it's safe to say that the midsection is an issue with Nick. It's something that he needs to address and take care of, and if he does that, I do see him back on in the winning circle again. But if it keeps going this way, if it keeps if he keeps putting on more muscle and his midsection keeps getting thicker, I think he's just going to keep sliding down in the placing. So, if he's hired Chris Tuttle or if they're going to work together, I should say, Chris is a very smart guy and he has a fine eye for physiques and detail. And I think he would convince Nick that uh getting that midsection under control is is very, very important moving forward. What pose would you give Derek over Dorian? What pose would I give Derek over Dorian? Huh? I don't know if I give him any, honestly. I don't think I would give him any. Dorian at his best beats Derek in every post. Uh, you know, Derek beats people in the back shots. That's where he beats him. But I don't think he would beat Dorian in the back shots. Flex versus Jack Romney or Flex versus Jack versus Keon versus Samson. Oh boy. Uh, Flex one. Uh, Samson two. Keon three, Jack Four. I wish Cedric McMillan was still around to compete. Sadly, by the way, who just the past since 2020, since COVID, we've probably lost thousands. I mean, obviously, they weren't all bigname guys and girls. They weren't all famous. But there was a time where two, three, four times a week, we were getting notices on Instagram that so and so died. It was awful. It slowed down a little bit, but it's still we've lost way too many. Imagine Flex Willer Dorian or Jay Cutler's mindset with advanced nutrition. Yeah, I don't think we ever saw the very best Flex could be. Flex was damn good anyway. Save the images on Instagram to make it easier. It says his waist looks less controlled. Okay, let me try that. Uh I don't have any new messages. I don't have any new messages on Instagram. Oh, there you go. Click to blur image. Okay, Dan, are we seeing this? I know. I'm gonna have to make that a lot bigger. Uh, first I got to uncclick them. Okay. [sighs and gasps] All right. So, Dan just sent me that. Thank you. Appreciate it. But these two different backgrounds, it's kind of hard to It's kind of hard to I mean, to me, it looks like his legs are smaller at the Olympia, which I don't think was the case, right? I doubt it. I don't know, man. To me, he looks blockier. He looks blockier to me at the 2025. Let me cover his head because that bald head is it's just it's I know it shouldn't matter. His hairstyle or lack of hair, none of that should matter. and he claims his hair was thinning and he just decided to shave it off. But he looks a lot better with hair. If you have hair, guys, those of you who have lost your hair, and I I was losing mine. I had to go to Turkey to get my hairline back. You look at people who have nice full heads of hair or at least close enough who shave their hair and you're like, shave all their hair off like, dude, why did you do that? So that was New York. Well, the the main issue is he needs to get his Yeah, I I see what you're saying. I mean, I think it looked it looked rough regardless wherever it was. Thanks for saying that, Dan. What body weight should Nick? I mean, if he's if he was 275, uh I' I'd bring him back down to like 255, 260 at the most. It's not about body weight. It's whatever weight the midsection is a little smaller and tighter. That's all he needs to do. His leg sweep's never going to get any better. That's just genetics. He's got incredible arms. His back poses are excellent. You know, the only thing he really needs to do, should do, in my not so humble opinion, is get that midsection tighter. Bring it in. Bring in the midsection. 255. Yeah, I'd say 255. I mean, that's probably what he weighed back in 2021 when he won the Arnold Classic. Um, what did he win that year as well? Did he win the Arnold in 21? Yeah, he did. New York Pro and the Arnold. He won two shows that year and that was his Olympia debut. He was fifth behind Hunter. Hunter was fourth that year and then he was third the next year. Lesson learning for anyone stick your word. Yeah, I made a whole video saying I'll never flip-flop again. But Matt's never going to let me live it down. Whatever, dude. I mean, I'm not I'm not engaging with him. He's he likes to get into these feuds with people because that's, you know, controversy and it gets all those people's followers. like he's he's really got it in for Dave Palumbo now because he knows Dave's got a huge platform. He's got a huge YouTube viewership and if Dave says starts talking about him on his YouTube, it's going to get people to go over to Matt's YouTube, which is Dave is like 350 or 400,000 YouTube subscribers to Matt's 15. I'm almost at 11, which is nothing great either. But when you when you mess with people who have much bigger followings than yourself and you reference them, if you can get them to talk about you on their channel, that's a win because it's going to get at least a few people, few hundred or maybe a few thousand to go over and check out your content, see what you got. Best local injection. Uh he would only pick one person. Kenson, you can't work with two different coaches. I haven't seen I don't know where the announcement was made about him and Tuttle. Uh I don't know if it's on their Instagram or anything yet. Uh or if it's been made public, but that would be a great I think Chris is a great coach. So, whoever he works with, it's a great choice on their part. Kelly, Miss Potato Head, part of the sports for you. Yeah. I mean, I've been doing this a long time. I mean, that's it doesn't necessarily mean anything. I mean, it's not as relevant to the younger guys. They don't care that, you know, they they just want to watch good content. And I get that. I mean, if Mr. Beast had the best advice to how to get way more YouTube views, he just said, "Make better videos. Make better content. It's not about the perfect thumbnail." Yeah, stuff like that's important. Your title, your thumbnail, your description, keywords, this and that, tags, those things are all important. I'm not saying they're they're work. They're not important. But great content. If you can make better better content all the time, that's how you get big big numbers on YouTube. Is Prague paying top guys to show up? I don't think so. I mean, I don't know. No, I mean, if they were paying top guys to show up, I think they would have gotten a few more. I mean, Samson Martin was going to come anyway. He's a defending champ. Let me put Martin up while we're uh while we're talking. I don't think we gave Martin enough love on this show today. But uh defending champ Martin. Here he is with the Olympia where he took fifth. Hope makes peace with the Harley-Davidson motorcycle pose. Uh I think he's going to stop sticking. I think he already stopped sticking his tongue out. Your Prague predictions. Oh, we did that. Uh we didn't really do any predictions, but uh I'm just going to give you the top my top five. I have Samson, Martin, Keon, Kriso, Tim Budan. That's my top five. Uh, no. You know what? I think one of the Spanish kids. I think Joan Purdell's Martinez. Joan Pardell's Martinez. He could be he could he could probably beat uh Creo and Right Ser. He I'm sorry. He could be fifth. He could beat Tim. So, I will go Samson, Martin, Keon, though. I could see Keon possibly beating Martin. I'm not saying Martin's definitely beating Keon. I think either one of them under the right circumstances could be, but I'm going to go Samson Martin, Keon, Kriso, and Joan Joan Pardell is from Spain. Kriso is going for win. Looks really great. Such a great muscle quality. Yeah, we we talked about him a little earlier and he does have fantastic muscle quality and I like that seems like less people are moving up in the higher categories moving to classic and open. Uh we are seeing a lot more people go to open. From classic we're seeing classic guys go to open. We're seeing 212 guys to open for sure. Uh I'll show you Prague from last year. Yeah, Prague showed they they have a uh really good lighting. They they invest a lot of money into the lighting. We have a very high quality live stream. This is from last year's live stream in Prague. It should go to Aceto. Well, it sounds like he's already, if the rumors are true, it looks like he's going to uh Chris Tuttle. Chris Aceto, he's he's a great coach, but he can't coach everybody. So, not everybody can go to Chris Aceto, nor does Chris want to work with everybody. [snorts] I think Keon looks way better than Martin in my opinion. Uh, I do. Yeah, he's got a better shape, better structure. Structurally, in terms of shape and structure, Keon's damn near perfect. He's damn near perfect. I don't want to be in the chats anymore. Oops. Got to get that out of there. Instagram home. Okay. Search. Okay, we're back. Yeah, Kriso taking third over Keon. That's bold, Kenson. That's a bold one. I don't know if Kriso can beat Keon, honestly. Keon's got damn near shape, structure. He's just very, very good. Uh, Ko is good, but that wide waist is going to hurt him because Martin doesn't have a wide waist. He's got a pretty narrow waist. Keon's got a pretty small waist. as much bunch of standout shots. Martin's good overall, but no pose that really stands out. Yeah, I mean, you're supposed to look good in every pose. You're not supposed to have one pose where people go, "Wow." I would say I would argue Martin's crab most muscular is really to me, that's his best pose. Let's go back down. Keon winning. Yeah, let's go to Keon winning. Why not that? Show that for a second. Look at how full and round Keon's muscles are. And this is He's not even flexing there. He's not even flexing at all. Hopes James comes in more. Yeah, I should check James. I know. I Is James in the show? Yeah, he is. Come on, Ron. Get it together. Get it together. He hasn't been doing many uh updates. Just curious if he has if you got anything. Nope. Nope. No, nothing. The last posing thing he did was weeks ago. Oh, well, this is one day ago. Okay. Okay. See, so let's All right. So, we'll look at uh the last picture was four days ago from James Graham Hollings Head. James G. Yeah, he's looking pretty damn good. I mean, to me, the issue uh at the show in France was just flat. He was flat to me. Uh the condition was there. Uh I just I've seen him look bigger and fuller. And you know, you're up against guys like Samson very full. Martin very full and round. Keon very full and round. Creo is a pretty big full guy. You got to have your fullness. You can't you can't be missing any one attribute or you're gonna you're gonna be in trouble. Promoters probably did pay Chris Bumstead with the handsome amount to show up last year. I don't know if they could afford whatever he would want. Um I heard that his appearance fee is like a minimum of $100,000. Like he won't do anything for less than $100,000 just to show up somewhere like at an expo or a contest. I've heard that from someone who was trying to get him uh to do a tour, a gym tour. And um I don't think Prague's going to give up a h 100red grand because where do they make the money back? It's the only way they make the money back is pay-per-view buys. And I don't think they would need so many pay-per-view buys to get to make a profit off of paying Chris Bumstead 100 grand to show up. I I think Chris was going to do a post Olympia show anyway. That one just happened to be timed conveniently for him. So, I don't believe that they paid him. I don't think so. Keon comes like four pounds lighter. Very big competitor for the O. I don't think he was off at the Olympia at all. I don't I thought he looked pretty damn good at the Olympia. I know uh Shawn pushed him. Shawn definitely did push him for that win. Sean Clarita we're talking about. But how recent are these? [snorts] Three days ago. Okay. Three days. That's James. I mean, we know James has great back shots. 208. I don't think he needs to be any lighter for the uh uh Prague show. I think he's fine. Kenton Keon's midsection became less static as well. Cruz more condition. Oh, I mean I don't write I don't I don't say anything. I never say no that could never happen. So and so is never going to beat so and so unless it was like someone like me beat competing against Samson. I could never beat Samson. But these guys are all on a a similar level to each other. So under the right circumstances, most of them could beat most of the others. Can definitely keep his waist in check. I don't think his weight is what's what's causing that issue that we see there with the uh the stomach, the abdominals. I think that's just an issue of 212. I think that's just an issue of Keon's genetics where his abs are structured, which is why he pulls a lot of vacuums. And you rightfully so. You don't want anyone seeing that big gap, but I don't see it as that big of a problem with him. Honestly, I think K will do well, but he'll be too small for tall guys. Yeah. I mean, it's going to be very interesting to see him next to a six foot Samson, a six foot Kriso. Martin's not much taller than than Keon. Martin's maybe an inch taller. James Hollings. Uh James goes up and down. He's I don't think he's I'm not going to write James off. I feel like James just an average body. He's not average. He's well above average, but he's not at the level of these top top guys that we talk about. No. Time Prague show start East Coast time. Unfortunately, the judging for men's open tomorrow starts at uh 2:00 p.m. East Coast time. So 8:00 p.m. Uh and then I think it's 7:30 p.m. our time. No, I'm sorry, 1:30 p.m. our time on Sunday. They're going to start the finals for all the divisions. But tomorrow, the only pro division that's being judged tomorrow is men's open and you can go to their Instagram and there'll be links there. EVLs_progue_pro official for all the info. Uh it's EVLS. So they'll have all the info on there. But yeah, it's it's 2 PM and you know that they're selling a pay-per-view. It's not free. [snorts] What time Prague starts? Keon came in just fine. Just came in crazy and one of his best looks ever. Yeah, Sean looked fantastic. James going through Ramy soon relation to switching coaches. James has been through a lot more coaches than Ramy. James has since I've met known of James, which was only since about 2018, I think. I think he's been through about six or eight coaches. So like a coach a year basically someone gets surgery fixed split people. Someone in the comments before or the chat they had a whole strategy on how it could be done. I don't know if it's accurate. I don't always take everything you guys say in the chat as absolute fact because sometimes people are either bullshitting me or they're misinformed or whatever. But some guy did have a whole protocol of how it could be fixed. He needs to contact Keon. Can Akim ever get back in top 10? Oh, yeah. I mean, there's his physique still looks great. There's nothing wrong with it. Did he make top 15 this year? I don't think he did, did he? I put my Olympia places. Yeah, I think he was. Was he out of the top 15? I don't have no idea what my place is. Yeah, I don't think he was in the top 15 this time. I wouldn't write him off. So, Roman Fritz mission podcast using weightlifting belt. Uh, so you're saying using the belt ruin cause the midsection to look worse. Some people do believe that because you're pushing out against the belt. Then other people will tell you a waist trainer, which is just like a super tight belt. Really sucks everything in. I think that just makes you more conscious of keeping your your midsection sucked in. I don't believe a waist trainer actually reduces the size of your midsection. How is it doing that? Just physiologically, it's not changing your bones, your ribs, or whatever that they are what they are. your internal organs. It's not making them any smaller by squashing them in. So, I don't know. The science shunt should have beaten Rean at that last show. I agree. I agree with that. Muscle if you lose the muscle would also lose the gap. Uh well, you don't want to lose your abdominal muscles. Pay-per-view. That's not bad. So, that's less than I think that's less than 20 US. That's not bad. I'm going to unfortunately probably miss the whole damn thing. I'm training. I have a private training client. He pays me well, so I'm not missing that. Uh, and then I'm going to the New England Championships. Do I have that on mine? Put that up. I do. I believe I posted it. Come on, Ron. What? How many runs are there? For God's sake, what? I just want to show the Cutler. Uh, didn't I put it up? I thought I put it up. Let's Jay, I hope Jay put it up. Let's see. NPC Northeast. Little little plug for the show. It's happening tomorrow here in Boston. Well, where's your flyers, guys? Really? Really? No flyer? Huh? Wow. What about Jay? It's your show, Jay. Please tell me, Jay, you have your your own show up on your up on your Instagram. Well, that's not the contest flyer, but it does show you can meet him there. Where's the contest flyer? Huh? Anyway, the New England Championships. Jay puts on two shows a year here in Boston. uh in the springtime, usually late April, early May, he puts on the Jay Cutler Classic and the fall show, which is uh usually late October or very early November. That's the New England Championships. I'll be going to the finals with my son. So, I don't know if I'm going to be able to do any coverage of the Prague show until Sunday, which h it bothers me because it's a big show and I want to cover it, but I'm not missing that training client. He pays me well. Uh he's a good dude and it's it's it's like an hour drive away and I'm I don't want to miss that because I don't get to see Jay that often. Patrick Moore career has been a let down. I think he's still way too heavy for classic. What exercise work the best for you? That size your arms? Probably asking the wrong guy [laughter] because my arms are they've never grown. I mean the basics work if you use uh enough weight to challenge yourself but still feel the muscle and get a good pump. you know, feel the muscle working. My biceps did improve more once I started using a little less weight and going for better squeeze of the muscle, really focusing on getting good stretch on every rep on bicep, any kind of bicep curl. U but really it's it does come down to genetics. I mean, if you're going to have huge legs, training training your legs hard, whatever way you train them is going to give you big legs. If you're going to have big arms, any type of hard training is going to give you big arms. And I don't want to be a a Debbie Downer, but if you have bad genetics for arms, like my tricep genetics were just awful. They still are. There was nothing that was ever gonna give me huge Phil Heath or Roly Winkler or Kevin Leone triceps. There's nothing in the world, not even injections. The late Matt Porter, God bless his soul, who did admit to a lot of sight injecting in his arms, he said, "Ron, even your arms probably there's not enough synthol in the world that could give you big arms." I'm like, "Damn it." Explain how it happens on a podcast recap the Olympics called Big Zone Podcast in German, but you can get the English. Oh, as far as the Roman fritz and how weight belt makes your uh your your gut bigger. Will you be at the NPC Mid American Winter Classic? I can say definitely not because I've never even heard of that show. Wikipedia Mike Stfield guest posing corn and take his height. I won't be at that show, but I wish you the very best of luck. Uh Winter Classic, so that must be coming up in a month or two, right? Don't know. Cool. All right, guys. I've been going for a long time. Brazil, apparently, is a vital clinic for all divisions. Yeah, Brazil has been put they had three Olympia champions this year. They had uh Wellness at Woman, Eduardo, don't know her last name off top of my head. They had Ramonino in classic and they had Natalya Qualo, women's physique. Top five Arnold picks. We don't even know who's in the Arnold. Talk to me in a month. in like that list will come out by mid December. We'll know exactly who's doing the island and then I'll be making all kinds of pics and predictions with other other people. So, all right guys, I'm going to bid you ad do um until Sunday, maybe tomorrow. I I'm sure I'll do some kind of coverage on Prague on Sunday, but I don't know about tomorrow yet. We'll see. I'll see if I have time. I really want to. But I I do appreciate you guys hanging out and talking to me. Again, info about the Prague Show is there. There's a link there to the website which has the info for the pay-per-view and all that. So, evls.progue.pro. Even if you just put Prague Pro into the search in Instagram, it would show up or into the uh into your search engine, Chrome or Safari or whatever you use at home. So, anyway guys, thank you so much for watching. appreciate it very much. And if I don't talk to you, if you don't see me until next week, have a great weekend. Thanks for watching.