Hey everybody, welcome, welcome, welcome to Power Hour starring me, Ron Harrison. This guy Giles Tiger Thomas all the way over in the UK. And Giles, we finished up a weekend of one of the greatest Olympias, most exciting Olympia weekends in recent memory. What a what a show. What a show. You stayed up all night. It ended at 7:20 a.m. your time, I think, when by when we went off air. >> Thanks for thanks for staying up all damn night. Uh and you were your commentary, you and Mike. Uh gold. Just pure gold. Um where to begin? Where to begin? Uh the top four. We're going to start with the Mr. Olympia because I think that's what most people like to talk about the most. >> So let's take a look real quick at your top four finalists. We had previous champ 23 champ Derek, 22 champ Hottie, 24 champ Samson, and Andrew Jacked, who I have been harshly critical of. I just I I kept seeing him bring a similar package uh the past few times, past couple years, and I just didn't think he was going to look any better. He surprised the hell out of me and jumped all the way to third place. I mean, we were both buzzing, but especially you, because you know Andrew pretty well, but when you were watching these final comparisons, really, what were the main things going through your skull? >> Um, I think the main thing was if you look at the Olympia last year and you look at the Arnold Classic, it looked like Samson, Andrew next to Samson looked like Andrew needed another 20 pounds to match Samson because he got they both got beautiful structure and shape and symmetry. Um, but at the Olympia, it looked the other way around. It looked like uh Samson needed that well that lost 20 pounds to kind of look as big as Andrew. So that was my first observation. Um my other observation was uh Derek I take it back because I I said um in previous power I said I think that Pittsburgh being on that extended prep from March to May. I think that will cost him being able to peak for the Olympia and it probably likely will cost him a good placing at the Olympia. Um but I take it back. I think he actually looked better than he did at uh pit. Sorry, the Arnold. I think he looked even better than he did at the Arnold. Uh, and also, um, Hadi, I think on balance, I think overall, I think this was the best package I've ever seen from Hadtie because I know we all refer back to that beautiful 2019 Vancouver. The lighting was perfect and, you know, everything the certain things like the disparity between his left and his right leg wasn't there. You know, the his arms were nice and full and everything was crispy, but he was a lot smaller. So I think the package I think the package he brought because there is things starting to you know change on his physique which comes with wear and tear but it's still still overall you know all points considered I still think this was the best package had ever brought. >> Yeah >> because he was nice and crisp on the back wider across the shoulders. You know the thing I'm looking for with the shoulders which I thought was actually when we >> Yeah. Yeah, when we saw that post, I was like, "Oh, no. The this is a disaster." But I didn't see it. I didn't see any evidence of that on stage. And I was looking. So, um I think uh I think this was um Hady's best. And thing is H had won. People are saying like, "Oh, I've been reading all the comments. Had he was robbed. Had he was robbed." It's like, "No, he won the finals, but he just lost the actual show itself by two points." So, it was a flip of a coin. It's exactly as we predicted. You know, after we saw the prejudging, we thought, "Oh, this is a close one." Um but, um I agree with the I agree with the place. The only placing uh I disagreed with I think Martin deserved fourth. I think Samson should have been fifth because I think Martin like you know when they brought that four out and then they did that comparison with all the four Mr. Olympians. I think personally instead of having that comparison with all the Mr. Olympians, they should have put Nick and Martin on either side of the top four and they should have made it a six-man call up because I think they deserved it and I think the crowd would have loved it even more than having all the Mr. Olympians together on stage which really didn't serve any benefit. I I would have liked to see, you know, they they they did the fourman call out at the end. I would have liked to see Martin up there rather than have him in that big call out of the fifth through 10th guys. But yeah, looking at Martin because I I had written Martin off. I had Martin. I said he's probably going to drop down to somewhere between sixth and eighth was my guess. >> Uh you didn't lose any faith in him, I don't think. But geez, he delivered. >> Yeah, I had him can't remember where I had him. Did I have him sixth? I think I had him sixth in the in the leadup. Um that um he have you noticed his back isn't as big but it's better separated now because his rear lat bed last year I thought was matching Samson's because Samson's very latch spread last year was unbelievable. It was incredible but his rear lap spread is not as big but it's be he's traded it off because his rear double bicep now which I thought was his was his weakest shot. He's actually a lot improved. It's smaller but he's actually got more detail and more pop going on now. So but I think overall I think this was um I think this was the best Martin I've seen. I think uh I think if we'd actually seen him next to Samson uh at the finals, I think you would have people would have um more people would have spotted the fact that actually Samson did sorry uh Martin did deserve fourth. >> Yeah, I don't think obviously there would have been some people upset about that, but not too many. Uh let's right into Samson because we really we were hoping the best for Samson. We saw him at the guest posing. He was in shape uh earlier than we ever saw. And a lot of people were saying, "Well, the the the risk here is he's going to flatten out, peak too early, lose muscle." This was not the Samson that won the Olympia last year. This wasn't even the Samson that took second to Derek. He gave up I bet he was down to from about I think he won the Olympia at 305 last year. And I I think our best guess is 280 285. That's that's my best guess for what size. This this was the size Samsung was in 2021, maybe even before that. Um, but thing is I've heard I don't know whether this is true, but I heard that they weren't going by the scale. But thing is, if you lose if you say check the scale and you're like 5 pound down, I'm going to be probably 5 pound down. You can a guy that size that's not really if the waist is smaller and the glutes and the hams are tighter, then no one's really going to. But if you're dropping like 10, 15, 20, 25 pounds, then I think there's a problem that needs to be addressed because thing is I've been thinking about this today, well yesterday as well. Um, people think that there's there's two there's a very very big difference between being flat and actually losing muscle tissue. You know, I know they thought probably he could fill back out, but even at Romania, because I I was really shocked by the comments when I saw the Romania guest posing. Everyone was like, "Amazing, amazing, amazing. He's just like, he looks like he's kind of Yes, I know the hams and the glutes are tighter, but to me it looks like he's losing a ton of size. And the thing is, even at Romania, he was still kind of holding on to his his legs, but these legs here, they they vanished. I mean, he's his legs looked a lot because Samson's got incredible legs. He's got incredible symmetry, >> but the legs are really really lost a lot of size. Now, who was checking him in those final few weeks? Because this is why Dorian had like three or four people that only he trusted to say, "What? Tell me what's going on. What's happening with my physique?" I did it when I was competing. I only had two people I ever asked and I ever stripped off for in the last few weeks that I ever trusted. But at what point did they ever think to say or did they look at him and think, "Okay, well, there's quite a drastic change here that maybe needs to be addressed." And I know he was obviously pushing for the condition, probably pushing the cardio. Um, and thing is ah I saw I mean I know I'm blocked but I actually I saw I did actually see a couple of videos that were sharing and he was doing side on Smith machine presses one arm >> and I just thought I just thought what is the point of doing silly exercise like I mean look at Dorian and Ronny you never would have seen Dorian or Ronny looking like that. I mean, these the big guys like Samson, you know, like the 280, 290 guys, the well I know Dorian wasn't that heavy, but you know, in terms of muscle thickness and density, you know, he was I don't understand. I don't really always see the value in that kind of training. And somebody said he was doing a lot of high volume training and he obviously doing a lot of cardio and I know he he was very proud about the pictures he posted of his cheeks looking in. And I thought that was great. >> Yeah. >> But um if I hadn't seen Romania, I wouldn't have been uh no alarm bells would have been ringing. But I'll be honest, in Romania the alarm bells were ringing, mate. And I just wondered who was checking him in those final few weeks because like I said he was holding on to the legs in Romania but then those last few weeks like he he looks like he lost like several inches off his legs and all the like there's just like really I I didn't really see how much until somebody posted like a comparison you know the this is this was Samson the Arnold. This is Samson Olympia last year and I tell you what, you really see a difference, but um I mean it's bodybuilding and is a really and I know he's um to lose like what looked like I I mean I'll be honest, it looks like 20 to 25 pounds and that's not flatness. And thing is you can't you can't like I said on the um on the watch party I said guys I said I'm I'm not expecting much. I'm hoping he comes back for the finals the next day better, but you can't fill out what looks like 20 25 pounds of lost muscle. I mean, look at him there. That looks like Samson from 2018, mate. >> Yeah. I mean, I keep flipping back and forth between last year's Olympia and this year. So, that's the point I think a lot of people don't understand is when when you're flat, you still have the same amount of muscle tissue mass. >> Yes. >> So, it's just it doesn't have much glycogen in it. You can put glycogen in and it fills back up. But if you've lost muscle tissue, you can't get it back. It take it might take months to get it back or at least in the very least weeks. You're not going to get it back in 24 hours of sweet potatoes or cream of rice or >> And thing is if you push it too hard then you get the the gut distension. I mean that's and then and then all that work that you've put in to get that waist nice and small because his waist was smaller than it was at the Arnold Classic. I mean, his waist was tiny, but apart from slightly added condition in the in the glutes and the hams, and the waist means small smaller, he it was it was a it was a horrible trade-off because he lost so much muscle in the process. But I'll be honest, Ron, I mean I you tell me, if this was his first Olympia, where would he have placed? >> Fifth, sixth. >> You You think if this was his first Olympia, you think fifth or sixth >> uh in this lineup? All right, let's Somewhere between sixth and eighth, I think, would be reasonable. I don't he wouldn't have been out of the top 10, but he wouldn't be he wouldn't be pushing for the title at all. >> But, you know, >> I mean, I'll be honest. I I'll be honest, Ron, I haven't seen many people disagreeing with um the fact of how this look was and his placing. And I know some die hard I mean, I got called disloyal this morning by someone said, "You're supposed to be his mate. Why are you being disloyal?" And I said, "What exactly you what exactly am I being disloyal about?" Because I'm an analyst. I've been doing this 30 years. Um, so what would you prefer me to say that he deserves to win when he doesn't? Because if you have if you actually do compare how he looked. I mean, his rear lap spread last year was phenomenal. And even at the Arnold Classic, the the rear lat spread wasn't as impressive. I mean, his lats used to come out in like a nice curve out. And now they kind of go it's like the opposite. It's like a it's like a concave kind of uh concave sort of like angle. It's weird. But um thing is at the end of the day uh I would imagine I reckon he'll I don't think he should do any post Olympia shows. I don't think he can regain you know what we like like the the Samson that won the the Olympia last year. I don't think he can regain it in just a couple of weeks. So, I'd imagine he'd be doing the Arnold Classic and you know, he's going to be pissed off and he's going to be up he's going to be upset for a couple of weeks, but they're going to go back to the drawing board and I 100% reckon that um he's just going to go back to what worked and what won in the Armor Classic in the Olympia and that's coming back to the kind of they're going to learn hopefully they're going to learn from these mistakes um and uh and rectify it because this isn't like people I mean remember Ron remember last year when Derek got third and so many people were saying oh he's done his career is over and Look what happened this year, mate. >> Oh, yeah. I mean, I'm not writing Samson for one minute. It's just the what concerns me is I thought he was going to be so upset from losing the Arnold Classic, but unfortunately, I think it it put in the it put in his head and his coachwife Marlina's head that condition, which is fine, but without that size, without his normal size and roundness and fullness, the condition, you couldn't even see it. He doesn't look more condition to me. He didn't look any more conditioned cuz he was so flat. >> He was a little bit in certain areas, like I said, the waist was a little bit smaller, but um I'll be honest, I'll say it. I think it's a it's a rookie amateur mistake where I've seen it in the amateur ranks over 30 plus years where you see someone they go for condition and they they're not that you know like they maybe they are like 2% more condition but they've lost like 20 30% of their size. I've seen it happen many many times and at this level I'm sorry but it shouldn't be happening mate. And thing is, and I know that people have I've seen seen some really kind of harsh comments about um you know, whether he should go with a coach, but I'll be honest, mate. If he if he'd been prepped by Aito, Patrick Tur, Neil Hill, would would this have happened? >> That's a great question. Will, you know, will we ever know? I mean, I guess the only way to find out is if he hired one of them. I'm sure they would all all those people Aceto Patrick Boss any of these people would love to have a chance to see if they can bring Samson in at his best ever because what a feather in the cap that would be for any coach, right? >> If you could get his Olympia title back next year, he'd be the greatest coach of all time. >> I I'll be honest, I don't see him working with another coach. >> Yeah. I mean the fact that it's your wife, you can't just say >> you want >> you need you need your peace at home and you need your and the thing is the end of the day she did help him win the Olympia last year and and I think is though they I know they tried something different for this but you know if it ain't broke why don't fix it do you know what I mean if it ain't broke you won the Olympia you won the Arnold Classic with a certain approach and also like I said body weight isn't always the best gauge but it is a gauge like like I said because if it's just a few pounds Then you know you you could get on stage and sometimes you can cut you can drop five pounds and look five 10 pounds heavier. You can look bigger. You know when guys go, "Oh my god, you're so improved." And it's like, "Yeah, I'm 10 pound lighter." And then you're like, "But you look 10 pounds heavier." How many times have How many times we seen that? But when it's look what looks like to me, it looks to me like he was almost down to the 28. If he was 305 at the Olympia last year, he looks 280 maximum. I mean, at the prejudging, I mean, I'm just You show me that cr that footage and I'm actually Yeah. It's painful to watch, mate. >> Yeah. You know, because people think you you're that you're a Samson. Hey, you're not. You were the first guy to have him do a media interview. You put him in your column in MD every month for years before anyone really cared about him outside of the UK. So, you know, you're not a hater. You still you support the best athletes. That's what you do. >> Got him an interview with Ronnie. Got helped get him the front cover. >> Exactly. Uh but yeah, Samson, uh next time use a scale. Next time, at least it just like you said, if you see you're 285, I'd be like, uh oh, maybe uh maybe don't do three hours of cardio a day. Maybe >> hang on, hang on. Like I said, you need more than one person checking you, you know, because like I said, if he if he'd have sent me that, if he'd just say he'd have messaged me and said, "Oh, did you see the Romania guest post? What do you think?" I'd be like, "Mate, you you your condition's fine. It's where it needs to be, but be careful." Like if you'd have showed me at four weeks and I'd have seen like another size drop, I would have said, "Mate, you know, you're losing size here and you're not really gaining that much condition, you know? I mean, the condition your glutes in your hands at the Romania was kind of better than when he won the Olympia last year. So, you don't need to kind of overkill it." Thing is, I get it. I get I get, you know, I get the the the criticisms he's had, but um they went overboard. The thing is, like I said, they probably looked at him after every workout posing and stuff like that, and you you'd be able to see may maybe they need more sets of eyes that they trust. someone in the area to come over once a couple of weeks and say look okay this is what I think um what do you think and then make notes and kind of go from there because it's not like that he would have lost all that size like in the last week or something from maybe from thing is though remember when Jay uh 2007 um like he was he was not as good as he was at 2005 or 2006 I think he it's like sometimes the pressure of being at the top you know the excitement and obviously and all the the anticipation and stuff I think um because thing is there's more pressure when you're the defending champion than when you're going in as the favorite, >> right? Because nobody expects anything out of the the under >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. >> Um man, >> we've seen it. We've seen it many times, mate. We've seen it many times. >> So, you know, we wish him the best. And uh back to the drawing board. He's still got one of the greatest physiques in this in this world right now. >> Uh things went wrong. >> Yeah. >> Sorry, one final thing. Like I I'm saying that he shouldn't do any post Olympia shows because he can't probably regain that kind of muscle that fast. But then look what um and I know that um Prague is next weekend. So that's two weeks after the Olympia and I know a lot can be done in two weeks. But look what Clarita did. >> So I have to I have to balance this. Clarida at the Olympia look did kind of what Samson did. You know he kind of lost all his fullness and pop and body parts were just you know smaller visibly smaller. He lost a lot of impressiveness. But then in in uh Prague four weeks later I mean it came out and if you watch the live stream Yeah. Look at this. I mean I've if you watch that live stream if you put the sound on that live stream now you hear me losing my mind because I was like this is bad this he's done it he's done it because this was not the same clarita that we saw at the Olympia as four weeks four weeks before so it can be done but I think you need I think you need minimum minimum four weeks >> true that was four weeks right between >> yeah four weeks between the Olympia and Prague last year and like I said if you if you brought up the Olympia footage of Clarita you'd be shocked at how much he kind got his footing back. >> Yeah, it was so it was so bad I deleted it. So, >> yeah, >> I did have it, but I deleted it. >> Oh, did you? >> Okay, let me find out. Where did I put this? Need to get out of this. >> And I I think um I think I I reckon Samson will do the uh do the Arnold. I think I think he knows that if he puts that size back. The thing is no posture show. I think he needs to just go he just needs to go back to what worked, you know, because sometimes I I kind of admire them for trying something different. But the new thing is the thing that won you the Olympia, the Arnold, why do you need to some do anything different from that? >> You know, it's I think we we have to take some responsibility, all the media people, even the fans, because all we all we railed on about for the past couple years is Samson's never been ripped. Samson always has a few extra pounds he should drop. And he overcorrected. He took they took that to heart and they just went too far in that direction of chasing that condition and losing that pop, that wow factor that that got him the Arnold title, that got him the Olympia title. >> He's a big guy and we've said it before, these taller guys when they're flat, when they've lose muscle, it's a lot more noticeable because they have such long limbs and bigger frames in general versus like a shorter guy. It's not as apparent when they lose a little bit of muscle or they >> the the physique itself has actually brought more value than the condition because he won he even without get that condition he won the Arnold in the Olympia. So you know you can go because apparently the judges giving feedback you need to get ripped. It's like yeah but you go to feedback for judges usually you don't usually see the winners at shows going and asking for feedback. Usually you know what I mean? They'll just uh they'll say that they go when they've got fifth or sixth and they want to improve, >> right? Um but um I I just like I said I think um I think Samson should get more eyes on him in those last few weeks because um that's where I think they they they they slipped up because you know that wasn't like I said that wouldn't happen in the final week. You wouldn't lose 25 pounds of muscle in the last week. It would have been a gradual process over those final eight weeks which we saw in like I said six weeks out in Romania. >> Yeah. So Derek Lens for man, I give him a lot of credit because I was not confident he would be able to bring his best package after being in prep so long. 24 Olympia was last October. He had very little time, maybe six weeks of downtime before he had to prep for the Arnold. He wins that. Then he had almost no downtime. Had to get right back in and prep for Pittsburgh Pro. Wins that. And he was going for the Triple Crown. win all three of those in one year, which is it's an amazing feat. Also should must be stated that he's the first man since Cutler in 61 years of the Mr. Olympia contest to lose the Mr. Olympia title and get it back. So now we finally have a second person that's done that. >> No, I totally agree. I totally agree. And you know what? I've been going back and forth, back and forth, back and forth the last couple of days on social media and on the comments on YouTube and everything because I I just sometimes I I kind of realize how good you we people like yourself and are because we can like a lot of people just don't like Derek. They don't like him. They don't like his persona. They don't like the you know the religious side of him. there's there's things they don't like about him and they allow all the or based upon the fact that they reckon he shouldn't have beat had two years ago when he won and but they can't get past it and and basically talk about what they see here and now and uh as I mean like on the watch part we were watching it and I'm like he I think he's going to win it because and the thing is I wouldn't say he he's going to win it if I didn't think he deserved it because I think he looks I mean every physique had their oh he's got no biceps he's got no this yeah but every physique in that lineup has strengths and weaknesses no one is But I think on balance I thought I thought he's going to bloody win this. And um so I've been going back and forth people who just who really can't get past their own personal emotional response. I mean I said to one guy I said uh mate I said you need to get a check emotional responses to your decision making. I said because it's a very feminine trait. It's like, you know what I mean? Because I'm, do you know, I was actually talking to a, funny enough, I was in Sweden, I was talking to a judge and they were talking about how um some female judges are great and some aren't because some when they when they're discussing um you know, judging certain crit certain categories, they'll all say, "So then these bikini wear why have you got so it's like uh why have you got um so and so in third?" It's like and the judge will just say, "Well, I just I just don't like the way she looked at me on stage or the way she looks in the audience or I don't like I don't like the way she carries herself and stuff like that." So, sometimes people, you know, people can have these kind of unconscious biases that uh really spills into their decision- making. But, um yeah, I've been going back and forth and I I'm really happy for Derek. I think he's um I think he deserved it. It was bloody close between him and Hadtie and I think, like I said, apart from fourth and fifth swapping round, I had no problems with the placing mate. Yeah. And it was it was very very close. It was a two point two points between Derek and Hottie. Just like last year, Hottie was ahead of Samson at judging last year, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And like and people were saying about um Samson. I said, "No, no, I said Samson, oh people have been criticized the people who really are against Samson and you know, no, he's he's worst Mr. Olympia ever." And I like hang on a minute, hang on a minute. Yes, he this was not his day. This was not his weekend. But last year at the finals, he was the best man on stage and he fully deserved to win that. Like you said, I said at the prejudging, it was close between him and Hadi. Could have gone Hadi. It could have gone it was never going to go Derek because he was off. But um I said at the finals when he walked out um I knew straight away that he was going to win it and he did. >> Yeah. I mean that the the fact like I noticed this I made note of this during the the four four and a half hours we were talking Saturday night. His legs seem to be every other contest. Great, not great, great, not great. >> Last year's olymp, so 23, he wins the Olympia. Legs are popping, bursting, full for him. 20 24 Olympia, they're flat. Uh 25 Arnold, full 25 Pittsburgh, flat 25 Olympia. So he needs to really watch the timing of these contests. I'm just happy for him because he's he's a really big guy. I I think if you look back to the 23, I think his legs were their best at that Olympia, but like you said, I think his legs look bloody good here. Um uh it's just And have you noticed as well, he's got a little bit more detail going on in his chest in his inner st his inner chest that um there's definitely more there's definitely more details and striations there. Um is this the Olympia from the 20 24? >> 24. Yeah, I want to see. >> Yeah, I can tell. I can tell because his legs aren't as good. Look, look at the difference. How how much smaller his legs look when they're when they're Yeah, I don't think it's a flat like we just talked about with Samson. I think he loses some of his leg mass at times. Maybe from excess cardio. Who knows? >> U but yeah, that versus this big difference. Big difference. >> I just I just the only thing I wish he could try and address is the is the biceps. I just don't know cuz thing is he he had nice kind of peaks and stuff. They weren't like the left one is completely flat when he lifts it up. And thing is, remember when in 22 and 23 when he hit that frontal bicep, but I know he had the the weird looking lumps on his lats in 23, but when he hit that frontal bicep, that was kind of his that was his one of his money shots, you know, that was a kind of that was the shot in 22 when he did the front relaxed and the uh the frontal bicep, that was the shot because I'll be honest, that's the best front double I've ever seen from Hadi. >> I think my eyes are drawn to Hadi first um and then maybe Andrew or Andrew or Derek. Yeah. I mean, but I think the front l the front double bicep was um that was Hadtie shot in this one, mate. >> Oh, I agree. Yeah, let's let's take a look at Haddie, wasn't he? >> Had looked good, man. He was He was crisp from the back. He was crisp from the back. He was >> He was full. He was nice and wide. He didn't have dodgy shoulders. Again, he was tight. Uh I think I think this is the best hat you've ever seen, mate. Honestly, >> which is, you know, we I was worried that we were kind of probably seeing a slight regression >> in the leadup photos and everything. I wasn't overly impressed with what I was seeing. I I was almost certain he was going to drop down to fourth or fifth >> big time. Me too, mate. Me too. And I'll hold my hand up to that because like I said, we can only go on what we've seen and we're scouring all the Instagram and everyone's, you know, because we're all waiting for some sort of update that we can that we can sort of uh, you know, make our opinion on. And I'll be honest, I what I saw even Derek as well, remember I said to Derek, I said he looks really soft to me, really soft. And then got on stage and he looked absolutely fantastic. So it shows that uh and then you got Nick who looked like Mr. Olympia in every single photo and he got on stage and everyone was kind of like most people were just kind of disappointed. So you can you know there is you know it's it's tricky to try and sometimes um make an opinion based upon what they're releasing in those final few weeks you know and there's a lot of trickery that goes on with lighting and editing and even photoshopping. I'm sure it goes on mate. >> Yeah. So obviously I I knew the two most passionate fan bases that the sport has are Brazilian fans and I don't if it's just Iranian or Middle Eastern in general. Let's just lump them all together. Middle Eastern because I don't think all of his fan base had hottie chupans. It's he he has fans all over the world of course but I think the Middle East is probably where he's got the largest concentration of fans. They were very very upset about this. >> I get it. I get it. didn't read Farsy, so I couldn't even understand what they were saying halftime, but they were they were upset. They feel like he he was robbed. What What do you think Derek had him on? Why do you think Derek beat him? >> Uh thing is when you look at a physique and and you kind of you've got that trained eye, you kind of it's whatever your eyes are drawn to first. It's like when he hit the front door bicep, that was better than Derek's. I looked at that and I'm like, "Holy shit." I'm not going to break it down body part by body part like everyone like some people do. >> Yeah. >> Um it's just it's how the whole physique flows. like when I look at the front of bicep there, I do see the disparity between his left and right leg. I don't see but it's still like I said, most people wouldn't notice that because they've got nothing to compare it to from say 2020 when he didn't have that disparity. Um but um I just like I said we were doing the um I was on the group well on the group chat I said the first half of the day on Friday I was like had this. I thought had he had it and then as the day went on I think even though people have seen Derek saying Derek didn't look as good at the finals I kind of switched to Derek and I kind of stuck with that. >> Maybe maybe it's because I see where the judges are placed and maybe that has an influence on me as well. But um I was kind of uh 40% of the time I was like okay had got this and then kind of as the day went on and the weekend wore on I thought Derek's got it >> because I it probably came down to the back. I mean I can't think of overall flow. They're both Derek does have a little better shape and structure. He structurally he's one of the greatest greatest body of this generation with the cl that clavicle width, especially for a shorter guy, but Hottie was right there with him. I wouldn't have been upset had hottie won. I don't think too many people would have. >> No. No. I mean, absolutely. No, absolutely. He I wouldn't I wouldn't have been shocked. In fact, like I my my heart was beating like hell when that final two was announced because I said I said when I saw the we got the live watch party to prove it. actually said, "I think Derek's got this, but you know, and then I kept kind of like kind of saying it with a with a bit of a a question mark at the end of it." But, um, it could have gone either way, mate. And I'm I thing is the Hadi fans probably would have been less disappointed that if he say had he had got sixth because second for them and it been so close and you saw that the way they were being positioned, it must be it's it's it's so near yet so far, isn't it? >> Yeah. I mean, he's been second a few times now. Yeah, >> I don't think he's been any lower than third ever in the Olympia, has he? >> Uh, third. He got fourth, didn't he, in 2020. >> Okay. But yeah, he's he's been very very consistent >> and 21. >> All right. This was the surprise of the show. The best surprise of the show was Andrew Jacked. >> Sean Karina just messaged me. >> Oh, right on. I wasn't even sure Andrew was going to be in top five. I I didn't have him in my top five, did I? >> Yeah. Silly Ron. >> This is when I I take accountability. Yeah, I had him. [\h__\h] I had him in eighth. Who's >> wrong? Where'd you have him? You had him in fifth. >> So, he he surprised both of us in a good way. The condition was condition was finally that extra level from the back, which I've always found he was just a little blurry. The glutes, the hams, the back detail. I don't know what changed. I'm sure it was just a a change in outlook or uh the approach. I doubt his prep was very different, although, you know, I'd love to talk to him and find out. But >> there's there's no issues with his glutes and hams there, is there? >> I'd still want to see a little more hams. >> They're great. But if his side leg was a little bit just a little bit more uh ham drop or, you know, bulge, whatever you want to call it, bulge. If his hams were a little bit bigger, I' i'd be like, he's done. That's nothing else is needed. U but third place and a ton of people were picking him for the win. A ton of people. >> Do you know what? There was a lot of people. And I was actually saying, look, I'm I'm Andrew's friend. I'm whatever. I'm rooting for him, but I'd love to see him win it, but I think I think he he's going to be a solid third. And I maintained that the whole weekend based upon what I saw, what I thought, what I saw that where the judges were placing him, you know, because I don't really pay attention to comments and all that and stuff because I know that people I think people were so impressed with the improvements and the fact that he'd addressed the areas that um uh that uh that people were criticizing him for because like it was um there was a there was AI think it was at the finals and there was like a we like a camera right from the top and it was really angled down and all my eyes my eyes just went he did a side shot and I just eyes went to the hamrop and I was like that's knew >> and then when he turned to the back I mean the first time he turned to the back my eyes just popped out on stalks because the glutes and the hams were we've never seen that from him. We've never seen them strayated. We've never seen them like cuz he increased the the the conditioning the development. The hamstrings looked absolutely they look perfect to me >> and also the back as well because he's got a beautiful back but it was never like crispy was it? It was always like he's hard from the front, hard from the side, you know. Then we saw him at Fibo. I know he was kind of a last minute thing and he jumped in, but he, you know, he he gambled there because he could have lost that if anyone bigger bigger names had turned up. You know, he kind of won that at 80%, but again, he was his glutes were super soft there. >> But what he did, I mean, bringing in like a top to toe condition package, front, side, every angle. Um because sometimes you get areas where you know your body was air like like Derek sometimes you'll have areas that don't seem as conditioned as others but like what Andrew brought was it's like Brandon Curry the first time I've ever seen him with uh top toe conditioning and separation in every single body part. And that's exactly what Andrew did. So um but Kamal would talk I just messaged literally uh before we started Andrew was messaging back and forth and I said Kamal told me mate I said he told me that uh you'd made those improvements and he said he just messaged me back he says oh did he? So I'm going to message him back after this because um I mean I've known Kamal since 1997 and you know those bloody Libyan guys they're just they're brutally they're brutally honest and brutally open. They won't they won't they won't sugarcoat it. You know if he was if he was terrible like he would have just said Andrew looks terrible mate. he would have told me, you know what I mean? There's no there's no there's no sort of holding back. But um I think Andrew from me along with Martin uh Veto and also Brandon Curry I think were the ones that really really surprised mate. >> Yeah. And I want to thank I want to say remember we were we were kind of concerned like well he deserves third place but they're not going to give it to him. They're not going to let Samson slip. This just really reinforces to me that the judging is a lot more fair, objective, impartial than it's ever been in the history of the sport. It's getting better and better to the point where he was able to uh he was able to get over the reigning Mr. Olympia, which in old days, no way. Most I can remember Olympias where the reigning Mr. Olympia was off, he still won. He was really off and they still put him in like second when he deserved fifth or sixth or seventh. Those days are gone. the judge. >> Well, I can I can I can I can reveal now that um Andrews just literally told me an hour ago, he's doing the ALS and he's doing the ALU UK because I said, "Mate, go get that cheddar." And I put a cash emoji next to it. I said, "Go get that 750K." And he said, "Yes, sir. >> Yes, sir." That's the only >> So, uh so Andrew, Andrew and Martin are both in the Arnold. Uh Derek Lunsford was asked at the press conference and he says, "No, I think I need to focus on being a father and a husband." So, that tells me that he's not going to do the Arnold. I mean, I wouldn't because he's just won $1.2 million. >> Yeah. >> Prize money by winning the Arnold, Pittsburgh, and the Olympia. And of course, he would have been on prep all year. And, you know, he's got a baby as well. So, he's he's good to go. He's not going to do the Arnold. Um, so that really really brings the and I'd imagine Samson will be doing it as well. So, the Arnold class is going to have Sam, possibly Samson, definitely Andrew, and definitely Martin. So, already it's shaping up to be incredible. And who who knows what Nick Walker will do as well. >> Yeah, let's Martin. I just want to again congrats cuz uh this was a fantastic look. Where did I have Martin? Let's see how how low did I put Martin in my predictions. >> I had him in fifth. Okay. Actually, I was banged on. >> Yeah, >> he deserved fourth though, mate. I'm telling you, like last year when he deserved third over Derek, you know, so it shows you just how how little is separating these guys because, you know, back when like peak Dorian, you know, peak Ronny, peak Phil Heath, you know, we like three, four years at least of each of their reigns. We knew who was winning pretty much unless something went wrong. But it just shows you now that um the the Olympia title could change change hands every single year now, I think, for the next few years. I mean, uh I said to Andrew, I said, "Andrew, I said, you could pull a Derek next year and win everything." True. So, we're looking at uh this was 5th through 10th. Yeah, that the light it was very dark. It was very dark this live stream. >> Oh, the live was terrible, mate. >> That That's why I I'm so glad Gilko Productions put up those other videos. So, you can see how appreciate what the guys really look like because this is just >> Yeah, the the Arnold will be rubbing their hands watching this, mate. >> Oh, I'm sure. Yeah. >> You know, you know what I mean by that, don't you? >> Yeah. Like, >> yeah. they'll be like okay because at the end of the day it is there is a bit of a there's a bit of rival a bit of I know they they support each other and they they they coexist but the end of the day they are trying to outdo each other so the the Arnold now is probably going to make their lighting and all that even better for the just to just to kind of um but it's good competition's good and uh you know and uh it's all good but um sorry mate go on >> they don't support each others who kidding come on >> okay sorry I was just trying to put a positive spin on it Rob >> why and why should they they're business rivals why should they support each other. It's like, does Coca-Cola support Pepsi? No, of course not. >> Yeah. Because the end of the day, the Olympia really, I mean, I remember when the Olympia Expo was pretty small. And now, because thing is, you know, that brings in a lot of revenue. >> Um, and then obviously the Olympia added the um the it added an expo, then it added um an amateur show, which of course brings in the revenue, which the the Arnold has been doing forever. Yeah. So I can see that um you know maybe maybe supplement companies and exhibitors might think or competit amateur competitors might be should I do the Arnold or should I try and go for the Olympia amateur or the or you know exhibit at the expo. So I suppose they are they are they're they're basically our rivals. >> Oh of course they are. I mean the expo the Arnold expo is uh aside from I know the the Fibo is much much larger but compared to the uh the Arnold the Olympia Expo is not quite as as extensive. It doesn't take you two days to go through everything at the Olympia. >> The I do you know what the ANX used to give me anxiety. It used to stress me out because it was so busy. I mean you're talking you're talking 100,000 people you know and that's um in a couple of halls you know that amount of volume of people going through. I mean it was just it was it was too much for me. Like I'm I'm not used to being around that many people. So things we'd have to like push our way through back and forth to go to the toilet to go to when we were doing the remember the prejudging for the the 212. We'd have to get off, you know, push our way through with all our equipment and then try and find a seat and then have to go back and find a spot where we could do the interviews or wrap-ups and Yeah. >> Oh my god, it was pandemonium. It was good fun though. Good, Dave. I'm not complaining, mate. >> All right, Nick Walker. Uh, so obviously a lot of Nick Walker fans were really hoping he was going to be what what we hope of any underdog can can get past all these reigning Mr. Olympians and everyone else. First place was what they're hoping for. I was a little concerned when I heard how heavy he was. But I was like, I'll give him the benefit of the doubt. Let's see what it's going to look like on stage because I I heard he was about 260 at Pittsburgh where Derek where Derek barely beat him. And then I heard he'd gained 10 or 12 new pounds of muscle mass. I'm like, "Huh, this is a guy that didn't need to be any bigger. He's already the biggest guy up there pound-for-pound height and weight." Uh, and to me, I know the condition was still good, but to me, the midsection got blockier, got thicker. >> He was never an aesthetics guy anyway. He never had that really pleasing overall flow and shape to the physique. But I I see this as a he can correct it. I think I'm not saying this is impossible, but I was not happy with this look that he brought. >> I I He did the opposite of Samson, didn't he? He was trying to push the body weight up, and Samson's trying to push the body weight down to get improved. I mean, I don't know whether Samson thought he was trying to improve his aesthetics by coming in lighter I suppose by trying to bring the waist in which they which they thought at the Arnold. I can get it but um Nick see proves that big is not always better. M >> you know we've seen guys when they come back 10 15 20 pounds heavier and it's like oh actually you kind of like I mean I'll be honest there is an argument for the fact that he looked better at the 2021 Armor Classic when he was a lot lighter but he had those beautiful thick chunky abs and he had a he had more of it because he's never going to be like a a pullet you know wide shoulders and tiny little narrow waist or you know like a Dexter Jackson. He's never going to have that look. Um but um is he 10 12 is he 10 pounds better or is he just 10 pounds heavier? >> Uh Just to me it's 10 pound s. So this was 10 pounds less. >> Ah I see it there. I see it. >> Waist is not as wide. It's not. It's not. >> I see it. Yeah. Do you know I've been arguing back and forth with someone today that a couple of people are saying no. He was better in Pittsburgh. And I'm like no I think he brought great package to the Olympia. His condition was good. He was bigger. But I see it now. I do. Yeah. I see it there because he's the shoulder to waist is better and he's um the legs don't look as um as much of a weakness here, do they? So I think um I think he needs to I think he thing is he's really concerned about pushing his side chest was better at the Olympia and his back shots were better at the Olympia >> and his condition I thought the Olympia was fantastic. I mean his back shots I think his real spin and his readable bicep was absolutely amazing. I think it was uh I think it was actually comparable to Derek and Haddie. I really do. >> Yeah it was. Go back even further uh 22. No, what did I want? Nick Walker 2022. This is when he took uh third place at the Olympia >> to date his highest. >> Yeah, >> he's never gonna have a small waist, but it can be smaller. It doesn't his midsection does not to be as doesn't need to be as thick as it is. Look at that. Ron, imagine if he could get a couple of inches off his waist because remember when uh Roelly went to Q8 in 2013 when he left Grandma left Cibil and he went to um Q8 and he put on 30 pounds 30 pounds and then he competed I think it was Finland and I remember seeing the pictures on the MD on the MD website and I I almost cried when I saw I went oh he's done it's game over for him he's put on 30 pounds but he's ruined his structure he's ruined his shape and then in 2016 me and Ronnie went to the uh the Body Power Pro. That was Nathan Dash's pro debut where he got second because Rudy and Nathan were training together. >> And I remember when um as soon as Ry came out and I I I nudge Ronnie because Ronnie was on his phone looking on Instagram. He was interested. And I said, "Ronny, what's happened?" And he came up and then um Ry the pose down came down. He posed in front of us and I took a phone picture and I posted it and I said, "Guys, I know this looks photoshopped, but I swear on my life. I swear on my cat's life, this is not this is not photoshopped because his waist just looked like So, imagine if I mean, just imagine that with with a narrower waist. I mean, I still think he needs more chest and legs, but I mean thing is it's like Ramy for those many years. He was just becoming a bigger same version with the same strengths and weakness, just bigger. He didn't really address his weaknesses. Then in 2020, he addressed the hams, he addressed the calves, he addressed the glutes, and he kind of just balanced everything out. So Nick now, I really, really hope he doesn't focus on the scale anymore. I hope he kind of throws it out. Um, but he really needs to focus on balancing everything out, bringing the quads up, bringing the waist in, bringing the chest up, and um, and thing is as a result, he'll just look bigger anyway. So, you know, so but this um this this this focus on body weight has really hurt him for this Olympia, mate. >> Agreed. But I think six was fair. Six. Sixth was fair. I think he I had him sixth. Solid sixth the whole weekend. >> So to me, Andrew was one big surprise in the lineup. But Brandon Curry, I was not expecting much from Brandon. >> Where did I have him? Did I even have him in my top 10? >> Oh, I did. I had him I had him eighth and he was seventh. >> You had him >> You had him eighth as well. >> Yeah. >> So, we were both pretty close. I just didn't >> I didn't think he was gonna be any better. I thought he was going to start slowly regressing and he this is better by far than he's looked the past couple years I think. >> Yeah, because I think if he's always even when he won the Olympia in the Arnold Classic, he always lacked that bit of crisp separation in the quads. But I think this is the best. I know because his upper body if you look if you remember how he looked a few years ago his upper body isn't quite as big because remember when he hit that front lat spread at the Arnold in 2019 you and me were sat in the front row like just literally around from Arnold and I remember just going like it was [\h__\h] huge but like I think this was a very respectable package um because Brandy and his coach said to me on the Instagram last on social media last last week they said he's better than he was at the Arnold and I was like well if that's true then I'm really really happy for him and he they would they Right. He absolutely was. So, I think this was a great package. And I told you that I didn't see Bonak and Curry falling out the top 10. >> You're right. You're right. You usually you usually are right. I got to say you're you got a pretty darn good track record uh when it comes to that. But >> people still argue with me on Instagram though. No, I I like Do you know what it's um we all have opinions and it's a subjective sport, but at the end of the day, it's a visual sport, isn't it? In the end, you know, so we we spend a lot of time looking at these guys. I spend a lot of time looking at oily, muscular men, >> men in thongs, as we say. 35 years looking at all you muscular men. Oh yeah, I'm sure that's a life well spent. >> Exactly. So they don't have anything didn't put anything of Tony up, but Tony looked good. I just want to put I'm only showing the Gilko. I love the Gilko footage, of course. Uh this was kind of a let down. I I all the people that were saying uh next could be top five. I'm like no, no, there's just no way. I'm sorry. >> And he ended up in >> Where was he? >> 15. 15. >> So 15. He made top 10. >> Yeah. More than >> Yeah, it was what I expected. I didn't see him as top 10 Ron. I knew he'd be 11th to 15th guy. Um I didn't I wasn't disappointed by him. I kind of he kind of brought what I expected. Actually, a little bit better than I expected actually. >> So that being said, if he was in better condition here than when he won Dubai and the was it Portugal he won the other show. >> What does he need to do? because I still see like almost no separation in those quads from a distance especially. I this this is a weird his frontal bicep really bothers me. I People say you're a hater. You're a hater. I'm just calling what I see guys. I have nothing against Rubial. I have I'm not like a good dear friend of any of these guys I'm complimenting in the top five. Uh I just call it like I see it. I just structurally I have structural issues with Rubiel and I have issues with that lack of separation and detail. But it was a good package for him. It's just I can't see this guy ever winning the Mr. Olympia like people say. >> Rom, when I said that this was the best I've seen him, he's still got a long way to go. But I think like like in his chest and stuff, I saw detail and in side shots I saw detail I'd never seen before. So when I say this is the best I've seen him, he's still obviously the legs still need to come in. The back needs to back and the back shots for me are just like I I put my hands over my eyes because yes, he's huge, but I mean he looks six weeks out from the back. There's no getting away from it. So, um I just wish someone could get hold of him and what if he weighs what does he weigh on stage? Do you know? >> Let's say it's 270 because I think it's around 270. >> Bring him down to 255 he'd look he'd look absolutely insane. But is he willing to drop 10? Because I'll be honest, that's not five pounds. That's more like 10 to 15, mate. In fact, I know if Neil Hill or Patrick Tur got hold of they probably or Dorian Yates, they probably pull him down. They probably pull him down 20 20 pounds, mate. I don't think I don't think that much. But I think 10 to 15 pounds off that would be top 10 Olympia. >> That's fair. That's fair. Top >> because he's huge, mate. He's got everything. He's not missing anything. And I just >> And is well within his grasp. Well, I don't want I don't want to make it sound like he sucks. He doesn't suck, guys, but >> No, no, no. >> I'm talking about the greatest bodybuilders in the world. Uh Veto was a a pleasant surprise. >> Yeah. >> Uh 10th place. 10th place. Very respectable Olympia debut. >> Yeah. Brilliant. >> He brought it. condition, big guy, great shape, and he's 27. >> Still still a youngster. >> And also, mate, from the back, because I don't used to like his back shot when I saw the Arnold Brazil. Um, I didn't like his back shots. I thought his back was really, but his rad bicep there is improved. His rad his rear lat spread is massively improved. So, he's moving forward, mate. He's moving up. He's moving forward. I mean, I didn't see him as a top 10 guy. I thought he'd be I thought he'd be a lot lower than that, but um he he made significant strides forward in this one. So, um so I think there was a benefit in doing him doing the Olympia, mate. >> It was a benefit and he's actually getting better at posing. He's not as awful as he was. >> Yeah. No, he's good. He's thing is mate, like I said with Rubel, it's like Rubel's getting better, but he's still there's still room for improvement. like so so if you're moving forward and you're getting better and you're like I got a good response on a comment I made about and I said yeah I said this is a solid debut for and I said the only way is up from here and people loved it you know I I was expecting people to be you know fighting back against me but uh obviously a lot of people agreed that you know because the end of the day this um there's levels to this and guys in their 20s aren't going to be reaching their physical peak are they there's not many that kind of can't get any better when they're like in their like like or veto I mean there's there's a lot of work to be done but um so makes it exciting for years to come, right? >> Yeah. And you know, Urs placed about where we thought. We thought somewhere between 11th and 15th, it's where he's going to fall. It's exactly where it was. 13th >> 12th 13th. Yeah, I said 12th or 13th. >> Correct. And he's 13th. And that that's a great Olympia debut for a guy who was >> 30 pounds lighter last year. 40 was 30 pounds lighter. 35 pounds lighter. So that's, you know, he's he's well on his way. He's a work in progress. He needs more a lot more back. He needs a little more overall size in general, which you know, he's five 5'11 260 sounds like how dare you how could anyone say that's not a big guy. We're comparing him to Andrew Jack since you know Samson at his best and Hottie and Derek they're much thicker. I I think he's uh he's going to be he's going to be a top five guy eventually. It's going to take a couple years though. >> Yeah. Yeah. I totally agree with you everything you've just said there, Ron. He's um like I said, he placed what I expected. He looked fantastic. Um, I mean, just a couple of months ago, I was I was thinking, "Oh, he's going to be eighth in this pro show." And then he ends up winning it. And like, I'm I mean, I didn't think this was possible. You know, a couple of months ago, I didn't think this was possible. If you'd have said could win two, say, could you see winning two pro shows, making top 50 in the Olympian in the open, I probably would have laughed. >> No way. >> I probably I probably would have laughed and said, "You've um you've been smoking crack." Also, also uh they I s Did you see the [\h__\h] Ronnie got for um months ago saying that uh he had winning and he had Samson in fourth and he got he took some real [\h__\h] for that mate. I was talking to him about it this morning actually. >> Yeah. I mean Ronnie called it. Ronnie Ronnie doesn't always follow the sport that closely, but I think this year he took a little more interest in the in the Olympia than he typically would for whatever reason. >> Because thing is Ronnie probably saw the Romania stuff and thought exactly what I thought. >> But that was bold and he was he was bang on. Samson did drop down to four. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> So, here >> it was another great great show, the 212 Olympia. >> So, we didn't expect that was another surprise was how good Shawn Clarita looked. I was not expecting Shawn to be anything more than what we'd seen before, but this was I don't know, maybe the best Shawn that I've ever seen. Uh certainly far better than he was at last year's Olympia when Matt Jansen brought him in. Flatter than a pancake. a very flat flat Clarita. >> Yeah. >> And he pushed him. It was It had to be close between these two. >> Well, at the prejudging, I had Clarita winning. >> Yeah. Well, I mean, where did you base that on? >> Uh, just purely uh just basically what I saw, I thought Shawn looked abs. I thought he was even there. Look at that rear shot there. I mean, you who would have thought that Shan Kao would be taking Keon in the rear double bicep. I mean, I never would have seen it happening. And uh we were all kind of blown away by Keon's updates and all his uh videos and photos, but I think just um the fact that because I thought there'd be a big gap between first and second and I know that um Keon won with straight first and stuff, but it was and thing is Keon did look better for the finals. He definitely pulled ahead for the finals, but at the prejudging I um a lot of myself and a lot of people had um had Clarita winning it. Um it's just that like I said, Keon got better for the finals whereas kind of Sha stayed the same. But um and also um the midsection on Keon I'm I'm a little bit concerned about and like I said this um this moving to open thing um I know he's in in Prague next weekend. He'll probably win that based upon who's doing it. But um I think um in fact Oh yeah, because he's got Keon and Martin going against each other next weekend. >> Oh jeez. >> So I don't think this slam dunk and this is easy clear win in the open and he's he's he's the best physique on the planet. he's going to win the Olympia because I was arguing back and forth with someone who put um a picture of Raone Keon and Derek and they said if there had been an overall at the Olympia who would have won and I'll be honest m 80% of people said Keon and I went you're crazy I said because take Ramon out of it I mean that's just ridiculous thing to say you know no let's talk about when you talk about overall I said um Keon could have been beaten by Karita last week and I and if Karita was in the open Olympia would he have beaten Derek or had. No, he wouldn't. So, for Keon to barely beat Clarita to then say that Keon's the best out of, you know, cuz obviously people just don't like Derek. So, they're just they're blinded. They're they're they're blinkered. So, they just go, "Oh, yeah, Keon. Keon Keon." I'm like, "I don't think you really paid that much attention to this Olympia because if uh Keon had been an Olympia in the open Olympia, he wouldn't have he wouldn't have beat Derek." Or had he or probably Andrew? >> Yeah. Why is this not moving? Come on. Come on. Gilko footage. turn back frozen on me. >> Did you I didn't see it coming though. I didn't see that Clarita would um push him to the absolute limits, you know. So, and thing is you said that um Kon wouldn't give you an interview because we've um because you were you're supporting Clarita. Well, it's kind of um I and he same with me because I said to Patrick, I said, "You think you'd be interested in doing a tour?" And he says, "I don't think so because you've been you've been supporting uh Clarida." This was in early 24 and he said, "You've been supporting Clarid?" He says, "And Keon's not happy about that." >> And I was like, I said, "Hang on a minute. We're not we're not talking about some, you know, some also ran guy. We're talking about someone that and I think um I think uh how Sean did and looked at this Olympia just just proves why um we were kind of picking um Clarita because he's not that we >> Keon did not blow Clarita away. Not even far far from it." >> No, I think it was really just a an issue of structure and shape. That's where Keon just has this massive advantage over almost everybody in the division. >> Yeah. >> Here we go. So, you know, look at that. I mean, that's just that's damn near perfect shape and structure. What do you when that comes in with size and condition, you can't beat it. I mean, Karita just has a little more, >> I should say, less clavvicular width. He doesn't have that really pronounced Vtabber X upstream >> and that's what hurts him. But, he was right there. I mean, old man muscle. He had better muscle density and detail. That seasoned mature look to the muscles and Keon cuz I think what's the age difference? 30 for Keon versus 44 versus to Shawn. Sean's >> 43 or 42. But thing is like now Keon next weekend. I mean I know he's got no 212 to weigh in for. Um do you think he's going to do you think say he comes in at because Patrick told me that Keon was ready for weeks at 2:20. So, I'd imagine he's probably going to be close to 220 by the time he steps on stage next week. So, a 220 Keon versus what we saw from Martin if he brings something similar. Um, do you think that's close or do you do you think Keon could win or do you think he could beat Martin or >> Well, Martin's going to have better Martin had far better condition than what we're seeing here. >> Yeah, I still think Keon needs more chest and to be honest and a lot of people have been commenting on the midsection because it is it is a little bit distracting, mate. I've got to be honest. He's got to watch that because I think all this Keon's going to go to the Open and win the Open Mr. Olympia and be 230 and all that. I think um I think he needs to maybe stay in 212 and just do what he's doing now and just jump in the occasional open show just to see, you know, and also because I want to see him I want to see how he looks without the uh without the 212 restriction. So, I'm really excited to see him next weekend, mate. >> Oh, yeah. I mean, I I just wonder is it does he need does he need to extra is he going to be fuller and less conditioned? Is it going to be fuller with the same condition? He's not going to be bigger and fuller with more condition. I don't see that happening. >> Yeah, but Patrick said he was ready at 220. So, to come down to 211 um he's going to lose a lot of fullness, which he might not be able to regain all of it with a day or so later to compete in the 212. So, I imagine I reckon that um I reckon that Keon because Patrick's going to be there. He's going to be watching him. I think Keon's going to look better than he did the Olympia. I think actually um with no restriction I think uh I think you'll see basically what we're seeing now with another five six pounds. That's what I predict. >> Fair enough. All right, let's go to >> Tiger knows his stuff. >> Yeah. Let's see. We need to get rid of that. This is live editing. I don't know how to edit. So, this is how I edit, guys. So, Marco uh what was his name? >> Lucas Garcia. >> Lucas Mark Lucas Garcia. Thank you guys. Thank you so much. So, here we have Nick Walker. >> Yeah, this was another surprise because I know he won two shows, but you had him in your predictions. You had him ranked pretty highly. I was like, I don't know. I again, this is a guy who was not on my radar, but now I know who he is, even though I just messed up his name and uh very very impressed. I mean, it was still a two-man show between Keon and Shawn. I don't think anyone else was close to them, but this guy really brought tremendous 212 package and I see him I see him climbing up the ranks and you know when Keon moves out and Shawn moves out eventually, uh this could be this could be a champion eventually. >> Do you know what he needs to not do? He needs to not get tanned and then go and lie down because look at him when he turns to the back is all his tans come off where he's been I think it's where he's been lying down or he's had clothes on >> because his tan looks really patchy there. That's not the lighting. >> Look at this. Look at the bits of his chest. He look like he looks pink in some areas and then brown in others. Look, wait till he turns around. You'll see. You'll see that. Yeah. Watch. Watch this. Watch this. >> Yeah. So, but I see. >> No ts come off. He should have waited till he put his bloody dried till he put his bloody clothes back on. Or maybe he was Look, look. >> Yeah. >> Can you see that? >> Yeah. Well, it's not It didn't I don't think it mattered, but yeah, it's it's >> does matter, but it probably didn't affect his place because the judges are looking for what they're looking for. But um yeah, he was fantastic. He I I had him as as a top five guy, but um yeah, nice small waist, nice taper, and he beat Nihhat most people thought would um would snag second. >> Yeah, I had Nihhat I had him in second in my predictions. I remember I I was just I was wowed. The kid looked really good. Um but this was uh he's a work in progress. He's 22 or 20. I think he's finally 23, right? >> Incredible thing. Incredible. >> So, let's go to Let's take a look at him. >> Yeah. Uh, wrong one. Wrong one. >> Yeah, that's definitely >> There we go. There's Nihut. Um, yeah, he has so much potential, but you said he was already at the limit for 212. >> So, I don't think we're going to see him in 212 for much longer. Maybe one more year. >> The only thing The only thing I was disappointed by was his back shots. I think his um I think his back needs a bit more meat. And thing is, if he puts the back the the size on his back, is that going to push him out of the 212? You know, I mean, that side tricep is like that was like Shawn Ray. I mean, that's just beautiful. I mean, it's a crazy shot. I mean, but to be so good, so young. I mean, just doesn't it just blow you away, mate? >> It does. It does. He looked fantastic. >> He ain't going to he ain't going to come close to Keon or show him with a back like that. So, um let's see what um let's see what he can do because you don't know. I mean, he might be able to bring the back up and manage to keep coming down to 212. I'm sure thing is he's with the best person because Patrick will um Patrick knows knows what he's doing and um he'll know how to advise him best. Yeah, there's no uh Courage Opara footage on Gilko, so I'm not showing Courage, but he looked really good. >> Top six. Top six. >> He was fifth. >> Courage was Yeah. So, >> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exclassic guy just coming in and getting top five at the Olympia in a different category. That's bloody impressive. >> So, Classic was uh it was crazy. It was it was a very very close race between these three guys. Oh, this lighting really was awful. Uh, but geez, I could have had Terrence winning. I could have had Summerrfold winning. >> I know he lost a little bit. He had to drop eight pounds in the last week or so. >> Yeah, >> because he had I think in his heart of hearts, him and Neil knew he's not going to height in any taller than 5'9, which he would have he would have need to be at least 5'9. And probably when they did their own I imagine they they must have went checked his height themselves a few times pushing his hair pushing that hair down and realized we we got to get down to 20 we got to get down to 204 or less or else you're going to be disqualified. But he did it and he didn't lose that much as far as I could tell. >> No, I mean he I mean as he came out I was like okay. I mean they must I I I applaud them for doing a f and him him and Neil for doing a fantastic job of being able to claw something back but I did expect him to be how he was as in a little bit smaller than we saw at the Arnold Classic in the Olympia last year when he took second to Bumstead because thing is you can't lose he would have been in absolutely insane conditioning even at when he was thinking he was going to be weighing in at 212 you know just under 212 but you know that coming off because he was 202.4 before Ian Valier told me he was so he's lost 10 pounds there and then he's got like a day to try and get as much as it can you can back without spilling or affecting the midsection. So, um he kind of looked he I think he looked great. Um but uh it obviously losing 10 pounds of size and whatever fullness is uh is going to affect your physique. There's no getting away with it, you know. Um I mean look what happened to Samson and probably he's probably lost 20 25, you know, and you can see it's noticeable. It's clear. So, um, but I think he looked great. Uh, I I I kept, um, I kept sort of changing my mind with the whole top three, to be honest. It could have gone anyway. >> I thought I thought Mike was actually going to win it. Um, but I've got no no arguments with the Raone winning it. Um, the only thing Raone is his rearable bicep, his back is lacking a bit, but his back looks great in the front. When he does the front of the bicep, he look fantastic. But, um, I thought purely put on the back. I thought Somerfeld might beat him, but um, no arguments. I got no arguments with the top three. Obviously, I was rooting for Ruffin because I've toyed with him and I love the guy, but um no arguments. I had I had I thought Ruffin might get third, but um if it gone any other way, wouldn't have argued. >> So, the Brazilian fans, the Iranian fans were very upset, but the Brazilian fans were ecstatic. >> They had the CL they've been they've been waiting for this guy to win for a long time now. >> He's been second place uh at the at the Olympia before. He's been third. He's been fourth. Uh and you know, I kind of had given up on him on I'll be honest. I like he's never going to win. It's just not there's always going to be someone. >> He ran up against Bumpstead. Now he's going to have to deal with Summer. These are Somerfell is going to keep him from winning. >> You know, I just didn't think it was going to happen. So, I'm very happy that it did happen for him. >> Yeah. >> I still I I could have given it to Ruff and I could have given it to Summerfall. I have no problem with Randino. >> This was probably the best I've ever seen him. Certainly much much better than he looked last year. >> Yeah. No, I agree. No, he looked great. Like I said, any of those three could have gone any way. I think um no one really kicked up apart from Brazil if it gone any other way. But um yeah, I mean I'm really really happy for him and I mean the kid's got a huge fan base. He's, you know, he's he's doing f he's doing absolutely fantastically in the sport and Brazilian bodybuilding is just, you know, and and Ramon seems like a really nice kid as well. So I'm happy for him, mate. Really happy for him. >> Yeah. You know, he's he's always stroked my ego, which everybody loves having that done, right? Uh so many times he'd see me. He didn't speak any English, but he I was all jacked up and juiced out of my skull covering these shows. And he'd like he'd like thump me on the chest and go, "Bodybuilder, bodybuilder." I'm like, "Yes, I am a bodybuilder." Very nice of you to point that out, Ramon. Appreciate that. >> Yeah, thank you noticing the gains. >> So, uh, Terrence Ruffen, man, did not disappoint at all. I I think he looked better here than even at the Pittsburgh win. His posing routine was one of the only ones in the whole show where I was like, "Wow, that is >> amazing, wasn't it? Wasn't it amazing?" >> Yeah. I don't even know if this is this isn't even the po This was just uh the 60-cond routine, I think, at judging right here. >> Yeah, >> the lighting lighting was better at the expo. >> Yeah, I just I the lighting though, even on this, it looks too bright. And then when you watch it on the live stream, it looks too dark. So that's the one thing if if Dan asks me any because I I always message Dan usually after Olympia and sort of say well done. I know how much work goes into this. I can I can have I have an idea of how much is going into it. Um but um that's the one thing they need to do to improve on for next year is the lighting. They need to get in some photographers or videographers or something or some sort of lighting crew to really um to really improve that. But um yeah, Ruffy look fantastic. Fantastic routine. Didn't expect anything less. Condition was fantastic. And uh I know he was a bit disappointed but um because it was you know when when it is that close you know guys who come second and third like had you know they've got a right to be disappointed mate. >> Yeah. So this guy was a little surprised. I mean people were talking about it. You had him you had him in your top five. I don't think I did. >> No I didn't. I didn't invent I had him because he was 11th last year because he's from the UK. I said I think he'll move up. I think he'll move up three four spot. So I saw him as like a seventh to 10th place guy. And then I was arguing with some British fans who says, "No, he's going to be top five, top six." And I says, "No, sorry, don't see it. You got Joe Semon, Michael the Bull, guys like that." Um, and I think he I think based upon some of his check-in [\h__\h] and videos. I thought he actually might look a bit small next to some of the other guys, but I was wrong. Uh, I actually had him fourth over Joe Sema. And I think this is this guy is uh this guy could win it. I think he I really do think he could win it because I think um I wouldn't have minded seeing him next to Raone because I think he's actually as good as Ramon. Oh, I mean the shape and the shape and it's a tremendous it's a tremendous physique. It's it's >> that's classic, mate. That is classic. >> I mean, when I saw him with uh he was in the top three comparisons, but when I saw him next to uh >> I was like, he's actually got a much better physique than Josema. The shape structure, which you can't change your structure. It is what it is. >> Yeah. Uh >> and the thing is like you know with Bumpstead like that's why Bumpstead was so good because he had a beautiful structure that you know you can't really compete against if you don't have a similar sort of level of structure. >> So um I uh I had him I had him ahead of Jo and I'm a big Josemo fan. >> Yeah. Well he he did beat Josemo. So you were right as usual. >> Yeah you did. He was uh fourth. Josemo Nihhat was not Nihut. I'm on the wrong division here. No. Was was uh did he actually who beat who? I can't even remember who was fourth. >> No, Summer was fourth and um One Punch Nile Darwin was fifth, but I had it the other way around, mate. Like Martin Samson. >> I I would have I assumed it was the other way around. I should have checked my scores a little better. I I got to hand it to this kid though because conditionwise, he's only 23 or 24. >> Yeah, >> look at that back development. Condition is something and that often takes guys years and years to figure out. He clearly had it from day one. He was in better condition than most of the guys up there. Somerfeld was shredding because he had to be. Uh but you know, >> go ahead. >> If he ever falls out of the top 10, I I hope he comes back to open. >> I mean, yeah. I wonder I wonder what this would look like with another 20 pounds, 30 pounds, >> mate. He took fourth in his um first open show. And then, like I said, I was I was like, why is he switching to classic? He's done he's just got fourth in an open show at like 21 years old. This is madness. Um and then he started going in and just winning classic shows like left and right. So, and obviously now he's, you know, he's top six, top five at the uh the Olympia in the classic. So, but I think if he ever starts to slip down towards the end of the top 10, I think he falls out of the top 10, he should definitely uh think about going back to open because being this good this young um if he can't maintain that top six, then uh then I think he needs to consider it. >> Fair enough. Uh let's let's look at a couple of the other champs because I don't want to I don't want to be that guy that doesn't mention any of the other class winners. >> Hang on. Hang on. UK got three three Olympia wins. Ria Gail and figure uh Shelly in fitness and Ryan Terry. That's three olymp and if Samson hadn't have um stopped eating the last four weeks and we would have had four Olympic champions. >> Yeah. So Ryan Terry, this is three in a row for him, right? >> Yep. >> Yeah. He looks fantastic. I mean that's >> cool. >> I know. Fa the face isn't supposed to matter, but that looks like an AI generated face. >> Yeah, >> just the jaws, the cheekbones, and the jawline and all that. So, it's the physique. I know they're judging the physique, but it's Someone else noticed, I don't know if it was you or Mike during the that they don't wear the loose shorts anymore. Now they're tight. They're like spandex. >> I mean, I've seen Ryan's legs. He's got fantastic legs. I mean, he could um like he he could jump on some of these guys if they put on trunks, they'd look ridiculous because they got no legs. But Ryan Ryan's got seriously good legs. So, you know, because he said, I asked him, I was at his gym a few years ago, and because he only about two hours away from me. Yeah. >> And he said, he said, "Well, thing is, Charles, he says, before Men's Physique came along," he says, "I was a bodybuilder." He says, "I was AI was a novice bodybuilder." He says, "And I just decided to do men's physique." He says, "And as a bodybuilder, I've always trained everything." He says, "I train the so I train my legs every bit as hard, even though they're not seen with those baggy shorts on." He says, "I still train my legs out of pride for my how I look um as a bodybuilder." Um because some of them they train tactically especially with this weight this weight uh cap coming in they'll stop training their legs so they can hold more size in their upper bodies and then the thing is if you saw them on a beach and you put in some swimming trunks or something they'd look absolutely they'd look silly you know and and thing is it's not just about what you bring to the stage it's about you know it's like I mean I'm I'm never going to compete the I mean I don't I don't I'm never going to compete again so I stopped training my car for about 10 years I just gave up on it >> really >> but like yeah yeah yeah I just I just I don't care but at the end of the day I'd never stop training my legs I'd never stop uh because I enjoy it, you know, and I think Ryan says he, you know, I enjoy training leg. He says I'm I'm first and foremost I'm a bodybuilder, not a men's physique. >> So, I want to give a nod to this guy, Ali Balal. He looked fantastic, the runner up. I, you know, I I don't know how to judge men's physique as well as I do. >> Uh, the other divisions, I think it was a clear win. I think Ryan does look a little bit better, but this guy's very impressive as well. >> Beautiful midsection. And Ryan's got a better back. >> Yes, he does. He does. >> But this guy's good, man. I I did that's how I saw I thought Ryan, even in the weeks going in, I thought it'll probably most likely be Ryan first and Alli very, very close second, which it was. >> Yeah. Yeah. He's from Afghanistan, so had to be rough. That's a a war torn country for sure. >> Uh Moren Blanchiscoco got her bikini Olympia title back. >> Yeah. Skipped it last year, didn't she? >> Yeah. I don't know. I can't remember what happened, but uh she looks she looks wonderful. She looks wonderful. I can still judge kind of bikini fit model. No, I have no no clue. >> That's a load of rubbish. I I I hope they backpedal on that and don't have it at the Olympia because it doesn't deserve to be made. I'm sorry. It's um it's if it brings in revenue and competitors and helps the coaches get all these athletes, they don't really have to do much to prep because like there isn't a look. It's just girls in bikinis on pretty girls on stage. Just just, you know, it's like a pageant. I don't even see that it's like a physique contest because it isn't. you know, Lisa Bikini, you know, you have to have the glutes and a bit of delts and nice midsection and stuff like that. But, um, yeah. So, obviously, uh, what's her name? Uh, the winner of I forgot her name now. The winner of last year's Olympia used to be with Shawn Rhoden. What's her name? >> Laurel Chapado. Lori. Yeah, she was sick. She didn't look good at all, man. What happened there? >> Uh, can I say I think she looked natty? >> Yeah, she looked like she just looked like she just she didn't look like the same girl from last year. Let's put it that way. In fact, if that, like, you know, you asked if it had been, like I said, if that was Samson's first Olympia, what would it have been? Where would he have placed? I think if this had been her first Olympia, I don't think she'd have been top 10, mate. No way. >> Yeah. You know, I I don't know her what hap I don't know if she had an injury or illness or personal. I don't know. So, I don't you there someone usually in the comments will say, "You guys didn't know." No, I don't know what was going on in her life or training or maybe there was some mitigating factor that caused her to drop down like that. Sorry guys, but we don't we don't follow Bikini religiously being bodybuilding journalists sort of uh you know, whatever you want to call us. >> And in the end, the judges, it doesn't matter what what happened to you or what you went through because they're judging you against everyone else up there. And you can't say, "Excuse me, excuse me, you know, I had a hernia. You know, I had this or that or my >> Yeah. Yeah. Visual sport. Tough [\h__\h] >> Tough titty. Tough titty." >> This was number six for Andrea Shaw, the Mid Olympia champion. Six years running now. Uh, again, I I don't see anybody really taking her off her throne. As long as she wants to keep winning this, >> she'll win 10. >> She's fantastic. >> She needs to get to 11 to beat Iris Kyle's uh record. >> Was that 10? Yeah, but Iris Kyle, did she win 10 overall Olympias? >> Well, I don't know. 10. >> She didn't, did she? She didn't. She didn't. It was the um remember it was split into two. Remember it was uh under under there was two remember like um what's her name? Blanchet. Andrea Blanchett. She won the short and then they had like a tall, didn't they? It was a short and tall. But I think 10 overall Olympias. I don't think Irish cars got 10 eight because I think um Irish um Linda Murray with eight uh overall Olympia titles is is the record. I know it's 10. It's technical. You got to be tech. So really um she could win three more and uh and she could be the champion, I think. record. Record holder. She's amazing, isn't she? She's along with I'll say it though, along with Sydney Gillan, peak Ronnie, um, and peak Phil Heath. Uh, even peak Dorian, I think she's one of the most dominant Olympia champions we've ever seen. >> Yeah. I mean, that's if we were doing predictions, I wouldn't have even had to blink before I said Andrea will win again. I mean, >> she had some great competition. I never want to discount the other competitors, but she's just got great genetics, great work ethic. It's just it's a look that's very very tough to beat. There's there's no weak points. When she comes in condition, she's not there's nobody right now that can beat her. She lost to Angela Yao last year, Wings of Strength because >> she wasn't really peing for it. She was peing for the Olympia and it was six weeks between the two shows. Uh but geez, this is a Lee Haney there commented a thing of flawless beauty. >> Yeah. >> Oh yeah, you said it right there. Giles Tiger, there's your comment along with Sydney and Peak Ronnie and Phil. >> Yeah. Yeah. Um think um did did Sydney Gillan help her with her posing because this looks very like this is like a a bodybuilding version of Sydney Gillan's posing? >> Well, Sydney's there in the uh in the comments saying that's my girl. So, >> I can see it. I can see in the way with the transitions transitions. I can see that she's um I can see the influence of Sydney Gillan and it and it looks bloody fantastic because it really because Sydney Gillan was like it was like hypnotic watching her pose and I see it here as well. She's um she's really Sydney's really really um uh she's she's obviously a fantastic posing coach because uh because Sydney Gillan because when it's quarter turns and it's in figure you know it's quite boring really isn't it? side quart. It says quarter turns. That's all it is. There's no posing. There's no there's no nothing. But the fact that Sydney Gillan could be considered a great poser when it all is is quarter turns. It's all about the transitions and the facial expressions and the hands and like like when Vince Taylor used to pose, he was like his face and his hands were involved as well. see some guys and you can see them just going through their posing routes in their head and you know like um my last show Ant Bales was in the audience and and I looked down I was in the front that threat >> and Ant says Joy he says smile smile I had no idea because normally I'm usually so excited on stage I'm always my my smile's beaming but uh but yeah the fact that um they've put that much attention in not just the muscle but the facial expressions and the the hands the body the it's like a it's a total total visual experience. >> Yeah. So, this is runner up Ashley Jones. She looked fantastic. >> Yeah, she does. >> If obviously if it wasn't for Andrea Shaw, this would be your Miss Olympia right now. >> She's good. She's cute. >> She's got plenty of muscle. You can see she's on the shorter side. >> Look at the glutes. >> Oh, yeah. They're fantastic. >> They got They come out like an angle, don't they? >> The top bit of her glutes is like it's just a muscle in itself. I mean, wow. Look at the legs. >> Yeah. Well, I I almost said wellness glutes. They're not quite that big. being pronounced, but they're pretty darn good. >> Incredible. I've never seen gloops like that, mate. >> Let's move on to Natalia. Natalya got her title back. I'm trying to remember. So Sarah had won this four times. Sarah Viegas, >> she started winning in 2020. So at one point, Natalya came in and beat her. Was it 2021? I can't remember. >> But it's been Sarah for the last three years in a row, I think. But anyway, the case the what the point I'm trying to make is I didn't know if Sarah if if Natalya was ever going to get her title back with Sarah until Sarah retired because I was thinking, well, Sarah keeps coming in consistently shredded. The judges like her look. They keep giving her the win. How's Natalya ever going to beat her? What could she possibly do? But she pulled it off. She got her title back. Great job, >> Ron. Ron, I've got to say, this is the first time I've seen this this footage, this Gilko footage. I tell you what, I don't know whether she's just come in lighter or something, but this is an absolutely knockout look for Natalyia and I can see why she won because I just thought Viegas was going to win. I thought what Viegas had done enough to kind of pull ahead, but I really really like this look from Natalia. I think this is this is beautiful and I think that is and also this is women's physique. And you know what now you brought up women's physique, you know, the whole classic thing, all the the height and the weight and everything. >> Yeah. >> I mean there's an argument that that women's physique is really the equivalent of classic for the women. If you compare open open, you know, like Andrea Shaw bodybuilding to um Viegas or Koelloo bodybuilding, you know, physique, uh women's physique, I think, um and they don't have a weight or a height cap in this because it proves that if you give them a criteria, they'll stick to it. But um Oh, I can see Koella was slightly better here. >> Yeah, this wasn't the best Sarah. I've seen Sarah sharper. And again, you know, that's the problem with being shredded out of your skull is people always expect that. >> Yeah. So, if you're three, five% off that, people are going to be like, "Huh, she was off. She was off. Sarah wasn't off. She was a little off for Sarah." And I think that's that's what it was. >> Yeah. You can see she's Coelloo. I think Coella beat her quite quite clearly here actually. And the thing is they've been so neck and neck and close. It's been so like back and forth, back and forth. I think Koelloo beat quite sangly here by just by looking at this footage you're bringing up now, mate. >> Yeah, but Sarah looked fantastic. She's still a four-time champion. Who knows what'll happen next year. I could see these two going back and forth. >> But what what's your what do you think about my argument though with the whole women's physique difference to women's bodybuilding to classic bodybuilding to uh to the open? Do you think there's do you think there's an argument that they could do away with the height and weight? Because it caused a lot of issues this year, mate. It caused a lot of stress for a lot of competitors and coaches and fans and you know that was um I mean 10 guys didn't get to make uh you know after all that prep didn't get to walk on stage and look what nearly happened with Summerfield and Raone they nearly didn't make it. Do you think there's an argument for just doing away with it and just hoping that these guys stick to the criteria? I think though the judges are really going to have to be like told look this you know this is the male equivalent of women's physique that you know to bodybuilding so you really really have to stick to it. Do you think do you think the guys could um I suppose if they start marking guys down if they're looking 20 like say someone like Raone comes in 20 25 pounds heavier or Somerfield looks like a bloody 212 or an open bodybuilder. I suppose they could just say sorry you're too big you look like a bodybuilder not like a classic. What do you think? Right. >> I think the classic guys a lot of them would come in so much bigger >> if they could keep their waistlines in check and the midsection is still small. I don't have a problem with it just calling that classic. Well, they're not going to change the name of the division, but you remember classic bodybuilding, which was something that existed as a division in Europe, and they used to have it at the Arnold Amateur. They did have a height and weight cap, but I think it was a little less restrictive. I think that it it was a little more forgiving. >> I I personally would not care to care if they got did away with the the weight cap and all that, the weigh-ins. Go by who's got the best aesthetically pleasing physique. But >> yeah, >> couldn't you say like Samson at the 2024 Olympia, he's aesthetic? Exactly. >> Oh, Ron, don't start, mate. Cuz somebody else I've seen comments saying that uh people were saying on the comments and it was it wasn't very nice. They're saying, "Has Samson switched to classic?" I thought, "Oh, come on now." >> Well, I always >> even even how he looked at the Olympia on the weekend, he was probably still 40, 50 pounds over, so let's not, you know, but um I mean that's that's just cruel, I think. >> Yeah. I mean, I'm I'm being ridiculous as I as >> Stop being ridiculous, Ron. But um do you see what Lee Haney was saying? I was going back for Lee Haney yesterday. Um he was saying he thinks we need another men's division. >> Oh no, no more divisions, Lee. Come on. >> Because he wasn't happy the fact that um Derek and Hadtie were top two even though Samson won last year and if he'd have been bang on, he probably would have, you know, he probably would have maintained his his hold on the title. Um and I was says no, no, no, no. I says we don't need more bloody divisions because uh you know, it's I think he was judged fairly. That's basically my point. Absolutely. So, uh, wellness was there were several women from Brazil with blonde hair and red suits, but this was the best out of them. I'm saying that >> that's a really good way of putting it, mate. You know, >> but it's true because I'll show you the page. I couldn't tell who was who. I had to click on all I had to click on all we had three of them because the thumbnail I was like, which one's that? Which one's This is the champion. Eduardo Bizar Bizera. >> Is this the lady that won the Arnold? I I don't know. I don't I don't follow. But uh >> yeah, she looked fantastic. Congrats to her. But I'll just to show you how similar they do look. >> Oh my god. >> That was her. >> This was not This is Issa Pereira Nunes. >> They look like They look like sisters, don't they? >> Yeah. Yeah. It was like when um when Ashley used to wear the red bikini and then the green bikini and then like you go to the amateur shows and I mean me and Lauren did a um the live stream at this Hungarian show and it was just there was just thousands of bikini curls and they were all coming out with the red and the green bikinis and the hairs and you know they copy the posing they copy everything from the top top ladies you know so someone like an Ashley wears a red bikini that's it you know the sales of red bikini because Lauren speaks to the um bikini she's friends with like the bikini sellers and the makers and stuff and they're saying oh god did you see the the green bikini that Ashley wore at the Arnold. Oh my god, my everyone now wants green. And I've got 30 orders for green bikinis where I'd normally have like two, you know, it's uh so the same with the the wellness and the uh the blonde hair and the red bikini. You know, it's a trend. >> Yeah. Every single one of them here has a red bikini. Look at that. Am I right? >> Thing is thing is thing is they look at they look at what's winning and they think that's what I need to do. I need to dye my hair blonde. I need to wear red bikini. It's um it's just it's just how it is. Bikini. Honestly, it's uh like when um you know uh what was her name? What's the name of girlfriend who won the Olympia? >> What's her name? >> Mark Anony's. Uh >> what's her name? >> I forgot names completely. >> Dor Jennifer Dory. Jennifer Dory. >> Yeah. Jennifer Dory. Like she came in with slightly soft legs and full of glutes and then everyone's coming in with soft legs and soft glutes and you know and just even just presentation and stuff like that. The women really do, you know, like you got to go into any city and see all the women with all their lips pucked up, you know, you just think who start it was probably one woman that started that and somebody walked down the street and thought that looks good and then everyone gets it done. They really they really do they really do copy each other. >> They do. >> So women women that's something that's a female trait, I think. So you know like you you saw Bumstead's hair getting done and you thought, "Oh, I need to get that done as well." I don't know what I was because I I went to the same I had already booked because Janet does all my like make her sound like she's my manager or something. She books all the travel. She's just better at that than I am. >> We had booked because she >> she was pushing for the hair transplant not because she was not you was like ah you look I can't look at you anymore with that hairline. She's I I just didn't want to spend the money at the time and she's like just do it do it and I don't regret it now. Um, but she's she booked my trip and my and the procedure at that now Hair Time in Istanbul before we knew about Bumstead and Ian Valier. So, I actually had the whole thing planned, but then when I saw I'm like, "Huh, that's the place I'm going." So, I was really eager to see the results. Uh, but I was I was already booked. I didn't I didn't get the idea from Chris Bumstead. >> Did you use your Seabbum 10 discount code? >> I wish I had. He got obviously he got it for free and Ian got theirs for free because he had 30 million followers on Instagram and three million YouTube subscribers. So obviously he can give them great marketing in exchange for it. But no, but they knew who he was. They asked me, I said, "Do you know who Chris Bumpstead?" Like, "Of course I know who Chris Bumps." They said, "Yeah, we had a big we had a couple big guys here a couple months ago and it was them. It was Bumpstead and he >> apparently like going back and forth to the UK apparently like you the um like the airports are just full of like guys with the >> Yeah. Yeah. You know, it's like really that many people getting it done. So, I would never consider it. I was just >> You don't need it. You actually don't. Your hairline has not moved up. You just choose to shave your head. >> Yeah. Yeah. Pretty much. I just have one on the side. I have one on the top and then half on the side. Just they just trim it, you know. >> Yeah. >> You know, so I can feel it. I need it needs doing actually now. I can feel this the hair starting to come through. So, I need to >> Yeah. I actually think you're smart for keeping like Jason Stathithm a little bit of stubble instead of that shiny completely bald. That looks fine on some people, but like for instance, Nick Walker, Nick should grow his hair back. That's my personal opinion. I don't like the way he looks with that bald head. It just it doesn't suit him. I don't think it suits him. Some people can pull it pull it off and some people know. >> But then you look on the other one. Did you see that Smashing Machine film with The Rock with hair? >> And it's like they said, "Oh, he really transformed to do this role." I says, "No, he just wore a wig. It's it's exactly the same guy. It's It's just him with hair and he looks completely different. >> I mean, if you for Halloween, maybe you'll put a wig on for me and show me what it looks like. But >> I mean, talking about that film though, it's about that guy Mark Kerr. I think they should have I think they should have based it upon his brother Juan. >> Wank wanka wanka. Got me again. Got me again. >> So many people didn't get that one on Instagram. I was really got that that ruined my day when I went back the next day and there was no likes or laughs or comments or something. >> Guys, you have no idea. >> My terrible joke. You don't know how many jokes you're missing on the group chat with Tiger. It's just >> like the one with um when when you see the what's that the view that that female show with Whoopy Goldberg. >> Oh god. What about >> and I said and I said she's never really I said yeah come on be be go easy on a Whoopi. She's never been the same since she she uh divorced Peter Cushing. >> She what? Peter Cush. Oh Whoopi Cushing. I was like Peter Cushing because most of these viewers don't even know who Peter Cushing is. But yeah, >> when what about what what about when Cardi B divorced Tommy Gun? >> Gunby, Cardi Gun. What would it be? >> Cardigan. >> Cardigan. Oh god, please go right over my head. >> I feel so alone. >> So alone. Anyway, guys, that's uh that's been almost an hour and a half. I think we missed a couple divisions, so I apologize. Uh the wheelchair, I didn't see any footage or anything, but congratulations to all the Olympia champions. It was a fantastic show. Uh again, I'm a big baby. I was crying all night about, "Oh, it's so late." You know, you were like, "Hold my beer. It's five hours ahead over here." But it was all worth it. It was uh >> Hold my pee bucket. >> Uh I I didn't I didn't say anything. >> You gonna confess? You gonna confess? >> Oh, okay. No, people are going to think I'm disgusting, but I didn't want to keep leaving the room, but I can't go four hours without going, guys. So, >> so also Ria Gail, the British girl winning figure. That was incredible. and also Laurens's sponsored athlete uh Shelley winning the fitness. That was that was huge for us Brits. I mean that was that was amazing. >> I think she did have something on there. So yeah, let me give you figure people are going to have my head but I think they had some footage of Ria. >> She was fifth last year. She was fifth last year and I think the year before I'm I'm pretty sure she didn't even qualify because I remember she was gutted she wasn't going. I was like oh there's always next year next year and you can come back because she's moved to Florida. She moved to Florida years ago. >> Oh wow. And uh for a Brit to do that, I mean that's a huge that's a huge leap of faith to kind of pursue your dreams and like when Flex Lewis moved to America and stuff, you know, it was a big deal leaving Wales and stuff. So for her to do that and then like, you know, literally one year not qualifying and a year or two later, you know, winning the Olympia. I mean, you know, it's just it's just amazing. So happy for them. They're lovely. They're lovely people as well. >> Ria, there's Missy. Where's Ria? Is this Ria? I want to find I want to find the right person before I before I click over. That's Shironica. >> Oh, my u my flights are all booked for Prague. >> Oh boy. Yeah, that's coming right up. >> Are you gonna Oh, you won't be attending the British Grand Prix, I'm guessing. >> No, Martin. Um, it's actually the Nabi Universe in the same town this weekend, you know. >> So, but Martin versus Martin versus a 220 Keon is going to be interesting next weekend. Plus Kriso, plus whoever else jumps in. So, >> I gotta find Ria's >> Ria Gale. There we go. She must have some footage on here so you can see it. >> She look great. >> I mean, we're we're talking to a guy from the UK here, so I want to make sure we uh give a little love. Give a little love. So, >> give a little love. Get down tonight. >> I can do this, Ron. Come on, Ron. You can do it. >> Come on, Ron. I've got faith in you. Come on, man. >> No, I can do it. >> I know you're getting old, but come on. >> I am getting old. All right, so here she is. Here you go. Congratulations. >> Crazy. >> That's better. It's not as dark as that again. And the expo lighting was so much better. 2019th she was 13th place. >> Yeah. Keep going. 2019 >> 2020 9inth place 21 16th uh oh she went back >> 2022 123 7 204 fifth and 2025 one Lugar >> first. Good job. >> God bless her. That's amazing. That's amazing. I remember when she turned pro in the UK, she's so that's going to obviously that I mean to anyone it's but that's going to mean unbelievable amounts and it's also it's going to probably transform her life as well. So I'm really happy for her and she's what she won when she won 50k as well. >> Did Lauren make that suit or have that suit? What is No, >> no, no, no. I don't think I don't think um I think she helped her out a couple of years ago with with a few things, but she doesn't sponsor her. >> Okay. Yeah. So, congrats because we knew Sydney retired and there was going to be a new figure champion. So, >> I thought it'd be uh Lola, Missy, and Jessica cuz I I thought actually, okay, Jessica thing is though, like Jessica was getting big, but she was getting rewarded for it. She was getting seconds at the Olympias and winning masters Olympian. She was winning all unbelievable amounts of pro pro uh sorry, pro shows. >> So, I just thought um I thought it was headed that way. So, this looks I mean the difference between Ria and Jessica is quite vast in terms of muscularity and size. So, um, they looks like they've really tried to kind of pull it back a bit because otherwise it just women's physique and figure just kind of just blur into each other. >> I I have seen so many shows where there were women in figure that were bigger than the women in physique. >> Jump in the physique. I've been to shows where the same woman has won both amateur shows, figure and physique in the same show. >> Wow. I've seen an amateur. I've seen an amateur loads of times. There was a girl in Sweden. She won the figure pro card and she won the pro card in women's physique as well. It happened this year. Happened this year. >> Yeah. >> Um but um I mean some of the the fig the really big figure girls, they just don't train their arms as much. So if they posed, they just look like women's physique with small arms. >> True. >> But um but some of them I mean because uh because obviously it's all about shoulders and X- frame and glutes and everything in in figure. It is a slightly different look. But some of them if they train their arms a bit like if Jessica just started training their arms a bit harder, she could she could jump in. I mean, you don't know what they're going to look like when they flex because some physiques come alive, some don't, some don't. You know, you've seen some physics when they stand the front relaxed and that's that's them at their best. So, if you've got the X frame and you look your best when you're stood there in that in that front relaxed, side relaxed, then you're meant for figure. >> Natalya was she came from figure, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. 2017 she would um because I was arguing on the on the forum saying she needs to switch to physique because she was pushing her legs together. She was trying to hide the size of her quads because she was they were huge. And and everyone told me I was crazy and I said well well the their rationale was well if she's still winning pro shows and figure why would she switch? Then she went to the Olympia got 16th and then few weeks after she did a show in Florida to qualify for the following year in 2017 went to the 2018 Olympia and took third place. So I was like who's right again? >> Tiger. Tiger always know >> you said I mean I remember at the time when she was figure and she was going she was switching over you said she needs to build up the arms and then she'll do much better and it's exactly what she because she always had great quads. >> Yeah. >> Her arms took a couple years to catch up once she made that switch but we saw what happened. She's now a >> is that her second title? Second title. Yeah. So congrats. >> And I'm not always right because I was wrong about hers. Um I thought Samson would come in and win this quite easily. >> Yeah. Um but um yeah, we're just like I said, it's um it's a it's an interesting sport because like I said, some guys look better, some look not as better, not as good. Um so um yeah, it was an interesting Olympia. I really I feel I feel it's the most pumped I've felt from an Olympia since 2020 when Ramy won. This is the most excited I' an Olympia has given me. Um it was um it was amazing and um yeah I tried leg training legs as well yesterday because after having like because I went to bed at 7:30 I got up at 9:30 was online arguing with people and then I went to the gym and I did hamstrings and my head was thumping so much. >> I was doing hyp I was doing some glute ham hypers to to get ready for squats and my head was banging. I went just I'm going I'm gone. >> So I just I went to went went to Nando and um ate lots of food. >> I can't believe I was like this guy's really going to think he's going to train legs today but you tried. You try. Give it the old college try. I Yesterday was Sunday. >> Yeah, today's Monday. I was able to train, but I had a little nap. I got up and I slept last night. I'm I'm I'm not a big baby now. I'm all caught up on my sleep, so it's all good. Anyway, uh guys, in the comments, let us know what you think. I know a lot of you are upset about the results. Uh if your particular athlete that you were not uh or that you were hoping would win didn't win, you're probably very upset right now. There's a lot of butt hurt fans and I feel your pain. It was very very close. >> Uh Derek just nudged him out but it was a two-point decision guys and Hottie did win the finals. He he had he beat Derek in the finals but it's two days of judging. It wasn't enough to beat him. >> Um >> do do you think Had the Arnold? >> I think so. I think so. >> Do you? Yeah. Yeah. Because I'm thinking 750 as well. I mean that's that's not to be sniffed at and he is really the highest ranked guy. I mean, he's just beat Andrew, who was at his all-time best. >> He's um he's beat Martin. So, why would he give up the opportunity to Derek's not going to be there. He's pretty much said it at the press conference yesterday. So, why would he turn off turn up um turn down 750 the chance to win that? Because really, unless Samson kind of puts his 30 pound back on and just comes back all guns blazing, which I do actually expect him to. I don't think this is, you know, because like I said, people people said to this is the end for Derek. He's done. And it's like that was third place last year. You can see what happens when you really when you really make someone angry. And look what happened to Ronnie in 2002 when he lost to Gunter. I mean, that was that was probably humiliating for for a guy who just he just competed against who got fifth in the Olympia, the 2002 Olympia, and then to get beat by him a few weeks later at the GNC. And then I mean, you know, it's conceivable that Samson could um could maybe maybe pull that kind of uh maybe might just come in and try and come in at like 310, 315 and just say, "Right, okay. I know I'm aesthetic and I'm just going to come in absolutely huge. You don't know. You never know what's going to happen because >> these next few months, man, are going to be interesting. And I um and I don't think Samsung would come back and and try the same approach because it clearly didn't work. >> The the last thing I want to mention is I was a little surprised the prize money did not increase at all from last year. Yeah, I I I thought that they might bump it up to, you know, 800 or something. But, uh, it needed to stop though, that kind of whole going back and forth, back and forth because it's was a bit silly, wasn't it? >> I can't see them holding at 600 next year, though, if next year's Arnold is 750 because then Arnold can have can hold that over them, saying we give out we give out a better prize package than you do. >> True. >> So, I think next year they're going to match that with the 750. And yeah, I agree with you. They can't keep what are they going to give the open guys like a million $2 million and most of these other divisions are only making 50,000 at the Olympia. I think classic got a hundred only because Bumstead kicked in another 50 for them. >> Yeah. Which is like pocket change for him. But but you know I'm not criticizing. I think that's fantastic. It's amazing. Um but also I mean like think of Samson. The thing is he was probably fully expecting to win that 600k and he went home with 40. That is a drop. That is a drop. So I 100% I reckon 100% he'll be doing the Arnold and I don't see him I don't think I see him jumping into the British the Grand Prix or Prague I just don't see it happening because I I think he knows that he can't you know when he looks at the photos and the videos and thinks oh [\h__\h] we can't we can't pull this back in just a couple of weeks you know because I mean the British show's next weekend it's in my bloody I can see it from my garden. Um but um I think he'll I think he'll uh he'll look to redeem himself and uh do what kind of Derek did and then hopefully use the win and the kind of the you know I'm back and back and then use that as momentum to get his title back next year. But then again I could see Andrew winning the Arnold and the Olympia next year mate if he keeps his improvements going. I've been I've been talking to him this morning. I've been saying same as this morning. I said mate you could win you could do a Derek next year and win everything. >> Yeah I mean who would he got so much love and support at this show. So many people would love love love to see him win Arnold, but especially the Olympia because when he came on scene uh he turned pro in early 2022, a lot of people are always saying this guy's a future Mr. Olympia. But people started losing hope. Like he kind of I lost a little hope. I'm like he's never going to be Mr. Olympia. He's just not I don't see him getting any better. I just see the same Andrew show after show and he really surprised the hell out of me and you know all the all the props in the world to him. >> His name's back in the hat now, isn't it? as being a serious contender because like I said like I was I was there was a lot of people there's a lot of people that thought Andrew was going to win this like literally based upon what we what we what they saw on stage they're like he could win this I think he's going to win like people some people whose like opinion I actually really respect they were like uh you know he could um you know he doesn't you know it's not it's not it wouldn't have been inconceivable but I did see him as I did see him as coming a solid third. Yeah, great job, Andrew. Great job. You know, and great job, Derek, getting his title back again. Only the second time in 61 years that's ever happened. >> Lose the Olympia and get it back. Someone said, "Well, you know, Franco was Mr. Olympia different years." Yeah, but he didn't he he never lost the he never was defeated as the Mr. Olympia champion. That's that's the difference there. >> Yeah, >> Jake was and Derek was. >> Hang on. Why didn't Franco do the 77 Olympia then? >> I think that's when he had had that bad injury from doing Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's wrong, man? Yeah. >> He was running with a refrigerator strapped to his back and uh he totally I think the leg turned all the way around from the knee down. >> Oh, see that's like that's like Samson deciding as an offseason like test to himself he's going to go do Britain's Strongest Man and then you know you don't do stupid things like that. Like um Victor Martinez when he did the arm wrestling thing and he was a few weeks out from the show and he ended up snapping his arm. It's like you don't arm wrestling weightlifter. Stick to stick to your game. Stick to bodybuilding and uh don't risk injuries because your body is your living. And if you God, look at Andrew's midsection there. >> My god, look at this. Beautiful. >> Great. >> Beautiful. >> Stay in your lane is what we say in America. Stay in your lane, guys. Know what you're good at. >> You know, because thing is there's a lot of very talented athletes out there. There's very like all like Missy. She's like a you could imagine her as like a as a as a sprinter or like a bloody javelin thrower. You can imagine she's like Missy. She's um powerlifter. She was a cheerleader. She was a competitor. She was a, you know, like really like a proper athlete that um is competitive in any sport. But uh you know, so um so guys don't do don't do stupid things in the gym. You know, it's um you know, can imagine if like Ronnie doing that six weeks out that 800 pound squat. Can you imagine if he'd have to tour in his quad? It would have been game over, mate. >> Obviously. Yeah. Yeah. Arm wrestling in particular, guys, just stay the hell away from arm wrestling. Stay away from combat sports if you're a bodybuilder. >> It's just not worth the risk. Yeah, >> mate. I I started I started weight training because I got beaten by a girl in an arm wrestle when I was 13. >> Oh boy. >> I went I went home cuz I had some I had some weed dumbbells and they were covered in dust. I'd never even used them. I had 10 pound sandfilled dumbbells. I went home. I got beaten by a girl, a girl called Lisa Tamplin when I was 13 years old. She's actually on my Facebook now. >> She a big girl. >> And what >> was she a big girl? >> Just a normal size girl, which makes it even worse, more embarrassing. >> And I went home and I did I did 130 reps on one arm. I didn't and I I didn't even train the right arm. I was ly walking around like C3PO for a week with one arm. Yeah, >> C3PO. >> I was doing like the the motorcycle stance, you know, but with one arm like a like a teapot. >> That's hilarious. All right. Well, we've been >> What an idiot. What an idiot. He's like, "Oh, yeah. What's What inspired you to start weight training? Was it Rocky or Ram or you know Arnold?" It's like, "No, they'll beat me in an arm wrestle." And everyone laughed at me. >> Well, at least you have a different story. So many of us have the same boring stories. It's I saw Rocky, I saw Rambo, I saw pumping iron. Okay. I've heard that about 10,000 times before. >> I should lie really. I should I should lie really and come up with some cool story. But I've got AI've got you know me. I'm If if I'm I'm known for one thing, it's being honest. >> Tiger is truthful. That is That is absolutely. All right. Well, we're pushing toward two hours, so it's time to call it. Guys, leave some comments below. Uh I'm sure some of you were ecstatic about the results of the Olympia weekend. Some of you were not. Let me know what you thought. Uh, and of course, if you have great things to say about our show or commentary or awful things to say about us, leave it all in the comments because it helps me when you make comments and even when it's bad stuff. So, Giles, thank you once again. U, next week you're going to be very, very busy. You have your Ronnie Coleman tour coming right up. You have uh the Prague commentary coming up that weekend. So, I don't know if we're going to get a power hour with you next week. >> Yeah, coming next week, course. Yeah. Yeah. I don't Well, we haven't booked the flights. We're going to look at flights for probably fly Ronnie on Thursday. >> Okay. Um, so Monday, Tuesday, I'm I'm free. I'm about, you know, >> we'll talk about the British Grand Prix results next week because I, as of this recording, the list isn't out. We don't even know who decided from the Olympia to jump in. I'm sure we're going to get some Olympia top Olympia competitors in that show. So, join us next week. >> Tiger won't be allowed in that one. >> That's okay. That's okay. You have your reasons. All right, guys. So, thank you so much, Giles, as always. Check him out on Instagram. Check me out on Instagram. And there's our ouruh accounts there. That's it for another edition of Power Hour.