Hey everybody, welcome to Ron Line Report. Today's guest is one of the OG coaches. He coached such famous guys as Kai Green, Dexter Jackson, Branch Warren, just to name a couple of many, many, many superstars. Please welcome the original guru, George Farah. How are you, George? What's up, everyone? How you doing? Doctor, you worked hard for that doctor. I'm going to call you Dr. George Farah. Thank you, brother. You know, uh, George guru, whatever, doesn't matter. So yeah, you know, uh like I said, you were for many many years you were one of the top top coaches at the Arnold Classic, Mr. Olympia level, work with athletes in all different divisions. Um and you got away from it for a little while. So I don't think I've ever really talked to you about that. What made you get away from coaching for a time? you know, I really did not get away from coaching completely, but I, you know, after I took Andrew Jack, you know, and helped him turn pro, then, you know, taken him won the Arnold in England and stuff. So, it's kind of like we went to the Olympia and the poor guy, he was a little sick, you know, and he was battling fever and stuff. So, I'm trying to to dial him in as much as I can. You know, for a first Olympia, he he took eighth. But to be honest with you, sitting there and I have bunch of people, you know, I have some figure, I have some and I'm like, "Oh my god, what am I doing?" You know what I mean? Yeah. you know that gut feeling that that stress and I'm like it kind of like put me back like when I before right before like when when you know Kai and Dexter were going on the stage and I'll get stressed and stuff and literally right after that I was diagnosed with cancer. I'm like you know what man I don't need that stress. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. So that's why you see a lot of the people like him or you know like blessing and these guys that were working with me at the time you know like basically I told them listen man you know I love you guys but you know can you just find somebody else because I really like got you know it's very stressful a big bodybuilder is very stressful but at the same time you know I really I was focusing on my you know on my uh business aspect you know what I mean because I have an office, you know, preventative medicine. So, I'm helping a lot of people, you know, before they get sick, what they need to do. Uh, I'm helping paying it forward, you know, like let's put it that way. You see what I'm saying? So, that's why I kind of like backed off a little bit from bodybuilding. I kept some, you know, uh, like, you know, the amateur couple of men's physiques and stuff, you know, but not like before, you know what I mean? But right now, you know, you know, you I love bodybuilding, man. It's just like that's who made George Farah, you know, and I truly believe, you know, that Mr. Manion and now Tyler, they put a great platform for all of us, you know what I'm saying? To to become who we are. So, I cannot stay away from it. You know what I'm saying? So, I started, you know, a few years back, I started like, you know, taking bodybuilders again. You know what I'm saying? But I don't want to overwhelm myself. You know, one guy here, one guy here and stuff. So you know and it's working out. It's working out. I took you know in in one of the stressful situation for an example I took Ali Balal when when nobody knew where Ali Balal is you know and then I took him I made him you know like he came to me after the Olympia 2023 which is he was on the last call and he wants to work with me you know we started a little bit I said listen let's do it and and honestly I'm so proud of the guy he really end up winning New pro, you know, Pittsburgh Pro, and he took second at the Olympia. Arguably, he could have he could have went either way, you know what I'm saying? Because he looked phenomenal. And uh and you know we kept going and he said you know we took a break did his you know became very famous and we were doing the Arnold and I thought everything was going great and about a week before the Arnold actually about to be honest nine days he was in New York and he sent me his pictures and he went and saw you know big Steve and Steve told me George you look amazing he's working on disposing. He was so happy. He told me, "George, we're going to win the Olympia, you know, four or five times." And please, then we retired together because I was telling him, I said, "I don't know how long I'm going to take, you know, make the story short about a week out, you know, and I have every proof." A week out, the guy sent me a text, tells me, you know what, he wants to do things on his own. I'm like, "What?" I said, I said, "What happened?" and he said, "Well, you know, it's kind of like I'm looking I'm looking at last year's, you know, like uh you know, like a program is very similar." I said, "Exactly." Because it was working, champ, you won. So, why should I change it if something's not broken? You know, I already know how your metabolism work. But, but you know, make the story short, I was just getting out of the hospital dealing with some scar tissue. I'm feeling bad and stuff. When he told me this, man, it was like, man, like a punch in the gut. I'm like, "Oh my god." Seriously, this the guy is telling me I'm his brother a day before telling me, "Hey, man, there's some company called me. What do you think, brother?" This and that. So that's, you know, and and to be honest with you at the time, I felt like a little bad, but right now I don't feel bad. I don't because I don't have a bad bone in my body, man. I wish everybody I mean, I love Ali. Ali, I treat him like a little brother. You see what I'm saying? Him and his wife, they became like family. So I'm I I said, "God bless him." But you know, like people telling me, "George, but we know you he was to understand. I don't have bad bone in my body, Bill. I'm not, you know, I I just don't hate anybody, right? Because people tell me he's a this, he's that." Like I I don't want that. Anyway. Yeah. Um, so yeah, George, you bring up an interesting point about the stress because coaching, I've talked to guys like Hani and Chad and Aceto and Olympia weekend, Arnold Classic weekend, they don't sleep. It's just constant going from one athletes room to another, uh, text message, phone calls, you don't eat, you don't sleep. It seems, you know, it's a sport that's about ostensively health and fitness, but being a coach at that level, at your level, it's not healthy when you have a a large roster of clients. So, I don't know how you did it as long as you did. You know, like I said, I did it until I got cancer. So, I don't want I don't want to have another one. You see what I'm saying? So, yeah. So, the bottom line, man, I don't want it to be stress. I just want it to be smooth work, you know, work with people that I feel I mean, look at Dexter Jackson, look at Branch, look at uh Kai, look at even Johnny Jackson, Tony Freeman, all these guys I worked with. We're still like brothers. You know what I mean? And that's, you know, I don't think I don't think it's the same anymore. It's something is really weird nowadays. Something really different, man. I don't know what the hell's going on, you know. Honestly, it's just people they want they want instant certification. They want instant winning. They want and and with me, you need to remember I've been shot before. You know, I almost died. I was in a sedative coma. So, I already know how important life is. So, to me is when I work with any athlete, I'm not just thinking about him winning now. I'm thinking about him when he's 50 and 60 and 70 and living, you know, enjoying his kids and his family. You see what I'm saying? That's the different between my mentality and a lot of other guys. Yeah. I mean, I remember we've had this discussion before where you cut people's doses like less than half of what they were using and they were very skeptical and you said, "Trust just trust me. You don't need all that stuff." And you know, you probably probably put some extra years on the on the lives of many of your clients by just the protocols that you would have them come down from these crazy high high points at. Listen, everybody comes to me. I'm really shocked to say something's wrong, man. I mean these people taking Listen, if I can get somebody like Kai, you know, and Dexter on three mill test a week getting ready for Olympia, there's no reason for somebody getting ready for his Mr. Street to take,000 milligram. It's just it doesn't make any sense. You see what I'm saying? The more it's not necessary, the better. you know, especially when you know, when when you're educated person, it's not like I don't base my stuff just out of my mind like a lot of people do. It's all based on science and research, you know, like a lot of people, you know, advocate to four or five grams, for an example, protein, you know, per pound. I can't do this, you know. For an example, I went to the Olympia three times with one kidney and I never went more than 0.8 grams, you know, per pound. You see what I'm saying? And that was a lot for me. You understand what I'm saying? And I still managed to go to Olympia. So, what I'm trying to tell you is, you know, I'm not saying the lot of protein is going to hurt you. You might not see the hurting now but right now there's a lot of study you know peeds along with high protein you are definitely going to suffer some some consequences some kidney damages and stuff and that's something I don't want to be part of see me I want people to later on when I always you know remember what I always said there's life after bodybuilding so I want people to say man thank god I met this dude you know what I'm saying I don't want to say me and this guy ruin my life I don't on that. Yeah. Over plastic trophy. No, I'm all set. I I don't think any coach has ever come out and said it uh explicitly, but I've seen protocols and I've seen coaches defend these extreme protocols saying, "Well, my job's not these people hire me to win. Uh you know, they're they're taking a chance, but that's that's not my problem. That's not my issue. If they want to risk everything and you know, maybe go into kidney failure, heart disease, whatever, that's on them. you hire me to win, I'll do everything. I'll I'll I'll put everything in the kitchen sink in and we're going to maximize your chances of winning and whatever happens happens. That's not me. I'm sorry. That's not me. Because like I said, I experienced on an early age just before even I get in my cancer, you know, being shot and being in a coma, it made me realize, man, how quickly human being can be gone. You know what I'm saying? And people they need to remember you're only on this earth on this planet once. So you need to make the best out of it. You cannot just be you know selfish person and don't care about the people that love you and care about you including your mom and dad and your wife some of them married your kids your sisters your brother. Yeah that's that's not fair man. That's not fair. So if somebody want to work with me yeah I am taking customers. I'm taking clients, new clients, you know, I'm helping them, but they need to understand George is not going to go to the extreme. George will get you winning a show, most importantly, winning your lifespan. See what I'm saying? Because you might not recognize this or realize this when you're 25 and 35, but then when you start in the 40s and 50, be like, "Oh my god, I'm glad I didn't do." Because let's face it, there's a lot of big names, man. They're in mid-4s and they're gone. sadly. You know what I'm saying? We're never going to see him again. And guess what? We cried for a week and two and a month and maybe we remember them once a year, but they're gone. Yeah. They're kids suffering. They're parents suffering. You see what I'm saying? Yeah. That's that's why I'm so different, brother. Yeah. I mean, you and I are close the same age. And we've seen God hundreds and hundreds of people in the industry pass away. Never made it to the age we're at. Never got to see grandchildren, you know, never just And you know what? You know what, Ron? It's very sad because that could have been prevented in the sport that we all love. And not listen to this, not just from taking hormones. It's also the amount of food in this crazy regimen they go on. That's not good neither. I mean, I know I know coach, you know, he's giving people insulin and apple pie and dude, what do you muffins? That's not food for bodybuilding. You know what I'm saying? This if somebody's looking to, you know, try to commit suicide slowly. So, but you know, like you said, a lot of those coaches don't really care. They just want one thing is the winning. Not me, man. I want you to win, but I want you to be healthy while you win so you can enjoy the winning later on and talk about it later on. Let's go to happier things. You are you are coaching this guy. You just told me because I'm behind and I didn't get the news, but you're you're coaching this guy from Slovakia. Creo Michael Krzanic. He's actually one of my favorite favorite newer bodybuilders. Uh really fresh, full, thick, dense look. I love this guy's physique. So tell me, how did you guys uh team up? How did this come to be this collaboration? Well, you know, I go every year this Peter from Evils, you know, in Czech Republic. He always invite me every year to be at, you know, at the uh championship and it's beautiful. They put an amazing amazing pro show, you know, and I and I was there, you know, I go every year and they signed him to his team and he told me, "George, I really want you to help him, you know, with his diet and stuff because he have a Chris Cormier helping him with working out and posing and stuff like this." He said, "But we need somebody to help him, you know, with his prep, like the food and said, "It'll be my pleasure." You know, and that's how we hooked up after Prague last year. We start talking and you know, the poor guy, I don't know if you remember, he was injured really bad. And then, you know, and I when I took him after and everybody said, "Well, he's not going to be ready." I said, "Listen, you're going to be more than ready because he's not used to eating so much clean and stuff." And he tells me, he goes, "Man, I never I'm never used to eating that little of protein, but now he's amazed the condition he's in." Like he scan in a crazy condition. And I'm telling you, he's gonna he's going to piss some people off that weekend, you know, coming in Pittsburgh. So, you better get your tickets to Pittsburgh Pro and then New York Pro because you guys gonna see something really really spectacular. Yeah, because he had shoulder surgery. I want to say it was last fall. It was It wasn't that long ago. Was it summer? Not. Yeah. Not too long ago. Like that's what I said. We really like with within like you talking his pictures. The last picture he took till the to the new now. It's like literally within three months he looked like a totally different beast. All a sudden he just flourish and ate cuz you know I feed my guys a lot of carbs and stuff and I mean he just look he look crazy man. He's looking crazy. Yeah. So, I mean, like I said, he's posing was one area. I'm glad he's getting help with that. Um, you know, back could be a little better, but this guy is one to watch. He's getting better and better. And, you know, or not, his back really improved tremendously, and I'm I was surprised because, you know, he's he's not he's one of those guys. He's not shy of working. He really want to do the best. I mean, I'm going to show you a really new pictures if you can see it. But look at the front. Look at the legs. The sweep is I mean the guy looked just crazy and and and you know he was always worried and now we're holding him around like the 130 kg. So which is that's a lot. We're talking like 200 some 80 pounds. So yeah, he's looking he's big, he's massive, and he's hard. So it's a great combo. Yeah, I mean like you said, Pittsburgh's going to be a hell of a show. But I mean I he's he's very humble. I think he said in an interview or on his post maybe a week or two ago, he said, "I'm probably, you know, I'm hoping to be like fifth or sixth." He's a very humble guy. Very humble. Very, you know, very humble guy. Honestly, I mean, you know, remember, we have one of the best. I mean, we're talking that's some serious lineup, you know, Olympia lineup, man, in there. And uh I I think a few people are going to be, you know, like upset. Yeah. Yeah. Because another thing I've noticed, and this is probably a challenge that you that you're willing to take. He seemed like to me he would flatten out a bit for shows. Uh like I'd see him like look at here, he's bursting full. So round, so full. Then I'd see him on stage at the Olympia or whatever. I'm like, huh? You know, it look like he's deflated. So, you know, do you have a do you have a plan to keep him nice and full? You know what's my plan? You see how he look now? Yeah. So, if it's not broke, why fix it, right? So just a little fine tuning at the end and voila. I mean he really looked like his glutes are in, everything is in. So I'm not gonna like there's no such a carb deplete and stuff cuz remember every athlete is very different than the other. You know what I'm saying? So he's he's a very different he believe it or not he remind me a lot of how Dexter eats. You know what I mean? Because that guy can look at food and he just grow too. So, you know, yeah, it's it's it's really like it's it's it's a great man. It's humbling to be, you know, part of these guys, you know, like dreams and stuff. It's it's really a great experience, you know, because they're doing the job. I'm not lifting the 500 lb and stuff. I'm just showing them the way. So, I'm proud of him. Proud of him. Yeah. I mean, he's he's like I said, he's I'm I'm excited to see what he can do now that you're guiding him. Not to say that he didn't have good guidance before, but you know, I know you from all these years. I've seen what you've done with athletes. You know, I remember you taking Branch from He wasn't like a belist or anything, but God, he I think he won two Arnolds in a row with you and one was six months ago. Yeah. You know, you know what's so funny? I still remember like, you know, because I talked to Branch so much and we still talking, you know, all the time right now. Yeah. And uh it's funny because I remember 2009 you know like there were they have an interview with me and a lot of people were there you know like a lot of the gurus and they said who's your top five pick and I picked branch you know to be right up there like oh now we're not saying top 10 we're saying top you know because he was never top 10. I said, "Listen," I said, "This is what I'm going to tell you guys. Whoever is going to stand next to Branch, Branch is going to make him look fat." And they all laughed at me. But then I still remember this is honestly, this is honestly, and Chris Esu, as a matter of fact, he'll tell you after prejudging, Branch, I think, was number one on the stage, he walked out. Yes. Yeah. And uh Chris came to me. He goes, "Oh my god, what is this?" He goes, "It's like in somebody from out of space with the ambulance on the lights and stuff." We were laughing. I said, "I told you, bro. He's going to be in all reality, you know, if if it wasn't for Jay Cutler, who he was and stuff." I mean, Brent could have walked away with that. You know what I mean? Oh, 100%. I mean, it was Yeah. And being other than, you know, I mean, he beat the previous winner, who's my guy, Dexter Jackson. I mean, Branch looked crazy. And I remember at the at the press conference they said, "Well, what do you think you're here?" I said, "Hey man, I'm here to be in that first call out and dominate some people." They said, "But the critic say." He's like, "I don't give a damn what the critic say." That's what I love about because those are memories. They live with you. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. I mean, that was like I said, Branch was somebody who was never supposed to get to the Olympia in the first place. You know, that people crapped all over his physique. And God, if if Jay hadn't come in that that one time looking insane, He would have had he would have a Mr. Olympia title. Yes. Yes. Uh I want to I want to ask you about a trend we're seeing now. So previously for many many years the Mr. Olympia champions would not do any other shows aside from the Olympia. The feeling was it's best to just have the whole year focus have your offseason. But now that the Arnold Classic is pumping up their prize money. Uh we saw it last year for the first time. Heidi Chupan was the reigning Was he the reigning Olympia at the time? No. Derek was Derek was but still he took a chance. He went in and took the uh took the title in Ohio, took the title in the UK. Um but he did not look his absolute best at the Olympia and he did not get his title back. Samson got it. Um and we're seeing the same thing now because this year they added the Pittsburgh show which is in May. So we had two Olympia champs. We had Derek who's wants to get his title back. He was the 2023 champ. Lost it last year to Samson. Comes roaring back, picks up a half a million dollars to uh by beating Samson, the reigning Mr. Olympia. Um and now everyone, you know, Samson's not moving on in Pittsburgh, but Dererick's doing Pittsburgh. Uh Bonak Fitzwwater's doing Pittsburgh. Is is this a gamble? cuz I talked to Ronnie, we did an interview a couple days ago, Ronnie Coleman, because he just he didn't feel he was able to peak more than once a year 100%. He sort of applies that logic to everyone else and doesn't think that they should do multiple shows. We're in a new era with bigger prize money and we've been some people have been complaining for years, these guys don't compete enough. So, what's your feelings on these guys being able to peak multiple times a year? Are they risking being able to hold on to their Mr. Olympia title or regain their Mr. Olympia title? Because we see Heidi, he seems to have learned a lesson. He's sitting out this year. Yeah. You know, and yes and no. But but remember, I mean, we talking they're far away. So, I don't see why they cannot peak. You know what I mean? Especially if you have the right guidance, the right eye and stuff. I don't I don't think this going to affect you, you know, that much. But I think Ronnie, you know, in and Ronnie because if you remember, he did the GNC, he end up losing. Yes. You know, to Gunther. And I think Ronnie kind of like, oh my god. But they were very close. So, I don't know, man. I I like it. It's exciting. I want to see these people. As a matter of fact, I want those show, man. The Pittsburgh show in New York. They're always like one of my favorite, you know? They're in my backyard. I really want them to be the best shows. You know what I mean? Yeah. So, I'm happy. I'm happy that we have such a great lineup, man. This is going to be amazing amazing show that Pittsburgh and New York. Oh, I I I think everyone's going to do Pittsburgh aside from I'm sorry, New York except whoever wins New York. But even then, I have a sneaking suspicion that, you know, Derek's got to be the he's he's a heavy odds on favorite to win New York Pro. I don't think anybody's going to argue that. I suspect instead of sitting back, he might just hang out on the East Coast for another few days and do New York Pro and win that. Why not? Well, you meant he's doing the Pittsburgh first and Yeah, but it's only They're only one week. Yes. Yes, it's definitely definitely. I know. I It's a no-brainer, you know. It's a no-brainer. Yes. I love it. Like I said, man, it's exciting. I love it. You know, too bad. Too bad Samson and uh you know and Andrew is not there because I really want to see that whole lineup on the on our east coast. You know it'll be great. You know that's and another thing Andrew will talk to about in a second. But Samson the one thing that I think people people were upset because this was the first time a reigning Mr. Olympia has been beaten since Ronnie lost to Gunter in 2002 well over 20 years ago. But you we're all harping on condition. That's what Derek beat him. I I firmly believe if Samson could get into condition that we've never seen from him before, nobody beats this guy. He's got the the height, the width, the shape, everything just flows. Um, do you do you think losing to Derek might have been actually an extra incentive for him to finally push that extra level and get to that condition? I mean, I hope so. I hope so. I I love Samson. He's such an amazing, humble kid. So is Derek, though. I mean, we really have some really good guys, man. These guys are amazing guys. So I I hope I hope he's going to like really come in and like you said, you know, I don't know if you remember, but we have the podcast me and you before and everybody laughed at me when I told him Samson could win. You remember? I said Samson comes in shape. All the little guys, they're not going to be able to handle him because, you know, it's it's a it's a freak show, man. It's the bigger guys. And when the bigger guys come in shape, forget about it. You know what I'm saying? So yeah, I hope I hope he can come in like peeled and if he did, it's going to he's going to be tough to beat. That's you that that brings up another thing I want to ask you about is uh some people do believe a lot of people believe that the the the taller heavier bodybuilders like Samson who's 300 pounds or Andrew who's 285 whatever he is it's harder for them to get condition than it is for a guy who's shorter and lighter. Is there any truth to that or is that just coping? I don't think so. I honestly I don't I mean listen muscle is a muscle. I mean yeah certain people there's no such a thing as cookie cutter. is not going to work for everybody, but everybody is different. You know, I I take people I I even people some people if they're not getting in shape, I tell them to do their blood work. You know why? Because I want to see where their hemoglobin A1c. I want to see how their liver is operating, how their kidney, because all this can make a huge different in the way you look. You see what I'm saying? So, yeah, you know, like you got to combine science along with your diet. Cool. Sorry. No, no, that's uh it's uh it's uh what what else is going on? Because uh tell me about the other Oh, I want to show this. This is your c your nephew, Ralph. Hang on a second. And I wanted I want to ask you is this Hang on. Let me get rid of Andrew. Is this really your nephew or is this Okay, because the reason I ask is because my son-in-law is Lebanese and I know they call people like cousin and uncle that aren't actually their cousins or uncles. It's Listen, I'm going to tell you some honestly I'm a little I'm a little spectacical. I mean, you know, because maybe I'm a little biased because I love him. Yeah. You know, and I really thought he he should be a little bit higher, you know, at that last show because, you know, I was sitting there and me, Fitzgerald, couple, they're like, they're like, "Oh my god, he's in great condition. He looks really good." As a matter of fact, couple of the judges, they came to me and they told me, "Honestly, if you want to look like anybody on that stage will be like your nephew, cuz he really he was pretty nice, be beautiful, cavical, shoulder, wide, small waist, legs, and he was tight." But you know what? If the judges saw any other way, you got to respect that. So, I'm hoping he's going to see, you know, he's going to go into other different, you know, eyes like maybe Tyler, maybe Steve, seeing him to see what I mean, the bottom line, he's still on the lighter side, you know, being only like around 226, 27 pound, you know, I would really like to see him in the 230s and I think he's going to be dangerous because he's so pretty. He's very well put together like his uncle. Have you been his coach all along or did he just recently start working with you? No, no, no, no. I actually worked with him for a long time, you know. He was he was only like 140 pounds when we started. Wow. And uh Yeah. Yeah. He was very little guy and and remember he's just he's only 27 right now, so he still have a long time ahead of him. Yeah. I took him and I I got him his pro card, you know, over the two brothers and I think was was it in Finland? I don't know, somewhere, you know, in Europe. He got his pro card in classic. But he loves bodybuilding. He said he goes, "Uncle, I want to do bodybuilding. I want to do bodybuilding." So that's why we took a little break. You know what I'm saying? For him to add some weight on. Like even even at that show they were telling me they said George let him you know why doesn't he do classic. I'm like he can't lose another 20 pound. Look at the conditions he's on. Yeah. Losing 20 pound from this condition is too much for your kidney to handle. So I said no instead maybe we'll gain another you know 5 10 pound as we go and we'll go from there. Wow. So how is he related to you? Is he your aunt or your I'm sorry one of your brother or sister's kids? My brother. My brother's my brother's. Yeah. That's why you have the last name, the same last name. Okay. Yeah. Do that. That would make sense, Ron. But, uh, I actually see the I see the the armor, the the arm genetics similarity. You always got crazy like right there in that frontal bicep. Yeah. Good stuff. Ralph Farah. Okay. Yeah. As soon as I saw the name, I'm like, I wonder if And then, you know, eventually we got it confirmed. So, good job with your nephew right there. He's lucky to have an uncle like you, man. I love him. you know, he's he's he's a great kid. Not to mention, he's very well educated, too. So, he's he he knows what he's doing. So, he's going to he's going to be a great coach, too. Cool. All right. Uh anything else that that's going on? I know you have uh other businesses. What's up? Yeah, I have, you know, I I have a a new company called Farah Secret, you know, and it's not it's not in the US yet, but I've been working on it for a long time because I really want it as pure as possible. No sucralose, no fillers, you know. I'm just sweeten it with some, you know, organic stevia and some of some of the stuff like I have, you know, granulated honey in it, real honey. So, I I want it to be as pure as possible, man. just because, you know, I I I can't I can't sell something known that could hurt people. And now we all know that sucralose can really mess up your microbiome. And we finally, you know, all agrees that your microbiome, it's everything. It's your health, it's your immunities. If so, we need we need to, you know, take care of your stomach, you know, otherwise you're looking for trouble. Okay. Yeah, there it is. So it's guys, it is far_secs_bygur. I'm gonna follow it right now. Cool, man. Good stuff. Yeah, I'm surprised actually. I have like good followers already. Yeah. I mean, you you've been around so long. I mean, you built this reputation. I'm horrible. I'm horrible with social media. I don't know how I get people follow me. But you know what? Because a lot of the people they like me because I speak from the heart and I say it the way it is you know like I said and I love everyone. I love everyone like a lot of my friend they said oh my god this guy left you why would you talk to him I don't care you know we're all brothers and sisters man life is too short I've been dead twice you know first getting shot and then cancer I can't complain man God keeping me here for a reason not to be negative you know. Yeah, George Farrauru, one one million followers. You're not doing that badly. You're not one million followers. Come on, guy. I don't know why. That's goat level. But we are going to work on social media and I want to really start putting some some stuff out there. Like I said, man, this is the sport we all love and and I appreciate the manions, you know, like putting that great platform for all of us, you know, and I really want to continue to help, you know. So yeah, I'm I'm actually, you know, I'm taking people again. I have bunch of people working with me. A lot of new amazing, you know, like genetic some like crazy crazy stuff is going to happen, you know. Right on. Cool. Well, George, man, thank you so much for taking the time. I know you're busy. You got all these businesses and clients going on. So, my pleasure, brother. Always always appreciate it. Of course. Anytime, Ron. All right, guys. This has been Dr. George Farah, one of the original gurus. And thankfully for a lot of these athletes still in the game and still coaching, still guiding them to to victory safely and in the healthiest way possible, which is not not not something all the guys out there do. So thanks for being you, George. What else can I say? My pleasure, brother. My pleasure. Thank you guys. All right, everybody. Thanks for watching Ron Line Report with Dr. George Farah. We'll see you next time.