What's up, guys? Ron Harris here. We are less than 24 hours away from the very last chance to qualify for the 2025 Mr. Olympia contest. That chance is going to be tomorrow at the Europa Pro in Oenbach, Germany. For simplicity sake, I'm just calling it the Europa Pro. And as I like to do for these shows, I like to take a look at the latest updates to see if we can get any indication of how the guys are looking. And in this case, it's kind of important because most of the guys competing in the show, especially most of the top guys are competitors that we just saw a week ago in Milan, Italy. So, do they look any different? They look better. They look worse. Obviously, things can change between now. Uh, it is now 10:23 PM over there in Germany. Everyone's, uh, everyone's already over there. The contest begins at 400 PM German time, which would be 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time in the United States and wherever you live in this wonderful world, you can sort of adjust. So, taking a look, uh, Miracle Bear Urskinsky, who is the the favorite to win. He won very convincingly with a perfect score last week. He actually posted an update pick. Remember, we didn't see any update pictures because he wanted to surprise everyone with his new look as an open bodybuilder last week. And he did just that. It was a hell of a surprise. I mean, I didn't see this guy coming looking as great as he ended up looking. But here's uh Urs. This was posted two hours ago. Here he is with Stefan. You know, I did say last week he looked phenomenal, but could he look even better? Yeah, I think he can. I mean, you can always get that condition just a little crisper, a little bit drier, and I think that's what he's doing. I know it's hard to tell from one picture in the gym, but look at the detail there in the seratus. Look how dry those quads look. Perfect. Condition is going to be perfect once again for Urs. So, uh, you know, it's it's going to be very tough for anyone to beat him, but of course, we're not just going to sit here and say, well, he's got it. Congratulations, Urs. even though he is likely likely going to win the show. But let's take a look at what else he's posted. I think that's the only physique shot he's posted in his stories is usually Q& A's. Does he not have any stories or it's spinning the wheel? Okay, so these are Oh, that's that's old. That's old. Some nice pictures there on his Instagram stories. You him with a there's a bear in the background. Looks like he's signing a check or something there. I'm not really sure what's going on. Yeah, these are all pictures from his classic days that he's posting. I guess sort of like a nostalgia. Guess he's trying to remind everybody what he looked like just a year ago. Yeah, these are 100 these are reposted from 154 weeks ago. So this is these are all two years old these things that he's posting. Mine veg. I'm not really sure what that means. Uh looks like he's got his own bus. Look at that. Wow. That is crazy. He's got his own tour bus. I know he made good money, but geez, I didn't know he was doing he was balling like that. Got his uh got his number. Is that Matt the manager or is that Stefan? That's Stefan on the right. Signing somebody's weight belt. Okay. Is that an Urs bus? Fouad asking. Uh someone take my phone away. Yeah, that is. So that's your heavy favorite. But let's take a look at Quint cuz Quint Quint was right there breathing down his neck just a week ago. Quint really needs this win if he wants to go to the Olympia and I know he does. So these were posted yesterday. This is Quinton Aria aka Quint Beastwood runner up to Earth last week in Milan. Did I cut his Yeah, I cut his face off there. Sorry guys. So yeah, this is the pose that uh the one pose this in the front last spread that I wanted to see more fullness with Quint. I'm seeing a little bit more here than what I saw on stage. I know it's different lighting and everything, but he looked flat in some poses, not all of them, but to me the front relaxed and the front lat were the ones I was I was most uh wanting to see more fullness. Front double was a beautiful shot for him. Tremendous shape and structure on Quint. So he's going to give it all he's got. He's got Samson Doubt and Mr. Olympia in his corner. He's got all kinds of fans, sponsors. Glutes are glutes are nice and tight. Yeah, the back continues to be an issue, but you know, he's he's going to have to take an offseason after this. And that's the shot I use for the thumbnail. That's a that's a great shot for Quint. Any comments to respond to yet? Let's take a look. Good afternoon, Tony. Earth looks better now. Pretty sure that was in Italy. Why does Urs need a tour bus? That is a good question. I don't think he has like a band and equipment and stuff like he's not a rock star, but I remember uh Dana Lynn Bailey and Rob Bailey, you know, they they go around the country. They have their own tour bus, too. It's pretty cool. It was the uh the kill what do you call it? What was their what's their her whatever her clothing brand was? Flagorfail with, you know, big picture of Dana up on it and everything. Yeah. It's it's just a way to travel in style cuz I heard he only lives about an hour away from the show. So, it's not like he had to traverse, you know, the continent of Europe to to get to this show in Offenbach. Um, but still, it's it's pretty cool. I mean, I wish I had a tour bus. How cool would that be? Probably has like a full bedroom with a with a nice comfy mattress in the back and full kitchen, great bathroom, giant screen TVs. I bet it's got I bet the thing's all decked out. He maybe he's already given a tour of it on his uh YouTube. I don't know. Look at Roman Fritz. Oh, yeah. We will. We will. On Big Zone. What's Big Zone? I don't know what Big Zone is. I was just looking at his. I don't know what Big Zone is, but I guess I'm about to find out. Big Zone. Just getting over cough. Where are these updates you speak of with Roman? Maybe they're on their stories. That's uh that's Matias. holding back, isn't it? There's Ronnie Raquel, who I guess he's uh did he compete today, too? Not really sure. Oh, okay. Well, there's a good good shot of Roman. Yeah. Yeah. I'll go to his page soon. He's definitely uh someone a lot of fans want to see. He's uh he's a very consistent guy in terms of condition. I've only seen him a couple times, but he was in phenomenal shape. But what do you guys think Quint's chances are? Quint Beastwood? Because like I said, he needs this win. This is uh his fourth show in six weeks. He did Tampa Pro, Texas Pro, second place, third place, second place last weekend in Milan, Italy, and now he's got one last chance. This is the last chance. I thought he was going to wait after Texas and do the France show, which is just a week away, right? Yeah, France. No, two weeks. It's two weeks away, but still that would have given a qualification for the 2026 Olympia, which, you know, I'm not that guy to say he's not ready for the Olympia, but he's not ready for the Mr. Olympia now. I mean, not ready to do any damage. I don't see Quint cracking the top 10. Uh, it's a very, very tough top 10 guys. I mean, I I keep forgetting about guys like Rubel and Tonio. Uh, you know, there's Jordan. You you got a lot of really good guys going to Olympia. So, I really hope Quinn can pull it off because, you know, I know it's Ursa's home country and and he wants to win and the fans are gonna go just bonkers for him when he comes out, but it would still be nice. But he's going to have to earn that win. And Urs is looking phenomenal. Here's my contact over in Germany. Your mom's flip-flop. Urs looking a little better. Also, according to people around friends, he said he thinks he looks better already. Just watched the newest video. It's a bus of VSN. Ah, the company sponsored by Okay, thanks for the clarification. It's not his personal bus, but they are letting him borrow a tour bus, which how much crap does he really need? But it it's just a it's a statement, I guess, to show, you know, I'm this guy. There's no reason Quinn can't win. He has more muscle than Urs.h. I mean, let's let's figure that. There's actually a site that I'm going to show you that has the stats on. They're about the same height and weight, I believe. I you know, Urs is like 5'11, 260. Quint Quint's six foot or or maybe a little over six foot, right? Height and weight, they're about the same. Um, they both kind of have similar strong points and weak points. I mean, both of them could use a little more chest and a little more back. Quint's got better arms. Definitely will say that. He's got really good legs. Urs has excellent legs. Love Roman Fritz physique. Such a knowledgeable guy, too. Yeah, he is. He's huge on social media. There's a reason. Big Zone is the sponsor. Oh, on YouTube. ones look good, but wouldn't say looking crazy. So, you want me to look at the the YouTube channel for uh Big Zone, which until today I never heard of. Big Zone. Big Zone. Big Zone. Okay. So, I need to cut the volume so I don't get a copyright strike. That's what I need to do. Oh, good. The volume's already cut. All right. So, let's take a look at Roman. I don't care what he looks like with all his clothes. You're not going up on stage. Okay. So, here's the update of Roman. Roman Fritz from Germany. Posing update. Let's take a look. All right. Yeah, he's not a massive guy, Roman, but he does have incredible shape. Uh, you know, I'm wrong, Harrison. And I get things wrong all the time, but I thought he had turned pro in classic physique. I could be wrong. I'm wrong so often, but he does have that classic shape. And looking at him, it's hard to believe he's very much over the classic limit for his height. But maybe he is. Some people are deceptively deceptively heavy, and some people are deceptively light. Some people look a lot heavier than they are, and some people look a lot lighter. Let's take a look at Roman, man. Yeah, I remember I remember being very impressed with the condition. The glutes, the hams are all strided and dry. Yeah, I like to see striations everywhere, not just in like one body part. Sometimes I see guys with like crossstrated quads and they turn around and the hamstrings, it's just like one flat mass with no no stripes, no no splinters. So, yeah, Roman Roman's looking really good. Definitely looks like a very possible first call out guy. Yeah. Huh. How long does this go on for? It goes on for quite a while. So, let me take your get back to your comments while we're watching Roman pose. Roman did a three-week prep. So, that tells you I remember he posted on his Instagram like two weeks ago and he said one week out, four weeks out, six weeks out as if he had no idea which show he was going to compete in. So, somebody does a three-week prep, that means they are always always very close to contest condition, which is admirable. Unless he's one of those few genetic freaks that's just lean no matter what, like stays six-pack abs, strided chest and quads no matter what they eat, or if they do or don't do cardio. I don't know if he's one of those guys, but still, a three-we prep to look like this, that is something else. But I'm I'm gonna guess that he was pretty lean to start with at three weeks out. Roman went pro a long time ago and by going okay yeah I have it in my head that he was a super heavyweight at uh I want to say it was an amateur Olympia but you guys I don't follow him that closely. Those of you who do you can let me know. Roman is lean all year round. Not even kidding you. The amount of food he has to eat to retain his muscle is pretty nuts too. So he's just got an incredibly fast metabolism. All right. Stop sharing that. I don't need to see the Is he tick and go? Is that a commercial? Oh, that's a commercial. Let me get rid of that. Okay, it's an ad for a video game or something. So, he has a super fast metabolism where his body just burns up everything he eats immediately. What's up, Zionic? Bubonic shoulder. Yeah, I mean Zic, there's only maybe three days the day of the surgery and maybe the the day after. I was didn't get out of the hospital till like 11 12. My wife came pick me up, but yeah, I was right back at it. Roman had his fourth hip fourth hip replacement surgery. Wow. So, he's had his hips replaced four times. I did not I mean, I would expect to hear that from a 70 80y old man, but what's he 35? Something like that. Gano Vakaro. Gano is a great name. Roman never misses condition. Yeah. I mean, I I can't remember ever seeing him less than stellar condition. Roman is 6'2 and 122 kg. Trusty calculator on my phone because I don't know what kilograms are. I know they're a unit of measurement for weight. That's about all I could tell you. So, 122 kilograms. times 2.2. Roman is 268. Wow. But he's 6'2. I assume you mean Yeah. 6'2. 6'2 and 268. That's a big dude. Shape is also very good. Yeah. So, obviously a huge huge fan favorite. Roman. How many followers does he got? Let's go. Let's just take a quick look here. Roman Fritz. Roman Rex Fritz. Oh, 114K. I thought he had in the millions. I thought he had a million in the millions. Um, just want to see what this says. I'm g stop sharing this and go to his Instagram. Going back to Instagram for most of these things here. I'm going to mutilate the German language in a second. Give me a chance. I can do it. So, inbach. What does that mean? Anybody? Breaking news. Roman Fritz returns back after his fourth hip surgery of months of rehabilitation. It's official. Roman Fritz will be at the European Championship on the 14th starting September in the city hall. Olenbach, I assume. I mean, he should just go ahead and do the France show, too. I mean, I I don't see him winning this. Uh, we got Urs Quint, Mark Hector, Lewis Breed, Matias Hulk. We got some tough guys for him that he would have to get through, but nonetheless, Roman looks fantastic. Uh, I wish him the best and I think he's a very, very strong contender for the top five for sure. See, don't think Roman is quite 6'2. Yeah, it's all the same for me. I'm 5'7 and a half. So, I'm looking up at all these guys. Six foot and 6'2 are like almost the same to me. Ali Edward. Oh, I mean, that's I put Oi Edward in the graphics for the in the thumbnail and I have them in the graphics I'm going to put on Instagram after. Uh, I I was going sort of in order where I thought these guys could place, but let me go let me go ahead and uh go right to Ali since you guys brought him up. So, this is Ali Edward Cogbo. So, he was not in Italy last week. However, wow, that's a great shot. He was seventh place at the Dubai Pro. Um, he keeps improving. very thick guy with really good shape. Show you the picture that I used uh in the graphic because this this is what really impressed me right there. So, where is he from? Dubai. Just a massive guy. I mean, that that most muscular that one shot he reminds me of Phil Heath. I'm not saying he's Phil Heath. He does not have a back like Phil Heath, but very similar look to Phil Heath in that picture. Would you agree guys? Am I on crack? Not on crack. It's too early for crack. Ali was a bit overlooked. Dubai doesn't quite the condition of a room very much around. I mean this this condition to me looks that looks better than what I remember from from Dubai. Obviously this is gym lighting. You can't really compare them perfectly one to another. Stage lighting and gym lighting are very different things. So this is most recent. Oh, that's very blurry. You should fire your cameraman or get a new phone or something. I mean, the iPhone 16 just dropped. Get one of those if you're a bodybuilder. Yeah, this I I think this is just really out of focus camera work right here or phone, whatever it is. If this is the if this is an indication of the condition he's in, he's in big trouble. But I think the camera it looks blurry. I could see it's it's like pixelated. It's like an iPhone 3 or something. I don't know what's going on with you, Ollie. There. Guess he was on the menace. Yeah, he was on the Menace podcast, but he's definitely somebody to watch. Don't Is he just modeling a He's modeling a shirt there. Okay, we don't need to see that. Yeah, his back was I remember back is the one area that he could be thicker because he's so massive from the front. He's got those tremendous shoulders, arms, quads. He just needs a little more back to balance out the physique. It's all about balance, guys. You never want to have one body part that overpowers, overshadows all the others. And you definitely don't want to have one that people notice is lagging behind. But geez, look at this. Look at this guy. He is a unit. That is a big boy. Big man. So Ali, there's his uh is that giving him that's his meal prep uh sponsor right there. I guess I if it fits your macros. No, I don't know what that is. So Ali Edward Carbo, definitely keep a lookout for him. Definitely. But let's go back to the guys who did very, very well last weekend in Italy because of course they're going to be the favorites going into this. So Mark Hector, I don't think Mark has posted any any new updates. He has not. That was two days ago. Okay. So Mark was a very strong third place last week in Italy. looking great. Uh people did a couple people did comment on his his back. He's got one lat that drops down uh significantly lower than the other. These are all fully clothed picks. There's a good one. I want to make sure this isn't uh that was a week ago. Okay. So Mark Mark's still going to be in contention. You know, some people thought Mark was good enough to win. It's a sport of opinion and it is subjective. So, if you're one of those people who thought Mark Hector was good enough to win in Milan, you're not necessarily wrong. That's your opinion. Yeah, these are old. These are old. I was looking at these a week ago. Mark looking really good. Let's keep it in the UK for a few minutes and go to the brick Lewis breed. So, the last updates Lewis posted were in the gym mirror two days ago. And look at that. That is not a trick mirror. He really is that big. And condition. I think if Urs was in great condition, too, but he was uh he was equally equally conditioned. Dry, shredded, strided, that British condition that Dorian was known for. Shorter, thicker guy, but just massive. Massive. So, I I even heard, you know, as I was doing coverage on it, some people saying they thought Lewis should have won. you know, if you've got different preferences for physiques, you know, that that's just your preference and that's your opinion. So, whatever you consider to be the ideal physique, you know, that that's that's your right to say that. Now, if someone's like totally missing a body part or their condition is off, well, they really don't deserve to win. Uh, if other people have more balanced physiques, but Lewis Lewis has a great overall phys physique package. See, this was uh these are shots from uh Milan last weekend. Italian Job, he says, which is a a movie that was remade. It was actually a couple. No, I thought there was going to be more posing pictures. There's him and his boy backstage. That's the family. I guess they're in Italy there. ESN, very big sponsor over there. Finally, some more stage shots. There he is with I don't know who that is on the right hand side of him. Was that Sergio? I can't even tell. I think that was Sergio. Yeah. So Lewis looking great. Who else we got? Uh going on down the line. Let's check out from Germany. Matias Holwick. This is after all I know it's the Europa Pro, but I'm going to I just keep calling it the German Pro. Germany or German Pro. So Matias was sixth place. He made top six. There's a good show. There's a good shot, I should say. Again, this is a guy who was a classic physique pro before. Made his open debut last year. I believe it was the Prague show and placed a very respectable fourth behind Martin Fitzwwater, Chris Bumpstead, and Sean Clarita. Some comparison shots. Which one is he? I think he is in the middle. Wow, they had him in the middle. I got to read the how often Buck will end up. It's going to be epic for the athletes, certainly for you, too. Emotions will be at the start. Yeah. I can't even imagine being a German fan right now. How how stoked you guys must be for this show. You know, Fibo had a show, too, but that was it was a smaller show. We did have Andrew Jack in it. We had Sergio Le. It wasn't like a no bunch of nobodyies, but this is a this is a stacked show. This is a show that's more competitive. I mean, when Andrew Jack showed up for that, he wasn't even 100%. Not even close. and he still just ran over everybody. Uh I I don't see that happening. I think there's going to be a little more fight in this show, this particular German show. These are some great shots from uh Italy. Look at these poses. Urs hits that shot, too. The archer shot. That's a shot that uh Mike Somerfeld looks amazing in. The archer pose. Look at that. And there's that twisting rear double. Kneeling twisting rear double. Yeah, this guy is a phenomenal poser. Phenomenal. I want to try to find his uh Does he have it pinned? His posing routine. Yeah, he does. Okay, so this was him in Prague last year. He's a little bit bigger now. He's definitely made some progress. Roman is 5'11. He definitely looks so 6'2. You're way off. You're three inches off. Think Urs is going to win it again to be real. I mean, I' I'd be very very surprised if Urs doesn't win it again. I would not bet against him. I'd be afraid of losing my money. Amir Lewis Roman, who do you see me making a big statement? Yeah, I keep forgetting about Amir, but Amir's on the show, too. Amir, Amir, Amir, Amarajic, what's up, Dave? I watched an interview with Lewis after checking said he was coming in tightly in Italy. Yeah, I mean, I don't even know how he could be any leaner than he was. Hagen Maya Earth does not have a tour bus. It was just an ESN bus. Yeah, your mom's flip-flop corrected. So, frankly, I'm a little disappointed. I was hoping he did have a tour bus. Although, what would he really need a bus for? or how often does he does he tour Europe? I don't know. Was it safe for Sergio not do the show? Well, he wasn't going to win this show. Uh, an improved Sergio. Could he possibly have beat Urs and Quint and Mark here? Get ahead of all three. Nothing's impossible, but I don't think he was going to win this anyway. The mistake I think Sergio made was to not do the Masters Olympia in Tokyo a couple months ago. Was that six weeks ago? whatever it was, it wasn't that long ago, like a month ago, I think he would have won that Sergio. He would have qualified for the Olympia. Um, you know, and wouldn't have to be going through what he's going through now, the disappointment of showing up fourth and getting fourth place after going all the way over to Europe. I mean, I'm I don't give up on Sergio. I'm always rooting for Sergio. I know he's got a lot of uh detractors. People think he's a crybaby or he's lazy or he's a headcase or whatever you want to call him or characterize him as. Uh he does have a deep deep passion for this sport. He's a bodybuilder through the core. I mean, he's he's royal. He's bodybuilding royalty. His dad was was three time Mr. Olympia. All right, let's go to some other guys. You did great there, Matthew. Matias, sorry. That is that is uh Quint. We got Miracle Bear. Sergio. Let's take a look at Amr because Amr was not posting much in the way of updates. Is he now? Yes. Okay, finally. So, these were posted just a couple hours ago from Amir Omaric. I think you'll agree the condition could not be any better. That is just sickening sickening condition. And you can see the the reflections coming up and getting that the light is getting lost in the striations in his lower glutes. I mean, a lot of times guys will have a little bit of striations on the outside and the top of the glutes, but to have them from the very top to the very bottom, there is not one cintilla, that's a real word, of body fat left on this guy. Massive shoulders, massive back. He's a big big dude. I don't know why he doesn't lock that out. Maybe he's not he's not able to fully extend the arm. I mean, he's got a massive massive delt and and upper arm there. Wow. EP09 says, "Always most shredded guy in the show." That's old. That's old. See if he has anything his stories. I mean, those are those are really good updates. I I don't want to be greedy and ask more than that. That's a great shot of him posing with uh Tim Buddhistimon. That's with the darkness. Okay, new post. Well, we already saw that. I'm going to go back to that back shot again. That is crazy. Crazy that shot. I mean, I'm envious. I wish I I never got that lean. That is crazy. Why wouldn't he compete in Germans last show season was already in Europe? I don't know. I mean, uh I was getting notifications from from your mom's flip-flop. Other people people were telling me that he's not working with Stephan Kinsel anymore. So, he just parted ways with his coach. I don't know if he dropped the coach or Stephan dropped. I don't know what the case was, but I heard they're not working together. Uh so, he's coachless. I don't think he he must not have already had flights and everything, you know. I I don't know how these guys do it. I know it's possible. It's it's you have to book flights and everything, but booking flights at the last minute is a lot of money if you wait if you wait till a week before the flight or less. It's it's a lot more money. So maybe he never planned on doing Germany anyway. But you'd think he would have you'd think he would have because you're already over there in Italy all the way from San Diego, California. Very long trip. Uh, it would just be another week. Another week in Europe. I mean, the flight from I'm just taking a wild guess and you Europeans can correct me. The flight from Italy to Germany can't be more than a couple hours. It's got to be a pretty quick flight. Maybe he doesn't have the sponsors. I don't know. I I don't know. Short of thicker guy. Massive. That's what she said. H could be flexibility. Holds pose very well. Heard a lot about surgery. Other people have as well. Not a fan whatsoever. Well, you don't have to be. Shoulder mobility problems. or you're talking about why he couldn't hit the uh the side try. I mean, shoulder mobility problems for any weight, anybody that lifts weights for years and years. Unless you're being very very proactive and aggressive in stretching and doing mobility exercises constantly, you're probably going to lose some range of motion and mobility in your shoulders. It's just it happens. Um, you know, not too many bodybuilders, some of them are really, really good about it. I never was, unfortunately, which probably contributed to my own shoulder problems. But yeah, I mean I I feel like he could lock his arm out a little bit more and straighten it out. Not to say that would his arm looks massive anyway. I just think if he could straighten the arm out all the way, if he could. I don't know if maybe he can. That might be as far as it goes. It would look even better. That's all I'm saying. All right, let's keep on keep on looking. Let's not forget Theo just because I can't pronounce his last name. Theo. So, what I'm going to do is pronounce it as if it was Spanish. Legier. because every time I try to say lear or something, I I mess it up. So, how that was two weeks ago. Let me see if he's got anything. That was two weeks ago. That was two weeks ago. That was three weeks ago. So, we have nothing recent from Theo unless it's in his stories. He has no stories posted. So, I don't know if Theo's uh upset. I I haven't heard I don't follow him. So, uh, seventh place last weekend in Milan. Obviously, I'm sure he was he was hoping to do better than that. I mean, nobody trains for seventh place. And Giles, who has seen him compete many times, he commented he thinks that's the first time that Theo's ever placed out of the top five in a pro show. And again, you guys might know differently. You might know differently, but I remember seeing a lot of contests and a lot of results from contests uh in Europe. and he's also come he's competed in the US before. I think I saw him at New York Pro and he was always in the top five. He's usually like fourth or fifth. Very very consistent guy. Great shape. Brings the condition every time. So yeah, don't know. No new updates. So I'm not going to linger on Theo. I'm gonna keep it moving. Keep it moving. We got a lot of people to get. So Roman uh Morgan McDonald. Look at Morgan. Was Morgan even in? I don't know if Morgan's in. Oh, I mean, let's look. Yeah, Morgan was he was in the show. He didn't place in the top 12. Uh, anything new? No, that's very old. That's very old. That was five hours ago. Okay. Definitely a tall guy. You can see how long those legs are. Think about how long those legs are compared to these shorter guys that we've been looking at. It's hard for guys guys with the limbs like that to really fill out. I know he's over 300 pounds on stage. All right, so this is two days out. This is Morgan McDonald from Canada. Two days out from the show. So, this was yesterday. Big guy, good condition. I just He doesn't look thick compared to the the shorter guys. I I want to say he's about 6'3. I remember seeing seeing him in the lineup uh just towering over the other guys. So, it's going to be tough. We also had William Martins's. So William was Yeah, he took 12th place. So he's got some catching up to do. Buddhists in this too, right? Of course he is. We'll look at Tim because So this is William Martins. That's That was uh from the Italy show. You can see he's a very very thickly built guy. Massive. Could use a little more chest in that shot. Might just be the way he's hitting it. But look at the size of that side leg. Look at that delt. The arms. William is a big man. and he's from Brazil. That's a giant uh Frenchy French bulldog I guess says continueo aaga continuing the saga inbach Jim 10 10 out of 10 a little margotina already in the entrance. Oh I guess he has a he has a he must have a French bulldog named Margotina back in Brazil. What's up with all these dogs? Is is openbach like the dog capital of Germany or something? I don't know what that means, but if they're dog lovers, they're good people. Can't complain about that. So, here's another couple shots from William Martins's taking 12th place last weekend in Milan. He's a big boy. I mean, that's There's the rear lad. He definitely looks best in the side, chest, and that most muscular What do you guys got to say here on the level probing is crazy? I'm not going on this show. Just pro show. Oh, it's a great show. There's 30 men in open in the open bodybuilding division at this show. 30. That's a good We had uh was it Toronto only had like seven or eight guys? And Detroit only had like seven or eight guys, didn't it? Or was it six? Yeah. And the Detroit was a big letdown because for one, he pulled out all the stops. did the black backdrop like everyone wanted. He bumped up the prize money. He had cash prizes for other things like best poser awards for John Meadows, Cedric McMillan. He had all kinds of stuff and they did not get a good turnout. His name I figured I know I know G is war. It's the same in in uh Spanish and Italian. Ger it's pretty unustri if I can't pronounce his name. Theo the warrior. Now, why isn't that right? I did not take French in school. I took Spanish. His name is Okay. Do we know the EST for the show? Yeah. So, it's going to start at 10 10:00 a.m. I'm sorry, 10 a.m. here Eastern Standard Time. They're judging. They have a couple divisions to get through. Um, I I think it was in Urs's stories. Isn't that where I got it from? I think Urs had the Urs had it in his stories, the schedule cuz I couldn't The website was awful as far as the schedule. It didn't have the schedule. Uh, I think it's already gone. Oh, there it is. So, judging rounds, bikini, class, physique, wellness, open bodybuilding. So, they're it's going to start 4 pm in Germany and they're just going to roll right into finals like they did. I mean, I was doing a judging recap last weekend of Milan, and by the time I was done, the finals were over. So, I expect it to go pretty quickly. Pretty quickly. So, who are we looking at? We were just looking at William. Who else do we want to look at? I did want to show you one cool thing for those those of you just likes, you know, easy way to follow shows and who's in it. Muscle Insight HQ. a fairly new channel, media channel on uh Instagram. They did a great breakdown here. So, this is uh Muscle Insights, Muscle Insight HQ. So, this is a competitor stats. Uh Urs 5'11, 27 years old, doesn't have a body weight. Quinton is 61, 30 years old. Mark Hector 510, 38. Oh, it also shows you their most recent show. Lewis Breed, 5'6, 36 years old. Tim Buddhist time. Oh, that's who we need to look at. Tim Buddhist time. We'll look at Tim in a second. 5'9, 35 years old. Theo Legal 510, 33 years old. Matias Holve 5'9, 35 years old as well. Emaric, 5'11, only 26 years old. So far, that is the youngest guy. Youngest guy. William Martins is 5'11, 36. Sibot Loier from Belgium, which is where John Clyde Vanam was from, six foot, 30 years old. Edward Carbo, United Arab Emirates, 5'9, 31 years old. Roman Fritz, 5'10, 37 years old. Adolf Burkhott, another German, a lot of Germans in the show, which you expect. 510, 31 years old. Okay. And then they had a part two, part two of two. Mo se 510 29. Uh he's he's from Germany. Mar McDonald 62, 32 years old. Patrick Gimsky from Germany, 5'7, 27 years old. It looks like Patrick Tour is Yeah, coach Patrick Tour. Oh yeah, he also has they also have all the po coaches for everybody. Roman Beas, another German. Beas Beas 5'10, only 30 years old. Daniel Bower, Kevin Brucha from Germany also. Wow, look at all these Germans. 5'9, 32 years old. Coach is this woman here? Sa Ritter. Andre Carl from Brazil, 61, 38 years old. Not overly familiar with him. Dimmitri Feldstein also from Germany. A lot of Germans in the show. His coach is Florian Zenkel. Constandos Kal Calabalak. Okay, let me try this again. Constandinos Kalabalakis from Greece. I didn't know they had any other open open. I know they have Chris Pistolus. I didn't know they had any other open pros. Oh, so he just won. He just turned pro at the amateur Olympia Eastern Europe which I think was last weekend. Yeah. Wow. He just turned pro. Kubaellin who uh he's coached by Dan McCull 59. He was only 31 years old. So I believe he coaches Mark Hector or he trains him or something like that. Joseen Kalata, Canadian, no height, no age. I believe he's originally from Iran. That is definitely an Iranian name, a Persian name. Matt O'Reilly from Australia, 5'11, 36 years old. Dario Potsi from Italy. Coach Maro Sasi. Maro is the coach in Italy for sure. Manuel Santa Lucia also from Italy. Also a Maros Sasi client. Most recent show. He was 16th last week in Italy. Patrick Schisa, Switzerland, 6'2, 33 years old. Coach Mike Madson, Dominic Voycott, also from Germany. Germans, you guys got yourselves a lot of a lot of your fellow countrymen in the show. You got to be stoked. 5936. His coach is his wife. Name unknown. It says name unknown. Another German, Osama Ashure. Uh, last contest was the EVLs Prague last year. 16 places. This is a big show. Matias Leandowski from Poland. 51033. Coach David Oluski. Oh boy, these are tough names. And there's a picture with the whole lineup. We're going to look at Buddhism in a second. Where is Earth? He's in Germany. Anybody know the prize money for tomorrow's show? I do not. Uh Morgan brags about being 300. He's so tall. I mean, to me, that's like, you know, I'm I'm the short guy. So when I hear a guy who's 6'2 say I have a 21in arm, I'm like, "Oh, okay." Cuz I mean Jose Raymond had 21 inch arms or Lee Priest had 21 22 inch arms. It was and they're like 5'3, 5'4. So yeah, when I hear someone who's 300 lb lean, but they're 6'2. Like I mean Nick Walker is I think he claims to be 5'7. Nick is currently like 57 one 190 290 190. So, he's almost as heavy and he's, you know, a half a foot shorter or more. He finally got humbled. Oh, I don't think Morgan I've never seen Morgan like brag about how being like he's some awesome pro or anything. Kuba also coaches his wife Me Sylvester. I I would think so. Could be wrong though. Black Patron. Let's take a look at I did go right. I forgot about Tim. I didn't forget about him. I just got caught up in other people. So, Tim Budan because Tim did he was ninth place last week. I know that's not what he wanted. Nobody trains for ninth place at a pro show. So, he's somebody that I think would be really looking to redeem himself. Here are his most recent updates. Tim Budheim. Looking good. Looking good. I like this guy's physique a lot. I know he doesn't have a tiny narrow little waist, but that's just genetics. He doesn't have a a super wide waist. And it's not even bad in this shot. You see it in in the front relaxed pose. You see it in the frontal bicep. Uh that you know you wish you wish he just had a little more taper to his torso. What's he saying here? Abunuten from my awful awful German attempted German pronunciation. I try though, don't I? See here he is showing us his supple regimen. I'm assuming there's a great shot with Tim, Urs, and Ammer from last weekend. That's all. They got the silhouette one. But yeah, I mean that was were they the top three? No. I mean Matias would have been a higher placing guy, but these are three of the best bodybuilders from Germany. Obviously, he also had in there. Yeah. How many people did they have in the top in Italy? They had Urs Matias. uh nine. Tim was ninth. Emmer. So, they had four guys. Germany had four men in the top 10 last weekend in Italy. Uh UK had No, UK only had one, right? Mark. Mark Hector. Huh. So, interesting. Yeah. So, I'm I'm I'm hoping for Tim. I like Tim a lot. I've interviewed him before. These are some shots here. This is what I'm saying is I'd like to see a little thick more thickness to the chest here. I'm very picky, guys. I'm I'm like And here you see the torso is a little on the long side. It's a little straight up and down. He doesn't have that beautiful sweeping vtaper like Quint has uh like Urs has. Quint with Quint, it's a lot of genetics. Quint has very wide clavicles, very narrow hips, but Tim brought some a lot of dense, thick muscle, very well conditioned. You know, I'm I'm sure some of his fans were upset at ninth place and didn't agree with that. Thought he could Yeah, look at that. I mean, look at that Christmas tree. It's not like his condition was off, you know? I don't know if the mid the width of the midsection. I don't know if that's that's something that's a limiting factor that that hurts him. But, you know, it doesn't matter what you look like by yourself. It's all It all comes down to who you're standing next to at these shows. Nick has most of his weight in the midsection, though. Oof. Oof. Not a Nick fan. See, I got other guys on these chats saying Nick Nick's going to be first, second, and third at the Olympia. He's going to be top three. Much like Tim Buddha. Looks like Tim trimmed down the waist a little bit for this show, though. Wasn't good in Italy. Tim is always hard and grainy. Quinton in the show. I didn't see in the lineup he showed. Yeah, he's here. He's here. He's definitely in it. Boosting folks. Oh, midsection wasn't some down. I hope he bring down. Yeah. Go back to uh Quinn for a second because he's definitely in the show. Definitely in the show. He's not giving up yet. Uh he's not going to end the season without trying one last time to get into the Olympia. Where are you? Where are you, Quint? Quint Beastwood. Sometimes if I wait long enough, they do an update while I'm doing this. What's all that pizza? What are you doing with all that pizza? Okay. Okay. All right. Well, those are not posing updates. These remain. This was three days ago. All right. So, this is between shows like exactly between Italy show and Germany. the Europa Pro. Look like it froze on me and it looks like it was training stuff covered up anyway. So, I don't care. I don't want to see that. So, this is Quint's last chance to to try to get into this Olympia. Can he do it? I don't know. I don't know. He's got a beautiful physique. Shape and structure are just spectacular. I still think he needs to fill out a little bit more from from certain angles. He doesn't look as big like this to me is front relaxed. That's a beautiful shot. I love his front double bicep. Love it. I mean, that's a work of art. Look at the taper. Look at how the lats just flare out and biceps nice and peaked. Triceps sweeping down. That is a beautiful shot for him. Not as much a fan here though. Looks and there I'm sure he was like depleted here too. So if I say he looks flat. Yeah, he probably was flat here. He probably was really pulling down, trying to get that extra level of condition, extra level of condition that he wishes he had last weekend. Although he was he was still in good shape, but Urs beat him. Perfect score. Uh, and he really wants to beat Ur. I don't even know if it's about beating Urs. He just wants to win. He just wants to win. What's up, Melvin? [\h__\h] Jr. Nick will score high. Nick Walker, we're talking about displays his name is Gut. Yeah. I don't mind Nick. His waist progress has gotten worse. Yeah, we'll talk about Nick another time. Don't worry, guys. I mean, we're gonna we're going to start talking more and more about the Olympia. The Olympia is is it four weeks? I think we're just four weeks away. Wow. Wow. Yes. One, two. The finals for the Mr. Olympia are four weeks from tonight. So, that means we're less than four weeks away from the judging for the Mr. Olympia. That is coming up fast. Quinn is definitely depleting. Don't see him beating Urs. Let's do something big. But it would take a miracle. And we've seen miracles. I mean, well, Urs is the miracle bear. So, it's going to take a miracle to beat the miracle bear. But, you know, I'm rooting for Quint. I like Urs a lot. It's not like I don't want Urs to win again. I'll be happy for whoever wins. These guys are all phenomenal. Yeah. I mean, I I don't know how much the the posing is going to help. And like here, let me show you the back. He needs a lot more back thickness. It's he does that just looks really shallow here. Up here, there's very little trapezius development. The midback is really shallow. I want to see a lot more muscle here. Beef that up. Fill that in. You know, this guy has a lot of potential. I mean, when I say like Mr. Olympia potential, I'm saying only if he brings up these areas. He needs to be bigger. Just like Samson a few years ago, you saw the potential in Samson, but he wasn't big enough yet for his frame. Same thing with Quint. Quint needs to be bigger, especially in the back. Uh yeah, he's definitely depleted there. Yeah, that pose, it's not like he's not hitting it right. It's just it doesn't wow me. It doesn't wow me. That does that is a that is a beautiful beautiful pose. That is a great double bicep. It's all or nothing. Quinny has to win. the German bodybuilding scene is actually very toxic in a way or said the only German who congratulated Italy was Tim. Yikes. I've heard that about German culture where they don't want to see other other people do well. But you know what that that sounds to me like humans human beings. I don't think that's a German cultural thing. I think that's a a human cultural phenomenon. But I mean I had AI kickboxed for about seven, eight years and my son went to the same place he did taekwondo and I the instructor this guy Ben Ben Menszinger he was from Germany cool guy we used to talk a lot um and he told me like Germans they don't even like other Germans. Like if they're around, you know, Disneyland or something and they hear other another group or another family talking German, they purposely start talking low more low so the other ones don't hear that they're also German. like they don't want to they don't want to run into any other Germans. But I mean I I don't know. I don't know much about German culture. Clearly I'm a dopey American. Four weeks. Yeah. You know what it's We were talking about uh the point system, me and Bob Chick yesterday. Some of you guys love Bob Chick being on. Some of you guys really upset that I had Bob Chick on. Whatever. It's my channel. I'm going to have people that I'm I think will make interesting interviews. Anyway, we talked about the point system and I said, you know, it's kind of it kind of sucks that they didn't bring the point system back for open bodybuilding. I thought they were going to and they didn't. It only put another five guys in the show. So, it's not like it was going to extend the length of the show by hours and hours. It was just another five guys. But he pointed out something about the point system that would be troublesome. So, let's say you did three shows earlier in the year. You took second place at the Arnold, second place at the Pittsburgh, second place at the New York Pro. I'm just being very theoretical here. You took second place at all three shows, and you got X amount of points, whatever that gives you. So, you're the leader of the point standing, but as the season goes on, you don't know. You never know if you're safe because it's going to be the top five in the point standings. You never know if someone else might do 10 shows and get second or something. So, what that means is the last the last chance to qualify is like a month out from the show from the Olympia. And if the points are still shifting all around and people are moving up and down in the standings, you might have been thinking you were in the Olympia on points and then at the last minute come to find out you're not or uh oh, now I need to do this this show four weeks before the Olympia to try to get like at least if not a win which would guarantee me in. It would solidify me in the points. So, it would have made things tough for these guys cuz schedule-wise, some guys might have been prepared for the Olympia thinking they were in on points and at the last minute somebody else they got shut out of the points now they're not in the Olympia or vice versa. Uh, they find out at the la well if they find out at the last minute they're okay because the Olympia is only a month away. But yeah, I I I kind of get why it didn't really make as much sense for open lauries from Quinton just pictures and proves poison. So these were posted says one day ago. So today's Saturday. These were posted yesterday. Yeah. So these are the most recent. Uh huge deltoids are overpowering the rest of his back. I mean I agree with you and but that's a matter of it's not that his deltoids. It's not like he has delts that are overdeveloped. They're not. They're very proportionate to his physique. See, you wouldn't want to see his shoulders any smaller than that. But you would want to see the back much more developed. I mean, if you guys remember Paul Dlette, a lot of you, if you're over 35 or so, you probably Paul Dlette was one of the greats of the 90s. Massive shoulders, arms, very, very wide clavicles, some of the biggest shoulders you've ever seen. They were huge. Uh, is back in comparison, not as developed in a similar kind of a similar situation to this here, although Paul was a much bigger guy. Uh Paul was like 6'2, 270, 280 on stage toward the end of his uh competitive career. But yeah, he needs Quinn needs to really fill this whole area in. The back needs to be a lot thicker. When he does that, when he does that, I think a lot of people are in trouble. A lot of people are in trouble because he's just he's a very very gifted bodybuilder and he's he seems very determined to fulfill his potential. Has there ever been instance of a guy qualifying for the O's latest right now winning it? Uh, it's a good question. I don't I don't know. I don't think so, but I I could be wrong. If you look at all the uh look at the Mr. Olympia winners qualification results, Olympia, uh, I would have to go back in time. Yeah, the last website, I guess. Well, I think a best a better example would be uh Big Romney in 2020. He didn't qualify for the Olympia. He was he won the Olympia that year, but he got there on an invitation, a special invitation, if you remember that because he was going to compete in one of those European pro. It was a show I believe in Alakante, Spain. I think it was a Spain show. And you remember 2020 was the pandemic, the first year of the pandemic. And all the athletes were being tested once at check-ins for COVID. And if they tested positive, they were out of the show. And Rammy tested positive. They wouldn't let him compete. He would have won the show easily from what I remember at the lineup. But Rammy did not qualify for the Olympia. He got there on a special invitation and he won. Uh I don't think anyone else has qualified late, very late in the season, like last the last show to qualify and won. But that's just top of my head. Nick wins 25 Olympia. See, I told you he was going to win. Delta overpowered chest as well. Yeah, I want to see more chest. A lot of times it's very very common with physiques to see kind of a a little bit of weakness in the chest and the back. I call that frontto back thickness when the guys look great in the front shots and the back shots, but they turn to the side. Well, the back shots they wouldn't look so great. You know what I'm saying? They just don't have that thickness from front to back. They look nice and wide from the front, but when they turn to the side, they're kind of two-dimensional. Front to the only pose we really can't see belts since it looks more balanced. Mom's flip-flop says, "Very true. German scene isn't like over there in the US, not really everyone else together." Eh, I mean, I think the only uh fellowship or brotherhood or or camaraderie the bodybuilders really have anymore is online social media and podcasts and stuff like that. They're, you know, on group podcasts because nobody nobody lives in the same town. You know, all those for years and years, the majority of the best bodybuilders in the world lived in the Los Angeles area. everyone just it was called the Mecca. That's where they all migrated to. Uh they would either live there or a lot of them would spend a couple months out of the year there like maybe the the last couple months before big contest they would train out in LA. Uh it's not like that anymore. Obviously now they're we have a big bodybuilding scene in Las Vegas. Uh in the Dallas, Texas area, Tampa, Florida area has a lot of bodybuilders. Uh New York, New Jersey have always had a had a big bodybuilding scene. Uh German people are very introverted and serious in a way knowing some Germans live here. Some nicest people I know but then again sample size rather small. I can't say I know too many. Think he's going to destroy the Olympia. Yes, definitely. I like the fact that Bob on your show rubs for the wrong chain figure. Yeah, he's he's he's kind of polarized. You love Bob or you hate him. If I say I love Bob, you're like, ah, you're on Bob's uh you got Bob's D in your mouth. No, it's not that. It's not I don't love him that way. But, uh, you know, he's a very knowledgeable guy. He's been around forever. I understand he rubs people the wrong way. The way he critiques people can can be harsh. It can come across rude, and I get that. And if I was on the other end of that, maybe I wouldn't I'd be upset, too. I I get it. So, we're not talking. If Urs doesn't come in with more detail, he did in Italy. I see Quinn beating the top spot. Well, had plenty of detail, I think, in Italy. Let's go to the Let's go to some of those great shots. So, Jonathan Moral is a photographer and videographer in Europe there. Um, I'm not sure if he's French or Belgian or where, but he's he's all over Europe. He took some really good shots of Urs. Pull those up if I can get through all his amateur guys. There's some good There's a good shot of Quint together. Yeah, I wouldn't say the Quint was in better condition though than Earth. I'd say the condition was pretty similar. All right. Now, I'm not trying to show you guys. No offense, but we're not we're not looking at Here we go. There's a good shot of Earth. Yeah. The miracle bear, everybody. The miracle bear. Paul Dlet had the same issue. Yeah. Paul Dlet syndrome. clip of Nick even though fan porch like freak. Yeah, Nick is absolutely Yeah, we're gonna we're gonna talk be talking about Nick coming up very soon, but I just want to get past this uh Germany show. Paul still is the best gen seen bodybuilding. He was an awful poser. He would shake. Uh he looked like he was in pain. It it was it was hard to watch. It was cringey because he would like blink and and shake and he's had a really rough time posing. I I don't think he practices posing. I did give him that nickname. I don't know if it really stuck though. I don't hear people calling him Jurassic Paul anymore. I tried with nicknames. The only nickname I ever came up with that stuck was the Boston Mass, Jose Raymond. I I had attempts at other nicknames. Some of them were awful. Awful. Uh which I shouldn't even remind people of how awful they were because they'll bring it up. But Trey Brewer wrote an MD article called uh The Barely Legal Freak. And that sounded like it was like a like a porn thing or something. That was awful. Uh, I did come up with the Dominican dominator for Victor Martinez, which I think that nickname did stick. And a lot of the nicknames I came up with were just I needed a catchy title for an article about some guy and I couldn't just say Victor Martinez profile or branch warren profile. So I tried to come up with nicknames. Ramy gets special invitations. Code times being hard. Yeah. Well, it's because there was I think that was the LA the year that Rammy um got in an invitation. I believe that Spain show that he wasn't allowed to compete in I believe that was the last qualifier. So, it's not like they could say, "We'll do another show." There were there were no other shows. That was the last chance to qualify. So, it was an extenduating circumstance. And he won. You know, when you give a special invitation to somebody like Lunsford got it in uh 2022, I think it was and he ended up taking second place. 23 24. Yeah. So, he got it 2022. 2023 won it. No, wait a minute. 23 24. God, I'm getting all mixed up. Well, anyway, he got there on special imitation. I know I get my gears mixed up. The Against Romy, if you've been on very good Oh, he would have won that show. Did Quinn fix that bump on his stomach? Uh, that's a good question. That's a hernia, by the way. I know because I have one that's much larger than what Quind is showing. So, let's see. I want to look at his posing. Look at his posing. So, here's his posing routine from Italy. Yeah. Beautiful. Look at that. Look at that Vtaper. Look at those arms. Quads could have a little bit more sweep, but I'm very impressed with the the separation, the detail in those quads. Really good clear cuts there between the quad heads around that vasis vasis mediialis, the teardrop. Hams could be better. He could the hams look kind of flat. I'd like to see those drop a little bit more, have a little more roundness to them from the side. But really good clean separation there between the quads and the hams and the glutes. This was just the 60-second routine that was this wasn't uh the posing routine. That's why the transitions when they only have 60 seconds, you can't you can't waste time doing very beautiful transitions because you just you you're going to end up not having as many poses as you wanted to. But anyway, let's let's go back to his uh tummy to see if he's got the he couldn't have had his hernia fixed that quickly now. So, and it's a very small hernia. So, yeah, you see it. You see it there? Do we have an AI? These are kind of in shadow. Yeah, obviously you won't see it there. So, it's very small with this lighting. It's almost impossible to see it. See? It's tiny. It's It's between those those two abs. It's not noticeable at all. I don't think it's a problem. Personally, people like to pick on, you know, I I know I pick on details, but if a hernia to me that I wouldn't even personally, I wouldn't get that fixed. I don't think it's unsightly. That That's my opinion. Eddie can't fix that. Yeah. Yeah. Hernas don't go away. I've had one since 2014. Look like there's nothing going on in the lower back for Urs. Compare classic Urs openers. See how much detail is gone. Uh I I do think he has a little less detail, but overall I like his physique a lot better now. Will be in better condition Sunday. At least that's planned. Yeah, Donald Pump like the party results. No, the contest is tomorrow. Donald definitely no results in Urs didn't train his lower back for a long while. He still told him to quit at making progress last. Good evening, thong enthusiasts. Paul Bartlet, IFBB Pro. The god of frogs. Certain poses earth was shaking a lot. I noticed that with uh do we have it here in uh Wow, his leg was shaking really badly during his posing routine. Oh, what am I saying? I have it on uh Hang on, guys. I have it I have it taped. I have it ready to go. Ursa's posing routine. There we go. Leave that up while we talk. Okay. Comments. I don't want any nicknames. I'm all set. What kind of vice is that? Who you saying that? No. No. He wasn't shaking like that. Is a very good poser, guys. He's a very good poser. Ted's coming to me. I don't want a nickname. Thanks. So, hernia should need surgery. Didn't say popping on quincly PS. It's tiny. It's a very small hernia. If it gets worse, he's going to have to address it. I don't think he needs to worry about it right now. Notice he mentioned a mistake. Not the barely legal. Yeah. Yeah. Wesley just got his hernia fixed. It's a simple My wife had a hernas. I' I've known a lot of guys. There's a a young guy at my gym, Josh Brown. Short, thick guy, super super strong squatter and deadlifter, especially squats. He was back in the gym training squats within like two weeks of his hernia, three weeks. And now he's back up to like five, six pound squats on a regular basis. Good calves. We sure he is black. Oh, Quinn. I mean Andrew Jack has some massive calves too if you look at him. Vikan Gamut, hi from Johannesburg, South Africa, South Africa. I was follow you St. Ch. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. Vic, I like Dean from Germany. That was the end of his routine. Maybe I'll put another Urs. I'll put his prejudging up. I'll put winning. This was last weekend in Italy. All the things Chris for had a little lump. Yeah, you got to find something though. I I critiqued other things that were I think more substantial misses. Got back poses. Let's go one of those Yamamotos in my garage. Tore my bicep landscaping. Ouch. Sorry to hear that, dude. Yeah, most most bodybuilders when they tear things, it's outside the gym. I tore my tricep sparring and kickboxing. I fell and landed on my to break the fall and my tricep came off. Walking my dog two years ago, August 2023, slipped on wet pavement and the quadricep came off. Shoveling mulch. Yeah, that would qualify. Columbus say tore bicep shoveling snow. Yeah, that could happen. That could happen. Yeah, leave that up. Gonna gonna get going soon, guys. You know, branch needs his walk. Feel surgery. I'm feeling fine. Yeah, gamma nails for my femur. I mean, I had a shoulder replacement, so I have a brand new shoulder joint. It's feeling much better. I'm getting my range of motion back. I think I predict with another like two, three months, it's going to be as good as this one. Maybe I'm being a little overzealous in that prediction. Put some biceps in the position. Picked up a leaf blower. Yeah. I mean, anything where you're I remember hurting my back one time, reaching in the backseat of my car to get a gallon of water, a jug of water, and something just snapped in my back. Yeah. Nick Walker tore muscles doing well. Nothing, man. I don't know what he was doing. No, wasn't he uh wasn't he training? He was I thought he tore his hamstring training sphincter. Oh, Melvin, I never stopped lifting. I I was out of the gym for like two days. I didn't do my left arm for a little while. I didn't do anything with the left side for a couple weeks, but yeah, I was never out of the gym. When I had my quadricep tear, I was out of the gym for like two days, three days, and I was back in there doing upper body. Already torn, I promise you, bro. Yeah. When when we tear things that way, it's they're usually half off anyway. Like when I tore my quad walking my dog slipping on the pavement, I had been having knee pain for a long time and I suspect it was half half gone anyway. Back on stage. No, I won't be back on stage. My my midsection is huge. It's not a good look. My I have that Palumboism look, but the mid the torso is still thick and the midsection's thicker than ever and the limbs are not what they used to be. So, no, never. Let's see. yesterday. Don't mess around. All bodybuilders, everyone see. Oh, no. I mean, if I tried to make it, it's not like bodybuilders were always like buddies and it was like a big fraternity. It was never like that. There was always little clicks of people that got along and knew each other and and a lot of people didn't talk to each other. It's just like anything else. Yeah, Glenn, it happens. See, Nick Walker got shut. Nick Walker is 1,000 times the bodybuilder that I am. thousand times. I'm also 56 years old in eight days. Wow. That's coming up. It's a cool picture you got up now. Yeah, that's morale. Moral photo. He's got really good shots on his Instagram. Jonathan Moral. He goes to a lot of the European shows and he does video and photos. Yeah. Uh some more pictures for him. There's a great shot, too. Yeah. So, okay, guys. So, I've been going for over an hour. Uh, so tomorrow I will be doing some sort of wrap-up probably of the judging and I bet it happens exactly like it did last week where what's that? Twinkle, the old fake Natty Rascal got his pro card. You talk you talking about John Hansen. Call him a fake natty. I mean, he's on TRT, so yeah, I guess he's not natty anymore. He hasn't claimed to be natty for a very long time. Peace, Ron. See, man. Urs will win. I don't doubt it. Anyway, guys, so yeah, please keep your updates or your notifications on. Uh, also going to keep doing the Meatthead podcast. That's every Wednesday night, 7 p.m. Eastern. Lee Priest has confirmed he'll be back for another week. So, I can't say he'll be on every week, but he's going to be on next week for sure again, uh, with myself and Big Mike Cox. And not sure who else we're going to have on. I think I want to keep it to four. I think five guys is too much. Six would definitely be too many because like nobody gets a chance to talk. It's like everybody's like waiting around, waiting around, waiting around, looking blank with a blank look in their eyes. So anyway, cool man. Uh Donald Trump never been accused of not being natty. Yeah, I mean it's kind of a badge of honor when you are actually natural and everyone thinks you're on drugs because you must be looking pretty damn good if everyone refuses to believe you could possibly be natural. So anyway guys, I'm gonna take off. Appreciate you watching. So please put that notification bell on if you don't already have it. Like, subscribe, share, do all that good stuff. Uh enjoy yourselves for what's left of the weekend. Let's check out what happens tomorrow in Orphenbach, Germany. And I will see you guys tomorrow. Peace.