What's up guys? Ron Harris here and the action over in Openbach Germany is almost over. They're already into the finals, but let's take a look at some of the judging from this very last chance to qualify for the 2025 Mr. Olympia. So I do not have live stream footage but we have Instagram. So this was your first call out. Tim Budheim, Lewis Breed, Quinton Aria, Urs Kalachinsky, Mark Hector, and Ali Edward Carbo from United Arab Emirates. I knew he was going to be a factor in this. Uh turns out he's more of a factor than most people suspected he would be. Ali uh was seventh at the Dubai Pro. So, nobody was expecting him to push for the win here today. And I don't know if he's necessarily pushing for the win, but he's been getting some good call outs from what I've been seeing with Quinton and uh Urs. So, this was the first call out, sixman call out. So, typically that represents your top top six, although that changes as we know oftent times with confirmation round and so forth, which I haven't seen. Uh but man uh uh I I have noticed from the pictures and the little video clips that I've been seeing that Quinton does look better than he did a week ago at the show in Milan, Italy. I don't know if it's going to be enough to get past Urs, but here you could see them being moved around. They moved Lewis over there, put Ali there so the judges can get a really good look at him. Yeah, I believe they're doing What's up, man? Tim is in the top six. last week. Yeah, Tim improved. Apparently, Tim improved. We can look at individuals of the guys. We do have a good amount of that online right now. You know, there was a there was a young guy streaming the the the webcast, the live stream, whatever you want to call it. Uh I was alerted to it and by the time I got to it, his his video had been shut down and taken down, which that's the risk you take. So, you see these watch alongs like Xavier does on desktop and Matt does on Muscle Discord. They do screenshots, which is perfectly legal. You can't get in trouble for doing that. However, if you're live streaming an event that is a pay-per-view, that is considered theft. That is considered copyright violation and theft because all those people watching your stream now, they're not going to pay the 30 euros for the uh I don't know how much 30 is in US. They're not going to buy the live stream. So, they're losing out of money. You're taking money out of their pocket. So, I get it. But quit nurse in the middle there. And I think we had some other footage just Urs and Quint. Well, here's Quint by himself. So, I thought Quint looked a little flat last week. He definitely filled out for this show. Didn't lose any condition, but of course, I want to reserve reserve that until we see them turn around to the back. From the front, he's always super conditioned. But, I didn't think he was going to lose any condition. He was in really good shape last weekend, and it's only a week later. It's not like he was going to gain any body fat. He's still on prep. He's still dieting, still doing his cardio. So, you know, usually unless somebody spills over with water from over carbing or or something like that, you don't see any loss in condition. But Quinn definitely looks fuller. That's that's what was missing last weekend to me. He wasn't he wasn't really popping. I see a lot more pop today than I did a week ago. Yeah. And you know there's there's I see in the in the watch alongs for Muscle Discord and for desktop it seems to be I don't know about evenly divided but Quint is getting a lot of a lot of nods for the win from the fans in those in those live chats. Of course Urs is getting a ton and a lot of the chats are in uh German so I can't understand them but I see Urs's name so I assume they're just saying Urs is going to steamroll all over Quint and everybody else. But yeah Quint Quint really brought it today. This was his very This is his very last chance. It's not over yet. They are doing the posing routines now at the finals because remember it's already 8:24 p.m. over there in Oenbach. Offenbach. See if we got an individual for Earth. So there's a good comparison of the two. You know, we I I I don't think anyone's going to argue structurally Quint has a more gifted structure. Very wide clavicles, very narrow hips. And uh Urs did bring that beautiful classic shape, but Quint also has really good shape. See what you guys have to say so far before I get too far into this. Tim is in the top six. Quint Sharper Muscle Disco showing photos of the webcast. He was talking about the lighting. I bet they took it down. Why would they take it down? Uh it' be super dope if you did the screenshots. I I understand that. But if if Matt's doing that and Xavier's already doing that and I saw Fouad's doing it, I mean, I'm just competing with them. You're not going to watch all three of us at the same time. What's up, Donald? Pump. $40. $40. So, $30 is $40. So, the euro was stronger than the dollar. You say it's $30. Well, uh, your mom's flip-flop is in Germany. I don't know where you are, Donald. One or two? Yeah. Oh, definitely one or two. is certainly there's no way Urs is is lower than second place. So there now I've been critical of both of these guys backs. Um so I'm going to try to decide. I I I think Urs actually beats him in the back shots. Urs has more thickness going on than Quint does. Although Quint does have a wide, like I said, those wide shoulders, they give you a much better vtaper. Uh and the narrow hips. I mean structurally he has a natural vtaper. Earth does too, but it's not as pronounced because Urs doesn't have the clavicle width that Quint has. Quint has those wide clavicles. Some more shots or we just looking the ones we're just looking at. Never mind. Uh where's our Okay, I don't know how good this quality is going to be, but I'll leave it up. The Miracle Bear looking to go two for two win his not only his open debut but his first two open debuts. Quinton and Urs prove both. I think Urs will still win it, right? Who won wellness? That's a good question, Donald. I believe it was a Brazilian, which you could say uh you could say anyone's it's usually a Brazilian. Wish to see Quinton Theo, but also want Earth to win. Yeah, people are asking me like why you why you wishing Quint will win? I mean, why are you so It's not that. I mean, I I the only reason I really wish Quinton would win, and it's nothing against Urs. I love Urs. I I huge fan. I think he's a great young guy, but Quint needs to get to the Olympia. Urs is already going to the Olympia. If it's super close, if it's like a tie tie breaker like we saw with Nick and Derek back at the Pittsburgh Pro, just give it to Quint. But he's looking better in But it's in Germany. Hometown crowd. Oh, I can't even imagine how loud it is in that place right now. Whenever Whenever Urs is on stage, I bet the place is just electric. Uh, good shot of Earth there. I'm going to go to Bodybuilders Borders had some good individual stuff. I think Daniel runs that site. Uh, let's take a look at Mark Hector. Mark Hector. These are still shots. Not the greatest. I thought we were going to get some video out of that. I was wrong. Wrong. Wrong. Harris strikes again. So I think Beyond the Stage TV. This It's not Louis. Yeah, that is the Louiswis. He's so dark. I didn't think it was Lewis. I thought this must not be a white guy. There's Lewis breed the brick from the UK. Bringing that nasty UK British grit and and determination to the stage. Ron, Ron, you're speechless. thick thick guy. That's why they call him the brick. If you guys realize, there's a phrase in English called thick as a brick. If you guys know what a brick is, they used to build things with it. I think they still do. I'm watching I'm keeping an eye on the uh the show going on to my left. I have desktop on my phone watching that. But Lewis Breed looking sick. I don't think this is even the best quality. You can see the difference in the quality between the footage we were looking at with uh Quint a second ago versus this. And they're both taken from the live stream, but you know, some people have more resolution in their capturing abilities, I guess. So, that was Lewis. I want to take a look at Ali Edward. I think he was on Beyond the Stage because this guy I I think he might be getting ahead of uh getting ahead of Mark Hector here today. Do we have any individuals? No, we got winning. There's more video of Quint and Urs. Yeah, this is Oh, that was the final call out of judging right here. So, the final call out was just them. So, even though in the thumbnail I said or Ali, Ali is not in contention for the win. It's going to be one of these two guys. Uh, let's see. Coach Little Joe's Canadian says quitting all day. Shocking. Uh Vicki Mutupo says Earth all day. I see more people say love. Look at that. The shaking. I don't know why Urs shakes so badly in the right leg in his rear shots. But he does. I've noticed that last weekend. I noticed it today. Yeah. This isn't even the best resolution, but you could still see. Oh man. I I You know what? I gave I gave Urs that shot the rear lat. Now I'm thinking, man, Quinton looks pretty good. I He's He's got the width on. He Urs does have a little more thickness down the middle of his back especially, but Quint does have that width, that flare to the lats that uh Urs just doesn't have because structurally he doesn't have those clavicles like him. I will find I will find Ali. Don't worry. Quinton looks amazing. Yeah, I mean Quinton Urs looks small. Yikes. I think Urs's frame look fantastic. Ven Fuks Urs destroys him in the front double. Yeah, I love his I don't know. They both have really good front doubles. They really do like Urs's legs more than Quinton's. Yeah, I could see that. Who's the other website? So, that was Beyond the Stage. Who's the best bodybuilder? They the ones that had all the individuals? No. Nope, they do not. Who was I looking at? Who had the greatest? Who had the best individual? Sulios, maybe. What do you got for us, Sulios? Sulios has good coverage, too. Okay. Uh, no, you don't have anything with Ali, either. I thought for sure somebody's got Ali up there. Come on. Let's It's Mark Hector again. Which page had the uh Ali Edward Carbo routine? Nobody. Who was the best bodybuilder beyond stage? There's a good shot of Quinton. That's a beautiful front double bicep. I mean, I I get what you're saying how Urs beats him in that, but Quinton has a prettier front double bicep. It's It's a very aesthetically pleasing physique, as is Ursus. There's Lewis Greed. Lewis just looking nasty. Look at that. And then we go back to amateurs. So, it's beyond the stage. Go back to who is the best bodybuilder. Well, there's the only shots I got of those two. I suppose it's a good comparison shot. I think there was another the one I used for the thumb. Where did I get that from? I don't even know right now. You got winning. Yeah, I don't even know if it's between those three, honestly. I don't know if Ali might be sneaking ahead of him. In a second, I'm gonna ask you guys what you see. Quinton. Oh man, I thought for sure somebody had Ali in his posing routine. Well, there's a good shot. I mean, this is the one I put in the thumb. I mean, Ali holds up very, very well to Urs in that frontal bicep. Certainly, he looks thicker. He is thicker. uh shape and structure probably give the edge to Earth has got beautiful shape and structure but that is Ali Edward Carbo looking great maybe now the euro may be worth less I don't know what the euro is worth I always just in my head think it's the same as a dollar which sometimes it's usually pretty close I believe not enough stride glutes guy quitting that back shot live stream and I've seen pics and it's it's $3510 that's how much the stream costs in in American Money dollars entries. Come on. Q win. Yeah, guys. How's it going? I'm too late. It's going well. You're right in time. Patrick was also doing very well. What's going on, Ryan? What's up, Melvin? Doing well, Ryan. How did Roman do? I saw him. I saw uh pictures. He was in the second call out. He was in the second call out. I'm just curious if Nick's got anything up yet. The reason I think Nick Nick Nick strength and power, he's like the uh you know, he does the best recaps, he's like the sports center of uh I don't think he's covering it today. Maybe he's waiting till it's all over. See, there's no point in Nick because Nick has to edit these. I'm I'm going live. I'm just opening up screens. I'm not doing any editing. Nick has to edit these. So, by the time he could edit the judging because they roll right into finals for these European shows, there's no time. By the time he's got the the judging video up, the show's over. So, he might as might as well just wait and do a whole video on the show itself, which I'm guessing that's what he did. Like I said, there was a video that had a lot of judging that a young kid, a young guy, I couldn't tell what country he was from. He had that going, but it got uh it got taken down. Yeah. somebody was not somebody reported him and uh or the the contest organizers themselves might have had somebody like scouring YouTube making sure nobody was stealing the stream. Thought Hector wasn't that good from the back. Let's see what else we got. Uh I was hoping Jonathan Maro was going to put up some pictures. Jonathan Maro, where you at? Jonathan Morio photo. Mario photo. Why is it all Why is it gone all of a sudden? If he was there, he usually puts up some really good videos and photos and stills. I do not think he's there. He is not there because he would have put something up by now. Yeah, he would have put something up. Let's leave this up for a second. Yeah, I mean Quint did Quint did everything he could to to try to get this win on the fourth attempt at an Olympic qualification in six weeks. Remember, he did the Tampa Pro, got second to Jordan Hutchinson, the Texas Pro, the next week got third behind Jordan Hutchinson and Joe Palasios uh last weekend all the way over to Milan, Italy, second place to Earth. And what's gonna happen today? Is he gonna get second again? We're gonna find out pretty soon. Pretty soon. Yeah, but they're very close, guys. It's not Ursus isn't blowing him away. And if if Quint wins, it's not going to be him blowing him away. Yeah, I you know what? I give Quint the rear lad spread because that width, it just it just impresses me more. Uh I heard more than a few people saying they thought Quint wins all the side shots, too. I think I'd give him I would give him the side tricep. Still needs more tricep. Biceps are really good. You know, his arms were a real weak point when he was a classic guy not that long ago last last year. His arms are no longer the weak point that they were, but they could still be better. The biceps are pretty close to where they need to be. It's the triceps. He still needs to fill those out a little bit more. Quint Quint has really good arms, bice and tries. And conditionwise, they're very, very close. I'll leave that up while we take some more of your comments here. Oops. Get back. Get back. Lewis side chest is so nutty. Kuba's on stage, too. Kuba pulled his bicep on stage. Ouch. That sucks. That sucks. Yeah. I mean, you're so dry, dehydrated, and lean. It's like a recipe for disaster in terms of muscle tears. That's why the fitness pros like Missy Truscod and Whitney Jones, they tore their they destroyed their knees during their routine on the Olympia stage. Flying home tomorrow, went straight to the hospital. Gez, poor Kuba. That sucks. Danny play said hi. We got a bad structure. Oh, you talk about Ali. Quinton looks fuller. Should win. Quinton got him on Cavs. If those calves on quints are 100% real, and I'm not saying they're not, but they're freaking phenomenal. And you know, I I I like I like when people prove stereotype strong. There's this stereotype that uh bodybuilders of African descent, whether they're African-American or wherever, but you know, originally from Africa, your ancestry, that your calves are really high and they're going to be awful. And that's not always the case. Andrew Jack has great calves. Simpsons has got pretty damn good calves. Quinton has pretty good calves. They're all Nigerian. Maybe it's just Nigerians that have the best calves. I don't know. But certainly if you go to the eastern part of Africa with places like Ethiopia and Somalia, you do see a lot of guys with well skinny bodies overall, but just very high thin calves. Or said he has cramps. Yeah, that's that's why he's shaking so bad. Stefan told Urs to really flex his hams last show. He's got cramps. Most like same with this show. Yeah, it's you know any of you guys who have competed, it's very common to get cramps up on stage. You're flexing so hard, you're dehydrated, your electrolytes are all out of whack, especially if you took a diuretic. I remember, you know, you've se we've seen guys like pass, not pass out, but freeze up, lock out on stage in a cramp and like in the abs or something, and they they they can't undo it. Quinton's midsection just look washed out. Yeah, Quinton definitely looks better. I know I know I'm not there. So far, say got the best ab and thighs right now. It's pretty damn good. I was showing Quinton look better. Oh, thank you, JMatt. Well, if if that's the case, then you know what? I'd be very very happy. I'd be happy for either guy if he won. Don't get me wrong. I'm not I'm not taking sides like that. But, you know, Quint Quint needs this win more than Urs does. I know that it shouldn't matter who needs it more. Like, you know what if somebody need the prize money or else their kid was going to not get some operation they needed, but in a case like this, it's just about getting to the Olympian. The only way Quinton Ara gets to the 25 2025 Olympia, which is less than four weeks away, it's going to be over four in four weeks from today, is by winning this show by beating Urs today. Is that going to happen? I do not know. We're going to find out. I mean, I'm keeping a a close eye on the stream on uh Zesttop Bodybuilding is doing a watch along with the photos. Xavier and I give it to update. Xavier has been up all night. It is 4:40 a.m. I believe for him. He's been up all night doing this damn thing. God bless him. I wouldn't do it. Quint is destroying him this time. Lol. AJ Kelly Roberts. Okay, let's go to AJ. Thank you. Yeah, AI should have realized A AJ does. Excuse me. AJ does a lot of screen grabs from his phone when the stream is on, but I think he's actually he's probably there. All right, so here's AJ's shots. Mark Hector certainly in the running today. Yeah, these are He must have taken these shots. So AJ's got some good seats. There's Urs. Yeah, that is a beautiful front doll bicep. And like I said, I think his biceps are great. They're They don't need to be much better than that. Triceps are good. They could just be a little fuller, a little more drop, but they're not they're not bad at all. Uh his his double bicep in classic used to really bother me because the arms were a weak point. They're not anymore. We've seen that shot of Quinton. Those two shots. Oh, breed. So, he's posting AJ's posting a lot of the pictures that we saw in the other one. I don't even know who was it. NP NPC News is posting these. He's tagging them. I don't know if they Yeah, Lewis Breed is a He's a freak. Straight up freak. Just pure bodybuilding. Mass and condition. Well, that's all he's got. Uh, I think he's just Those are pictures from wellness. The Earth effect I can't put the volume if I put the volume on its music. Yeah, I don't want to get a copyright strike just from the music, but the crowd was going bonkers for him. I you know, obviously it's Germany. He's their best open bodybuilder right now. He just he just became an open bodybuilder a week ago officially. Pretty crazy. Who's that still? Who's that still fit in a suit? Need to lift more. Quint going to win. Urs won the front double. That's one pose. Urs is wider. He is not wider. Venuks is a lot of things. He is not wider than Quint. You could say he has better legs or better this or that. Quint is wider and that's strictly solely because of his advantage genetically with that bone structure he was given by his parents or God or whatever you believe gave it to him. Uh just has wide clavicles. Wider clavicles. Ali Bet Hector. I think he is. From what I could, from what I was following along on um on Xavier's commentary, I believe I believe uh Mark is dropping down a little bit and Ali is going to get ahead of him. Mark's lately really catch my attention. Not in a good way. Yeah, he does have that that one side of his his back drops down a little wider. Ven Fuks, he's not wider. Ali just needs to get with somebody pose. You know, I've I've noticed that with the camel crew. He's not in the camel crew. He's in the United Arab Emirates. But, uh, I've noticed a lot of the guys over in the Middle East that are great bodybuilders, they don't seem to put a ton of effort into their posing presentation. Uh, awkward awkward poses. Is Earth better than Italy? Yeah, probably. I think Urs looks a little better. Quint is definitely better. is marginally better. I think he filled out a little bit, but I don't think so. Was that Roman? Okay. Yeah, because I know a lot of you guys want to see Roman. Here's how Roman Fritz looked today. So, from what I understand, he was in the middle of the second call out. So, he's probably looking, depending on how things go. Confirmation round, which I don't know if it's already over. Oh, it looks like they're doing it right now. I see I see Xavier has that up right now. Sometimes people can move up, but typically second call out, even if you're in the middle, that means anywhere from sixth to ninth place. Typically, let's say sixth to eighth. But yeah, he brought the condition and you know, I understand we talked about it yesterday doing the updates on the guys that he only prepped three weeks for this. So that tells you just how lean this guy stays. Um, yeah, I could see a lot more room for size in that upper body. That chest looks kind of caved in to me. Uh, I'm I'm not in I'm not saying anything about his conditions. Conditions right on. I just think he he could be a bigger guy. And I know if you look at his height and weight, he's not a small guy. I just think he could be bigger. He could be bigger. Who else? Uh, who else is in the first call out? So, if we go back to that first call out, which was show that again. Was that in bodybuilders without borders? Yeah, this was the first call out. So, you had Tim Budheim, Lewis Breed, Quinton, Aria, Erskinsky, Mark Hector, and Ali Edward Carbo. That was your first call out, a six-man call out. Ursen Quint had been placed in the middle, which you know, they're they're the ones fighting for this win today. And it's it's going to be very very shocking if Quint Quint pulls off an upset, especially right there in Germany. I'm I'm I know it doesn't uh it doesn't matter what the fans, you know, I shouldn't say it doesn't matter whether they agree or not, but the fans, if Urs loses, they're not going to be happy. They're going to be pretty unhappy. They're going to you're going to hear a lot of booing. Um, which is unfortunate. If Quint wins that, he's going to have to deal with that. But a win is a win. However, if Urs wins, the roof will come off that place because they're going to be screaming their lungs out for Earth as they probably have been all damn day. That's their guy. That's their top That's their top guy. Let me see if I can make that a little bigger. I can I know it loses a little bit of resolution when I do that, but at least you get a better better look. Theo should be in the first column. Well, he was in the second one. He was in the second column. Judges had Elliott Ed top placing before the show. He deserved top three even more. I don't think that Charlie I don't think the judges make decisions on who's going to place where ahead of time. I think they do their their best job to be fair and objective and judge what's in front of them. not going by name, not going by who looked good last week or a year ago, who's got uh more followers on Instagram or on their YouTube channel or who's where they have a sponsor that happens to be sponsoring this particular show as well. I don't think it's like that. Tried Jim A machines. Yeah, I actually did in um trying to remember where. So I think Jim 80 I think in Australia my son went to uh he did a semester at University of Queensland in Brisbane. Brisbane, Australia and the school gym. It was pretty goodiz gym. It was two floors. They had some gym 80 pieces that were really good. Does Ron not read the comments? AJ Kelly. I went to AJ Kelly's page. Yeah, I went to AJ Kelly's page, Isaac. I didn't see anything individual with I'll do it again. I don't think he had anything that we hadn't seen unless he's added some more stuff. What were we looking for? So, I was hoping to see some more of Ali Edward and I don't see that. I really was hoping that's Lewis. Oh, you want to see Buddhist? What the heck? Buddhist today, Tim Buddha. So, yeah. Um, I think he looks a little better. It's not gonna He's not a contention for the win. It's It's gonna be It's going to be Quintter, but he still looked good. These are obviously pictures that uh AJ took himself was classic, I think. Yeah, it was the classic. I didn't I didn't obviously I didn't cover the classic today. I usually only cover classic if there are some really big names in it. I'm all about the big names. I I admit it. Totally admit it. Let's say shots of Roman shots of Urs. Yeah, I do read the comments, but yeah, I get behind obviously because when I'm talking I can't be reading and talking at the same time because you're still new to Ron. No, darling. I mean, I don't, like I said, I I get to the comments, but I'll I'll get away from the comments for a few minutes and then I look and then there's like 30 comments. Both back shot side. Earthwinds advertise me frontal by if you like that. Let's go back. Yeah. I mean, if if you guys know any any other any uh Instagram pages that have more more comparison shots from the judging, these are stills. Obviously, that was the same. The one we just saw just saw. Yeah. So, we'll just leave this up for a sec and see. I'll leave a video up and then I go to your comments, but even then it I I get behind. I get behind. Yo, I appreciate having 330 people watching. Thank you guys. Appreciate you watching. Good afternoon, Ron. What's up, man? Current status, Ali is also good on stage. Yeah, I from from what I could see in the stills that uh Xavier was showing, I think he's a solid third place today. Should blame my calves on black carriage. Oh, there's plenty of white guys with terrible calves. you know, it's all the the only if you want to call it ethnic group or can we I don't think we say race anymore. Whatever. I've noticed that people from uh China, but especially Korea, Japan typically have really good calves. I don't see I can't recall ever seeing a bodybuilder, a pro from Korea, Japan, or China with skinny legs or skinny calves. It just it doesn't happen. Ronnie recall once towards biceps on the limp stage. Ouch. Who can blame? Yeah. Well, like I said, plenty of white guys. It's it's just uh it's insertions. If your calves insert very high genetically that you can never have big calves. There aren't enough muscle cells there. Whereas somebody with very low calf insertions might never have to train calves in their lives. I mean, how many times you guys been out and you'll see some middle-aged dadbod guy with a big gut. You can, it's clear he's never either he's never been to a gym in his life or it's been many, many years since he touched a weight. And they have these big diamond shaped cows. It's not It's not from anything else. Xavier is a vampire. I give it up to him, man. I I hate staying up late like that. I hate it. Um I think looks like they're doing the pose down right now. So it's almost over, guys. It's almost over. It's very close for last Quinton, which makes I don't think though. I mean, I I don't think they're going to do that. I think they're going to give it to Quinn if they really genuinely feel he deserves it. If they genuinely feel Urs deserves the win, even if it's by a tiny margin, I still think they're going to give it to to uh Urs. You know, I've gone on record and I've been slammed saying if it's super close, I would just give it to the guy who needs to go to the Olympia. If it's super close, like they're as as far as most people are concerned, it's a tie. Larry Pollock been up all night, too. I don't know why Larry's in uh California. So that's West Coast time. Rio1 has great quality shots. Thank you. I'll take a look at that. REO1. REO1. Let's take a look. Appreciate that. See, I do check the REO1. Or did you mean rep one? I think you meant rep one. I should follow them. Oh yeah, here we go. Oh boy, we got some good stuff here. So, yeah, they got great I think they're sponsoring. Are they the ones running the live stream? So, this is Matias Hwick from Germany. Oh, great. We can take a look at a few of these guys. Yeah, they're doing the pose down. So, it's almost over, guys. It's going to be over in a matter of minutes. Wow. It's going to be It's going to be over before I'm even done looking at all these guys, I'm sure. Z wholewick. Very nice classic shape to him. Ah, here we go. Roman Fritz. I appreciate you letting me know about that. Oh, it's going way back. See how rep one? Yeah, Earth's arms may go seemly smaller than Quinton. Yeah, Quinton's got bigger arms. See more Quint looks like conditioning his bit off. Told you Quint had a chance to win this. Yeah, I didn't I never said he's got no chance. I just thought Urs is not going to get worse. So the only chance Quint could have is to get significantly better, which looks like he did. That's why I roly small because he stays less six weeks off his competition. Yeah, I mean it it's hard to put on mass when you're staying super super lean all the time. And of course, the guy looks great, but he's second call out. He uh with this shape and condition with a little bit more mass like it wouldn't have to be anything crazy like another 10 pounds of muscle with that conditioning. I I could definitely see him in the first call out back in person again. I was at the show versus wider the photo against Ali. Oh, okay. Talk about in the front double. Yeah, I don't think Ali is structurally the widest guy either. Quentis, sure. Romans frequent hip replacements. Yeah, someone said he's had four. Was it six? Six hip replacements or I think they said four. Six would be ridiculous. But jeez, what the hell? Why does he keep needing his hips replaced? So, that's Roman. Is he still going? It's going to be over in a second, so I'll get to the next guy. Yeah, Rep One German German company. They got some great great footage up. So there this is their footage of Quint which we saw before. So that's what somebody put up. This is better than the live stream. Yeah, this is better than the live stream for sure qualitywise. Can you explain what top tier athletes do differently compared to Tina? Uh it's they don't do anything differently. I think honestly, AJ, the difference between the tier one guys and the and the other guys is genetics. Uh I don't think the tier one guys necessarily work much harder or they're much smarter or they're better coaches than the tier two and three guys. They just have better genetics. There are diff there are levels. Even at the pro level, there's different tiers of genetics. So like everybody talking about Roman there. Clear bite Morphy's got going on. Miracle bear for the win. finally made it to the work. What you got, please? What's current going on what I'm missing prejudge? Well, it's almost over. Yeah, bring it home. It's it's uh I'm I'm watching Xavier's watch along because it's it's almost over. They're almost at the point where they're going to be announcing placings very soon. Overall, Earth is looking the best. GM8 is germ brand. Yeah, fantastic equipment. Uh I did use a lot of it down. They have Jim Leo. Jim Leo, I think, is a Swedish company and Jim 80 is German. I've used Jim 80 a few times before. There's not a lot of it in the US. I can tell you that. There's not. All right, that was Quint. Who else I got? Tim Budy. Yeah, Buddha looks better in video. He looks better when he's moving than he does in in photos, for sure. Oh, this time his lower body. Yeah, he's I would say it's his lower body is still a little better than his upper body, but it was a much larger disparity last year and the previous years, the past few years when he was classic. His upper body has definitely caught up significantly, substantially, I should say. Crow's eye control. Oh, I believe that, JMAT. believe that you're supposed to check stories while Ron such a tech newbie. Well, mo usually if they have you want me to check the stories. No, I check the stories, but the stories half time is just them holding some supplements or something. Usually if they have anything good on video, this is rep one. Fortunately, in a lot of cases like that, I think you're talking about whoever needs to get to Olympia. Jada, what's up, Jada? Appreciate you being here. uh you're supposed to go to their page and go to the tag photos and all. Well, rather than go to everyone's individual pages, uh there are these other sites that cover the the events like uh who is the best bodybuilder, Bodies Without Borders, Beyond the Stage TV, Sulios does a good job. So, they sort of collate everything onto one page, the pictures and the videos. So that saves me from having to look up individual individual routines of everybody. Was this a second call out? That was just a focus on Tim. Is Tim one of their athletes or something? Tim, that's Ali, Edward, Quint, Urs, Mark, Lewis. Was that the That was the first call out going back and forth on the stage. Yeah, good stuff. Here's their Earth footage. Wonderful. Wonderful quality. Look at that. Ali shots with Quinton closer. It's a bit unfair in that regard. Ali was a standout surprise. They won't allow him to win. I don't think he deserves Do you really believe he deserves to beat both Urs and Quint? I mean, I saw some shots and I don't think he deserves to beat both of them. Oh, it looks like it's over, guys. Shouldn't be pro. They suck. Urs not losing home show. Oh, is it over? Earth takes it. Earth won. Earth won, guys. Earth won. I see that. So, Quit must have been second. Yeah. So, we now know Urs did win. It's over. It's all over over there. Urs took that last chance away from Quint, but like I said, the judges must have felt he honestly deserved it. And that's it. Even though it was close, they could have given it to Quint to get him into the Olympia. A lot of people would love to see Quint in the Olympia. They didn't do that. They didn't do that. They did the right thing. Yeah. Interesting. Uh I don't know if anyone's got any winning footage up yet. That would be that would be extremely fast if they did. Uh I know what's I know that uh AJ likes to get stuff up fast. So maybe he's got something. No. You guys see anything with the winning with the winning footage up yet? I don't. Can I all be like Darren Yates who won? Urs Kachchinsky won. Earth one. Trying to see if they have Is this real? Earth one. Earth one. I'm looking for more placings. I could see in the thumbnail or if I amplify it, I should say, I could see roughly who who placed where. So, okay, if I magnify this, this is from Okay, so I see Ali Edward is on the other side of Earth on the pod on the winning. So, that means Ali got third. Oh, wow. So, looks like there's five guys on stage. I see Mark Hector on the one side, Quint, Urs, Ali, and Amr Omaric. So, wow. I'm guessing Amar Omaric got fifth place. And we weren't even looking at him. I don't remember any videos. No one was putting up anything with Amr. We'll go back to rep one. Did rep one have anything with her with Amrir? I don't think so. Well, he pulled it off. He made top five. So, good good job, Amrir. Yeah. Let me know, guys. Let me know if you see any any good footage of the uh the win anywhere. Let's go. Urs won. Urs won. Urs looks better from the pictures. Urs wins. He did. He did win. I was on the second row about 25. Mark looked decent. I couldn't see his triceps at all. Huh. Quinton looks like the winner. He did not win. It was Urs. It was Urs. If Quinton does qualify, who would lose most spot? Oh, nobody would lose a spot. Rip one belongs to ESPN there. The main sponsor. Thank you, Von folks. Frost from Ali for what I witnessed. Ali's always on stage the big name, but Ali is good on stage. Fritz said his hips replaced four times and once he almost died during surgery, an allergic reaction. Unbelievable. Well, that's grit. That is that is a guy who won't give up. That's perseverance. I didn't see the judges handing over anything to Dennis James after each confirmation round. They just called out the placing. They apparently had them at the pre-judging. Uh, Earth one. Earth one. Earth looked very full, but had terrible tan. It was very dry. Very dry mean not enough oil. That's a rookie mistake. Earth one. Yeah, Earth wins. What's up, Jada? Remember Jada competing years ago? Looked looked phenomenal. Earthwind confirmed. Yes. So, it looks like I I could tell you the top three and then you guys can fill in for me because I'm not sure uh fourth and fifth what the order was. But I'm going to guess Hector was if I put this in them wrong, please can please let me know. I'm just typing it up now. Mark five mirror. Okay. Yeah. So ah that's supposed to be a period after three. Damn it. Damn it. Run. Fix that [\h__\h] So that's your these are your results after three. I believe that that is correct. I get it right. Urs Quint Ali Edward Carbo Mark Hector Emir Omar Rajik let's go confirmed. There's never any doubt because it was a German pro. Is that what you're saying? The Chinese guy should do the honorable thing and give his Olympic qualification quitting. Nobody's going to give their qualification to anybody. You can't you can't transfer them like that. It's not like uh rewards points on your Sky Miles or something for like Delta Airlines. Yeah, but congratulations Urs. He pulled it off tonight. Quinton should shut down at Tampa. Well, Raymond, I I think he should have done the France show in after after Texas rather than doing these European shows. I know he wanted to go over there and train with uh Samson, everything, but next week is the show in France. It's the first chance to qualify for the 2026 Olympia. I think he has a much better chance of doing well at the Olympia with another solid offseason. So, you see guys do that all the time. They they get their qualifications early like Martin Fitzwwater did last year in Prague. Uh Brett Wilin did it in was it Romania? Uh and then they have a whole year. So that gives him a whole off seasonason to improve and then come into the Olympia nice and fresh rather than having to go through prep for much of the year like some of these guys have been in prep for months. It's not live. No, it's not live. Yeah, did win. Urs did win. He did. Uh, who's qualified? Mr. O now. Same guys. Same guys. Earth looks way more dense than Quinton. Muscle enjoyers. sources of the winds. Congrats to Urs. Yeah. Do you guys know is there any footage up yet of Let's go back to rep one. Do they have anything up yet? If I go to another site and come back to them. No, they don't have it up yet. Jeez. I mean, it's I tell you the social media is so fast that if you don't have the results up within like five minutes, then you suck your old news. It's a very very fastm moving. No, it's not even the right division. Nope. Besides does not have anything up yet. It's still that does AJ AJ probably not too happy about this. I think he wanted Quint to win. Yeah. Nothing yet. I don't see anything up yet. Anything up about the winners or D8 again? He did it again. Did it again. Would have been better if the excitement of Quint. Oh, of course, because it would be someone new winning. It would have been a great upset. I think it's training is really locked in about that. Quinton looked improved enough. So, I thought they'd give it to him for the qualification. Is there a list of all the athletes qualified with the O? Yeah. So, I will show you the qualified Olympia list. Uh, if you go to mrolympia.com, Mr.Olyia.com, um, I'll show you who's qualified. Who's qualified for the Olympia? Let's take a look. Okay. So, here is a list of everyone that was qualified. They've and um was I don't think they updated it because Oh, yeah, they did. So, it's it hasn't changed at all because nobody else qualified today. So, this is everyone going to the Olympia. Brett Wilin, let make that bigger. Brett Wilin, Samson Da Chupan, Derek Lensford, Rafael Bondo I heard, has dropped out is not in the show. Martin Fitzwwater, Akim Williams, Brandon Curry, William Bonak, Good Veto, his real name is Vitali, Chined Oba, that is Andrew Jack, Nick Walker, Regan Grimes, Tonio Burton, Sassan Herati, Beerus Tibbani, which I don't know if he's getting here. Cheng Long Chen, that's the guy I think some of you were saying should give us qualification to Quint. Rubel Mosca, that is Nezilla, Jordan Hutchinson, and Dorian Haywood, our Masters Olympic champion. And last but not least, Urs Kachchinsky, the Miracle Bear, who qualified twice for the Mr. Olympia. That's who's going to the Mr. Olympia. Yep. Okay. Uh, this is for Germany. De. If it's Brazil, it would be Br. Remember when I said give Earth a chance? Yeah. Urs looked better and was a rightful winner. If Quinton worked hard enough to be on the Mr. O stage. Yeah, Quentyn is in the same place Samson was in 2021. Samson couldn't win a show. 2022 one show got six. Yeah, I think Quint just needs more. He needs more mass. He needs to fill out. He's not big enough yet for that frame for those long limbs. He looks great, but he he needs to be bigger. Uh so Paul Bartlett gives us his top five. Nick is winning the ol Mr. Olympia. Congratulations, Nick Walker. hottie chupan Derek Martin. Oh, by the way, Nick actually got back to me today. I asked him for an interview again and he said he's not doing any podcasts right now. So, I didn't take it personally. If he's not doing any podcast, however, if I see him on a podcast tomorrow, I'll know it's that was just his way of uh letting me down easy in order. Let me try this. Republic DSDS. What the hell does that mean? Uh, I heard he isn't in the he's not in the US, but he does have the visa secured. I did hear that visa is all set. No worries. He doesn't need to be here for a full, you know, full month. Two weeks is plenty of time to be here. Urs the goat. Well, he's not the greatest of all time. Quit definitely on the way. This is just part of the story. Next year he's going to break out. Get from somebody called so I don't know what that means. Quinn should go in classic now. He's way too heavy for classic. Happy for earth. Notice his left calf looks substantially smaller. He always had great calves. Not sure what's going on there. Maybe I should put up uh put this up again. I'm still waiting to see if anyone has any winning shots up yet. I want to see like one picture of on stage winning. Rep one. Still nothing on rep one. Come on, rep one. Get your [\h__\h] together. Be on the stage TV. Nope. Nothing there. I should probably share these. Well, so you see what I'm seeing. Okay, but I assume you guys are gonna let me know in the in the comments. Dane, what's up, Dane? I don't think Heidi's going to make it. He's still in Dubai. Oh, now he's got no papers, no visa. Damn it. H, okay, so that was some fake news I got. Shocking. Wrong, Harris. But you know what? I I fall for fake news all the time. I fall for fake AI stuff on Instagram all the time. My son, my son laughs his ass off at how gullible I am with the AI stuff. I don't think Quinton would have won France at this point. I mean, Stefan Matala, I just saw some pictures of him. He is looking nuts. Stefan Matala nuts. Uh, Urs number one again. Quinton was for sure improved. Earth first place again deserve to win. I It It was a coin toss. I mean, I like them both unless I'm unless I was there. Unless I see some really good high resolution images, I'm reserving judgment. Oh, Ron doesn't want to give his opinion. Huh. Cool live stream, dude. Well, I wish I could show the live stream, but that's uh that's how you lose your channel. Versus way better than Quinton last time was slightly better than Quinton this time. It's a good observation. Good way to put it. Yeah, he won fair and square, guys. They didn't give him the win just because it was in Germany. just because he's got millions of followers and he had people screaming their lungs out in that audience for him. What's with the guy from UAE? He looked crazy. Ali Edward Carbo. Yeah, I wonder. Okay. Well, let's go to his page. I don't know if he's got anything up yet. Any pictures? Ali. Ali. Ali. Ali. Oh, there we go. Maybe in his stories. No. Old, old, old old. That was my thumbnail. Great job. Thanks for sharing, Ally. There's a supplement. See, I told you the stories is usually just showing all their their sponsor stuff, which I get it. Why wouldn't you do that? Sponsors are paying for everything. Yeah, I don't see any I I want to see some good shots of them. There's a good double buy. Can't make those any bigger. Uh, I can't make this page. I can make it bigger. Yeah. So, there's Ursen Ali. Ali ended up in third. Okay. Someone's zooming in on their computer screen with their phone. Really good back shots on this guy. Clearly, the resolution, the quality is not fantastic here, so I can't get a great indication. of what he looked like. But yeah, third place. Third place in this lineup. He beat a lot of people that were supposed to place in time. He beat Mark Hector. He beat Lewis Breed. Beat Hulwick. Beat a lot of guys today, Ali. So, congratulations. I'm sure a lot of fans are Well, they're sideways. We can't look at sideways. First call out. So, he's very, very happy to be in that first call out. Ali and deservedly so. And he's someone we're going to be watching now. We're going to be paying a lot more attention to this guy moving forward. Ali Edward Carbo from United Arab Emirates. Very thick guy with really good shape with those quads. Nice quad sweep. Great Vtaper. Lats look a little bit on the high side maybe. Yeah, this is a phone. Video phone. Video phone. Video from someone's iPhone. Oh, that actually look better. Can I make that bigger? Oh, come on, Ron. You can do it. That's some good stuff. AJ phones weren't allowed. Well, he was using he was clearly taking pictures with his phone. Photographers put them out. Yeah, I've seen that happen a lot. If you're in the press area and you're next to professional photographers, they get pretty irked if they they see you there taking videos and stuff. I've seen people getting thrown out. Wrong Harris. Hey, I I didn't come up with that and I don't particularly like that in the game. Ky didn't make it to finals. He popped his bicep. Paul Barlo was a guy with glasses, crazy legs, green trunks and glasses. I think Ursil plays the Olympia. I think he's uh he's in the contention for like ninth or tenth. And you say, "What? That's it, dude? ninth or 10th in the Olympia. He just turned open. Uh that would be incredibly very very respectable. What do you think the results, Ron? Uh I was I thought they were right on. And it is so late for you. Go to bed. My god, it's 5:16 in the morning. If if you're in the same time zone as Lee, I know you've been up all night. Um that's Ali. You've been up all damn night. Gosh. Go to bed. Go to bed, Xavier. I wouldn't do it. You know, you're you're more dedicated to this than me. I think maybe if I was like maybe if my YouTube channel had a lot more subscribers and I was making a lot more money, I would stay up all damn night. But nah, for for the amount of money I'm making, I I really value my sleep, my health in general. Think Jose Raymond gave her nickname. You're right. I think Jose did. If not, then he's the one who certainly perpetuated it. Edward impressed me. I was very impressed with Edward. Guy's called Patrick Paul. Green Trunks glasses. So, I'll go to rep one and see if I can find him there. Rep one had a lot of uh a lot of competitors in there. You have any winners yet? No. Still nothing from the win. Green trunks glasses. Anybody? Anybody with green trunks and glasses? Nope. No, I don't see anybody. These are like Is that Ronnie Raquel? Was there an amateur an amateur show there, too? That's Ronnie Raquel from, you know, the good old days. Still at it. He's back, huh? New IPB Pro. I don't know if is Ronnie a pro again. What's that say? Saw a performance for fifth place. Ah, he only got fifth place. Uh, is he 53 years old? Is he that old? He probably is. Yeah. I don't know where I can find this green guy with the green green trunks and the glasses unless you let me know. I think I passed them earlier and I just moved on because I was trying to find the the big names. Green Trunks glasses. Green Trunks glasses. Don't see them. Don't see him. So, my bad. I don't know where he went. Number one. Yep. Yep. Crazy [\h__\h] legs. Insane. Doesn't matter. It'll be seen later. Some guy say his name was Patrick. Yeah, I saw a Patrick on the list. I remember uh Xavier saying something about him. Beyond the Stage put up some stuff. Let's see. Okay, because I just checked him a second ago, but they might have just posted some new stuff. Beyond the Stage, let's take a look. Nope. Nothing new. Nothing new on Beyond the Stage TV. Yeah. What if AJ if AJ was like waiting then you know a lot of people don't want to go right as soon as the show is over they don't want to just sit down and be posting they they're talking to people they're taking pictures you know it's usually the the knuckleheads that are sitting at home like like I am these days I used to be at the shows uh it's guys like us that that tend to be quicker with the updates because we're home we're home it's easier See, I'm going to talk about the show today. Fuk says Vasol Vaseline. Yeah, Rock got fifth in his division. Who won? Urs won. Rock didn't get the card. It's funny because he was a great Ronnie Raquel was a four-time pro champion who was top six in the Mr. Olympia back in 2010. Doesn't matter what we see there. Uh, he likes to remember I I always like to see Freaky Legs. Yeah, I don't know where where his pictures are, but Patrick Gimsky wasn't even second call out or swan. I mean, that would have been me. If I had turned pro, I could have juiced my brains out harder and my legs I could have got them even freaker. Refresh, bro. Uran looks like guy played the in anchor man and Bruce Almighty. Jenny wins Golimsky guy insane legs. Instagram does not show it. Honey ask is not a visa yet. That sucks. What's up Davey? Crazy thing is probably had this type for the last two years. Had to lose muscle. Yeah, he said he was losing 20 plus pounds to make weight and now we see him with so he didn't gain 30 pounds of muscle from last year. This year he kept at least 20 pounds he already had and then he put on another 10 pounds. It's more like it like big Ramy fid back. Connie Ramb switched to open two years ago. He's only 27. He's got plenty of time. ESPN pay the bill. Bill, I think you meant say therefore Kolinski Kachinsky must win. Yeah, the fix was in. Earth sucks. Watch someone take what I just said and say Ron said Earth sucks. No, it was a joke. It was a joke. Earth is pretty damn good. Not saying he sucked. Get real, guys. Maybe who was the best bodybuilder? What do they got? Anything new. Well, they got that. I'll leave that up. Katinski wins the second pro show. TW right San Diego. Forget his places this year. Yeah. Anything to do with sponsor? He wouldn't want Italy as well. Yeah, exactly. So, conspiracy [\h__\h] bro. form. I don't know what that means. Apologize to you Germans. I'm murdering your language. Murdering it. But I like to try to pronounce I love trying trying my best to pronounce languages I can't speak. Guess something form oxia is. And then this guy says grandmop sponsor must mean the the main sponsor lead. I don't know what that means. Retroplat Roman. Where did Roman place? I don't know. I don't know. The scores aren't out yet. Oh, thanks man. Uh I will try to find sometimes they get the scores up really quickly. Rarely. I you know it's rare. So I go to ifbbro.com. That's where you find all the results. It's not up yet. It's not up yet. Beauty pageantss are always political. I mean, this is kind of a a beauty pageant for muscles. It's not like a sport where, you know, Patriots are playing the Dolphins right now. My daughter's at the game in Miami with her husband. Um, and that's whoever gets the most touchdowns, but this isn't like that. It's a shame Quinton could not qualify. I agree. But he wasn't ready to do any damage at the Olympia this year anyway. if he couldn't beat Urs, he couldn't beat Jordan. Um, you know, he lost to he lost to two guys in four shows, although he was third. I He was third behind Jordan and Joe. But I'm saying if he couldn't beat Jordan and he couldn't beat Earth, what makes you guys think he was going to be doing any damage to Olympia? Crazy good guess form. He has more complete except he means he says main sponsor whose bread I eat, whose song I sing. See, that's something that that that that's a phrase that does not translate well into English. Like my wife is Cuban and they have some some sayings that don't translate well into they're hilarious in Spanish, but they just don't translate. I think Quinton needs to do I think he's been pro seven years. Oh, if if I was if Quinton came to me, and he won't, but if Quinton came to me and said, "Ron, what should I do?" I would say, "Quinton, I want you to go live with Milo Sarv or rent a be rent an Airbnb or something. Go to go to Vegas for six months, train with Milos Sarv every day. Do what Milos tells you to do as far as the eating, the insulin, all that [\h__\h] I promise you Quinton would get much bigger. Samson got much bigger. Samson would not have gained the size he needed to become Mr. Olympia if he had not worked with Milo Saria for two years. I firmly believe that. And I think Quinton, unless he does something similar, I don't see him making that leap that Samson made. I think he is capable of it. I think Quinton has the tools, the genetics, the structure. He doesn't have the mass yet that he really needs. He needs to fill that frame out. And Milo Sarv would be my best suggestion. Marca Visalian order. I don't know what that means. It's a beauty pageant for muscles. It's true though, Dave. It's true, Paul. I mean, it is a pageant. It's a pageant. It's judges deciding who's got the best body up there. It's it's really all uh in the eye of the beholder. I said that physique is better than all. Has nothing to do with ESN. Thank you. You know, it's uh if one I was going to put up uh a separate video. I'm not going to do it now because we've already been talking and he won, but I was going to put up a thumbnail. It said Deutseland's Uber Alis Deutsland overall. But I can't because unfortunately even though it originally was supposed to be a patriotic thing for Germans prior to World War II, prior to the the Nazis and all that way before that, it was just like a un a rallying cry for Germans like our country is the best. But it got uh sort of taken over what's the word appropriated by by Adolf Hitler and the Nazis. Deutschan Gubberes was seen as like a Aryan race superiority thing. So I could not I would not do that. that I'm not gonna I'm not going to have anything controversial like that. Gibbs. Oh gosh. Gibbats toten. Wow. Is that even German? It must be. Good lord, that is hard to pronounce. Is symmetry. Where did Roman place? Does anybody know where Roman placed? Charisma, smiling face, story, you know, stuff also matters. Yeah, Ursa. Ursa has always had so much charisma and personality on stage. He's got that thousand watt smile. You could tell he's loves being up there. He loves posing and performing. Urs wins again. Yep, he did. Naja Quinton. Quinton. No, it is Quinton. You're right. Quint quint wider shoulders and frame. So you're speak we say spang English for people that mix Spanish English together. You're speaking Germanish German and English together. So you thought uh you thought Quinn should have won. I guess it's a double win for the history books. Yeah. First two open pro shows open. What does that mean? I'm watching here. The third place is better than Quinton. So, third place was Ali Edward Carbo. I don't know. You could make that argument. They both looked really good. Or is the top Polish body? Well, he is originally. He's from uh he's from Germany. Did he grow? Did he was he born in Poland? I know his parents are Polish. Kachinsky is not a German name. If you see anything with a ski on the end, it's typically a Polish name. My grandfather was from uh Poland, so I know a little bit about it. I'm going to stop trying to I'm going to stop murdering your language, guys. All that insulin carbs is going to make me diabetes. Worth it. Yeah. I mean, I'm not saying it's the healthiest thing to do to put on a ton of body weight and use a lot of insulin. I'm not saying that's healthy, but would that take Quint to the next level? Yeah, probably. German guys speaking to each other in the chat. That's fine. Versus Smith Roman. No one knows where he placed. Am I going to do it again? on two walking is minus pocket steam [\h__\h] jealous Roman where'd he place. I don't know. German anthem now. It's Deutsand. Oh, you can say it. Okay. I didn't know. German is hard. All languages are hard if you don't speak them. Don't read the German. They're discussing by the placing. I'm Deutseland. Yeah, that's a that's a great song by Ramstein Deutsand. Germany above all so-called song of the Germans part of the national land. Beautiful song. I mean we have America the beautiful American Fritz position is unknown he's marked outside so maybe sixth or seventh place Olympia I think ninth or 10th is is fair and if if he makes top 10 that's great Germans here not in favor of winning what kind of Germans are you versus Polish size placing German the show is Roman thank you okay well he lives I'm sure he's a he's a German citizen Paul I mean if you if you want to talk like ethnically Emir Omaric, I don't think he's ethnically a German guy. Omaric doesn't sound like a very German name to me. Uh, you Europeans, tell me what tell me where Emir Omaric, what his origins are. I don't think it's that does not sound like a German name to me. Correct me if I'm wrong. Hot Isabone, guys. Deutschandis Earth is also Hermanbach got destroyed. And don't forget Earth posing as well. Oh, he's an amazing poser. I love his routine. Full chest dance. Can't wait to see Earth staying with Nick and Hottie. It's going to be wild. Yeah. I mean, I hope he gets call out with those guys. Remember, if he's not in if he's not in contention for like a first call out, you're probably never going to see Urs next to Nick and Hottie and Samson and Derek. Uh, and Andrew Jacked. Um, maybe though, maybe. Find out. Use code Paco. He's Polish. He was born and raised in Germany. Now we're we're arguing whether Urs is Polish or German. Yes, he is one. He he won first place Oscar. Oscar M. German only has Polish roots. Yeah. Versus Polish born region. Yeah. It's like Dennis Wolf. Um, Dennis Wolf was was born and raised in Siberia in the former Soviet Union. I think his parents were of German ancestry, I think, because Wolf is a German name. That's not a Russian name. But, uh, Dennis Wolf grew up in Siberia. I think he moved to Germany when he was what, 13 or 14, I want to say. And he speaks German fluently, Russian fluently, English fluently. Isanv, I don't know. What does that mean? Versus from Germany. Yeah. I'm going to stop trying. I'm I'm going to stop destroying your uh your language guys. Third place is more dense. Talking about Ali Edward Carbo Polish basically any footage of the winds. No earth is German. His grandparents are also Germans who live what was former Germany. Ah okay. Now Poland why has Polish sur was German. Yeah. Remember guys the the borders of some of these countries have shifted over you know that part of Europe western Europe it's it's gone through so many different empires. I mean, there was the Prussian Empire, the AustroHungarian Empire. Uh, so a lot of these countries have changed names. The borders have moved like tens or hundreds of miles in some cases for some countries. No, Roman did not retire. He was in the show today. He looked pretty well. Earth one, Quinton 2. All right. I'm going to look and see one last time if there's anything else on Rep One if they have anything new up. They do not. Rep one. What is up with you guys? Nothing new. Dog gone it. What about who's the best bodybuilder? Anything new? Nope. What about Beyond Stage TV? Anything new? No. Guess they're all done. I'm going to be done too in a second. Finally by those love orders. And nothing new. Nothing new. Not even something about the winner. Dog gone it. Oh well. I'm going to be taking off, guys. I've been yapping for over an hour now. Yeah. Is it official? Where'd he go? I I lost. Sometimes I the the the comments go uh there'll be no com new comments and then 40 of them will pop up all at once. There's a little lag. Germany become the new hot bed of open competitors. Oh, Germany's had very strong bodybuilding scene for many years. Dave Earth. The best 90s more mass magic is from Montenegro. Where is that? I don't Half of Germany went to Poland after World War II. Do you blame him? Balkan region. So that's where Montenegro is. Okay. He's Polish ethnically. Was born and raised German. So he's German. Amir is Turkish. Turkish. Thank you. That sounds Amir sounds like AI've known a lot of guys named Amir. Am I R. Amir must also be a common Turkish name. Blute. Bluton. Blood and iron. blood and honor. Blut that was what the uh the early youth had on their daggers. Yeah, they had some cool stuff. The Third Reich, I'm not I'm not adv I'm not approving of the Third Reich. I'm just saying they had some some cool clothes and weapons and stuff. German Polish by blood. German citizen. Urs took another qualifier from Quint. Urs first. Yep, he won. He's I know. I just said I wouldn't do it. I'm not going to do it. Stop, Ron. Stop. Is Classic dying and death of all top guys moving up? No, because classic always has so many guys moving into classic. So many more new guys becoming classic Zeke pros. They're in no danger. Oh, suppose call is German with Polish background. Yeah. See what happened there? You are now Spanish. He's ethnically German. His grandparents German. His grandparents lived in what was East Germany, now Poland. They were Germans who had to adopt a Polish surname. Dennis Wolf was Russian German and Braasilian. My grandparents mother's Italian, father's German. So what I I don't know. Yeah, Brazil. Brazil, Argentina both have a lot of German German people of German ancestry living there. Stop all this [\h__\h] I'm just imaginary border. And we're all just humans on this one big planet which is just a little tiny speck in the universe. We're arguing about you are now Spanish. Rick one is at the show. If Earth places top 10 Olympia, it will still be like uh a win for that short amount of time. Absolutely. Well, we know Wesley Vissors is switching to open. We know he's doing that. Even if you have to go now, run. Still a good show. Thank you, Paul. You always join me late, but that's fine. I always appreciate having you on. Damn, I look how he tuned in. Yeah, it was good. I mean, some of the guy, you know, the guys doing the the the still frames like um uh Xavier had uh about a thousand people watching at one point. I think Matt Matt gets even better views from muscle discord on his lives live coverage. We're able to see great pictures just Polish champion. Are you Polish, Paul? Is that why you keep harping on the Polish thing? I mean I'm So one of my grand my grandfather was from Poland and my grandmother was from Ukraine and the other grandparents all my grandparents died before I was born but the other grandparents were wasp white Anglo-Saxon Protestant so the Harris is very very British English whatever you want to call it and then Mikolovich was my my uh mom's maiden name Mikolovich and that was uh my Polish grandfather's nameovich, but I'm a hair sexually old class. Earth is coming. Earth shaking like a leaf or still a German bro. Anyway, yeah, guys are talking about his shaky calf. Polish. Oh man, Montenegro is below Croatia. I only know Cro Croatia because my daughter's been there a couple times on vacation. They just she was just in Croatia uh like a month ago on vacation with her husband. Even own clothes brand has German flag colors actually from Montenegro. It's in Balkans. There's Serbia, Croatia and stuff. Urs and Jordan Hudson would be a great comparison. Oh, I I I'm very confident they're going to end up next to each other in the in the callouts at the Olympia because they're at a very similar level as far as physiques and wins and just where they stand in the total Mr. Olympia rankings. They're both second call out guys. First call out guys. That's your Samson, Nick Walker, Hottie Chupan, Derek Lunsford, Andrew Jacked, uh Martin Fitzwwater. Those are all first call out guys. You know, we might see somebody else in that first call. You never know. Urs got them all. Do calf, whatever your father is. The seed is in the father. Oh my. Well, then that would make me uh just English, I guess. Uh, go in the Olympia. Lots of Nazis fled to Argentina. That's why I assume he drove to Brazil. There was an old movie in the in the late '7s. I think it was 1978 with Lawrence Olivier called The Boys from Brazil and it was about uh like a secret project to clone Adolf Hitler that was going on in Brazil, you know, 20, 30 years after the war was over. The boys from Brazil. We are united by the muscle. Love you guys. Bye. Peace out, Paul. Thanks for joining. Oh, yeah. Urs is Polish. Is Wesley really doing open? Oh, I I only saw him say it. I didn't I didn't follow up and see if he was trolling us. Next level with Urs. Oh gosh, I lost it. Worstly. Wesley isn't open. It's always weak point. Let's see if he can grow his legs now. I'd love to see it. Wesley simply say he's not open. Oh, he just wants to do one open show. Everybody wants to do an open show. Feel bad for Quint. Yeah, he had a good season. He made improvements. He showed improvements. Uh, unfortunately, he just got beat. He just got beat four different times. Uh, by the same guy twice, three times. When is decision? It's over. Yeah. I mean, when I take this out, you can see the when I stop showing the comments, you see the these are the results. Urskinsky. Maybe I should go to another page that shows the results. Beyond the Stage TV had it. I'll just leave it up with them. Yeah, Beyond the Stage TV. No, they didn't do it. Was it body up orders? Who was the best bodybuilder? Yeah. So, there you go. There's your results. says CL we sent in his last video pay his dies not quite there yet Ikeman flew Adolf Ikeman flew South America Ikeman at Jerusalem the court case no was clickbait I watch video clickbait he loves classic comments from the Arnold and such official letly go open no max I guess he was trolling us he just wants to do one open show before he retires all right guys I've been going for almost an hour and a half so I'll let to go. So there he results right there. Two weekends in a row. Milan Italy and now Germany Deutselant Urs Kalchinsky the miracle bear locked up his Olympia qualification not once but twice. He's going to Olympia with two wins just like Jordan Hutchinson just like Sassan Herat all those all three of those guys are going to the Olympia based on two pro wins for this season. Um so congratulations and the same thing with Derek. Derek Lensford he didn't even need a win to go to the Olympia. He's miss he's got a Mr. Olympia win, but he's going on the base of winning Pittsburgh and the Arnold Classic. So, yeah, thank you guys for watching. Appreciate it all. Very your final results. Uh, so we got more stuff coming up this week. We got a power hour with me and Giles. Tuesday, Wednesday night, 700 PM Eastern. Do not miss the Mithead podcast. Lee Priest will be joining us again. Uh, and I'm not sure who else. Big Mike Cox and me. Yeah, Earth win. So, that's it. Thank you all so much for watching. Appreciate it very much. I keep forgetting Exilla. It's true. I keep forgetting Nextilla. Two pro wins. I don't know why I keep forgetting Ruby and I apologize. Uh de Colia, my apologize. Loento mucho uh for Jua. Nextilla. My bad, guys. My bad. So, Marcus Fool Jr., Smash the like. Thanks, EP09. Anyway, guys, so that's it. Thank you all for watching. See you right here next time. Peace.