What's up, guys? What's up, guys? Hope you're having a great weekend. So, good vito, Vitalio Gulnikov, who took third place last year at the Arnold Classic, South America in S. Paulo behind Tonio Burton and Raphael Bondo and then pushed Martin Fitzwwater to a very close with a very close second place last year at Detroit Pro. Just posted this update two weeks out from the Arnold Classic South America in Sapalo again and he is looking massive. Just massive. He's definitely put on a little bit more size. Uh and wait till you get to the back shots. That's where we really see the improvements. The back was where I felt he was. Uh, obviously Martin has a great back and Martin Martin got him in the back shots last year. We'll take a look at that in a second. Um, but he's he's worked hard. He's made some serious improvements and I wish he was doing Detroit because Detroit's got an okay lineup. It's not a bad lineup. It would be a lot better with him in it. It's only a week before. However, looks like he wants to get that win in Brazil, which I don't see anybody getting ahead of him. I don't know who's in the show. The list hasn't come out yet, obviously. But let's take a look at last year when it was him against Martin. So, this was Detroit Pro. We'll look at the scorecards because Martin did not win with a perfect score. In fact, they were fairly close after judging. Martin got ahead of him in the finals. We'll look at that in a second. But geez, you know, I I I think he's very comparable in most shots. It was It was definitely close between these two guys. Martin did close the gap when they turned around. As you'll see, Martin has a much thicker back, but Veto has been working very hard for an entire year. He's had almost a full year offseason, almost a full year because the Arnold was in uh April. So, he did those two shows in the spring of 2024 and then we have not seen him since. And yeah, you could see there Martin just more thickness in the middle there. The lats, they come down a little bit lower, but geez, he he pushed him. He really did push him. And you know, the legs, not many people can can stand next to Martin Fitzwwater and compare with him on quads and hams and glutes and all that, but Veto sure did, man. Veto's lower body just as impressive, I think. Let's take a look at Veto by himself last year in Detroit. Yeah, big fan of this guy. I'm becoming more of a fan of Veto as time goes on. Look at that. And he's he's not missing anything. I mean, he was missing a little bit of the back thickness. And that's coming along. He's a young guy. Still in his 20s. Think he's about 27. And condition not a problem at all. You could see the condition was right where it needed to be. Glutes and the hams are nice and dug out. Crisp separations. Back is good. It's just not great. But the recent shots that we've seen, his back has improved. Uh, I'm thinking he's going to keep going. He's going to keep going and do Pittsburgh. I really hope he does Pittsburgh and New York. Why not hit a few shows while he's in shape? Strike while the iron's hot, as they say. Those are going to be tough shows, but you know what? Especially Pittsburgh. But if you want to be the best, you have to beat the best. You have to stand next to the best. So, let's take a look at the score sheets from Pittsburgh last year. You can see he really did push Martin. So you see judging Martin had four points. Veto Vitali he had five points. They were just one point apart. Very very close. Meaning he got some first place votes during the judging finals. Martin closed the gap there. Uh perfect score of three. Vitali with a perfect second place score of six. And in the end they were four points apart with Martin having the lowest score seven Vitali with 11 points. But man it was close and I I think it could have I'm not going to say it could have gone either way. Martin Martin deserved the win. I don't have a problem with him winning but it was definitely a a close call there and he's he's improved quite a bit since then. Let's go to a couple of your comments because maybe some of you guys know of someone entering that uh Arnold South America in S. Paulo that that could possibly give him trouble. I don't know. Maybe there is someone. What's up our quality cleaning services? What's up Connor Burton? How you guys doing? Yeah, I'm very very impressed with this. This is the best fatal ever look. Still Martin Fu sheep see better. Yeah, I wouldn't I would not be surprised if Martin finishes in top three. To do that, he's going to have to beat either Samson, Derek, or Hottie. Uh he almost beat Derek last year, but Derek was very, very overdided. And I think that was uh a case a case that was remedied by Chris Aceto this year just a few weeks ago at the Arnold Classic in Columbus. Uh Chris brought him in looking full, shredded, all that good stuff. Brazil's a new Middle East episode of Freaks. Brazil has been pumping out some amazing athletes in various divisions. Bodybuilding classic 212, men's physique, women's physique, women's bodybuilding, bikini, figure, you name it. They are just a hot spot. I mean, it's a huge country. I think they have 330 million people or something like that. fitness and bodybuilding very very popular. They've been getting more and more popular. Um the sponsors pay big bucks to the athletes and that that's that's an incentive for these people to come out and start competing. You know, why wouldn't you? I'm going to find some uh some more updates of veto. The backshot I was really impressed with. Yeah, let's stop that. Father Vito is a dangerous man, especially with the improvements. He was close to Martin. Yeah, he was close to Martin last year and he's better. Martin's better now, too. But, you know, they won't be facing off unless Veto continues on and does Pittsburgh, which even if he wins Brazil, which uh I don't think it's going to be a problem. I I don't I don't know who the hell's beating him, but I hope he keeps going anyway. Even if he wins, could be going to storms through the upright this year. Yeah, I I think this is going to be a breakout year, as they say. a breakout year. He's gonna gain a lot more fans. He's going to beat some people that may have beat him in the past. He's gonna move up the ladder and we're gonna see him as what we call the A-list. One of the very best. Brazilian women are a blessing in this world. Oh yeah. I mean, I don't even know. I forgot to say wellness. My gosh, they dominate wellness. I don't even know if the wellness division would have come come about would have been created if it hadn't been for uh the women in Brazil because the wellness has been a a a competitive division in Brazil for years before it was made an official IFBB proleague division. Uh Colombia, places like that. There's a lot of good wellness people, too. But Brazil seems to have I think his waist is too big. I wouldn't say too big. He doesn't have a tiny waist, but he does not have a blocky thick waist. Look how wide he is. I don't think he's too tall. I want to say he's about 5'7, 5'8 from what I've heard. I've never met him. I've never seen him compete. Let me uh let me go to that back shot because I'm very impressed by this because like I said, last year when I saw him, I thought the back the back really needs to come up. The back is good. It needs to be better. I think he's put a lot of work into his back over this past year. And um yeah, look at look at the comments. Rean Grimes Voodito is coming. Fabitio Pollock is his gym trainer. Uh Chris Aceto is a trainer. William Martins's pro says Deotro Planita, which I'm pretty sure means from another planet. Uh horse MD Moro, the best body, the best physique I pose. Oh, the best improved physique and posture. Beerus Tobani gives him some uh some props there. Dr. Mike Israel Franarios Bruno Mores says there's no there's no one for anyone brother some things just don't translate very well do they from other languages Eric Wildberger another good pro classic Z pro from down there yeah man this is going to be his year I think I think after this year a lot more people are going to be talking about good veto not that they weren't already but this is a year when he's going to start beating some bigger names he's going to move upg dangerous especially with improvements who close to Martin St. out there women. Sorry. Okay. So, Bayou Muscle, which is Louisiana. You can see the alligator with the big dumbbell there. Thought he won more poses than Martin of Detroit last year. He's more depth and density his back and side shots. Yeah. You know, it's it's they don't really go by if it was a matter of you win. So, there's seven mandatory poses if they scored it. You know, he won five poses. He had five poses better than Martin. Typically, he would still be the winner, but it doesn't work that way. Obviously, the judges give you a placing. Uh, but that'd be interesting if they actually scored by pose, like first place, second place, third place, fourth place in all the poses, front, double, bicep, front, last spread, side chest, and so on. That would be probably a lot more time consuming and in way to do it. Horse MD trainer, toutelage, Milos or any other coach? I don't know who horse is training with. Horse is very good, too. I think I think Veto is better. Derek So Pittsburgh will be a wicked battle. Yeah, I did the video yesterday about should should Derek Lun for do Pittsburgh because Derek has not said one thing one way or another. He just did that Instagram video where he said should I compete in Pittsburgh or will I compete in Pittsburgh? He went. So he's thinking about it. He's thinking about it. A lot of people think he's just going to guess pose which I think makes more sense. Yeah, I know it's $100,000 and it's Pittsburgh the first time they're going to have men's open in Pittsburgh and it's Jim Manion show and he's, you know, he's the godfather of all this. He's the president of everything. The IPB Pro League, the NPC. Um, everybody wants Jim to everybody wants to impress Jim and everybody wants to pay respect and tribute to Jim. He's the he's the man as far as we're all concerned. But I I don't think it's the best idea for Derek to try to peak three times in seven months. I'm not saying it's impossible. I just I don't know if it's it's a good idea. Nick Orvido, what do you think? One uh I'd probably still give it to to Nick Walker between those two. I I would I'm curious. I think I think someone did a video comparing them side by side, but he's better now than he was. Good. Veto versus Let's see if we can find the video because I think someone actually put put their poses together in a video. Yeah. Good. Veto versus Nick Walker. That'd be interesting to check out. Oh, I I see who did it. I know this guy. He does great work. If we can get through the Snow White. If we can get through the Snow White and the Seven Dwarves promo. So, yeah. Hm. Interesting. So, uh, Super Set Man and he does these really cool videos and he actually gives a score. He gives a very educated opinion on who he thinks gets the poses. So, he gave Nick the front double. He gave Nick the front lat. Who's he going to give the side chest to? Oh, he gave the side chest to Veto. Okay. Rear double. Who gets that? Oh, I think Veto got the rear double. I don't know if I'd agree with that. The rear lat. Who gets that? Uh, Nick got the rear lat. Why didn't he get the rear double, too? Side tricep. H, I think I'd give that one to Nick. Yeah, I give that one to Nick for sure. Nick's Nick's arms are just insane. Veto's got really good arms, too. We gave him that pose. It's most muscular. Who gets this? Nick got that. Okay. So, there you go. Interesting. Interesting. Okay. Make it full screen. Get out of there. Yeah. So, yeah. Category computer. Okay. I'm gonna leave uh put his posing back up while we're talking because you don't want to look at me for the duration, do you? Probably not. Okay. So, let's go back. What category did I compete in? Ron, well, there was there was only one category when I competed. Men's bodybuilding. If you mean weight division, I was uh light heavy sometimes. I was a heavyweight other times. Uh my very best was probably in the in the lower very low end of the heavyweights. Between 202 and 205, I placed uh second in the men's open heavyweight at the team universe. So, that was one point away from, you know, winning a class at a proqualifier. Some pro qualifiers, they they give you a pro card if you're in the top two. That one you actually had to win the overall. I'd rather a veto physique than Martins. I think Veto's limbs are better, but I know that Martin will fare better by today's criteria. Yeah. You know, Martin's got good arms, but they're not great arms. They're not uh Veto's arms are pretty damn great. And excavator. Yeah, I probably I'd give that to Nick. I know. Did I already They Bush improved. I've seen the video. They raise the Olympia to 1 million. Maria, I'm I'm certain that's going to happen. If not this year, I bet by next year. So, it's already at 650. They raised it from 500 to 650 at the last minute last year. Um, I'm really thinking they're going to either announce it ahead of time or maybe they'll do exactly what they did at last year's Olympia and very end they'll say, you know, they'll they'll flip the check around and instead of 650 they'll say 750. And Arnold Classic is 500. I bet they raise theirs because now they're there seems to be there's all there's there's always been a rivalry rivalry between the Arnold Classic and Olympia. It's definitely heating up now for sure. Uh Arnold's Arnold is really taking off the gloves as they say and saying I have the better show. Uh and he wants to really make that assertion that he's he's got the better show, he's the better promoter. So that just means great things for the fans and the athletes because they both have to step their game up to outdo each other or crying out loud. They give the best bass fishermanmen one million. But oh geez, there's I mean gosh I mean pickle ball. Well, I bet there's all kinds of sports that would laugh at how much money some of these people win. I mean, things like golf, that's a very highly skilled sport. I mean, those those guys, I think they deserve their money, but yeah, bass fisherman, I don't know how much I'm sure there's a lot of skill. I don't think I could catch a bunch of bass, but yeah, for a million dollars. Nick is coming with a vengeance. Bring his true freak factor. Oh, absolutely. Nick is looking massive in all the updates we're seeing lately. I don't know if he's under 300 yet, but he was carrying a pretty solid, very solid, I think 305, 310 there for a while. And you know, he's not the tallest guy. Uh, if I'm like 5' seven and a half, 57, 3/4, he's probably right at 5'7. Conf. I mean, there's a lot of things in the in the industry that you could probably point to as being conflicts of interest, but it does give that contest a massive advantage because everybody wants to make Jim happy. Everybody wants to get on his good side. Just the nature of the beast when someone runs the company, the the sport. So, I wouldn't be surprised if a couple more big names aren't added to Detroit Pro. I don't I'm Detroit Pro Pittsburgh Pro. You know, we're still not sure about Derek, but we do know uh we got Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwwater, Creo, I think it's Rean putting in for it now, too. It's going to be a pretty damn good show. It's there's still names being added to the list, but it's shaping up to be a really great show. Per veto of Nick to Crease. Yeah, I mean like last year I was at the New York Pro where Martin really pushed Nick Walker and I liked Martin's physique better. You know, I love all kinds of physiques, symmetrical freaks. I can appreciate all kinds of physiques, but Nick Nick's midsection was a concern last year. As far as I was, as far as I'm concerned, it was distracting. He didn't keep it under control a lot of times. He does have kind of a thicker midsection, which you can kind of get away with when you have as much mass and freak factor as Nick Walker does. But still, you know, Veto, someone just said, does he have a a big waist? He doesn't have a big waist, but it's it's very rare you're going to see anyone carry this level of mass and their midsection is tiny. It's it's I mean, people with really really small midsections usually don't have the genetic capability of becoming this thick and massive. They just don't. different types. Super prep coach Boss Vela could only get himself three and a half hours these days. Well, I don't know why you're bringing up Boss of Outlaw, but okay. Aren't more people Why aren't more people doing Arnold Class South America? Seems an easy qualification. Bonak, he'd go to Detroit, then Arnold South America next week. He doesn't win. Maybe he will. It's, you know, it's in the old days, you youngsters, listen up. In the old days, athletes couldn't just jump into a contest last minute the way they do now. Now they have up until Tuesday before a contest to make their intentions known and say, "Okay, I'll do that show." In the old days, the days when Wayne Demeilia was running the NP, the IFBB, which there was no pro, it was just called IFBB because we didn't have two of them back then, you had to as an athlete, uh, by January 1st when the schedule was was posted, and this wasn't online because there was no on there was no internet yet. remember they had to provide the IFPB with a list of all the shows they wanted to do and then contracts were sent out to each of these athletes and they had to sign a contract months and months ahead of time to compete in a given show and if they did not compete in that show unless they had a valid medical excuse an injury an illness something like that I don't think any other excuse was was permitted it had to be a medical excuse they were fined and or suspended it happened many times back in those days. But now you'll see uh a lot of guys, you know, next week in Detroit, there's a few guys trying to get their Olympia qualification. Obviously, some of them who don't get it and they probably weren't even thinking about going to Brazil. All of a sudden, they're going to go to Brazil. You know, they're going to have to have a passport ahead of time, but we don't need I don't think we we don't need a visa as Americans to travel to most places. We just need our passport. Think Nick's mention problem can be fixed. No. No, I mean Nick is he's a massive freak of a human being. He's got gobs of thick, dense muscle mass. Um, you know, once once your midsection gets really big, it's never going back to a smaller size. I know we did see like Roly Winkler, this was probably going back about seven or eight years. Rolley Winkler who had uh he was he got a B he developed a bubble gut and I think he figured out whatever he was doing whether it was certain foods he was eating certain peeds he was taking something that that he was using or eating was causing his midsection to get that bloated appearance and him and his coach grandma Sibila Peters they figured it out and he came back he came back the next season and the midsection was smaller so I don't know if Nick has his midsection is something that's the result of he eats too much or it's uh you know is it internal organ growth that really it's pretty hard to reverse once your organs grow it's pretty hard to shrink them back down again or uh some one peed that he's using. You know, people talk about GH and insulin a lot and I don't know how much these guys use. I know a lot of the fans think they're all on 20 IUs of GH a day and 50 units of insulin a day and maybe some of them are. I don't think they all are. Big Island Fitness, what's up? Out there in uh Tom, is that your name? I met you in 1991, so forgive me for forgetting. Modern body is hell saying now. We've really only had we've never really had a a a genuine slump where the sport was crappy and we didn't have, you know, we had like nobody that was very good, but we've had eras where there were just so many amazing guys competing. I mean, people, we talk about the 90s because it was like a a lightning storm, a perfect storm of talent. And the advantage, a huge advantage that the '9s had back then was we didn't have all these other divisions. There are definitely guys competing now in other divisions like classic physique and even men's physique who probably could be great open bodybuilders if that's the route they had gone or or chosen and they didn't. They want to stay aesthetic and lighter a little bit smaller. They're not willing to go all out with food and peeds to be as large as they possibly could. You know, they're looking out for their health maybe or they just don't like that look. But back then that's all there was was open bodybuilding. So all the guys with great genetics competed. They only they competed in open in we didn't even have the word open. It was just called body men's bodybuilding and women's bodybuilding because that's all there was in the old days. In the old days you young whippers snappers. Yeah. But Veto, man, I am so impressed with Veto. I I honestly think this is going to be a year where he really levels up as they say. I I Who's this guy? I'm gonna go to his page again in a second. And I got to find some good stuff there. And here we go. Okay. So, let me get rid of this. I use Streamyard, guys, and sometimes you have to really uh click around click around to get to where you want get to what you want on the screen. So, I'm going to put this shot up of Veto. Close it out with that, I think. Yeah. Look at that. Yeah, I know it's only one pose, but that is a really impressive pose for him. Really impressive. Let's see. Veto's legs look insane. Yeah, I mean, it's a lot of guys have big legs and uh quad sweep is it's kind of a genetic thing. I don't think if you have no quad sweep, I don't think you're ever going to have great quad sweep. you can improve it, you know, foot stance and things like that with a closer foot stance, going lower on the foot platform on things like leg press and hack squat. But if this is like all this is generic, like Jay Cutler had the same shape to his quads. If you live down the street, would you spend $100 for an all day pass to Detroit Pro? Yeah. You know what, Zionic? That's actually not bad because if you've been going to NPC shows lately, um most NPC shows, regional shows, I'm not even talking about the national level shows. Um judging is probably like depending on where judging and finals, if you buy both tickets, it's probably close to $100 just for that. So for a show like that that's going to have really good lighting and some some decent decent quality pros in it, yeah, I would I would I would do it. Who else is doing uh who else is doing Detroit? I know he's not doing Detroit. I just trying to remember who was in the shot. Who was in the show? Yeah, we'll talk about next week because I will be doing a watch party, guys, next Saturday for Detroit Pro because it has a free free live stream thanks to Fouad and I got to mention the other guys because people got mad at me last time like why didn't you give Paul Lison and Benchow you know when I see the promote when I think about the promoter of the show I'm really only thinking about the main guy Fouad Abiad but obviously he's not doing all the grunt work for the setting up the show. Uh, Paul Lison is helping out. Ben Chow, and I don't know if anyone else is. Front legs look super good. My hamstrings are not the same old. No, let's go to the posing. His hamstrings are pretty damn great. They're pretty damn great. Let's go. So, yeah. Crazy. Look at this deep separations between the quad heads. Now he goes to the side and yeah, he doesn't have the hams of like a horse MD. Martin has better hams as well, I would say. But from the back, the hams look wow. You know, nice deep clear separations between the seosis semimebrosis and the biceps biceps fori. I still remember the words. Yes, I hope I better remember the words. Uh you see and there was a point system. Yeah, the point system has only been gone a couple years. It wasn't around that long. Still freaking massacred guys a small waist. Nick has too many imbalances and judge prefer shape and structure. Not well if that were true. I mean he wouldn't have beat Martin last year. If the judges preferred shape and structure um they would have they would have chosen Martin Fitzwwater over Nick Walker last year at New York Pro. And they didn't. They chose Nick. So to say that judges prefer this or that, it's not. They they they have their own preferences, each individual judge. That's why some of them will give first place like last year. Some of them gave first place to Martin at the Detroit Pro. Some of them gave first place to Veto here. Judges, that's a good thing. I'm glad that they're not all quote unquote on the same page because that would mean that only one type of physique ever had a chance. And that's really not fair because there are all different types of good physiques. There's the mass monsters, there's the more aesthetic types. Even in a division like classic, you have a good range of types of physiques that all win shows. Now, sometimes if if a couple shows in a row are won by like a mass guy, a mass monster without without this who doesn't have the smallest waist, people will say that's what the judge is like now. But then a week later there'll be another show and someone who's more symmetrical will win with a smaller waist and people will say no the judge is like this you know but they they there's no there's no consistency only because there's a lot of different judges you know they all they're all very experienced and have a great eye for physiques but they all have their own personal opinions and preferences as to what constitutes the perfect physique. Afraid for Nick's health maybe he will retire. I don't see him retiring anytime soon. Mostly like a circulation problem. Look at his legs. Yeah, there's been videos done about his varicose veins. Who's diabetic? I don't I don't He might Maybe he is, but I don't think he's diabetic. Good. Veto looks good. Yeah, it's funny. A lot of people thought I think from the name Veto, they assume he's Italian because Veto is a very common Italian name, but his name is actually Vitali, which is a very common Russian name and that's where he's from. But he's been in Brazil for years. He's married to a Brazilian woman and he speaks perfect Portuguese. He posts on Instagram every day, assuming he's doing his own posting in Portuguese. Do I think it's a good idea for Derek to compete in Pittsburgh? No, I don't. I did a whole video yesterday about it where I asked you guys to offer your own opinion, and if you missed it and you want to throw that opinion in there, go ahead. But I I just don't think it's a bright idea, a good idea to try to peak 100% three times in the span of seven months. Arnold Classic was beginning of March. May 10th is a Pittsburgh Pro and the Olympia is October 12th, I believe. Is it 12th and 13th? Something like that. So it c can it be done? I'm sure it can be done. But why take that chance if you really want to win the Olympia? And the Olympia is going to be tough. It's always tough. But Derek lost the Olympia last year to Samson Dota. He really wants to get the Olympia title back. He's already proven he can beat Samson. He beat him. He just beat him. Well, he beaten him before, but he just beat him at the Arnold Classic. Hotti Chupan has had an entire year to prepare for this a solid offseason. Hottie is a warrior. He's very fierce, very, very driven man. Uh I can't see Heidi Chupan coming in anything less than 100%. you know, and he even learned a lesson, I believe, last year by he did the Arnold Classic and Arnold CL in both Columbus and UK last year in the in March. And a lot of people believe, and I don't know, you know, there's no way to really know for sure prove it, that that's what made him just a tiny tiny bit off, tiny bit off his very best last year at the Olympia and it was enough to let to have Samson beat him to allow Samson to get that win over him. So they're all very close to each other. Samson, Derek, Heidi, Martin's getting up to that level two now. So you can't come in anything less than your best and expect to win the Olympia. It's not like the old days. In the old days, the reigning Mr. Olympia could show up at 90% and the judges be like, "All right, it's fine. You didn't knock the champ out, so he's going to stay Mr. Olympia." Those days are gone. You got to be 100% and the best man on stage that day wins. Whether he was re whether he's a reigning Mr. Olympia, whether he was second place last year, third, fourth, doesn't matter. Is Ramy went with the absolutely peeled. Yeah, Chris Chris Aceto is an amazing coach. There's no there's no question. Samson might be I you know, again, that would be a bad idea for Samson. I think I think anyone who did anyone who did the uh Arnold Classic, I I would hold off until the Olympia if you're qualified. Samson's obviously qualified because he's the reigning Mr. Olympia. He doesn't need to qualify. He doesn't need to do Pittsburgh. Sure, 100 grand is is not chump change. Even second place is $50,000, not chump change, but um would it impair his ability to show up, you know? Let me know what you guys think. Let me know if you're watching this in the in the replay. Let me know in the comments. Is it a bad idea for these guys to do multiple shows a year? And keep in mind if for those of you who don't understand, it does take a toll on the body being in prep. It's being on the diet, being on all these different peeds that are employed. And prep is the largest cocktail of of peeds that you're ever going to be on as a as a bodybuilder. Offseason, they can get away with just a couple different types of gear, maybe GH, maybe insulin. uh they're usually not using fat burners and things like that, but when it's time for prep, you know, they're on four or five different types of uh steroids. They're still on growth hormone until close to the end. Now they're on cluterol. They're on thyroid meds. At the end, they might be using diuretics. Um all kinds of peptides being used. Prep is it's definitely a more toxic toxic type of cycle than your basic offseason cycle, which is ironic because most people think when the guys are at their biggest and heaviest in the offseason strongest, that's where I'm they're on the most gear. Not not not at all. Not really. They don't need to be because they have plenty of calories and they're not doing as much cardio. So, the demands on their body's recovery ability, it's not that great. They're able to still recover and grow. Whereas in prep, now they're in a caloric deficit. They're doing all this cardio. They need a lot of different drugs to maintain all that muscle mass and to help burn the fat, you know, while they're while they're preparing for the shows. Ramo Deceto prize $100 for one day. Yeah, it's it's not unheard of. I mean, the Olympia VIP ticket covers you for a few days, but that's like a thousand bucks. 80 to 92,000 more competition general all sports play football there is tough these days. Anywhere the Bulls next rivalry. Oh, I think every sports fan can look back to their favorite sport and they probably have, if unless they're a young kid or something, they probably can recall an era that they felt was far more competitive and exciting than than today. Nick looks just as nuts. Oh, yeah. I mean, we'll be doing we'll be talking about Nick, don't worry. But Pittsburgh's still quite a ways away. Seven weeks away, I think. Bob Nick something. No, Bob didn't uh tamper with Nick's food. It's impressed me. No one wants all the health problems come looking like this. Well, you say no one, but these guys do, but I agree. TCTC open bodybuilding, the participation is far less than the other men's divisions, classic physique and men's physique. And health is probably a reason, but you know, a lot of them are young guys. They're not that they're really not that worried about their health because they're young and they think they're going to live forever anyway. But it takes a lot more gear and a lot more food to look like this than it does a men's physique competitor. Yes, everybody trains hard. The difference is really the food and the peeds to to put on this type of muscle mass. It's dedicated eating. We're talking five, six meals a day, every day for years, years. You know, they don't feel like eating all those meals every day. I'm sure they don't, but they do it because it has to be done. And you know, the peeds, they have to use a certain amount. Not everybody uses the same amounts contrary to what's posted a lot of times like they're all on five grams of gear and 20 I use it. Some of them do use crazy amounts of gear like that button and NGH but not all of them. They don't all use it. Uh good rear has wings like lats but in the front double they disappear somehow. I would say they disappear but it's a little bit of a longer waist. Guys with uh shorter shorter torsos like Kai Green and William Bonak, they they do appear to have lower hanging lats just because the torso is so short. Does good have signs of lower back atrophy issue? No, no, no, no. He just I he doesn't have lat insertions that go that low. You're talking about guys that did have lats that were lower developed in the lower region and then the development sort of atrophied. Veto never had lats that were that low. I mean, let's go back to uh if you compare him to Martin, you can see Martin has lower lat insertions, you'll see than than Veto does. Let's go look to that. We won't see it until they turn around. Kand do they Okay, so that's still a side check. No, you're thinking of Veto Corleone. No, his name's not really Veto. It's Vitali. Vitali. It's not It's not the Italian VTO. All right. So, here we go. This is where you can see the difference in the lats. Like, watch how low they insert. So, here you see all that space. There's a lot more space between the uh the lower part of Veto's lats versus Martin. And that's just a genetic thing. That's where they insert. It's like some guys have longer biceps and some guys have shorter biceps. Derek has a chip on his shoulder. Said Martin would have beat him at the Olympia doing Pittsburgh. will create distance from him. Yeah, I I serious I don't think Derek would enter the Pittsburgh show just to beat Martin. Derek doesn't want to just beat Martin. Derek wants to beat every other man on that Olympia stage. And Martin is not the man to beat. Martin was almost beat him when he was that was like the worst Derek we'd seen in a very long time. He was he was overdated. His legs were significantly downsized and flatl looking. We saw a very, very different Derek Lensford on stage at the Arnold Classic when he won. It was enough to beat Samson, the reigning Mr. Olympia. Horrible idea for Lensford. All the top tough guy train. Yep, that's what I I agree. TC doesn't gain much. Just keep your eye on the prize. Yeah. And the Olympia, like I said, it's 650 650,000 at least. I I'm seeing it right here and now. I bet they go to 750 this year for first prize and next year. Is Hottie working with another coach or is Hani still advising him secretly? Don't know. But if I'm a gambling man, I would say Hani is still working with him because for one thing, Hottie Hotti Chupan only speaks Farsy. He doesn't speak English. There's not a lot of coaches to speak Farsy out there. Hani does. And Hani knows him very well. Uh and Hottie has never come out and said, "This is my new coach," has he? He hasn't said, "Well, I'm still working with Hani." But he never came out all this time because remember Hani Hani Ramad made the announcement shortly after the Olympia last year. It's been a long time. So I think if Heidi had a new coach, we'd know about it by now. Could be will shock some people. I think the show will be a lot closer than many think. Well, if you're talking about Pittsburgh, I don't think it's going to be close for uh Brazil. I think he's got Brazil all wrapped up. Sure. Mr. O Tren is all duck eggs. Mike is 80 now. No, Mike is my age. He's 50. Well, he's 56. His birth I think he already had his birthday for the year. My birthday's in September, but I think, see what when is Mike O'Harn's birthday. I think he's already had his birthday this year. I could be wrong. I'm wrong all the time. Michael O'Harn birthday. Michael O'Harn January 26, 1969. Yeah, he's 56. So, not quite 80. No. I'd love to make it to 80. I don't know if it's in the cards. He's got worse than new picks. You're talking about probably talking about Nick's gut bless from Australia 8:30 Sunday morning. Yeah. Yeah. Dang tweet because like you know my son went to uh he did a semester at University of Queensland in Brisbane, Australia in um early the first few months of 2024. He was there from late January till June. And I always knew what time it was in Brisbane because you know we're coordinating our FaceTime and things like that around when he was when he was awake. Martin's pretty massive. Oh, Martin's and this is Martin. Uh, this was a year ago. Martin's gotten bigger since then. If you believe his latest updates, and I did a video about that on this channel, uh, about a last earlier in the week. He's up 20 pounds. 20 pounds of muscle. Paul Deo Paul was just a beast. Yeah, I I knew Paul, God bless his soul. Paul was Paul Deo Quadzilla, for those of you who don't know, was really, really good. Took him a long time to turn pro. It was tough to turn pro back then, guys. Uh he was I remember he was in that 91 nationals class, the heavyweight class, because until the toward the end of the 90s, there was no super heavyweight class. Everybody over 198 and a quarter was in one class. And in 1991, the heavyweight class had like 35 guys in it. Kevin Leone won, but you had guys in the top 10 like Ronnie Coleman, Flex Wheeler, Chris Cormier, Paul Deo, uh Matt Mendenhal. It was it was a even Bob Chick was up there says take a break not retiring I don't know you mean veto's latenc okay they're getting higher with no wrinkles I I don't know his lats didn't look like they were getting hired to me in that update the real turn for lose a natural test if I go on now oh man you're confusing me with all these numbers uh Do me a favor, real report. Copy copy and paste that and put it on the next put it on the last video for ask Dr. Testosterone because that's really that's something more he would be uh I know a little bit about that, but he's he's a doctor. He's an MD and he's he knows a lot about peeds. Uh yeah. Anyway, well, I think I've been yapping long enough. Don't you think so? Go back to Yeah. That's my cackle of a laugh I have there. So, good veto, guys. Good veto looking crazy. Uh, heavy favorite. I don't know anyone else going into Arnold Brazil. Yeah, last year we had uh Tonio Burton and Rafael Brande were the top two and Veto was right behind them in third. Raphael is out for the year. Antonio Burton had a terrible motorcycle accident. He's on the way on the mend, but I don't think he's going to be competing this year. I don't know anybody else going in. Of course, the list will come out and we'll probably see some some good names on there for sure. I mean, it's an Arnold Classic show. I can't imagine nobody will show up, but Veto is a heavy heavy favorite. Uh Dennis would have been top 385 at the worst at the Olympia. I don't know if he would have won. I mean, Shawn Ray, Kevin Leone, and and Flex Wheeler never won Olympias. Persevere in the air. Yeah, it took Bob 15 years, I think, of at the national level. Let's hope the weight stays tight. All right, guys. I am going to wrap it up. Gotta go walk my pitbull branch. Love that. Love that doggy to death. So, that's it, guys. Appreciate y'all watching. And again, remember, we are going to be doing a live watch party for Detroit Pro right here, right here on this channel next week because it's going to be a free live stream. So, I'm not breaking anyone's balls. I'm not taking away their profits. Uh they'll you'll still see all their advertising and things like that. Any any pertinent comments? Yeah. No, I'm pit bulls legal. Yes, in the US they are. Yeah, they are. So, that's it, guys. Uh I'll be doing videos between now and then, of course. But remember, next Saturday is the Detroit Pro and we'll be doing a live watch party here. Big Mike Cox will be joining me. Detroit. I said Detroit. Detroit Pro is next weekend. Pittsburgh is until May. And uh I hope all of you can join. We can give our comments and critiques and predictions live in real time as the show is happening. Always love to do that. And that's it. So, thank you all for watching. Have a great weekend. Next up, uh probably doing another Ask Dr. Testosterone with Dr. George Silos tomorrow. So, keep your notifications on, all that good stuff. And I will see you guys next time. Peace.