What's up everybody? Ron Harris here and big big news out of Sapalo, Brazil. Good Vitonikov, Vitali Ogolnikov, better known as Good Veto, picked up his first pro win today and qualification to the Mr. Olympia. good veto. Uh, originally from Russia, now living in Brazil and very fluent in Portuguese, very popular bodybuilder down there. Got the win where he took third place last year. Last year, this show was won by Raphael Bondo. Tonio Burton was second. Veto was third. He also took second place to Martin Fitzwwater at the Detroit Pro. But this is his first pro win. He's very happy. He did have some decent competition. We'll look at the first call out in a bit, but let's take a look at how he looked. Here's his routine. So, of course, those quads are out of this world. Great arms. Actually, from the front and the side, very, very little to uh critique. Conditionwise, not 100%. But did he need to be 100% here? No. His target is most likely uh 100% the Pittsburgh Pro where he wants to look his best. He's going to have a much much tougher lineup. Look at those quads. Pittsburgh Pro. Of course, we have Derek Lunsford, the Arnold Classic champ and former Mr. Olympia, Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwwater, Kio, Michael Kzanic, William Bonak, James Hollings doing that show. It's going to be a very, very tough show. Veto's back. Not a strong point, but it's much better than it was a year ago. He's clearly been putting in the work. Got some very good width to him. He's somewhere around between 56 and 5'7. Miguel Chain from Brazil, their top top bodybuilding reporter, told us in our group chat he was 248.6, 113 kilos. Great great job there, Veto. And of course, five weeks out from the main show. This was probably just a qualifier for him. This was the first call out. So, here are the other guys. I'm not sure which is which, so please forgive me. Uh, the top four was Veto, Leandro Perez, Leandro Perez, Marcelo Cruz, and Carlos Andre. Um, I was told from Miguel, who was there that Leandro pushed him really hard. Condition was better. I'm guessing that's him on to the right of Veto. Condition certainly better than Veto's, but Veto just overwhelmed him on sheer mass. He's such a wide thick guy. Those quads this world. And again, what we see here looks good. I'm sure he's going to dial it in even better. Much better than this. He's got five weeks to go. That's a long time. Five weeks. So, if this is a five weeks outlook for Pittsburgh, the target show he's in great shape. But let me know what you think, guys. What chance does he have of winning Pittsburgh Pro? I mean, Derek Lunsford is the heavy heavy heavy favorite. Nick Walker also being talked about as someone who could potentially win, but most likely it's going to be Derek. Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwwater, who beat Veto last year in Detroit, will he beat him again, or will Veto, a much more shredded veto than this, be able to turn the tables on him? Will he beat guys like Creo, Bonak? Let me know what you think in the comments, guys. There are no right or wrong answers. Veto looking tremendous. tremendous in his win here. And that's it guys. Just want to give give you a quick quick update. Veto is the winner. Good. Veto. Vitali Oolnikov. Your 2025 Arnold Classic South America champion held today in S. Paulo, Brazil. Congratulations, Veto. And curious to see how much tighter he's going to be in Pittsburgh and who he's able to beat. So, let me know in the comments, guys. What do you think his chances are? How do you think he's gonna do in Detroit? And that's it. Thank you guys for watching this real quick one. Ron Harris here and I'll see you next