 What's up everybody? I have had some requests to do commentaries, breakdowns on Battle for the Olympia videos. And so today I selected a guy some of you may not have heard of because his last competition was in 2006. almost 20 years ago, almost 20 years ago, almost 20 years ago, the Olympia. His name is Gunter Schlierkamp. Take a look at Gunter. Gunter was from Germany, 6'1", competed right around 300 pounds. Gunter was known as someone who started off his Olympia career with special invitations. Four years in a row, Joe Weider, because he was still alive back then, he invited Gunter to the Olympia in 1998, 2000, 2001, and 2002,ategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategoryategory And two weeks later, at a show called the GNC Show of Strength, he became the only man to beat Ronnie Coleman during Ronnie Coleman's Olympia reign. It was sort of a controversial decision, but Gunter looked fantastic. Came back to the Olympia in 2003 with fifth place again. 2004, he was sixth. 2005 would be his best Olympia placing ever. Fourth place behind Ronnie Coleman, Jay Cutler, and the late Gustavo Badel. And he came back one last time in 2006 with 10th place. I'm going to be showing you footage from the Battle for the Olympia in 2002. It was a DVD that was made with many of the athletes competing featured. Mitsuru Kabi filmed that. I will put the link to that video and that channel in the description. It's MOC Video Productions. But Gunter had so much size, came in great condition. And his chest in particular was a very, very strong body part. So I want to show you the training that he did for his chest. Of course, this was not off-season. Building training, mass-type training. This was filmed right before that Olympia. So really was just carving in the final details, preserving the muscle tissue while getting super, super lean. So here's the first exercise in that DVD where he's training chest. Incline barbell press. This is the final set. He was being trained at Gold's Gym Venice by Charles Glass. Charles, of course, a tremendous, tremendous trainer to so many champions over the years. So this is his final set. It's going to be a drop set. He's got a 45 and a 25 and a 45. So here we go with the second part of the set with 185. You'll see it's a constant tension. He doesn't come all the way down. He doesn't lock out. Keeps the bar moving. Working in that good range. It's still a full rep as far as I'm concerned. But again, every rep perfectly executed. So now they take off the last 25. It's just 135 pounds. Some of you guys are laughing, saying, hey, I can incline barbell press a lot more than that. Well, again, this was just one of the final workouts before the Olympia. He's just trying to keep the muscle tissue at that point. And wait till you see this guy's chest. He's still got a shirt on here. Wait till you see it now. So that was the first exercise. Incline barbell press. Moves on to a flat barbell press. And again, it's going to be a drop set. You can see those weights arranged very carefully on either side of the bar to facilitate the sets that he's going to do. It's Charles spotting literally just fingertips. And Gunter's not taking these sets to absolute failure. Just keeping that muscle mass. But look at the tremendous thickness on this guy, especially that chest. From this angle, you can barely see his face. His pecs are so thick and full. They're almost covering his face. That's the goal. That's the type of chest development everybody wants. So pay attention to the form here. It keeps really good tension on the pecs throughout this. Interestingly, you're going to see that he doesn't do any fly movements during this workout. It's all presses. Now, I'm sure he did do flies in the offseason. Cable crossover, pec tech, something like that. But in this particular workout that was filmed shortly before the 2002 Olympia, which was this was the breakout year for Gunter. We really took the physique up a notch, took the placings up a notch. You know, for a guy that had failed to place at the Olympia several times, failed to make top 10, finally got into that top five. Next up, going to go to a hammer strength machine in a second. But, of course, I wanted you guys to see some of this Jim posing. Great lighting there. Gold's Jim Bennis back in the day. He reminds me a lot of Gary Stridem, if you guys know who Gary was. Gary's still with us, but he's no longer a competitive bodybuilder. Look at that. So, really squeezing those pecs. Great contractions. I would say slow down the negative a little bit, but that's me. Clearly, Gunter knows what he's doing. And, again, I'm sure many of you guys use more weight than this on that machine. But, as I said, Gunter's not trying to build any muscle here. There's the Barbarian Brothers. One of them is still with us. One of them has passed, unfortunately. There we go to incline Smith Press. And I really wanted to point out a technique that Charles had Gunter use on this, where he comes to a complete stop. He's got the stoppers on either side there, so the bar rests on them. Eliminates all the momentum. And you have to start all over again from the bottom every time. If you guys are having trouble developing your upper chest, I strongly encourage you to give this technique a try on the Smith machine. I wouldn't recommend it on the barbell. But the Smith machine, it works perfectly. It's going to be another drop set. I only filmed, I only recorded the last sets of all these. Of course, on the DVD, you can see all the sets. But this takes up all the momentum. I would probably personally go a little bit lower than that. I would get a little bit more range of motion. But, I mean, look at that chest. Are we really going to complain? This chest was phenomenal. One of the best chests I think we ever saw in the sport. Marcus Ruhl, another guy. I couldn't find any really good full chest training pieces on YouTube. He does have a great video called Made in Germany. But Gunther here, another German. The German giant. I don't know if you want to call Marcus a German giant or Gunther. They were both gigantic. 300 pounds in great, great condition, this guy. Look at that. Fantastic. Final exercise was the Flex Leverage Press, Seated Leverage Press machine. Not a lot of these out there, but you can still find them. They haven't been manufactured in many years. But Flex Leverage was similar in some ways to the Hammer Strength line. But those of you who had the privilege of using this particular machine we're looking at, they have one at Gym Hub in Boston. And they also have great back machines. Their lat pull-down machine is one of the best I've ever used. But you can see how strong a contraction Gunther was able to get on every single rep of these. And this is going to be another drop, I think. But I recorded all the posing because the lighting here was just phenomenal. The stage footage that I started the video out with was one thing. But I think this gives you a little better appreciation. Because this is gym lighting. This is how we look in the gym, right? We all love to pose in the gym when we find that really cool light. And I think Gunther knew at this point. Charles and Gunther both knew this was a different look for him. He was really putting everything together for the first time. He'd always been a big guy. Condition had never been a real issue. But this was a new level for Gunther in so many ways. That's why I wanted to record all this posing. But look at that. That is an amazingly thick side chest. Tremendous pectoral development all the way across. From top to bottom, side to side. Back. His back was good. It wasn't great. I think if his back had been a little bit better, he might have placed even higher. But you know what? He got his highest fourth place at the Olympia. And he can say he is the only man who ever beat the legendary Ronnie Coleman while Ronnie Coleman was still Mr. Olympia. Ronnie Coleman won the Olympia for the first time in 1998. He won his last Olympia title in 2005. And in that span of years, Gunther is the only guy who ever beat him. Look at that. Look at the pecs there. And in fact, normally I only take one set of every exercise to show you guys. But this is so inspirational. This final set, I had to show you again. Because chest training motivation, if you really need it, go back and watch this. This is the type of chest I think we all aspire to build. It's got development. It's got muscle quality, striations, fullness, thickness, density. This is a perfect chest, pretty much. I'm going to let it run for a while. Because I think all of you will carry this mental image in your head the next time you go to train chest. It's just fantastic. And I think he's going to do some more posing. Yeah. Normally, again, I don't let this run and show all these sets. But I did want to let him finish and do some more posing. Because I think the posing in this gym light is even more impressive than what we saw. Oh, no. There's one more set. One more set, guys. Bear with me. Enjoy the show. Enjoy the show. Because Gunther was something else. I don't think he gets enough credit. I think he had this reputation of being a golden boy who was sort of given gifts. Because, again, he was invited to the Mr. Olympia four years in a row. So if you're wondering where that tradition of the special invitation to the Mr. Olympia began, it began with Gunther Schlierkamp. Of course, the first Mr. Olympia contest in 65, it was only four guys. But they were all invited because there were a handful of professional bodyguards in the world. And Joe Weider handpicked a few guys who he wanted to go for the ultimate title. They were all Mr. Universe winners and so forth. So Gunther is the guy who got all those special invitations four in a row. But then after 2005, he earned his way to the Olympia. Almost every time, I should say. Because 2006, no, no, he did earn his way every time. Because even that last one where he took 10th place, he qualified by taking fourth place the year before. So that is Gunther Schlierkamp's chess training. Again, that is from the MOC video, Battle for the Olympia 2002. The link is going to be in the description. So check that out. Hope you enjoyed this. And those of you who weren't aware of Gunther Schlierkamp, just how good he was. Especially how great the chess development on this man was. Now you know. So that's it, guys. Thank you so much for watching. And I'll see you right here next time.