What's up everybody? Before you sit down to watch the Super Bowl, let's talk about Hottie Chupan. Hottie Chupan was obviously a favorite for this Arnold Classic coming up. He's a Mr. Olympia champion. He won the Arnold won the Arnold UK two years ago. back-to-back wins. But we were concerned, fans of bodybuilding, especially hottie fans, were concerned because we hadn't heard from him. Didn't know a is he going to get into the country? Is he gonna get a visa to the USA with everything going on in Iran right now? And b, again, with all the political chaos and people being slaughtered in the streets, that whole mess going on over there, how could Hadti Chupan possibly be at his best? Well, he answered all those questions this week. First we found out he got the visa. So that's no problem at all. And then yesterday he uh released this which was taken at 7 weeks out this video clip. 7 weeks which uh we're at less than four weeks now. So this is more than 3 weeks old. And good lord he's already looking fantastic. The hottie that we know bursting full shredded detailed massive. And now it it's going to be a real real battle between him and Andrew Jack. Whereas before I honest to God thought Andrew was just going to walk away with this. I didn't think Hottie was going to be able to be anywhere near his best with everything going on. Iran is uh gez something like 30 over 36,000 citizens have been killed by the government and protests already just in the past couple months. It's it's a horrible situation over there. But Ahadi is somehow keeping his head. And again, even in light of the fact that so [clears throat] many of his fans have turned on him for not being more outspoken against the fundamentalist religious political regime over there. But he's filtering all that out. He's clearly locked and loaded. He's focused. He's ready to rock. And this was just posted today. [clears throat] This says five weeks out. So now we're not just seeing the upper body. We're seeing that the legs are totally dialed in. The glutes are in. And this was at five weeks out. So, this is a little over a week old, this clip that we're looking at, but he's just starting to post again. For a while, Hottie was not posting anything. And that's that's another reason. A lot of us fans were starting to get concerned. We were worried because is he okay? Is everything okay? Is he able to prep? Is he able to train okay with all this stuff going on? It just seemed like a horrible situation that this poor guy has put into due to the politics in his country and what's going on over there. But everything looks like it's on track, man. Everything looks like it's on track. He looks ready to rock. Looks like he's going to be as good as, if not better than this look that won the Arnold Classic with a perfect score two years ago. This was hottie. I think this was the U the UK Arnold. I'm not sure. I believe that's the UK backdrop from that year. Looked different from the USA backdrop. But you can see even Arnold Schwarzenegger himself right there. Super impressed with Heidi recording getting some shots. What's up? Hey Zion, respect for talking full package. Right now I'm leaning Andrew Jack. Oh, Andrew is incredible. Andrew is incredible. Again, I I I I I've been saying for months now, as soon as the list came out, so not that long since the list came out, I said this show was going to come down to Heidi Chupon and Andrew Jack. No disrespect to Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwwater, Brandon Curry, Mofo, any of those guys. They're all excellent in their own rights. But I [clears throat] honestly still believe it's going to come down to hottie chupan and Andrew Jack. They are both just phenomenal, phenomenal competitors. Crazy physiques. Yeah, Arnold. Uh, Andrew, I should say Andrew does have some advantages in terms of the height, just the width, the the structure overall, but hottie has detail in places that Andrew does not. And he's got certainly better hamstrings. It's it's a overall more balanced physique because he is a much shorter guy. I'd say Heidi's about 5'5. Andrew's supposedly 6'2. So, let's give him 6'2. So that is it's not quite quite a foot difference, but it's a big difference in height. So I showed this before. This was uh something put together by Super Set Man on his YouTube channel. A quick comparison showing them at the last Olympia. Not quite next to each other obviously, but he did some editing for us and he's scoring the shots. He gave Andrew the front double. He gave Andrew the front lat. Side chest. I bet he's going to give to Hottie. I would give Heidi the side chest. Rear double. That's a good one, man. Gave it to Andrew. Gave Andrew the rear double. Is he going to give Andrew the rear lat, too? [snorts] And I'm not saying I technically agree with all these, but hey, is he going to give hottie this one? Yes. Hottie gets the rear lat spread. Side try. I think I'm going to give this one to Hottie. See if Super Set Man agrees with me. 33. Oh, gave it to Andrew. Most muscular. I don't know. That's tough, man. And the crab. Most muscular. I would probably give that to uh I would probably give that to to Hottie. I think he's got a hell of a crab. Kicking off this season with this lineup. Yeah, this is a great Arnold Classic. Hottest condition except back spread. How do you guys finish except back back very thick points to luck vat shoulder arms don't match manual head toe condition wins. Uh well I mean if we're talking just pure condition then hottie hottie is he's in slightly better condition even at that last Olympia [snorts] than Andrew was but man hottie is no joke. You can't count out. Andrew hasn't beaten him yet. No Andrew has never beaten Hottie. Howdy has beaten Andrew uh at all these Olympias and I think was he in that Arnold too? Had's beaten Andrew several times. Andrew can definitely win Botti's fe. Yeah, you know, [snorts] usually you could say this. Somebody hasn't been beaten by someone until they do. So this could be the show where Andrew finally gets ahead. I mean Andrew had never beaten Samson before all these years. All these years. He's only been a pro for this is his fourth pro season. 22 two three four. is actually starting his fifth pro season. He turned pro four years ago at the Arnold Classic. Um, but yeah, it it's it's going to be a very very tough call and I I again I'm I'm not taking away from Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwwater, Brendon Curry, Modota, lot of great guys going to this. It's an excellent Arnold Classic Andrew uh lineup, but Hottie and Andrew are just to me they're on a slightly different level. Obviously hottie's a Mr. Olympia champion. He's an Arnold Classic champion. Andrew has been third place at the Olympia. Then again, Nick Walker has been third place at the Olympia as well. Andrew has won the Arnold UK. He has yet to win the Arnold USA. But could he? Yeah, why not? We'll see. Here's how they all look back at the Olympia. Now, this was your top top four with Derek, Hottie, Samson, and Andrew. It's the last time Andrew and Heidi stood on stage obviously next to each other. And uh yeah, you could see structurally Andrew is just he's he's a unique specimen. Nobody looks like Andrew Jacked, but Heidi is also very unique. He has this muscle thickness and density and detail. Uh things, you know, that that those were those are some of the attributes that had Phil Heath winning all those Olympias. There were guys who were as big or bigger than Phil Heath. There were guys who had better structures than Phil Heath. Phil's clavicles, they were average width. They weren't wide. And there were guys with better structures that Phil just beat the crap out of them every time, every year, year after year for seven years in a row. We got good I'm leaning Andrew overall, but does have been creek conditioning density. That might be enough to Yeah, it's it's judges judges reward total package. And if if Hottie is in much better condition than Andrew, [snorts] even if it's say like 20%, which is a significant difference in condition, I I could definitely see Howie getting this this Arnold Classic for the second time, winning the Arnold Classic. 50 Shoes are stick now. Shorties muscle dudes. Yeah, that was a different era. I mean, I remember when we had short guys with great aesthetics like Muhammad Mockaway, Chris Dickerson, uh Frank Zayn, not too short, 5'8. But I see what you're saying is the taller guys were clunkier back in the day like Gundur, Ralph Mohler, Greg Kovac would be the clunkiest of them all. Godfinger, it's improved from Neo. I'm just going to maybe compel that Andrew's age. Well, Andrew is older than a lot of the competitors because he's 40 now. However, in terms of training age and competitive age, he's very young. He's only been competing. He did his first like local crappy show over in Dubai back at the end of 2021, but he only turned pro in uh four years ago. It's been four years. So, he's still very very young in the game, guys. He's he's it's not his body isn't beat up. He hasn't been through 20 years of gear and 30 or 40 contest preps like some of these people. And this this these updates from Hottie, which I'm the fact that he's posting again shows you he's he's super confident, which he should be. I mean, he's phen he's a phenomenal bodybuilder, guys. There's there's no arguing that. Head to toe condition glutes. Terry Pastel. Terry Pastel and Benf. Yeah, those neither of them, I think, ever had really shredded glutes. Tim Bellap. Tim Bellnap was not aesthetically pleasing. He was a short, blocky guy, tons of muscle, very thick and dense, but boy was he blocky. Yeah. So, these were five weeks out. Five weeks out from the Arnold. and hottie's condition was just already pretty much where it needs to be. This is how most guys look on stage if they're lucky. So, yeah, you remember Tim Belnap. Tim Belnap was the first guy that used uh insulin because he was diabetic and rumor has it, I don't know if he ever confirmed or denied it, uh Bellnap was using more insulin than he was supposed to as a diabetic. I don't know if that's true or not, but he certainly was very very thick and dense. Ahead of his ahead of his time in terms of muscle muscle thickness and density for that era, which would be like the early to mid 80s. Yeah. But look at Hottie, man. That is just he owns people with that with that those chest striations. There's very few people who have chest thickness and detail like Hottie. It's not a chess contest, but there are a lot of very mediocre, just okay sets of pecs out there in the pro league. A lot of guys are their chest isn't weak, but it's it's nothing special. That's the kind of chest everybody wants. Just super thick top to bottom, side to side, incredibly detailed. Has no weak points in terms of body parts. Everything is just everything has been developed to the max. Here he was again when he won the Arnold. Yeah, this is the Arnold UK in 2024. I'm gonna go to his Insta in a second. You guys are already pregaming for the big game, I'm assuming. [snorts] I just heard on SiriusXM 1.8 billion chicken wings will be consumed in the USA alone tonight at Super Bowl parties at people's houses. I can't imagine how much beer, how many billions of gallons of beer will be consumed tonight. A lot of beer, chips, and wings. People love the finger foods, the snacks, because, you know, you don't have time to sit there and eat with a a knife and a a plate and a fork and a knife while you're trying to watch a damn Super Bowl. So, I'm getting annoyed by Andrew's posing, man. I can't don't care a lot more than he does. How hard is to get a proper posing coach? Yeah, I agree. the buzz. I mean, posing should be an easy fix because there are a lot of really good posing coach co coaches out there and they're all very very willing and able to work with someone of Andrew's level. I mean, who wouldn't want to say, "Yeah, I I I took Andrew Jack and I made him a better poser." In fact, in Tampa, uh Rachel Daniels, the real Lois Lane, she's a posing coach and I bet she could do wonders for Andrew. Top three predictions for Arnold. I'm gonna go h [sighs and gasps] boy. I I I don't I'm so torn between Hottie and Andrew winning, but I do have Nick Walker in third place. I think Nick's going to surprise a lot of people this time. I think he's going to bring back more of a streamlined look with a smaller waist. What' you have? I guess Jack Walker. Yeah, I mean that's it's a that's a very very likely top three. very likely god of frogs. I don't know where that frog comes from. Something that can be fixed in one show four years and he's still an amateur in the side shots. He is getting better, guys. He is Andrew is getting better. Uh now, this was the Olympia. His side his side shots looked a lot better at the Olympia, but I agree. He could still he could still improve on his posing. It doesn't bother me as much as it used to. He is better than he was. He used to pose in a fairly awkward way where you just he didn't look comfortable up there at all. And I think now he's starting to look comfortable. He's starting to uh just gain that confidence up there because he's been up there as a top a top guy so many times now. You know, I I'm thinking I still am trying to get that interview. He doesn't give a lot of interviews, but I don't think Andrew had a lot of confidence that he could ever be Mr. Olympia a couple years ago. Now, I'm sure he sees it, especially after the feedback he must have received. Well, he saw all the posts, everything over social media. So many people were saying he was robbed. He should have won that Olympia back in October. Uh, and you know, very very serious arguments could be made for it. He's He was good enough to be a Mr. Olympia. I think it's just we had we had Derek and we had Hottie and they were deemed better by the judges. Your top three, Hottie, Andrew, Walker. Okay, that's the same. No, no, you have Yeah, you have Nick ahead of No, you have Andrew, too. So, that's the same as Hottie Jack. Yeah, you have the same as God and Frog. So, you guys must be great minds thinking alike. So, I want to go to Hottie. This is video is about Hottie. So, I want to go to his Insta for a second because he was not posting for a very long time. This had been six weeks ago was the last time he had posted training with his son and then uh he posted this five weeks ago which was just words. Uh I can't read the even when I see this translated uh I still can't understand what he's trying to say. Okay. I ate the flesh in my body. This Farsy in English, the Farsy does not translate well to English. Or he's using some app to translate it that's not doing a great job. I will be with my people. Maybe I got lost, but I was able to find the way. Had the ability to apologize. Had the power to rebuild. Sometimes with silence, sometimes shouting. I don't know. I think he's just trying to say he's very loyal to the people of Iran and he's very grateful for his fans. Um, long live Iran. Long live the true Iranian. And then this came out yesterday. And then this came out today. So he's back on Instagram. He's back posing. And that's a great great sign. I mean, now we know he's he's his condition, his everything's going to be there. He's going to bring the the package that we wanted him to. You know, I didn't want Andrew to just win because Hottie came in off his best. Uh, I wanted Andrew to win because he was the best man on stage and he still very might be well be. We don't know. But I have to say I'm rooting for Hottie now just because of everything that's been going on in his country and the fact that so many of his fans turn their backs on him. I did see something else on Insta that was uh kind of kind of sad to see. Let me see if I can pull it up for you. Uh, this was um 36,000 killed. Beyond the Stage TV. Yeah, here we go. So, this was posted on the Beyond the Stage TV page yesterday. I think they post a lot. So, wow. How many This was posted eight hour. Yeah. Gez, in one day these guys have like 10 posts. So, uh, they're showing a gym in Iran and they're removing banners and artwork of Hotti Chupan asking is this disrespectful or do gym owners have every right to remove Hottie if they do not agree with his decisions following confirmation that he will be competing at the Arnold Classic. I don't think anyone's upset that he's competing. I think they were upset that he wasn't more outspoken towards the uh the government like a lot of these people are. This guy's in Iran I think on the second the second comment there. Many of us see the suffering in Iran. Oh no, this guy's not there. So one athlete cannot fix a nation. One one man cannot carry the weight of millions. Real change takes unity. You know, in a way, I've sort of been uh envious of these guys from places like Egypt where Big Ramy had so much support from the Egyptian fans and Iran. You know, we've seen Ramy and and Hadti go back to their country after winning the Olympia and it's it's like a a World Series or a Super Bowl parade. You're watching the the hundreds of thousands of people turn out in the streets for these guys. uh but at the same time they carry a very very deep responsibility representing their nation and if they displease their fans in that country for any reason they will they will turn their backs on them in a in a heartbeat. I've heard that about the Brazilian fans, too, that they're very, very loyal to their athletes, to their champions, but if their champion doesn't deliver as promised or doesn't perform as well as they had expected them to, they will turn on them in a freaking heartbeat. So, yeah, but that's that's kind of sad to see them taking that hottie looking fresh and very hard. I agree. I agree. Here we go again. Why does Andrew Hamsters look poor in the back double? Is just development? Uh, I think it's development. He still needs more hamstrings. They're not as good as they need to be. They don't quite match the quads and the side shots, but you know, hopefully they will. It's a response to how creepy thing is. Yeah, it is. I mean, but again, you know, what happens to people who stand up against the government in Iran? Iran doesn't play. It's not like here where you can go and go to a protest and uh go up to go up to uh federal agents with machine guns and tear gas and scream in their face and disrespect them and abuse them and everything's okay. You do that over in Iran, I'm pretty sure you're dead. They don't play over there. They're not they're not worried about offending or being nice to their uh to their citizens. If you're standing up publicly against the government, the soldiers will do what they've been trained and ordered to do and they will cut you down. I know I'm not I'm not trying to speak as if I know a whole lot about Iran and what's going on because I don't. I just read little things in Apple News. I'm not that well wellversed in what's going on in Iran. But it is kind of sad to see that the the fans are turning on him like that. The problems with how he's not speaking out be a dumb movie like Yeah. Yeah, I mean they could punish him in so many ways. I mean not leaving the country, that would probably be, you [snorts] know, probably be the most lenient response from the government if he spoke out. They could do a lot worse than that. They could put him in prison. They could take his gym away. They could who knows? I mean, I don't know if he could be killed for it. I don't know. But it wouldn't be there would be repercussions. There would be consequences. They don't have freedom of speech in Iran. They're not allowed to say whatever they want about the government with no repercussions. It's it's a very very different culture, a very different country. FY holds a head to toe condition. Legs come legs same size. You have win the Arnold. Uh Goku, I have either hottie or Android. It's Man, I'm just torn. Torn. So, can we see from this if his legs are the same size? Let's see. So, this is the only full body that we have. Let me take that comment away. Let's see if there's any indication when he turns to the front. If we can see legs from the back look great. Hamstrings look like cables. So, the leg on your on our left side of the screen is the one that's been downsized a little. He poses it a little differently. Yeah, you can see he's got it in front of the other leg. I don't know if the disparity is still there. probably it's not that bad. I mean, it doesn't really bother me that much. I don't know if it bothers you guys. God frogs, we don't free speech UK either. Get jail for saying the wrong thing. Yeah, I mean, I've I've followed some of the things that have been happening over there. Uh guy got thrown in jail for making like an an anti-Islamic twe tweet or something that was construed as anti-Islamic, which is that's really scary. It's scary that you can get in that much trouble for just a tweet. Talk about no freedom of speech. That is awful. Go back to his hottie Insta. [snorts] Uh yeah, this was long ago. He never got out of shape. So, he obviously had planned on doing the Arnold again after the Olympia because I didn't see a quote unquote health phase where he got smaller and smoother. uh me going on off all the PEDs. I'm assuming he'll do that after this so he has his body can get a little rest before the Olympia, but I didn't see anything like that. He stayed in shape the whole time. This was 10 weeks ago. Yeah. See these things? Don't be afraid. It's not a gun, it's a lighter. Oh, that was the finger. He's talking about what he was doing with his finger. [laughter] A little uh hand gesture. Want to let people know it's uh it's not gun violence or anything like that. But this guy is he's tough, man. Yeah, that was a that was a gun. Come on, Hottie. [laughter] That was a gun. Who are you kidding, Hottie? Don't be silly. What else we got, Kai? What else we got? Not as much leg difference. Better. I think photo will beat. Uh I think photo I have photo right now based on the photos. I know it's it's it's kind of silly to judge people by themselves and they're not even saying, but I have FOD in fifth. I think that it's going to be either Andrew or Hottie for the win. I think Nick will be third. I think Martin will be fourth and I have Mo Fod up in fifth. uh if I see some improvements in the condition and and Brandon doesn't even post he doesn't post a lot of update picks at all but uh Raphael if I see him looking tighter if I see some some improvements in the next couple weeks I might change him change those predictions but right now gym looks insane probably how he will win the Arnold yeah I mean he's won it before guys he's won it before it wouldn't be that big of a stretch for him to come win it again. I mean, the only guy I for I really foresee beating him because he's clearly going to be at his best, as good as the Olympia, if not better. And let's remember, he won the finals of the Olympia. He had the higher score than Derek, or I should say the lower score, which is lower points, which is a higher score. Uh, and he still lost because Derek had gained gained too much ground in the judging Friday night. But he was right there with Derek and he beat Derek at the finals, but it just wasn't enough to clinch the title again. But you know, so many people have said this and it's true. Hottie could theoretically he could have four or five Olympia titles by now. There were a lot of Olympias where he was second or third where very very strong arguments could be made for him being a winner that year. You know, he's a very very complete physique. You know, this is hashtag bodybuilding as Milos would say. Not the most shapely and a aesthetically pleasing guy. No, but he still doesn't have like a thick blocky waist or anything like that. He's just a shorter guy. And when a short guy packs on that much muscle, it it's hard to, you know, say this guy's aesthetics. But look at that. He still pulls a vacuum. He's he's got one of the best midsections in the in the pro league. He's phenomenal. He's no joke. Brandon six. Brandon sixth to fifth and Raphael seventh. Yeah, that that could very well be. Total backside versus Raphael. Martin or Nick? Who do you have third? I have Nick in third. [snorts] It could it could go Martin. Martin's very good, too. I can't see his updates because he blocked me long ago. A couple probably like three, four months ago now. Version of Walker that took Derek to the wire. That might be enough to topple both Jacked and Hottie. Maybe. I think you're talking about the Pittsburgh Pro. Do I still have that up here somewhere? Yeah, I do. I know we're going all over the place now, but this was a very good version, I thought, of Nick Walker [snorts] at the Pittsburgh Pro almost a year ago now. This was last April. And a lot of people had Nick winning. Even Tyler Manion had Nick winning. But in the end, they were so close. And Steve Weinberger came up with this extra pose down round. Pose down round and Nick Walker lost by that hair by a point. But we'll see. Hottie has certainly been screwed out of three or four. Yeah, Mukbink. Hottie is sick. Well, sick Jack is uh the term that these kids use. It just means he's looking freak. It's like saying he's freaky. He's looking sick. Yeah. I didn't mean that he meant uh he I didn't mean to say that he looked ill like he wasn't in good health. That he looks great. Actually, if Nick is not 100% even 99% he will lose to Martin. >> I don't know. I don't know. I mean, it's true that Martin has beat him beat him last time. Uh but at his best, and I would not say the 25 Olympia was Nick Walker's best, uh if he comes in with a a more streamlined midsection, it's not so thick and blocky. Uh he's very very capable of beating Martin. See Martin is a winner of major contest. Something about him doesn't add for me. Martin's very good. I mean Martin is another topic. He looks like he struggled a lot with prep. Yeah. Again I can't see the updates but he hasn't been showing much and some people do seem to believe that Martin is off that he's not uh he's not looking on track or on schedule. Now, I don't know if that's true or not because I can't see, but the shots I've seen like he threw up a back pose uh few week a few days ago and I it wasn't looking that crisp. Zero car's cardio every day. Wasn't his last wasn't that his last update? I don't know. Godfather, I can't God Frogs. I can't see his updates. He's blocked me. He's blocked me. He's blocked a lot of people. He's blocked uh Beyond Stage TV. He's blocked Giles. Me, obviously. Giles. Uh Miguel Chain from Brazil. blocked him. Uh if Arnold Derek was at Pittsburgh wouldn't even be close. Yeah, Derk looked great at the Arnold last year at the at the Arnold. At Pittsburgh, his legs came down. His his legs were definitely very flat. Nick had his best part. Honestly, Nick looks better here for me. But what do I know? Well, I mean, a lot of Jack, a lot of people felt that way. A lot of people felt that way. Got to get a burner account run. No. Well, you know what? I have I have plenty of people who have not been blocked that I know. So, they can they can screenshot things for me. So, when I'm around certain people at the gym or whatever, I'm like, "Hey, can you pull it up?" And then they'll just screenshot it for me and send it to me. I mean, you're gonna block everybody I know. Good luck. Good luck, guy. Ain't going to be easy. I know a lot of people. It's a recent hottie pick. This is not uh show you. This is this was posted the most recent image we have is a video. This was posted today by Hottie on his Instagram. It was at five weeks out and we're now just under four weeks. So, this is a little over a week old. This is the most recent Yeah. image. I guess that's the right word. The most recent thing we have to go by as far as how hottie he's looking. And I think he's looking insane. I mean, that's five weeks out. The body fat is almost completely gone. I mean, where is the body fat? He's probably got like another pound of body fat to lose. Dry out a couple pounds of water and he's ready to go. Martin looks worse in more show. He doesn't remember last year. Pittsburgh did all the shows for Pittsburgh. Yeah, some people look better. Like I thought Quinton Nia, Quint Beastwood, I thought he was looking better as the shows went on last summer because he did five shows. Remember I turned his comments off. You know why? Uh yeah, I saw that. I probably should have made a note of that. I think it's because you know he's got how many followers here? I wonder [clears throat] how many he's lost. That's a good question. How many followers has hot lost? So he's still got eight and a half million followers. I don't know if he if he had like 10 before. Eight and a half million is that's that's a lot of followers, guys. That's insane. Uh but he was getting a lot of negative comments uh from his fans who they believe he should have spoken out more against the government, the regime, the uh the fundamentalists who are running Iran right now and have been since the revolution in 1978. It's when the Ayatollah Kumeni took power. They deposed they kicked out the sha who was very friendly to the USA. We had great relations with the sha of Iran. Iran was a capitalist country back then. Uh very modern, very western compared to a lot of the other Middle Eastern countries. And then it became uh less so. Again, I don't want to get into it because I don't know that much. Also, did you get to see those knots? Yeah, I saw those. Yeah. I mean, I I I don't want to knock Martin for that because [snorts] these guys are taking so many shots, guys. So many shots the they're doing more orals toward the end too, but they're still taking the priolan and test probe and trend and maston. They have to put all that gear somewhere. So you can't put it all in the glutes. You're going to have like horns sticking out of your glutes in the upper outer quadrants. Can't put it on the delts because then the delts get too much scar tissue and lose detail. So, I'm sure a lot of guys I was doing TRT shots in my lats because a local NPC super heavyweight guy suggested to me about a year ago because I was like, man, I'm sick of putting all this stuff in my shoulders and my butt, or Jack, who do you have winning? Give me another week to marinate on that one. Who do you have winning? Juiced up. You're all juiced up. You tell me. [snorts] Dude, the politics pretty short. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the Martin L thing, it doesn't it doesn't really bother me. It's not like he's got these big baseball lumps sticking out of his lats or anything like that. People talk about politics of a sport. Yeah, they were again, they were they were very upset with him for not they because he's their champion, their bodybuilding champion, they expect him to insert himself into the political uh issues going on over there, which he does not want to do. He just wants to focus on Come on. The guy's trying to get ready for a huge $750,000. This is the biggest cash prize any bodybuilding contest has ever offered for a winner. It's insane. We're finally getting close to a million dollars. This is three quarter of a million dollars. [snorts] He just wants to focus on winning the damn Arnold, but you know, his his comments, they they're all berating him and criticizing him for for not standing up enough for the Iranian people. And you know, he's he's made his comments and he said what he wanted to say, but he doesn't want to he doesn't want to argue with people and I don't blame him. Yeah, that chest is crazy. He's got one of the greatest chests in the in the world right now. I think the hate Derek was getting from Hottie fans now reversed. Well, I mean, I never blamed Hottie. The the the hate that the Hottie fans were giving toward Derek, Hottie did nothing to instigate that. He never made a post saying, "Ah, you guys, you know, Derek, Derek's a clown. He didn't deserve to beat me." Blah, blah, blah. Go, go troll him. He never did anything like that. The fans took it upon themselves. But no, I don't I don't like to see any anybody will get hate. I don't want to see Derek, Hottie, Nick, Martin, Andrew. I don't want to see any Samson. You know what? No. I I It's Nobody deserves that. I mean, unless they're just an awful person or something, but I don't know any of these any of these guys that are actually horrible human beings. Meridad, I think you're in Iran. That sounds like a Persian name to me. All this is part of the plan of Hadi Chupan's enemies who are trying to achieve their own goals. Hadti has no connection at all with the Islamic Republic regime. Yeah, how would he? He's a freaking bodybuilder. He's a gym owner and he's a champion bodybuilder. He's a Mr. Olympia. The hell is he? Why do they expect him to to be a you know political activist especially in a place where there are dire consequences for opposing the government like people are being 36,000 people have been killed just in the past couple months it's crazy power body condition Andrew I'll say hottie very close very different physically side by side yeah they're very very different physiques very different I mean obviously that's Not fair. He wasn't in the pose. There we go. I mean, they're they're both amazing in their own right. They're both incredible champions. Heidi is by far the more accomplished of the two. He's been a pro for since 2018, I think, or 2017, I'm sorry, 2017. Uh, so almost 10 years. Andrew turned pro in 2022. So, been in the Mr. Olympia uh let's see, 1920, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, seven times. He's never been I think lower than fourth. I'd have to look it up, but I don't think he's ever been lower than fourth. He's won it. He's been second. He's been third. Very, very consistent Olympia competitor. Olympia has bigger money for the win. No. So, Olympia Olympia Jack uh paid 650 for the for the 2024 and 2025 Olympia. I thought they were going to raise the prize money. they have overall more prize money because they include every division down to you know bikini figure all that they have every division whereas the Arnold they eliminated over the course of the years they eliminated men's 212 women's physique women's figure women's bodybuilding uh so they still have open bodybuilding classic physique men's physique bikini women's fitness I think that's all they have I stand by chupan says Johnny a sponge lower body inner condition Andrew can oh Andrew can win guys there's there's no there's no doubt in my mind you're Andrew can win I just don't know they both have different strong points and different weaknesses you know hottie from the back isn't quite as detailed back has come up a lot is getting better he's improving we've been seeing the past couple shows where hottie Hottie's maxed out. He's great, but he's as good as he's going to get. And he's actually younger than Andrew, but he's been bodybuilding a lot longer than Andrew Jack has. Is 38, but I think he's been competing since he was in his early 20s. So, he's got a lot of years on him. A lot of years on him. So, if we talk about like training age, competitive age, hottie is actually much older. If you look at that, his body's been through quite a bit more. Hottie did nothing. walked out on the stage when Derek was crowned, pushed the algorithm and his fans fall. Uh, well, he's he's explained the whole walking out on the stage thing, which I still don't think was cool. Uh, but yeah, he was clearly very very upset. He was probably either going to cry or something. He didn't want didn't want people to see him that upset, so he just walked away. I'm not defending him, but he did he did give an explanation. Uh, I don't know what you mean what what you mean when you say he pushed the algorithm and his fans follow blindly. I never heard him encourage his fans in any way to come after Derek. I don't know. Classic Lunsford. Yeah, Lunford looked great last year. Maybe Howdy Andrew get called out by themselves for finals. All mandatory poses. Yeah. Very very very often in these big shows like the Olympia and the Arnold. any any pro show really if it's very close between two guys very often the final call out of judging after they've gone through the first call out second call out first call out's usually the top four five maybe six guys and then they work their way down to the the guys who are not going to place well at all and then at the very end they'll bring out usually the the top two guys that they're trying to decide between sometimes there'll be three but most times it's two guys it's very exciting for the fans because you know that's when you know it's close and it's pretty much that's cemented that these are your top two if we see that happen at judging. So I could I could very very much see hottie and Andrew being the last call out of judging at the Arnold Classic this year pays more than the Olympia. It pays more for first prize 750 versus 650. Uh, but again, I have to I have to be accurate and say overall the Olympia gives out more total prize money because they include all the divisions of the IPB Pro League, whereas the Arnold Classic, they're not obligated to do that. They have they have eliminated a few divisions that they didn't feel were making enough money or that were generating enough interest, sponsors, things like that. Uh whereas the Olympia, they have no choice. They have to feature every single division. They're obligated. It's not even It's not even a consideration. Just looks like it's second before explosion. Yeah, his chest is freaking amazing, guys. So, be listening the other podcast. Yeah, Jack, I was on IFBB AMA with Milos Sarv and Chris Tuttle. Uh Chris reached out to me and we we put it together. Had a lot of fun. Both those guys, I've known Milos longer. I've known Milo since the since the early 90s, but uh very always a good time talking to that. First time I'd spoken to Milos since that infamous [snorts] power hour with me, Milos, and Giles, which that it was like eight months ago. That's a long time ago where Milos kept calling him a [\h__\h] idiot and it went on and on for like an hour and I should have stopped it, but I didn't. I just let it go. Still regret that. Samson is looking like a monster with that recent guest posing. Yeah. Yeah. [snorts] Samson's like knocking on the door 360 now. Let's see how much different than usual. Get the hype. >> [snorts] >> Well, the thing is he isn't much different. He doesn't he hasn't gotten much better in many many in many year. Well, many is a little sounds make sounds like 20, but he's he's maxed out. He's amazing and he's as good as he's going to get. Every every pro at some point they max out. They reach their full potential. They're as good as they're going to get. Any weak body parts that need to be brought up have been brought up. Any issues with condition have been fixed. And that's where's been for at least four or five years now. He looks amazing. I mean, he won the Olympia back in 2022. So, it's been uh almost three and a half years since he won the Olympia. But yeah, he he really can't get any better because he's he's amazing and he's as good as he's going to get. Just don't care for how shape structure. He's not very aesthetically pleasing. He's a shorter guy. He's a shorter guy. It's hard for the shorter guys to show the aesthetics because it's a smaller frame. Uh you see that more with the classic guys because they don't have as much muscle on the frame. So a shorter guy in classic physique like a Terrence Ruffin can still be very aesthetically pleasing because they don't have all that muscle, you know, blowing out the It's hard to have a small waist when you're that thick. You have that much muscle mass. It's very hard. Too many women divisions. I agree. I mean the final straw for me was fit model. I was like that's when I just threw my hat up in the air and said that's it. I'm done. Done. [snorts] Believe Andrew is on the verge of a big run tour with Arnold Windfall by winning the Olympia. Yeah, Johnny. That's what Giles Thomas who is taking Andrew won a UK tour right after the Arnold UK. He's been saying that for months now. So, I can't I can't claim to be the one who uh came up with that brilliant idea. It was Charles. I didn't ask Directly's fans push hate toward Derek, but he did it indirectly. How? I'm just I'm I'm I'm honestly curious. How did he do it indirectly? I really do want to know. cuz I I'm holding I'm holding Hottie uh completely innocent in this scenario until I hear otherwise. But let me know did he say something? I don't know what he said or posted that that would have made fans do that. How's most larger Gari's sort of most ability condition? Oh yeah. I mean Gaspari was like one of the most conditioned athletes we ever saw. I mean that was my idol. I I had pictures of him up on my wall. I wanted I wanted to look like that with all the striations and veins. I thought that was the coolest thing. So great about except the goodness he brings. He's not more stagnant. Well, he's got a lot of muscle mass. He does have a very good structure. It's just shorter. You know, he's got the wide shoulders. You know, Derek and Hottie, it it's very rare that you see guys who are they're about 5'5. Let's be real. Very rarely do guys who are as short as they are have very wide clavicles and still a narrow narrow hips and waist. Look, Samson was so depleted there. He was so much so undersized. Raphael looks the same as always. Soft baby's ass. Yeah, I'm not I'm not overly impressed with Raphael right now. I'm curious to see h how he's able to dial it in in the next few weeks. These footage Derrick looks massive. Oh, Derek is huge. Come on. Andrew is progressively progressing. For me, the myth got me started. Then the myth was Sergio Oliva. Yeah, I have Nick six. Oh no, poor Nick. [laughter] So Kane, what is your top five? If Nick's not even in the top five, I'm I'm curious. I'm not going to argue with you because this show could go any any of many different ways. We have no idea. You know, I we can make all our predictions and we do. It's fun, but it's it rarely shakes out exactly the way we we think it's going to. Hunter return this year. You think he'll do we do well? I think you want to say yeah, Hunter's a very good bodybuilder. He does have that peck tier which is a little distracting, but remember Hunter has been as high as fourth place in the Mr. Olympia. That was before the pec tier, but still Hunter's a damn good bodybuilder. You haven't seen much from Nick lately. I think Raphael is chasing for more size. Kane loves Bob Chick. [laughter] Does he really? Probably not. Should I go to Nick? We're trying to talk about hottie. Maybe we should go to Andrew for a second. See if Andrew's got anything up. Anything new? Where are you, Andrew? There we go. Andrew Jacked. So, Andrew has not posted a lot of full body stuff. even that he does like a thumbnail for the for the training clips with the little physique shot, but then you don't get to see the like right there. That's you click on that, it goes right into the training. You can't actually see what he looks like. But if you just spread it out on the screen, you can see Andrew has made serious improvements over the past couple years. Everything is better. His back is better, his hams are better, his quads, arms are always great. He gets a lot of [\h__\h] for supposedly having a bunch of oil in his arms and shoulders, but I don't think they look bad. And honestly, if you don't think all these top guys are using something like that, some sort of SEO. I mean, we don't know, but it's very, very hard. It's very hard to say anyone for certain doesn't have any oil in there. Let's see. say good things about Nick so he doesn't block me. So, I want to be able to see Nick's updates. What's recent for Nick? I know I'm sort of going off into other people now, but it's just all stuff like that. That was seven hours ago. Wow. Yeah, Nick Nick is pretty freaky, man. Pretty freaky. I just I really want to see that waist come back to where it was [snorts] a couple years ago. When he was second to Samson at the 2023 Arnold, that was a really good look for him. When he was third place at the Olympia in 2022, another great look. And his waist, his waist was smaller back then. He was a little smaller, but he was still huge. He doesn't need to be 260, 270, whatever it is on stage like he was at the Olympia. >> I think in the 250s, he's golden. He's still bigger than everybody else. He's still freakier. Yeah, I know. It's a hottie video. Why are we talking about Nick Walker? I don't know. Let's see. I'm way back. Hunter and uh his dad was better. It was a different era. I think Hunter is great in his own way. Yeah, Lee was phenomenal. I was a huge Lee Labrada fan. Think for hottie politics will affect judge decision? No, I don't think the judges don't care as they seriously don't care about international politics. They could give they can give a rat's ass as we say. Raphael to look doesn't have enough muscle so he can't afford to come impeed. Uh I'll talk about Raphael because I'm actually interviewing Neil Hill later in the week. We'll be talking. Is Heidi winning? Uh is that the new opinion? Well, he's definitely not losing because uh of a Well, first of all, we didn't know if he was going to get here. We didn't know if he was going to get a visa. That was cleared up. Then we're like, "This guy hasn't been posting and there's so much going on in Iran with people being killed and they're they're pretty much ready to revolt against the government." >> [snorts] >> Um, we didn't know if he was going to be able to train and diet and prep for the show at 100% with all this going on because mentally when your country's basically at war or close to it, it's got to be hard to concentrate. But he's he's laser focused. He's locked in. He has Andrew winning. Uh, I mean, I have I don't know, man. I I don't I don't have anyone winning right now. I have Andrew or Hottie winning. I know that's it's it's sounds like a copout, but man, they're they both have strong points that the other one doesn't have. They're very they're very different physiques. I think that's safe very safe to say. Very very different physiques and would have dominated the 80s. He certainly would have been uh right on right right up there with guys like Haney and so forth. There was all the [\h__\h] he gets. He disqualified. I think you're talking about hottie Paul Bartlett. What's up? Big Paul li post from his toilet where he's taking a long [\h__\h] Well, that's good. He needs to keep his midsection, his stomach nice and flat. Keep that gut empty. Good time to show an example of him. I did this shows confidence. You mean hottie saying good things. No one's saying anything bad about any of them. [snorts] Meanwhile, Nicholas sticking the basics. Seven dumps per day. I take about seven. How about you, Paul? I probably average six or seven dumps a day. Nick is bringing more. So, I mean, if he eats if you eat five, six meals a day, I eat six meals a day. You're going to be you're going to be taking a lot of dumps. Nick is bringing more size. Seems like his insides are grew, not just his abs. Oh, I agree. I mean, it's it's not his abs. It's it's like organ growth or something. But that can be reversed. We saw Roly Winkler a few years ago. He was getting a big bubble gut and he reversed it. So, it can be done. It can be done. Sundays we rest. Let's see guy. I don't know what they're signing contracts. I'm my own coach. Yeah, let's give Andrew Let's give Nick Andrew. Let's give Nick a little credit for coaching himself because that's it's not an easy an easy thing to do in terms of confidence when you know you're you're going up against guys that are being coached by Chris Aceto, uh Neil Hill. I don't know if George Farah is anywhere in the show. You know, Hani Ramad's probably been coaching Honey Chupan secretly. I wouldn't doubt it. See, when he posts these, his waist looks a lot smaller. But [snorts] I remember seeing updates like this going to the Olympia and then his his waist was a lot bigger at the Olympia. But this looks to me like his waist is smaller. It looks like his his midsection, I should say, not his waist. It's smaller and tighter. It's not as thick and blocky looking. That encourages me. I'm happy to see that and I hope he brings that to the stage, not just Instagram. Donald Pompez, Hottie, Martin, Nick, Andrew Jacked. Oh, wait. One, two, three. You have Andrew Jack in ninth. That's what it looks like he got there. Come on, guys. He's not gonna place ninth. No way. Andrew beats Hottie. Uh, it's never happened before, but that doesn't mean it couldn't happen again. When you interview Yoda Hill, you have to look so bad. uh fake gear. Well, you know, I'm gonna ask him what I'm gonna ask him. I'm gonna state my opinion. I always do it in a very respectful way. And I, you know, I don't think Mike looks bad, but I don't think he looks as good right now as he did going into the Olympia. Uh but yeah, I've got a lot of questions about Summerfeld and a lot about Raphael. Uh I like Neil a lot. He's he's a good dude. So, we saw what he did for Flex Lewis all those years. Very very attentive coach. cares very deeply about all his clients. Triceps back to the Ernie Tail looks Andrew. Nick, Hottie, Andrew, Kiso. What's that? Kiso is not in the show. Katherine Nick, hottie, Andrew. They are all three of them. But Ko will not take fourth because he will not be in the show. So I can guarantee you he won't take fourth. I like physique, but they penalize for Nah, they don't highlight if they're penalizing for height. All these Derek would never have won Olympia or an Arnold. Hottie would never have won an Olympia or an Arnold. They're they're both like 5'5. Nick Walker's 5'6. There aren't many tall people in bodybuilding. There's even in the open, which you know, it's unlimited body weight. You still have very few guys six foot or taller. Very few. The vast majority of guys that are open pros, open bodybuilding pros are between 5'9, I should say 5'8 and five 5'10. That's probably the the majority of them are in that range. Yeah, I knew what you meant. Uh, double dam. Hottie is already falling apart. Maybe I should go back to back to Hottie instead of showing Nick. Talk about Hottie. I can't be can't be showing Nick Walker all the time. Hottie is already falling apart. His right quad is melting. His back looks like six weeks out. Will Sunday. Yeah, I'll let you guys go soon. Super boring. Talk about the Super Bowl. Super boring. Hottie is gonna be number 10. Oh boy, it's terrible. I give Nick credit after I see good shape on say. Yeah, I mean, we don't I never I really try not to go by Instagram pictures because they can be so manipulated and taken from just the right angle, just the right lighting to make you look far better than you do in reality. But the stage, you can't hide jack [\h__\h] on the stage. The lights are bright. We're seeing you from every angle. You get exposed. If you've been hiding stuff on Instagram or YouTube, it gets exposed on stage. I don't trust any pictures. Yeah, I'm right there with you, man. Heidi's gonna slam Andrew again. People are weirdos like BLM and CO. They say if you're silent, you're racist. People need to chill out. Yeah, if you're silent, it just means you don't want to speak out against anything. You know, nobody's obligated to be an activist for the cause that you believe in. You can shout and go protest, but it doesn't mean everyone else has to. Hottanie left Derrick while secretly coaching Hottie. What a clown. Glad his boy didn't win. I don't know if he's coach co coaching Hottie, but I strongly suspect that he is. I mean, Hottie's looking fantastic. He's looking as good as he ever has. Is he doing that all on his own without a coach? Whereas all those other years he had Hottie, I Hani, I always do that. So, I don't know. It would be very, very surprising to me if Hottie was not being coached by Hani. I would I would bet that he is. I would bet that he is. So, it's a live run. Didn't cost nothing. Like and subscribe. Thank you, Warhammer. You trolled me today. You had me thinking I was a a Sam Solicator. Oh [\h__\h] Go back to that again. That's a good one. We're taking the final comments. [snorts] Andrew's beating hottie. Well, Ghana, some people, a lot of people believe it's going to be Andrew. A lot of people believe it's going to be hottie. Both. They are both amazing. If Nick looked like that on stage, you'd be number one. Yeah. If his if he brings his waist on stage looking like that, he's going to do very well. Thank you, man. Thumbs up. Doesn't cost you anything either. It's a like Hillos Hani Sarah Nick by himself. Good luck. Sean Ray did it. Yates had a few, but he'd ask. Well, I mean, Nick Walker does have people around him. I know that guy, Sister Nino, is one of the one of the guys who takes a look at him and I'm sure he's very blunt with him and lets him know or your head behind. He has Nick has trusted people that are that are giving him a a second set of eyes, third set of eyes, if you will. I knew his post say didn't impress me. Really? I was impressed. I thought he looked great. Camera angle is perfect to make Nick's waist look smaller than it actually is. Yeah. I mean, who among us doesn't take selfies like that? You're not You're not gonna take a selfie to make yourself look worse. Let's see what Aceto could do with Nick. Yeah, Benito would be good good coach for him. Nick using a camera minimize size of his waist. No, no worries, Catherine. I mean, Ko, I think he's coming back for New York Pro. I think I heard that. We see Nick F. I get disappointed when I see him on stage. Yeah, I [sighs and gasps] mean, he does have good updates, but the last Olympia was just not his best. How tall is Urs? I think Urs is 510. 510. People like Hottie lost a lot of followers. went from 8 million to something like 8 million something. So, did he gain followers? Yeah, 5'11. Thank you, Goku. I can't imagine that he gained any followers or he must have lost some song fans in chat. What's the Super Bowl body Olympia with the gap rose? I mean, if if we're going by the the prize for open bodybuilding, the Arnold is number one right now. It's that's not an argument. I thought the Olympia was going to level up because the Olympia was 650 in 2024. The Arnold was uh 500 in 2024 and then they they bumped it up to 750 for this year. So I thought thought the Olympia was going to step up. [sighs] It would be a mistake to discount Hottie always 100%. Full resp. Yeah, I agree. Hottie Hottie is you can never ever count Chupan out. Never. It would be foolish. Very foolish. He's a He's a freak, man. He's a champion. He's a true champion. His arm bellies caught some side shots. Much better. Cavs are siege. Nobody cares about calves anymore. I don't think I honestly don't think anybody cares. Do they do exercise make vacuums like hottie? [snorts] Uh I don't know who you mean. They they practice their vacuums if that's what you mean. You do have to practice your vacuums if you want them to look to look right. That was 24 days out from the Olympia. That's an old. So, this is old. This is leading up to Olympia. I don't think his legs are going to look too different. They're not going to look very different, guys. It's He hasn't changed much. I don't think he he can change much at this point. He is super strong, though. What's that? One, two, three, four, five, six. Six plates on the Smith. That's a lot. I don't care if it's a Smith machine or not. That's a lot of weight. Sean Luck Milos, Shawn Ray. Oh, no. The Olympia will always be by the most prestigious show. Oh, I agree. Even if it's not the top prize show, it's the Olympia. That's what every bodybuilder wants to be, Mr. Olympia. They want to win the Arnold, too. But they want to win Mr. Olympia. It's it's the the title that's been held by all the champions all the way down from Larry Scott, Sergio, Arnold. Geez, Lee, Haney, Dorian, Ronnie, Phil, Jay. It's It's the title everybody's always going to want. Is Han's FST bogus? I don't know. I've tried I liked it a lot. I'll say this about FST7, the sevens portion of it where you do seven sets uh same weight with only 30 seconds rest. If you've had trouble or have never been able to get a good pump in a body part, if you do those sevens for that body part, I promise you, you're going to get you're going to get a great pump. isn't an age thing. It's it's height that's called out. Yeah, Nick left HD again. [sighs] Take a picture of myself. Oh, Andrew needs total body conditioning. Go back to I don't want to just leave a squatting picture up all damn day. [laughter] I'll leave that up while we're taking comments. And total blackishing. Yeah, his stage presence could be a little better. It is. It has improved. Is Bible not a politician? I also don't get why some people took the Bible to get dragged into politics. Yeah. Because they're so into politics, they want everyone else to be. And it's just not everyone's thing. Especially when he's trying to focus. It's a lot of work trying to win a show like the Arnold of the Olympia. You can't be distracted. You can't be spending hours of your day arguing back and forth on social media with people about politics. Yeah. This guy came from nothing. Went through a hard life. Yeah. I don't think he's had an easy life. The Bill Belch, the thong bowl. Well, Belch is no longer the Patriots coach. Hasn't been for a few years now. It's a lot of pressure on them. We're battling for It's 750, Jack. It's even more than 700. 750. It's a cool three4 million dollars. I don't care about my own cast. A lot of people don't vacuum pretend or he's teaching them how to do a vacuum. Google how to do a how to do vacuums on YouTube. You'll find some good instructions. Nobody else does, [\h__\h] Talking about calves. Yeah. How dare he be a bodybuilder who squats? Well, it's Smith machine. Built everything he has today. Talking about hottie with pure hard work. Now some people expecting to risk his whole life, his career, his future, his family safety, everything just to make political statements. I agree. That's [\h__\h] He shouldn't. Joo soft just like they could have hugged out after Jiles cried blocked. Well, they couldn't hug him out because Mil is in Vegas and Giles is in the UK. It's too far to hug. The guys love you on. Thank you. Be safe tonight. You celebrate the real sport. Yeah. Be safe tonight. Those of you who are going to be drinking and watching the Super Bowl. Much love. Thank you, Melvin. Guy five assist on stage trying to be a steak. I agree. It's very very difficult. It's putting that much mass on a small frame. It's it's it's it's not easy. Especially the prize Olympia was always the biggest. >> Yeah, they they're going to have to step up their game this year. They're going to have to. And I think they will. Being a Bible doesn't mean you owe anyone else. I agree. I agree. how his role is bodybuilding discipline representing your sacrifice. Yeah. I mean that is putting his family in danger. Iran is not the USA. I think a lot of people they're they're thinking of how it is in the USA where we have freedom of speech. You can protest. You can say whatever you want about the government as long as you're not threatening to assassinate the president and it's all good. You have that right. You don't have those rights in many other countries including Iran. You know Shiru Sivan is from Iran as well. True. Because he isn't a big figure like Yeah. He's not quite as uh quite as well known as hottie. All right, guys. I'm going to take off. It's been over an hour. Uh so, I appreciate you guys watching. Please like, subscribe, share, do all that good stuff. I'll be back later in the week with more content. And that's it. I appreciate you guys all watching. For those of you who be watching the big game, go Pats. And we'll talk to you later. Thanks for watching.