What's up, guys? Ron Harris here. Taking a little break from the shoveling situation. Snowing uh very, very hard last night into today. Over two feet of snow where I am, but uh little update on the Hottie Chupon. And I don't know if I'm the first person to pick up on this. I find it hard to believe that I am. But let's take a look at something. So yesterday the news broke that Hottie Chupan was in the USA and he posted this video. This video showing him doing some very heavy T-bar rows, eight plates. The form, well, we can argue about the form. He's really not bent over very much at all, but that's not what the video is about. But take a look at the gym. You can see it's a very drab looking gym. He's He's definitely not in some big fancy gym with beautiful murals and things like that. It's very basic gym. Just has some weights. Still don't know exactly where he is. However, that was posted yesterday, which was February 22nd. Now, did you note what the gym looked like? I'll show you one more time before I look. So, the walls, you can see the the off-white or beige walls with some red stripes there. very drab, very basic looking gym. Okay. And we're going to go look at a post that was made a week before that on February 15th. And here it is. So here's Heidi, same gym. And it says 19 days out. So that would have been assuming 19 days out is from the judging from Friday night. Uh the first the first of the first night of the two-day competition, two nights. Same gym. You could see it's a panata Smith machine. He loves those Smith machine squats. He's very very strong. No idea where this is. However, he wasn't in Dubai. Dubai gyms are a lot fancier than this. And wherever he is, I don't know if he's training at night, if they're keeping literally keeping him hidden so that nobody even knows he's there, wherever he is. And you can see in the corner there, corner of the image, get out of your comfort zone is in English. Now, I know they do speak plenty of English in Dubai, so I'm not saying that couldn't there's no way they could be uh this could be Dubai, but he posted that tea barrow. It's in his Instagram stories right now. That was posted yesterday. It was actually posted less than 24 hours ago. So that leads me to believe it's it's obviously the same gym. So he's been in the USA longer than we think. Now I'm calling on you guys, my detectives. Does anyone recognize that gym? Now I know there's thousands and thousands of gyms all around the USA, but this is one of them. And like again, I think he is being hidden away from the members. There's nobody in the gym. It's either a very sparsely populated gym with very few members or this is after hours. Uh I don't know if it's daylight or not because it is Ramadan and I don't know how how strictly Hadi Chupan observes the Muslim uh practices. Does he does he follow Ramadan's rules of not eating anything during daylight hours? I don't know that. AI still with Evagen. You said that before. So, where is the uh evidence that he's still with Evagen? Because Evagen Nutrition has not posted anything. So, let me go to their website or their Yeah. website. I'll go to Evagen's Instagram and I still have not seen anything, but it could have happened in the last few minutes. Eva Jen, Eva, Evagen. So, we have posts with Jeremy Bundee up there. Laura Lee Chapados Chapados nothing with Hottie Chupon who is their star or was their star athlete. If he's still with Eva Jin, he would still be their star athlete. But look at this. We're scrolling down, down, down. He's their number one guy. He's Mr. Olympia. He's the Arnold Classic champ and there's not one posted him. So, I don't think so, guys. I don't think he's with Evagen anymore, but I asked you that the last time you posted that uh to give me some evidence. Show me how he's still with Evagen. Now we go to the Evagen Iran web page, web page, Instagram page, web page. Uh and I see Hadi, I'm sorry, Hani Rambod. They have removed all images of Hadti Chupan from the Evagen Iran Instagram page. I don't see a single one. I see a lot of product shots. I see other other athletes. There's Mahmud Dra from Canada. Nothing. They have taken everything with Head Chupan down, guys. So, I don't think I don't think he is with Evan anymore. But my incredible detective work does show that the same gym that he's posted yesterday when we all the news broke. I guess other people claim to have known that he was in the USA for a while. But this proves that he was here at least at least a week before we found out. The rest of us found out. So that's a shrug though. Yeah, I wouldn't call that much of a vent over row either. Suspected at long back usually land his feet in Dallas airport. Yeah, I I think he is. Well, he is in the US. Multiple sources have confirmed that, but I don't know where in the US. If anyone he practices Zoroastrianism, not Islam. Okay. Well, in that case, I guess he doesn't have to worry about Ramadan. Yeah, there's no promo code on his Instagram. There's no me. There's no mention of Instagram of Evagen on Had Chupan's Instagram and there's no mention of Hadti Chupan on the Evagen page. So, that would lead me to believe he's not with that company anymore. No, he does not. So, look at his bio. Let's go to the bio. [groaning] Shrink this. So, look at see what he's got in his bio. Uh, Mr. Persian Wolf, Mr. Olympia. The only link he has is for his YouTube channel. Nothing. Not one mention in the bio about Evagen Nutrition. So guys, if he was with Ev Nutrition and they were paying him good money, which I'm sure they were, he would not uh he would not leave them out of his Instagram bio. So yeah, the fact that he's not in their bio, that that that speaks volumes to me. I would be very very surprised, shocked if he was still with Evagen after all that. Yeah, that confirms it. He glorifies Islam. You say private express joke. Yeah, you guys are all arguing amongst each other. Obviously, those of us in the USA, we have no idea what religion he practices or anything like that. He's still being paid by vision, but they want it to look like he has been dropped. It's an interesting theory, but how do you unless you're like a good friend of Hotties, there's no way you would know that. The only people that would know if Chupan is still getting paychecks from Eva would be his very, very close inner circle. So, Isaac Zara, I don't know. Are you are you his buddy? If so, where is he? He's not doing Ramadan because he's not a 140 pounds bodybuilder. Yeah. But I remember speaking to uh Ramy who is much bigger than Big Ramy's a lot bigger than Had Chupan. And he told me that during Ramadan he would do that. He would sleep all day. uh he would stay awake during the night time or the evening hours when it was dark so he could get his meals in and train and do everything normal and keep his schedule as close to normal in terms of meals and training even though he was observing the the holiday or the I don't know if it's a holiday did Ramadan he's not doing Ramadan he's doing we're getting all kinds of conflicting he's way bigger I mean Ramy's way bigger than hottie Ramy was as heavy as 340, 350 in the offseason. I know he hit 340. Everyone's talking about Samson. Samson's huge, but I'm pretty sure Big Romney hit 350 at one point himself. And he's not. He's certainly no taller than Samson. Dave Palumbo suspects he's in Columbus City, Ohio. Could be. I mean, think about if if Honey Ramad, his former coach, is not helping him at all right now. didn't, you know, didn't if he's dropped him and their their relationship is over, which is a possibility. I don't know. But who else could he turn to? And there's only a few people. And I guess one of them could be the Arnold Classic promoters, David Powers and his crew. And maybe they did arrange for him to be staying in Columbus all the way up until the show. And tucked away in some some place where no one's going to see him, no one's going to bother him. Ramy is Muslim. He doesn't compete in the Ramadan, though. Go test his coupon code. They still work. Yeah, but sometimes I [clears throat] like I've been with a couple supplement companies and people told me my coupon codes still worked long after I had no association with the company anymore. So that just means, you know, the coupon codes that could be a separate thing where maybe they just forgot to turn them off. Spectat is going to ask for asylum. I mean, I wouldn't be surprised if he comes here to the USA. Why wouldn't he, you know, move to Vegas or move to Tampa? You know, there's a lot of places he could settle here and he'd be more than welcome. I don't think he's very welcome in Iran anymore. Do an image search of the gym. [laughter] It's It's a very basic looking gym. And you can see even in this picture, when was this posted? That was three weeks out. Doesn't that look like the same gym? The same wall with the two stripes. That was three weeks out. So the other was 19 days. This was 20 21 days. So he's I think he has been here for a while guys. I think he's been here for more than might be the power shack in Ohio. No, I don't think he is with Evan. I don't think so. Other people suggesting that I don't think he is with Evan. Powershack Ohio. Do they have an Instagram? If so, let's look and see if we can figure this out right now. Powersshack Ohio. Powersshack. Do they have Instagram? That's a good question. Can I type Powersshack? Powersshack gym. Uh, see Westerville. Okay, so there are four locations in the greater Columbus area. Try to see if I can find one that shows. That doesn't look like the That doesn't look like it. Trying to see a picture that has that that wall. That doesn't look No, that doesn't look like it. But there's there are four of them. Yeah. H [clears throat] I don't know, man. Power. I don't see any pictures of Power Shack with that uh the wall with the two stripes. So maybe it's not Powers Shack. Maybe it's somewhere else. And who's to say he is in Ohio? He could be in Las Vegas. He could be in Florida. There's all kinds of rumors. I'm still I'm not giving up yet, but I'm going to give up on this soon. Yeah, I don't It kind of looks like it. No, those aren't the two stripes. So I don't think that's it. No, I don't think that's it. Interesting. Interesting. Yeah, I don't think it's that that gym, but good guess. Good guess. [snorts] They're no friends with sports attrition. Yeah, and business business is business. I mean, you talk about being loyal to friends and everything, but at the end of the day, if if Hottie was costing Evo Nutrition a lot of money because consumers weren't buying their products anymore because of his association and um distributors. That would be the That would be the nail in the coffin. If the Evagen distributors in Iran said, "You know what? Uh if you don't get rid of this guy, we're we're not going to we're not going to carry your products anymore, these supplement distributors." And that's you need those distributors to get your products on the shelves in all the nutrition stores wherever products are sold. So, you know, I I Kamali said they were threats going on. You know, Evagen was being threatened [snorts] all kinds. This is the I don't blame the Iranian people what they're shame about. Yeah. If if what King said is true, and I'm not I don't know 100% if it is. Heidi's going to be a monster. He's going to blow over his mind. I think so. Friendships don't drive sports in business. Yeah. Like I said, if if you're a business owner and having this guy representing your brand is costing you a lot of money where in the past he was helping you make a lot more money, it would be very bad business to keep him on board, to keep him part of your company. Very bad business. Hottie has been spotted. He is at Dollywood in Pidgeforge, Tennessee. Dollywood. Uh, is that true? [laughter] Who's in Tennessee? Who would he be staying with in Tennessee? Pros Gym in Long Street Columbus. Pros Gym. Long Street in Columbus. Well, do they have an Instagram page? I mean, if we could match up if we could match up the uh you said it in Columbus. No, they don't have an Instagram page. Nope, no Instagram page. Well, Duke, [laughter] I don't think it's Ohio. I don't remember. I don't think they're going to be spreading where they think he's at. [clears throat] Well, I mean, if people are going to come after him and his family, they're going to do it at the Arnold. Everyone knows where he's going to be and when. He's going to be at the uh meet the athletes meeting on th the thing on Thursday night where he gets to the fans get to stand in line and take a picture and get things autographed and buy merchandise. So, I I'm really I shouldn't say hoping. I'm I'm certain that Brian Powers and his team are going to have extra security on this because they certainly don't want anything to happen anything to happen at the Arnold Classic. Any kind of violence, you know, that would be a that would be an awful thing if there's some AI where he turns into the wolf. If anybody tried to hurt him at their event, it would be it would be a bad thing. Obviously, we don't want we don't want politics and personal stuff like that getting in getting in in the middle of our sport. Sam's by far most impressive fan size. Yeah, Samson's looking pretty damn great right now. Heidi would have terrible time wrapping his head around. Dolly sticks to an accent. I can understand Dolly Parton. Well, Heidi doesn't speak English anyway, so it wouldn't matter. Her accent wouldn't m whether she has no accent. They have an old location Meadows trained. Uh hottie is going to win. I mean, it's going to be him or Andrew. I'm pretty certain. Honey Ramb is old school guy manager was just running a business as usual behind the scenes. Had he bit the hands of fed him that's why they mad. Yeah. I mean a lot of the Iranian people feel betrayed. They supported him and all these years he was a you know a champion. And now that they were hoping he would support them in their resistance against the Islamic regime. They didn't feel he was doing that. Not pros Jim. Nope. I can't see Andrew beating hottie unless he proves a lot. Yeah. I mean he's never beaten yet. doesn't mean he's never beaten Samson before last Olympia and he did. Situation this will be the last time he'll compete. Uh you really think so? I don't think he's done. Let's say he moves to the USA which is a which is a likely scenario. Why would he stop competing? He's still inc. He needs to move his family out of Iran. Yeah, he he needs to get out of Iran. What's Derek's new company? Word is Jaco is out. I don't know. Well, all we got to do is go to the bios. If it's still in his bio, then there's still some sort of relationship. Derek Lunford. Jaco Fuel is still in his bio. So, there goes that theory, guys. There goes that theory. What do I How he doesn't move to the US. So, I think he will. I think he will. I do believe he will. All right, guys. Well, I'm gonna take off. I still have a little more shoveling to do. This is one of the worst nor easterers worst snowstorrms that we've had in years and years here. Uh it's about 2 and 1/2 ft of snow. That's close to a meter for those of you who are on the metric system cuz life is screwed. Life is totally in danger out. He's in a rough spot. No doubt, guys. No doubt. Anyway, guys, uh that was it. It was a quick one. So, I just want to let you know he's been in the USA longer than we thought he was. That's all. But we still don't know exactly where, but I I suspect we'll find out very soon. Derek is announcing a new sponsor soon. Huh. Think I would bring in Donald package cortisol. Well, he still looks great. If the cortisol was bothering was affecting him, I think it would have affected him more by now. And he's looking he's still looking pretty damn great. Anyway, guys, thank you so much for watching. Appreciate it very much. I'll keep you updated. Oh, it's Xavier and Marks. Two great YouTube guys. Marks Max Muscle and Xavier Wills. What's up, guys? appreciate you dropping by. Anyway guys, thanks for watching. Keep you informed of more news and remember Wednesday night 7:00 we're going to do a live Arnold Classic Meatthead podcast preview. Put that down on your calendar. 7 7 PM Eastern Wednesday night. Thank you guys for watching. See you next time.