What's up everybody? So five days ago we got the news online various outlets that Chupan had arrived in the USA. Hottie posted a clip here doing some heavy heavy tea bar rows, eight plates, which immediately started to lead people to wonder which gym was he at? Where was he in the USA? And I actually did a video, a live video later that day, Sunday afternoon, asking anybody know, anybody recognized this gym? And I had people suggesting places in the Columbus, Ohio area. I thought maybe he was in Las Vegas area at some one of the smaller gyms. Then I also realized the next day that's the same gym he had posted at over a week before that. So I did a video saying hottie's been in the USA at least eight days and wrong hair strikes again. Turns out uh as I went on and asked people to identify the gym, you know, the internet internet do your thing. Internet did its thing. And I got a message this morning from a gentleman named Daario who let me know exactly where this was. And here's another clip of how in this gym that was posted by a trainer at that gym several weeks ago, a couple weeks ago. Uh this is not in the USA. This is in Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. This is one of the trainers there. He made a a little clip. So, I'm going to show you the gym, their official Instagram page, and you will see exactly this is the place. He is at a place called the hyphen fitness in Dubai, or he was, I should say, just to prove it's the same place. You could see the walls. But let's take a look at their Instagram page so you can be doubly sure that this is correct. Okay. So, I'm gonna share that. And so, this is the web page, uh, the Instagram page, the hyphen fitness, the hyphen elevated fitness. And here's a little promo reel. You could see the walls, off-white with the red stripes. Second, there you could see the same Smith machine that Hottie was using in that other video. It's clearly the same place. So, what you say? Was he trolling us? Well, think about it. Heidi Chupan is getting threats. He's getting people that are looking to hurt him, maybe even hurt his family. So, wherever he is in the US, he's keeping it very, very quiet, very secret, not posting anything from the US because the internet does its thing. All it takes is one little identifying feature and people could run it through AI, figure out where he is, and somebody who has ill intentions toward Hottie andor his family could track him down. So, he is not taking that chance and I do not blame him for a minute wherever he is in the USA and people do know and they're keeping it quiet and I commend them because this guy is in danger and I feel for him. But now we know for sure that those videos at least this famous T-AR row video that went viral that's not a gym in the USA anywhere. So, we don't have to guess anymore what it is. It's called the hyphen elevated fitness in Dubai. And those videos were made before he went to the USA. We know that for certain now. So that's it, guys. Drop a comment below. Let me know what you think. Where do you think he is? And of course, I don't want any harm to come to him. So I even if I knew exactly where he was. I can honestly tell you guys, I wouldn't say it here because I don't want anything to happen to Hottie. I want this guy to go and do what he does. He's a professional bodybuilder. I want him to do his show next week, the Arnold Classic. He's trying to win $34 million. So, let's see what happens, guys. So, thanks for watching.