What's up, guys? Fans of bodybuilding, big big news. Not entirely verified, but a couple of sources have reported that Hottie Chupan has arrived in the USA with plenty of time to spare to get here in time to compete in the Arnold Classic. which is going to be judged a week from this coming Friday. So, where did we see this? Uh, I believe the first news outlet was this Instagram page, Alex Fitness, which [clears throat] is based in Iran. And he's kind enough to do posts in both, Farsy and English. So, he says, "Hotti Chupan has arrived in the USA. His residence will remain private with more details to be revealed soon." Uh this was also reported by Beyond Stage TV who basically just took this post and reposted it in their own way. Uh but my question is where do you think he is? So if he's not if he's not staying with Hani Rambod and I don't think he is. Hani Ramad is in uh the Dallas, Texas area. So we still have no confirmation that Eva Jin has dropped hot as an athlete. However, [clears throat] it's been several days now, and if in fact it was fake news, as Brian Powers, who promotes the Arnold Classic, posted, uh, if it was fake news, I feel like Evagen [clears throat] would have made some sort of statement by now to clarify and put the rumor to rest and say, "No, no, no. [clears throat] Heidi is still very much an employee uh or a representative, a sponsored athlete of Viv Nutrition. We're supporting him and wishing him the best for the Arnold Classic, but we've heard nothing crickets. We've heard nothing at all from Evagen, from Honey, from Hani Ramod's page. Nothing like that. So, if he's in the USA, I don't think he's with Hottie. That's my gut feeling. I've talked to a couple people and they think the most likely location is Las Vegas and they think he might be staying with his old nemesis. Yes, his old competitive nemesis, Flex Lewis. You might remember that Flex beat him at a show in Korea. This is going back to 2017 or 18. and his fans, Heidi Chupan's fans were so upset. They felt so cheated that he was uh robbed of a win there that they sent a bunch of death threats to Flex Lewis and his family, which was awful. But uh it's how it happens. Let's see. [\h__\h] IRGC. That's the Islamic That is the uh basically like the secret police of the Islamic government there that commits all kinds of [clears throat] atrocities. Did he get the IM visa? Also, I think you mean the UK visa. I haven't heard a thing. How legit? Well, we haven't heard. Nobody's nobody's post any videos. The only way we ever knew he was here for sure in the past was Hani Rambod, his coach, might still be his coach, would pick him up at the airport and there would be video of him arriving at the airport and hugging Hottie, honey, and hottie hugging and getting his luggage and all that good stuff. So, Scooby-Doo, where are you? What's up, Zionic? I reckon he is still with Honey Rambo in the Dallas metropolitan area. I don't know, Kenne. I don't know. I mean, [clears throat] I obviously I I texted I texted Honey Ramad a couple days ago just to see if there was going to be any statement uh to either confirm or deny this story, this rumor that's been going on all last week that Evagen Evagen and H was had dropped him that that Heidi is no longer a sponsored athlete. [clears throat] And uh he did not respond, [snorts] which is fine because a lot of times if he does call me and we talk, it's off the record. It's, you know, he I've known Hani for 20 25 years, a long long time. And he'll tell me things off the record that I that I'm not, he doesn't want put out there necessarily, but he hasn't he hasn't. Uh, Hottie has backed the IRGC UK. That's true. Weirdly broke the news. The location stay classified. Okay. So, beyond stage TV, that's Suki. I just want to know. I'm not asking you to tell me, but do you know where he is? You don't have to tell me where. I know you're not going to do that, but do you know do you know where he is? I've I've heard a couple a couple rumors that he's in the Las Vegas area. Not verified, but it seems very very likely. I guess it doesn't really matter where he is. It it's more important to know that he is definitely here. [clears throat] Yeah, I saw what King Kamali said. Uh King said that Evagen had no choice but to drop Chupan. Uh they were threatening uh Hani Rambod. They were sales were plummeting. That's what Armen Adi said. Uh you know they were probably I would imagine they were going to they were threatening to to not sell EVM products anymore their distributors in Iran unless they parted ways. But at the same time there's been no public announcement. So how would they even be sure unless Hani Ramad personally called these distributors in Iran? I know I'm really reaching here, guys, but I'm just trying to run through scenarios. He called him up and said, "Yeah, guys, uh I he's no longer an employee, so uh you know, apologize for any bad feelings, but uh let's let's keep on cracking with our sales and let's keep making money together." [snorts] Uh [clears throat] what are you saying? So, IRGC is government, how do he back them? That problem? I did he really back them? I mean, I think the evidence pointing to that was was circumstantial at best. He had some sort of photo as a screen saver on his phone. Someone saw in a video and they thought he was saluting the uh the Iranian flag in another video. I I don't think he ever came out and said the government's I love the government and uh anything like that. Made the live pass from the Xans. Xanax. Good stuff, man. Good stuff. Did he get the ion? What's the IM? What's the IM visa? I don't know what that means. Goku, can you type out whatever IM is short for? You mean the US visa? Well, if he's in the He had the US visa uh like three weeks ago. What's up, Ron Suki and everyone? What's up, Xavier Wills over there in Tasmania off the coast of Australia, but still technically Australia. Okay. Yes, I do know the location, but definitely not Texas. Thank you, [clears throat] Suki. You're doing a great job. You break the stories. Breaking news is hard. Because social media moves at the literally at the speed of light. So if you break your story 10 minutes after someone else, it can be considered old news. Oh, UK visa. Uh I don't know that is still has not been confirmed. You know, Hadi himself is has not been posting much at all. So I don't even know where all the all the information can be coming from unless he's texting people back and forth. that that's where I got the Las Vegas thing was somebody that supposedly knew Hottie uh had had been messaged and they said he was in Las Vegas, but that's obviously that's hearsay. Without his sponsor's mutual communication, I don't think he'll pass through the immigration. Well, he's got the visa. Uh I don't think he needs anything aside from the visa. I don't know the intricacies of entering the United States from another country, particularly one. >> [clears throat] >> I will say it is fortunate for Hadti that war has not yet broken out between the USA and Iran, which is a very likely possibility for any of you following the news. Trump has amassed a bunch of warships over there and he's ready to go, but uh nothing nothing official. We're not at war yet. Hadti is an embroiled better embroiled better tea. UK is see only country not to call them tur. Starmer is a wanker. King Kamali explains whole political climate over there and how he doubled down on taking out the Islamic people over the Iran as they was dying while he was safe in Dubai. Yeah, the last number I heard was 40,000, which I bet it's probably up to like 50,000 now. And I don't get into politics because I don't know that much. I'm not educated enough on current current political events and what's going on around the world to make a an informed commentary on such things. However, I do know that thousand tens and tens of thousands there people 40,000 at the last count have been murdered, executed in the streets by the by the police, the soldiers. Uh you know, you can you can't peacefully protest over there safely. Here in the USA, yes, you can peacefully protest against ICE or whoever you want. Just hold your sign, leave the uh leave the agents alone, and you'll be okay. If you go up and try to run them over or [snorts] they see that you have a gun or something, then yeah, bad things can happen. But in Iran, you can be just in a crowd peacefully protesting against the government. Maybe he's chanting or something and you'll get mowed down. Who you've got winning, Ron? My money's on the wolf. I mean, all of his up all of his updates, all of his updates. Uh, he looks fantastic. Let's see. There's nothing new. And I don't think he's going to be posting updates unless he's comfortable with people knowing where he is. Because if he's in Las Vegas, there are so many people in the fitness and bodybuilding community living in Las Vegas now. I don't see how he could possibly keep it a secret for very long because he's got to go to the gym. He's got to train somewhere, right? Unless there's some private facility. I mean, if we see if we see videos of him tomorrow at the Dragons Layer, we'll know for sure that this whole theory of mine that might sound kooky to you guys, to some of you guys, that he's in Vegas staying with Flex Lewis, that might be exactly where he is. And if he's in Vegas, he's not going to be able to keep it a secret very long. There's a lot of bodybuilders, a lot of fitness influences, tons of tons of them out there. So, Flex Lewis is new guardian angel. Well, possibly. That's that's a rumor that I've heard. It is not confirmed. It's not even 100% confirmed that he's in the USA to me unless I see some video of him boppinging around the USA somewhere. But uh I trust Suki sources uh Alex Fitness based in Iran. Everybody knows everybody and even when you tell people don't say anything uh you know this is just between me and you everybody usually tells one person and that person tells one person and so on. It's very hard to keep secrets in general, but in our industry, we're such gossip hounds. It's it's it's almost impossible. Kier Star is according to the summation of Kamala Hara. Is this the uh the guy in charge of Germany? Is that who Kier Starmer is? Sounds like a German name to me. I don't know who Kier Starmer is. Starmer stopping USA from using UK. Oh, so he's in the he's in the UK. Ah, he won't let us use them to bomb Iran. Come on, guy. Let us bomb them. 40k people is insane. That's a popular city I live. Well, it's insane considering that at most we've had two for sure people killed by ICE protesters. Maybe it's more. Maybe let's say it's let's say it's five time. Let's say it's 10. 10 human lives. That's not you know I'm not I'm not saying human lives are 10 human lives is nothing. But compared to 40,000 human lives, that's a massive massive difference. Guys, uh Ken, I don't think Heidi will bring his best version, let alone close to his regular best. He's been going through a tough time. It's true, but look at these updates. So, he's been going through it. All these updates that we're looking at now were made while he was being roasted, just mercilessly uh attacked by the Iranian people for not being supportive of their feelings against the Islamic regime over there. So, he's already lost uh well over a million followers on Instagram. They took his pictures down. They're spray they're painting over murals that people had of him in gyms in Iran. He's a very very unpopular celebrity. Let's put it that way to put it mildly. But if you look at these updates, this was two weeks ago. It was taken at seven weeks out. So he sat on that footage for five weeks. This was posted two weeks ago, which would have been four weeks, four weeks out, but it was said five. So, this was a week old by the time he posted it. He's being very, very quiet on social media, which is understandable with everything that's going on. Uh, you know, he tried to I can't even when I translate this, it doesn't make sense anyway, so there's no bother. He tried to say that he loves the Iranian people and he has love for his country and all this, but it wasn't enough. It wasn't enough for the for the Iranians. They're still very, very upset at him for not speaking out publicly. And you know, I I guess it's it's very hard for us in the USA and and most of us in quote unquote free countries where we have freedom to oppose the government and protest and speak out. Freedom of speech. Basically, it's hard for us to to be able to relate to people who live in places where speaking out against the government can get you put in jail. Some cases can have you killed. They might even kill your whole family. I mean, it's that sounds exaggerated to you, but I assure you it's not. This is the way things have worked in a lot of these countries for many, many years. [snorts] Not just Iran, but all kinds of countries that don't have that freedom. That was a that was a parade. I think he was a part of so UK PM Ty Robinson. He was Tammy Robinson. Kier was a whack job. Radical liberal prime minister of the United Kingdom, a cradle of Western. Yeah, they went woke liberal before the US. I didn't even know that until maybe a year ago the moola mula can't wait for this Arnold. [snorts] Got go in UK police cover post. Well, that's actually true. Uh you can go you can be put in prison for making anti-Islamic posts in the UK now. Why is Kamali quite hating on even even before the latest conf? I don't know their whole background. Kamali has had something against Hottie for a long time and I'm not sure where it stems from. I don't know if hottie snubbed him in some way. I have no idea, but it does seem like a very personal vendetta type of thing. It doesn't seem uh doesn't seem like it's a professional thing. Did you hear about accidentally recent that aliens exist? Oh, wasn't that Obama that said that? All this just way too much drama for me. You two what if. Yeah, I heard Obama admitted that we uh we have knowledge of aliens, which Trump was not happy that he breached national security by telling people about that. But I'll tell you what, I hottie is still he's still a favorite for this show. I' I'd be very surprised if he doesn't come in at his best because these updates these updates were made while all the all the people of Iran were turning against him and I'm sure sending him all kinds of hatefilled messages on his DMs. Uh, and the theory that Matt Muscle Discord, because I don't ever take credit for theories that I didn't come up with, was when his Instagram was down for a few hours last week at one point, it wasn't that Hottadi himself deactivated it. He thinks what happened is the Iranians uh on ma on mass and mass on mass contacted Instagram and report his account as I don't know what do you do obscene or I don't know hateful. I don't know how you what you how do you what what they what their grounds were for saying this account's got to go but they shut it down and investigated and then they reinstated. Same thing they did that to Derek Lunsford in 2023 after Derek won the Olympia beating Hottie. The Iranian fans were so pissed off they contacted Instagram and had his his Instagram shut down. It was down for it was down for a few days. I think it was down for about a week. But uh you know Hottie's a family man. He's got four kids. I think it's three boys and a girl. Uh I don't I don't understand why people were so adamant that he had to speak out against the government. Although I understand the government is doing awful awful things and it's horrible, but at the same time, he's got to look out for his family and their safety and it's not like the US. They can they'll come after your whole family over there. So that was Dubai. That was a long time ago, but that's where he was up until recently. He was in Dubai and now he's in the US. Oh, okay. We got some we got some we got some uh some more info, more intel. Kamali's hate in inherent. In fact, he's one of the first guys who talked about how he wasn't in the USA. Yeah. Well, something something has happened in the interim in those years in between when Kamali was uh a fan or a cheerleader or supporter I guess would be the right word, supporter of Hottie and now he's not. How do you stay at Obama's house? King said this beef with Hottie started when he was an amateur and they interviewed him for saying King was the one who paved the way for Iranian bodybuilding. Basically says he's nothing. Huh. Wow. So it was when Hottie was an amateur because Kamali was an amateur. I think Chupan was probably a baby when Kamali was an amateur. I remember when Kamali was an amateur. Huh. Says he's nothing. That's okay. I could see that. Nothing compared to him. he's going to be better than well [snorts] you know how maybe was if he actually did say that that Kamali was nothing compared to him and he's going to be better well he was 100% right uh Kamali was good he did he placed very well in his first couple pro shows he did make it to the Olympia a couple times I think but Chupan has been Mr. Olympia. He's been the Arnold Classic champion, Arnold UK champion. He's been runner up at the Olympia three years in a row. The last three years in a row, he won it in 2022. He's never been outside the top four. So his he's been at the Olympia seven times and the places were third, fourth, third, first, second, second, second. So Chupan has done a lot more in body than King Kamali ever did. So maybe it was a rude thing of him to say, but he was 100% correct. According to Kamali, not Kamala, Kamla, Kamla Harris was a presidential candidate. Hadti was asked on Iran national TV about how he feels about Kamali paving the way for Ronnie B. And Hottie acted like he didn't know who Kamali was. He probably did know who he was. [laughter] I think I came up to it there. So Matt got him before me. I don't watch the content. I only catch it on Instagram. I don't watch on YouTube. But if it's comes up on my search and stuff, I'll look at it just to see what's Matt What the hell is Matt talking about now? But okay, let's let's give credit to uh Xavier Wills came up with that theory that Vegas I think that to me that's the most likely scenario is that hottie is in Las Vegas right now and I bet he is with his former nemesis Flex Lewis. That would make a lot of sense to me because Flex is a very generous guy. He's very welcoming. Uh if you've ever been to his Dragons Layer gym, so many so many bodybuilders from around the world come there to train and hang out and meet Flex and he's shows everybody a lot of hospitality. So particularly in light of everything that Hottie's been going through with his countrymen turning against him, losing a big big percentage, a big chunk of his fan base abandon him and hate him now. Uh he had a statue of himself. I wonder if they've torn down his statue in his hometown. They do have they did have a statue built of this guy, but we've seen uh photos of him being taken off the gym walls. I saw one where they were spray painting over a mural in one gym that they had somebody had painted a beautiful mural of Hottie and they were just painting it all over. So, they're not pleased with uh with Hotti Chupan right now over there. Let's see. They are they are pathetic. All the big talkers weren't in Iran. Yeah, Lee. I mean, it's easy for us, especially Americans are the most the softest, most privileged, entitled people in the world. And when they start talking out of their ass like they know what people in places like Iran or Palestine are going through, Sudan, we don't know [\h__\h] Okay? We've most most Americans have never been hungry. We've never been truly afraid for our lives. We've never heard a bomb go off in real life. We've never been shot at. You know, we've never we've never lost anyone to a war. The real Lee Priest, not the fake one. Lee, they did that to Lee. Big talking. Oh, yeah. I saw I saw people arguing with Lee Priest in his uh one of his posts. Kamali, new updates on Nick. No, he looks about the same. King saying people here would kill him. It's so that's funny. They want to silence people. They want to kill him. How's that any different? No, I mean that's I I I find that a lot of people who claim to be anti-fascist and you know, we're so accepting and loving and forgiving and they're the first ones who will say if you disagree with us, you die. You we'll kill you. I won't get into the US politics, but that's exactly the way things are here. Um, you know, they talk about like Trump and the the the Trumpers and the MAGA. You know, they're they're a bunch of uh they're a bunch of paranoid uh violent rednecks, but they're they're always threatening violence themselves. [snorts] Let's keep going. To Kamali's defense, Kamali was battling the lineups Jay Cutler, Chris Cormier. No, I do I I agree. I think it was a deeper deeper lineup at the Olympia level when Kamali was competing, but still there's there's no argument that Hotti Chupan is a better bodybuilder than King Kamali ever was. King was a very good bodybuilder, don't get me wrong, but Hott's a better bodybuilder. There are levels to these things. So, it's easy to talk tough most guys talking about live in the BBS guys when he's from Newark, New Jersey. Yeah, I've been to Newark and Camden. Those are rough rough places. Uh, I remember I got off on the wrong exit one time and I was I was I was a little worried. It took me a while to find my way back to the to the highway or the Jersey Turnpike. It was terrifying. [snorts] Oh, you're not nearly as crazy as Iran. No. No. Jersey is not as crazy as Iran. No. The most dangerous city in the US highest crime rate is New Orleans. That's a fact. Google it. First night camp shootout with their bombs literally go off in Iran. Yeah. I mean, it's very likely a lot of bombs are going to be going off there soon. We might end up, you know, the US might start uh just bombing the living [\h__\h] out of the the government over there. Think Kotti's going to have a table in the Arnold for safety reasons. No, you know, you have to go through security uh to get into the expo. They might tighten security up this year with metal detectors, but anyone who's been to the expos at the Olympia, the Arnold or anything like meat, this is uh this would be the meet the Arnold thing. I I imagine they're going to have heightened security and searching bags so no one's walking in there with a Glock in their backpack. You're going to have to show show your bags and everything. Uh is he going to have a table at the Arnold? I think he will. I'd be very surprised if he didn't. I mean, if he by the time he gets to Columbus, [snorts] I'm very certain that Brian Powers, a promoter, is aware of the the whole situation and he's going to make sure Hottie has an extra security dedicated security detail to keep him safe because Hottie is a former Arnold Classic Champion. He's a Mr. Olympia. He's a he's a marquee athlete. When when Hottie is in your show, you know, you're going to sell a lot more tickets. you know, you're gonna have a lot more people watching your sponsored live stream, which is free again, guys. It's free. Go to the Arnold website, arnoldsports.com. It's free. I love it. I love free stuff. Who doesn't? With due respect, Hottie would get his ass hand over compete in the 90s, early 2000s. Remember Paul Dlette couldn't crack? Uh, well, Paul was fourth. He got pretty close, but yeah, the 90s were a very, very tough tough decade. Beg my cops. Why wouldn't it be safe? So, Mike, people think there's going to be attempted violence against Hadi Chupan at the Arnold, which uh I guess you would assume that would be from Iranians living in the USA who are very upset at him not supporting the people of Iran. And they believe he supported the evil government regime over there, the Islamic regime that's been murdering all their citizens the past few months. So yeah, it's not out of the realm of possibility that someone someone might some Iranian who really hates Hottie has a real grudge against him might try something at the uh at the Arnold Classic. But like I said, that's what they're going to have to have. They're going to have to spend a little money on extra security for Heidi. Crazy world out there. He was in Iran with his family. We don't know whether the regime told him what to say. It's not going to go regime when you're there protecting family. He's put statements since he has left said he's with the people. these people just grasping straws in nothing. Yeah. I mean, if he had said all that, if he had spoken out against the government while he was still in Iran, it would been very easy for them to say, you know what, you can't leave. We're not letting you leave. He's been in Dubai, I guess, the past couple weeks since then. But [snorts] no, they they have total power over who comes into their country and out of the country. So, they could have very easily said, you know what, you're not going anywhere. You're not doing this on a classic USA. You're not going to UK. That's the least they would have done. At the least, they could have arrested him. They could have thrown him in jail for speaking out. That was probably You were doing a great job, Ron. Thank you, Mass. Peace. Yeah, we're going to do a watch party. We're going to do a watch party for Friday and Saturday. Uh the only divisions that I'm really going to be covering are classic physique and open bodybuilding. Uh, I respect the hell out of all the divisions. Uh, but those are the ones that I'm deeply interested in and I follow the athletes and myself. Big Mike Cox is going to be with us. Giles is going to be with us. He's going to be staying up very late. It's five hours ahead over there over in the UK. Hottie is great. No doubt. But Hottie at his absolute best couldn't beat Lee Priest. No, I don't think I think Lee was a better bodybuilder in his prime than Hottie is now. But, you know, we're comparing people from completely different eras. completely different eras. But what's he dancing there? Yeah. So, this is this kind of makes me sad that I don't know what the relationship is between these two now. Um Hani is basically the one who took him took him in, took him under his wing. He coached him for all all the Olympias except for as far as we know the last one. But I think he did. I still think he was coaching him even last year at the Olympia. And I think he would he's either been fully coaching him for this Arnold prep or at least acting in an advisory role and doing check-ins with him and looking at him sort of halfass coaching him like not officially coaching him but helping him make adjustments to cardio and diet and telling him you're ahead you're behind. But how never got out of shape. Most of these guys didn't. Most of these guys stayed pretty lean after the Olympia. [snorts] I know Nick did. Nick Walker never got out of shape. But I just wonder if their friendship because they are they are good friends and I hope they still are but I don't know if this political rift because Hani and his wife uh have both been very vocal against the Iranian government and they're very upset. Faraz Naz his wife posted something yesterday I think it was on Instagram where she said uh don't call it a war if the US invades Iran. call it a rescue mission for 90 million people. So, uh, the Rambods, Hani and his wife, they're they're they're all they're they're good for this war. They want that government taken down and taken out of power. And a lot of the Iranian people want the Sha is a Palabi's son, I don't know what his name is, but the former sha of Iran who was deposed or kicked out of Iran in 1979. And that's when the that's when this Islamic government took power with Ayatollah Kmeni. [snorts] They have a different Ayatollah now. Obviously that was uh 80. That was 47 years ago. Gez. What else we got? You saw thousands and thousands of fans. Just like anything. Oh, he's got [sighs and gasps] Let's look. He's got more than thousands of fans. He still has I mean, if you just go by, he's got 8.1 million followers on Instagram. 8.1 million. That's That's pretty damn great. Even if you lost a million, it's like saying, "Well, you had $30 million and now you only have 27." It's like, "Yeah, that would suck to lose $3 million, but you still got $27 million. It's not too bad." King Tamali, that's that's making fun of Kamali made all these claims about Iranian gangs attacking, killing Hottie. Even in the US, I think that's ridiculous. I don't know if there are Iranian gangs in the US. They tend to be a pretty well- educated affluent group of people, the Iranian immigrants. Um, you know, King King was one of the the group that a ton of them fled Iran once the Sha was uh kicked out of power in 79. A ton of them came to the US and a lot of them settled in right around Virginia, Washington DC area. That's where Kamali lives. In fact, I remember like Abbas, all the great Iranian-American bodybuilders, they were all from either Virginia or DC because they all that that's where they were all I don't know why they came there. I don't know if it was a diplomat diplomatic thing, but they uh that's where that's where the majority of them settled. I think there's a lot of them out in LA, too. For a guy who was 26, I sound like disgruntled man. Yeah, you're my son's age, Kion. You do sound like an old man. Mike Sunfield only add 57 pounds, but also a few inches vertically. No, he's short now. He's down to He's down to 5'8. I think he was over 5'9 at one point. Off topic. Do you still smoke MJ? No, I do not smoke Mary Jane cannabis. However, however, not going to lie, I do have gummies and I do take a couple gummies a couple times a week. So, those are like edibles, but they're in like gummy form, you know. I don't take enough to get like high where I'm going to pass out or anything. I just take enough to get a little bit of a little bit mellow, that's all. Lee says, "Honey, money before friends and loyalty shows true colors." It's how you know that Lee is not American. He spells colors with a U there. That's how the UK and the Australians spell it. [snorts] Islam is relevant in Iran. It's drug test and top tier. [laughter] Uh I don't I don't know much about Islam, honestly. That's really Lee. It is. It is. Where is he hottieing? So, we're speculating. I'm saying I've I've been hearing Las Vegas. I even heard that he's staying with Flex Lewis. However, no confirmation. They're not gonna come out and say it, but maybe as they get closer to the show. If he is in Las Vegas, like I said, they won't be able to keep it a secret for very long at all. I mean, he's got to work out unless, you know, maybe Dragons Layer is closed. You know what I also thought is Ramadan is going on. Isn't Ramadan right now, which the Muslims have to they can't eat from sun up to sun down? Let me confirm that. When is Ramadan? I used to think I thought it was later. Uh, begins on the evening of Tuesday, February 17th. Okay, so it started last Tuesday with the first day of fasting on Wednesday, February 18th. The holy month will last 29 or 30 days ending on the evening of Thursday, March 19th. Wow. So, if Hadi is doing exactly what he's supposed to as a good Muslim, he's not eating during daylight hours. But you know, any of you guys who are Muslim or know anything more about it, you can correct me because I'm I don't know. What do I know? Ra make his own hash brownies in the oven. No, I think I think my wife tried to make weed brownies years ago and she burnt the [\h__\h] out of them. That was like 10 years ago at least. Like loosen it up. Too big of a place. Yeah. I believe this is going to be the last dance for Heidi and Honey. It might they might they might have already stopped working together. I mean, we don't know. Nobody, neither one of them has posted anything about it. Is finished says Lop saying I saw you posting that on Instagram as well. [snorts] There are exemptions to Ramadan though. Yeah, I mean [sighs] it seems like like I don't know and I don't want to say anything against the Islamic religion, but it does seem kind of crazy that they would they would expect a bodybuilder who a huge a huge part of being a bodybuilder is eating every two hours while you're awake. And I know a lot of Muslim body, a few of them have told me that what they would do is just sleep all day and the nighttime is their daytime for a month. They just they go vampire mode and that way they're able to get all their meals in. That's a that's an easy workaround. But then you're up all night. Although that would you know if if Hottie is doing that then he could train at Dragons Layer at like 3 in the morning. I don't think it's 24-hour place. So maybe Flex could be sneaking him in there when it's closed. We got all kinds of theories around Lint. Yeah, we just found out it's already started and it goes till the end of March. I didn't realize it was that long. Uh, you don't think he's a practicing Muslim? I don't know. I think he is. Does anybody know? Nick Walker wins. Congratulations, Nick Walker. I knew you could do it. Andrew Hottie Martin, Vegas must be a good place to get a meal after midnight. I'll tell you what, the the great thing about Vegas, and I'm not a fan of Las Vegas. I don't gamble. I don't like blowing my wasting money at strip clubs. But if you want to go out to eat at 1 in the morning, 2 in the morning, 3 in the morning, plenty of places open. After the Arnold Classic, if you get out of the Arnold Classic too late, especially if you're in the media and you're doing like video wrap-ups and things, editing, whatever you're doing, a lot of guys, a lot of people that work on the media side at these shows, maybe the contest is over at 10, but they don't get to leave to go out to eat till maybe 1 in the morning. And a lot of them end up getting like room service because nothing's open anymore. Columbus, there's like nothing open. So, yeah, I don't like that about it. I had to go get the last couple times I was at the Arnold, I was done so late after the show, the only thing open was this place around the corner that sold pizza by the slice and I was just happy for that. Believe me, 99% Mus. [laughter] Yeah, I don't think it's irrelevant. What a comeback. Her first run takes just enough to get high. Uh, a little mellow. I wouldn't say high. It's to me it's the equivalent of having like two beers. I'm not gonna I don't drink I don't like beer but like one if I had one vodka drink I wouldn't feel much. I would feel like a little bit of a tingle. It would take me two or three drinks to start getting a buzz. So I just do it to sleep better. What an excuse. Howdy is finished. See other channels would put out a video called how hottie chupan is finished. That's clickbait to me because he's not finished. Like Greg Ducet put out a video a few days ago after Larry Wheels slapped that boxer guy saying Larry Wheel's career is over. He does that all the time. It's clickbait. Larry Wheels's career is not over, guys. Just smoked a fat Maui Wowi. I remember that was I didn't know they still had Maui Wowi. That was like a big strain in the 70s. [snorts] Kamali said ex-fans aren't happy with you. [laughter] One thing about Lee Priest, he doesn't care if people are mad at him. He doesn't care. He just he says what he wants to say and critics be damned. Heard is hiding in the Zumba room. Well, they'll never find him there. Nick Walker winning where Hottie is staying. Well, we don't know. That's the million-dollar question. I say Vegas. The only other option really would be, you know, I don't know who he knows here. I mean, he knew he was always staying in Texas. Well, he used to stay in California because Honey Ramad uh prior to COVID, he moved to Texas after COVID, but he was in California most of his life. And um that's where he used to pick up hottie and they'd show him at the San Francisco airport and and the last couple years last that he came here, he would go be picking him up at Dallas Fort Worth airport and staying in there. But I don't think he's staying with Honey, but maybe maybe he is, I guess. But I keep hearing Vegas Arnold Eastern Standard Time. Yeah, we love that. They sleep all day and are you the one who puts food on the table? I don't know. I care what X- fans think of me. Yeah, ex fans. What are they going to do? You know, I guess Lee would have to worry if he goes to Iran, but I don't think Lee, I don't think you're going to Iran anytime soon. Are you? I'd love to go, Mr. Olympia. Dela. Oh, yeah. Of course. I'd love to. Would I would I love the Mr. Olympia to be in Boston? Come on now, Jack. couldn't care less about politics of Iran. What Heidi thinks of it. Hello. Yeah. I mean, I don't either. It's it's obviously where we don't know because we're not in a situation like that. I mean, we think we have political problems here in the US. It's nothing compared to what's going on over there. You know, we they're slaughtering their citizens and those people are, you know, they're in fear for their lives. We don't have those kind of freedoms. And I'd say we do have they don't have the freedoms we had. Hani showed his true colors. Well, like I said, there has been no official confirmation ever. I know it's only been a few days, but there was never any statement from Evagen, but the fact that their silence to me speaks volumes because they could have come out with a simple post saying uh just to just to put the rumors to rest, Hottie Chupan is still a sponsored athlete in good standing with EV Nutrition, and we've seen nothing like that. And I wouldn't expect Hottie Chupan to post. He'd barely been posting anything. He's got a lot going on. He didn't even post that much when he was, you know, when when things were good. Now that things are so tumultuous. Lar wheels be the old cuckold. I don't want to get into Larry Wheels. Iran does not follow Islam. They're Persians, not Arabs. I believe what they believe is Zoroastrianism. Oh boy. I took a religion class in fall of 1987 and I'm sure that was mentioned world religion, but I don't remember what the hell that what what that was. The flavor profile is rather modern. [snorts] That's why his countries matter. He's on plan, but not religion's plan. King Kamali said you need to talk to him. I guess how didn't just stay silent apparently taunted the people of Iran. I don't think he'd be dumb enough to taunt the people of Iran. Maybe things were taken out of context or things were inferred. Arnold tells me no. I mean that's country's madam. He's all playing Arnold. Well, I mean, maybe someone in the Arnold Classic is putting up in Columbus, but that's another crazy theory. That's even to me that's even crazier. [snorts] Think is nearing his swan song from the stage. I don't know. He's still top of his game physically. Aside from a tiny bit of thigh, lost a little bit of size in his his right thigh. He seems to be hanging on very well and he's still second place in the Olympia three years in a row. I have been missing over the last few days. You can send me DMs. Oh, Lee, do you know where he is? You don't have to tell me and I know you won't, but do you know where he is? Is he stalking you? Hani isn't from Iran from what I know. I I thought he came here as a child. I thought he came here as a young young child, like four or five years old. Maru Wawi is my favorite. I'll buy all X fans a bacon egg roll. Well, they they can have eggs. They can't have bacon. No pork. No alcohol. No pork. Kid is a big liar. I don't know. Maybe he is. >> Yeah, I I wish we had more to go on, guys. I don't like reporting stuff that's unconfirmed. Uh but sometimes you have to because that's a big news story and a lot of times things don't get confirmed because it's something that uh it's they're embarrassed to talk about. like Evan, they don't want to come out and say they dropped him because some people will be mad at them for doing that saying this poor guy was two two and a half weeks out from his the Arnold Classic, the biggest payday in the history of bodybuilding where the winner is going to get $750,000 and you just drop him like a like a hot potato as we say. So Rashin is n to Iran and radical Islam is shoved down the throats. I heard is in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Chattanooga, Tennessee. Okay, so Lee knows where he is. I remember was born in Kuwait, Qatar. He's born in Persian parents, his wife. Oh, okay. Oh, so he wasn't uh he wasn't from Iran. He he is Persian by birth, but it's parents. But okay. Back then it was fantasy to be around, talk to Bible magazine, all that. Yeah. Oh, yeah. This is a legend. I'm a legend in my own mind, guys. A legend in my own mind. Jery, uh, there's these novelty t-shirts say the man, the man in big letters and then the legend in big letters with an arrow pointing down at the crotch like your penis is supposed to be legendary before you had to write him a letter by post. I remember I used to work for ESPN, American Muscle magazine show on ESPN. How many times am I going to say ESPN? Anyway, people would write to the bodybuilders. They would send us letters and they wanted us to forward them to the bodybuilders and you know we're wasting money on posters but we did it. So their hope was that the bodybuilders would write back to them. That that's how how hard it was back in the day. You could write to a bodybuilder hope he wrote back to you. There was no email. There was no messaging obviously no social media. You know things have things have really changed bodybuilding world. I know this isn't about honey hottie hottie. Someone told me just start calling them by the last names. But uh I just wanted to show that that crazy interject cryogenics. So he's being frozen for a voyage uh to Mars. They're going to wake him up when they get to Mars. No, this is cryotherapy. I just thought this was cool. So they put him in there. It's like 200 degrees below zero. Freeze your balls off. So you have to cover your hands. I had to cover my face like a like a scarf kind of thing when I did it. Interesting. [laughter] Look at that back. Yeah, I know. It's It's not about We'll be talking more about that. The Arnold. We're going to be talking about the Arnold a lot next week. Hottie Chupon. Yeah, I'm going to go see my dogs. He shakes when he wants to go out. That's the thumbnail for the video. I thought that was a great picture. My dog like shakes his whole body when he's ready for a walk. This was a long This is 26 weeks ago. He doesn't post that much. If you look at the when these posts were made, they're pretty intermittent. He doesn't He doesn't post a whole lot. Han's wife Faren Farren is Persian, too, who's a chiropractor. I'm not sure. She's Persian by birth descent. She's from Heyo Lee Priest in the house. Look at old story. So, watch. Okay. If hot wins, every one of his daughters goes quiet for all. He's he very well could win. Guys, don't anyone who's writing hottie chupan off is out of their freaking minds. It's how Andrew's balls look after freezing. Yeah. So, that's with shrinkage. If you were looking at his groin area, that was uh how his groin looked after a couple minutes in 200 200 degrees below zero temperatures. Feel bad for hottie. I feel horrible for Hottie. I'm rooting for Emma because all the [\h__\h] that he's been going through, all the [\h__\h] that he's been going through for this show is supposed to be shrinkage. Well, that was shrinkage. So, you can add another 40% volume, I guess, to whatever you see him coming out of that. [laughter] Let's talk about Andrew Andrew Jack's junk now. That's where we're at. So, yeah, man. How do you I'm rooting for this guy. I I I would be very happy for Andrew Jack. I'll be happy for whoever wins, whether it's Nick, Andrew Martin, whoever wins. These guys all work so hard. But the fact that Chupon has been through so much [\h__\h] in the past couple months, his fans turning against him, [snorts] literally taking his pictures down like he's a disgrace, which to them he is a disgrace. They're very upset with him. I'm sure he's been getting all kinds of threats and stuff. um to go through that and then even though it's unconfirmed, I do believe Eva has dropped him because they would have said something by now to correct it and dispel the rumors and they have not done that. So if he can go through all that and come here and still look like this, this is how he looked at the last Olympia where he won the finals. He beat Derek Lensford to the finals on Saturday night, but he didn't make up enough points overall to take the title. I think he lost by two points overall. Um, but yeah, this guy is he's deadly. He's an amazing bodybuilder and anyone writing him off is just you're nuts. Why do people go to cryo? I I don't know what the hell I don't know the I did it once, but I don't know what the science behind the cryo chambers is. Andrew's condition don't look good enough in that video. Well, he was cold. He was cold. Andrew's going to be in shape. I'm not worried about that. Yeah, it's very hard to predict. You can never predict because people can look amazing right now and then two weeks from now they could lose it. Something could happen. They could even look amazing the day before the show and go flat or spill over. You never know what's going to happen. That's why I always say let's when they come out on stage, that's when I'm going to make my real predictions once I see them hit a few poses on that day. It's gonna be Hottie, Jack, Walker mixed up anyway, depending on how they show up. Yeah, that's that's my top three. Hottie, Andrew, Nick, and I think it could go any any of those ways. You think you brick the winner? Yeah. Good luck. Getting ready for the storm. Yeah. Yeah. We have uh two feet of snow starting at 9:00 tonight and it's going to go until 9:00. It's going to snow for 24 hours. We're going to get two feet of snow here in Southshore area of Boston, southeastern Massachusetts. I'm not looking forward to it. Not at all. Because it's going to be just shoveling all damn day tomorrow. Spoiler being broken. [laughter] Final side. I see we have the Arnold around the corner. Oh, that's dude. Not only that, but the Arnold Classic is going to be a free free live stream. If you go to arnoldsports.com, they just want you to register. They just want your email address so they can send you emails advertising all year. And you get to watch two days and nights of content for absolutely nothing. I think even the Sunday morning se winner seminar is in part of that. So go to arnoldsports.com and just register there. It's free and the live stream is free. We're going to be doing a live watch party. Me, Big Mike Cox, and Galile Tiger Thomas will be part of that. Our little comment on the height situation Ohio. I don't think he will though. All right guys, appreciate you all watching so much. Wish I had more to go on. If I find out more, I'll let you know. But for now, it's verified by a few different sources who who do know that he is in the USA. We don't know where. I don't know where. Lee Priest knows where. Uh I think he's in Las Vegas. Maybe he is, maybe he isn't, but uh we'll find out. We'll find out very, very soon. So anyway, in the meantime, guys, more video content coming up on this channel as we get closer to the Arnold Classic. So please subscribe, like, share, get your notifications on, ring that bell thing, and you'll know when we have more videos. So that's it, guys. Thank you so much for watching. Time to go walk my pitbull branch and get ready for my big storm.