Great guest today, I haven't talked to him in a very long time. Please welcome. He was joined by his lovely wife who is going to be helping us with translation today. Welcome, guys, how are you? Happy to be in France? Why me? I was supposed to play Badr a little more, but because of my father's death and all that, he had a lot of preparations, so I wasn't ready in time. His original plan was to compete like early summer Toronto Tampa shows, but his dad actually passed away at the beginning of June.  Oh, I'm sorry. So, so he had to kind of pause the prep and deal with that a little bit.  So, it was it was a very hard prep for him to say. Yeah.   I didn't want to play in Italy or Germany. I mean, I didn't want to play in a way that I was happy with. I didn't want to just go and participate. If I went and played in Italy or didn't reach the level that the judges were supposed to be satisfied with, then I would go and come back as if I had n't played. So I didn't want to just participate. Yeah, he didn't want to make the mistake this year of competing just for the sake of it.  So for Italy and Germany, he didn't feel that his body is 100% yet and uh he's just not going to make that mistake anymore.  So now that he's looking like he stage ready in his opinion, he just jumped into whatever show was available and it happened to be France.  So there was no really a specific reason why it's France, but it just timing works out for him.  Okay, right before we started recording, I didn't remember Hassan competing last year, but you did me. He did do a couple of shows, but it was before the program started. Why, if I played last year, he didn't remember if I played or not because his level wasn't very high. So, your body always has to be strong on the bench. So, what happened was that last year, I mean, there was something I don't know, honestly, it wasn't working for me properly. My muscle recovery was n't good in the off-season. I was doing the best body and leg workouts for three or four days, but it wasn't recovering properly. Then, towards the end, I found my aldosterone was very high, so I had several drops. Last year, I didn't have enough to get a good level, but that was my mistake. The judges wanted to see me at my leanest, especially in my glutes, biceps, abs, and all that stuff. So, every day, I'd go for two hours, but  An hour apart from the cardio hour, an hour of glutes and abs every day, based on the idea that I would achieve the best level, that I would achieve something phenomenal. Unfortunately, this had the opposite effect on me. It made me overtrain, and the nutrition that was supposed to match the amount of effort I was doing was not enough. Of course, all of this affected the cortisol and aldosterone levels, so it brought about the opposite result. I knew that I would achieve what the judges wanted to see in me, so I worked on it, but unfortunately, I worked on it too much until I hurt myself. Yeah, he completely did something that kind of backf with him.  He knows that the judges really want him to be uh you know good tight abs very shredded very lean and to do that he would train um glutes and abs pretty much every day for a really long time so that really backfired um and he did a lot of overtraining to just really get shredded and it just wasn't working in his interest because the food was not enough to make up for the amount of uh working out that he was doing.  Um so the overtraining really raised his cortisol levels.  So it just overall through the span of the six months of prep just continuously backfing and giving like the wrong results for what he was expecting.  He just wanted to really impress the judges and do something amazing and instead it just give him the worst year of his prep life.  Wow.   There's a lot of stuff, the only thing we're working on, God willing, is whys know that he knows 100% that's all we talk about all day long that he does not need to pack on muscle, he doesn't intend to pack on muscle kind of just happens with him, so his goal is to be in 100% condition, okay, I'm just curious, he looks even bigger now. Is your weight now the same as it was a few years ago or not? No increase now, currently 20 pounds for each year and for two years you have 40 for two years. So so just to give in Puerto Rico pro and Orlando Pro 2 years ago where he won years ago.  He was 245 on stage.  Uh today he's 282 PS more than when he won the pro wow.  He was 216 in Vancouver 2 years ago.  So he's another 20 now last year.  Wow. Your stomach is very small. Most people's stomachs swell when they cry. What happened to him in previous years was that he was very afraid of carbohydrates. I mean, because my problem was that I was lean, my problem was that I was afraid of carbs. I mean, even in the off-season, you'd find me, for example, eating 100 grams of rice, 150 grams of rice, afraid that I would gain fat because my problem is with starch, I mean with fat. So I was trying as much as possible throughout the year, I mean, there was no food, not even eating out and all that. I was trying as much as possible throughout the year to be better, but unfortunately, I was still gaining fat. I mean, this year I did the opposite. I used to do high protein and low carbs, this year I did the opposite, I did low protein and low carbs. So in previous years his mistake was that, not a mistake, but that's what he was doing. He was always just very afraid of eating carbohydrates.  So his his his thing was always to increase do high protein low fat not low carbs um and low calories even at some point.  So this prep he really just gave what his body needed.  His body needed the car and the carbs to fuel his muscle size.  And he, this is he, ever like R, never seen himat. When I exert myself too much and the glycogen in my whole body is depleted, it means I get a belly that's a trap. That's what we discovered this year when we started cutting with Domc. When we started cutting, this is what happened to us this year. Our diet plan was 6000 calories, 6500 calories. Okay, when we started cutting, we started reducing carbohydrates, like any normal plan. We started working on reducing carbohydrates little by little. We found that during exercise, at the beginning of the workout, I'd look good, halfway through, I'd look worse, and at the end, I'd look the worst I've ever looked. It's the opposite. At the beginning of the workout, you should be a half pump, and at the end, you should be a full pump and look good. But the opposite was happening to me. At the beginning of the workout, I'd look good, halfway through, I'd start to lose it, and at the end, I was the worst. I was completely finished, with a bloated stomach, even though I was in the gym.  I didn't eat or do any food, I didn't leave any food, so this is what we were able to do. So, so this year I think helped him a lot to figure out that his key to him is to not eat as much protein and to really increase the carbs. And  then Dominic's coach realized that maybe he needed some carbs like he started he started taking more carbs during the workout and increasing not maintaining the carbon amount but decreasing the calories from protein sources and fat sources but but maintaining the carbs.  So that way he's eating a little bit less calories but really his body still you know having enough carbs to to make him still look good.  So he's bloating less he his milk looks better.  He's also I think very good conditioning his increase in size.  Um so I think this year should be good.  So you coaches superce now right?  No, his name is Dominic. It's not it's not that's also a great coach but Dominic is actually the owner of Biolab the company and um he's lives in Dubai but he's from Poland. Oh, okay.  So I was going to ask if Dominic Cardone.  I got all the wrong domains.  No, no, no.  That's also another great thing, but not the right way to describe it. When did you start working with this coach? You know how it's been going. How is he different from others? What does he do differently? Well, I started with him. We were talking, and he said, "Let's start this year." I hadn't planned on competing in tournaments that year yet, so we talked. We liked his idea, and we started discussing it. For example, I'd tell him, "I don't like carbs; they make me gain fat, and my body reacts differently." He said, "We'll try to adjust my insulin sensitivity." He gave me some peptides to help regulate my insulin sensitivity, so my body could tolerate eating a better amount of carbs. Little by little, he started adjusting things. He's the type of person who doesn't... well, not all of us, personally. I wouldn't talk to him about relying on high protein as the best thing. No, his thinking is a bit different. He might say, "No, you don't need to increase your protein intake to build muscle. Increase your protein intake to the maximum." What's the problem? He discovered that, for example, I need carbohydrates much more than I need protein. I used to usually buy carbs and prefer protein, but he did the opposite. He took calories from protein and put them in the carbs instead. So he started to make my body, I mean, my digestion is better, and my strength in exercise is like it's still the same as it was in the previous phase. So he made everything develop a little. Yeah, he started off talking to him just casually.  Um, and then once he understood his mindset and his approach to coaching like Hassan thought that this would be a great like kind of step to move into.  So they started working together and had a really good offseason.  I think he's saying what really makes him stand out um compared to other coaches is that he doesn't believe that protein is a magic ingredient for everything.  He believes that carbs are what really work for Hassan.  And honestly I think he's on to something that that really kind of did change a lot for Hassan.  Um, so he's not obsessed that you need to just have a lot of protein and maintain that and uh, you know, keep decreasing carbs.  It's the opposite.  He's giving him a lot more carbs.  Um and he realizes that with the amount of muscle he has, even if he decreases uh protein, it's not really going to he's not really going to lose much muscle, right?  He's fine in that in that department.  So um and also what really really helped him and I think that's game changer for Hassan is his uh digestion and insulin sensitivity.  Um Dominic is is really knowledgeable in terms of like peptides and and and kind of that kind of uh what to take to to improve insulin sensitivity and improve digestion.  So he's kind of always recommending what works for Hassan and actually has improved through the course of the prep. So his digestion is a lot better. He's literally eating and within 10 minutes he's starving again.  So his metabolism has really really kicked up and I think what's really different this year as well is um Hassan was just saying that his strength and training it's been maintained.  So normally you know as you decrease calories and and go into prep it's not the same as offseason but in Hassan's case it's it's pretty much the same.  So he's still lifting heavy.  still you know his workouts are still really really good throughout the whole prep.  So Dominic did a good job with kind of giving him the right foods that work for him and to maintain his workouts and the strength. Many people are afraid to lower their protein intake, so you were worried and asked whether to lower it a little or not. We didn't lower it much; we started lowering it gradually, and I found myself feeling better. I mean, the more I lowered my protein intake, the better I looked, the less water I had in my body, and my stomach felt more tucked in. So why shouldn't I continue with the low protein? What problem could stop me if I lower my protein intake more than the limit? I mean, what problem could stop me? I'll mention a little about recovery serum; there might be a problem. Everything was going well; muscle recovery was good, and muscle mass was working well. So why shouldn't I take a risk and lower it a little more? We're lowering it gradually, little by little. So far, we're consuming protein in the meal. Do you take protein after cooking or before cooking? After cooking, 90 grams or 80 grams. So he's eating like 90 of protein, like cooked weight after 80 grams per meal.  So to Hassan that's very little right um and I think to answer your question he didn't just like um dramatically lower the protein.  I think that's why it was more acceptable for him.  I get what you're saying about most people are hesitant to do that. Um it slowly happened right like they slowly decrease and then increase carbs. Okay, Hassan's looking good.  Water is coming down um his his gut is you know looking better.  So it like it slowly kind of convinced him.  Yeah.  This is actually working like you know.  So it gradually decreased and the more it decreased the better he looked the better digestion uh the more pump in his muscles.  So it just made it it made sense for him.   He means, he noticed that I need to, I mean, I don't know how to exercise gradually. My problem is that I take too long to exercise and I train too hard. So, we're going to eat 2000 calories, for example, or 3000 calories, so why make it all mostly protein and not have an energy source? So, he was converting them. We would, for example, take 500 calories from protein and convert them to carbs. I would work on some protein and convert it to carbs. So, when I wasn't working on calories from protein, I was converting them to carbs. I felt better. It's the same calories, but I was converting them from protein to carbs. I felt better even though we didn't increase or decrease calories. It's just a conversion from one form to another, from protein to carbs. The same thing happened, and I found, for example, my stomach was better, my digestion was better, my sleep was better. For example, when I do, for example, it made me reach a level that I wasn't usually at. I measure my blood sugar level.  Every day, for example, let me measure my blood sugar level when I reduce stress. Usually, when people reduce stress, their blood sugar level goes down. But when I reduce stress, my blood sugar level goes up. So he told me, "Your body is doing more stress than it is doing a lot of stress, so it raises your cortisol a lot, so your blood sugar is high, so you have to balance it." So government does a good job at kind of explaining his mindset to behind things.  So it makes him comfortable following the nontraditional ways.  Um so in this case you know he explained like if you're going to eat 3000 calories why those should be the bulk of protein when in reality the recovery and and your digestion will be better once you eat more carbs.  So then they realize that the best equation for this is to increase carbs and to keep the protein slowly at a minimum, not too low still but just whatever his body needs.  And I think also what helped him to is he asked him to do his um blood sugar test every day or after he was doing it often usually oh in the morning fasted so every day he'd wake up and he would test the blood sugar in his in his in his body and that was a very good indicator is his body sensitive to to the carbs is he they are they at a good level and they were just going off of the data that he was giving him like it wasn't just guess work right body so and sleep got a  betteran has a big problem with sleep if he is really hungry and a lot of bodybuilders to um so he noticed that if he has a little bit more carbs obviously he can sleep better so they would take a little bit calories from the fats and protein increase the carbs still the overall calories are still not too high it's all the same but the source of where it's coming from became more about carb focused.  Yeah. Types of foods that I found... The food that suits you and works well for you helps you a lot. Currently, I only eat chicken and fish. The house was causing me bloating for a certain period, so I stopped eating it. For example, bread... because of carbs, right? So that was a good way to get more carbs, and that worked really well for him. Usually, he is sensitive to gluten. Sour bread was really good, but either way, right? Rice and potatoes? In the excursions or in the... Yes, no. Currently, it's just rice. Jassim rice. Jassim rice. From the head... Yes, fish and chicken, and I added potatoes, but just a little these days, just because of the high potassium. Yeah.  So, so generally he just eats the most boring diet possible.  Jasmine, right?  Oh, so uh you you were just telling me he eats the most boring foods and you were telling me the foods that he does eat the carb sources.  Yeah.  Just rice, chicken, and fish.  Nothing else.  Okay.  I mean, that's it works.  It works.  It's keeping it simple. Standard bodybuilder die, right? Exactly.  Question about your new muscles: Is there a specific area where the muscles have increased, or is it all over your body? No, it's all over your body. I mean, the whole body has no muscles, for example. It's possible that the zakat area is a little better, but it's a good weightlifter. Yeah, I think over it's all like there's not a significant body part that stood out that gained muscle. It's over the whole body. It's the only thing that still doesn't seem to work for me, but I don't know. GL with, for example, after a high-carb day or something, it looks a little nice, but after you finish your low-carb, there's nothing. And at the same time, I'm not going to keep doing high-carb for the rest of my life. Yeah, he's like after having a high-carb day, um, it looks great, like you know, they look, you know, full and hard and stuff, but then he, he can't do high carbs all the time, like you know, he still needs to eat less food, right? So it's on and off with the glutamate. See, okay, uh, well, your daughter's the last time I saw your daughter, she was a baby in a carriage. So yeah, how old is she now?  She's five. Wow.  So she's old enough to understand kind of what bodybuilding is.   It turns out that she lives with someone and eats rice, fish, rice and chicken. Bodyilder life her meal is rice and chicken and his food to make like nice spice food not good food poison and then it's funny because last time like he made a meal for her he rice and apia and she like don't forget the salt like the spon of salt and it's funny because to her that's the best meal it's so funny So does she not eat junk like all these American kids live  on Hassan loves to give it to her.  I'm like you can't eat it but you give it to your daughter. No, she loves course but I guess she loves it all right?  Wow, that's awesome. My youngest son is 25. I still can't get him to eat a vegetable.  Oh really? If I give her a burger and if I give her rice and chicken she'll choose the rice and chicken.  Wow. Burger eat like we're in the car and I get her something and he's eating his meal she takes the rest of it like she wants it and I think she's acknleding like it's protein protein is healthy this good for me understands science behind that's why last year I did n't go last year Well, last year she didn't come to them because uh I just her with my mom.  So, she hasn't gone to show in like a year. Uh, but if she comes with us, yeah, she sits in front of the row and cheers and uh but she just hasn't come like in the past year or two.  Okay.  Just because it's easier to do the whole, you know, show without her.  Right.  Right.  Of course.  Of course.  But yeah, she is there.  She knows what's going on and, you know, goes back stage and talks to everybody. And it's the cutest thing.  You also see other uh pros and they have their daughters and kids and then it's a good connection to you know backstage. So uh France shows coming up.  Uh I'm just curious when loser draw will that be it for this year because we have a lot of shows.  We have the British Grand Prix.  There's a show in Mexico that day. Rania, I intend to play many tournaments this year, God willing, but of course, before I play any tournament again, I will check my analysis and see if my body is responding to the pressure of training. If it is responding, I will continue training as much as I can this year, God willing, to make up for the past period. But of course, I have to listen to the body first. If it is going well with the results, then we will continue, God willing. [Music] I actually go to France and Mexico. I think what happens after that just depends on how his body responds and what places he gets and so on, but if he's getting first winning then he's going to do a lot more.  Great. Miko, nobody in France, I wanted to play in the Olympia this year, but the preparation wasn't 100% in my favor. I had some issues, so I didn't want to just go and participate. I try to listen to what the judges say and try to present myself in the way they want to see me. I don't want to appear on stage except in the way they want me to. Yeah, he knows the judges' feedback and he really just insisted on only going on stage to bring them whatever they are looking for.  So there's no point of competing if he's not ready.  And it just happened that he could make it in time for the Olympia.   God willing. I think when someone is tall for a long time, you'll see it, right ?   Of course, especially if you're not in the spotlight, and specifically if you're not in the top five, meaning the top three, you're out of the picture. If you're out of the top three, you're not even in the top five, in my opinion, you didn't even make it to the tournament. No one doesn't want to compete and win, but unfortunately, many factors contributed to your failure to achieve the best result. He's saying it's not just if he doesn't compete, but if he doesn't even make it to the top. It's like if you're not in the top five, it's like you compete, nobody knows, and then you make it to the top. In two tournaments, everyone was sending me messages telling me to quit and stop playing. They said I'd reach my potential, that I'd reached my limit, that I'd achieve something new, and that this was the end of me. He's only 33, yeah, I do n't get it. I mean, look at the name: 92, 1992.  I'm just curious, was that? Was that? Like, I thought Middle Eastern fans were more loyal to... Do many Arab followers have more loyalty to people, or not? Or is it necessary? No, look, no. Everywhere there's someone who loves you and someone who hates you. The one who loves you loves you at your worst and your best, and the one who hates you, even if you're winning and taking first place, will look for a flaw in you and tell you about it. So, the one who loves loves, and the one who hates hates, even if they see you at your best and in every place. But it's not just about Arabs or foreigners. There's someone who loves you who will love you even at your worst, they'll give you something, they'll send you a motivational message, and the one who hates you, even if you're at your best, they'll tell you that you didn't deserve to win. So, there are both. Love everything first. Honestly, something I didn't like doing, but I was forced to do it recently: anyone who comes in to insult me ​​or sends me messages, especially private ones, to provoke or annoy me, I started blocking them and telling them, "You..."  You provoked me once and annoyed me once, and I won't let you provoke me or annoy me again. I didn't used to do this kind of thing, but every time I find them sending me messages—someone who sends one message sends two, three, four—and I get annoyed and upset. So I said, "No, I wo n't let anyone who annoys me get away with it, even if I'm looking my best." Like, one day I was wearing a t-shirt and my stomach was tucked in, and I didn't care if my stomach looked bloated, but someone said, "Your stomach is bloated! Did you see? Did you see how my stomach looks under the t-shirt?" And I looked at the picture, and there was nothing wrong with it. So I realized that someone who criticizes will criticize you even if you're looking your best. So I'll just ignore them, and whoever bothers me, I'll block them and be done with it. He started doing this recently: whoever would just bother him, just block, block, block, delete. You know there's no need to get agitated over somebody.  that's like their purpose is to piss you off right he saying one time some guy he was just posing in a t-shirt full on t-shirt and doesn't show his abloated got nothing the guy in saying oh you have such a big stomach or you're so bloed or whatever he's like he does he can't even see that like he would understand if if he was wearing like if he took off a shirt or people don't need pictures no or I send you messages on  Sum up once or twice, and I'll let you know everything. Yeah, he's like even the DMs like I think I don't think people realize how much can be in the private messages, right?  So some people will really get meaning in Arabic and in English and other languages.  You know, it's it's not from where they come from. It's more than just the person's character, right?  That Yeah. So I think people forget just how young Hassan is because you're 33 now.  I think I met you guys in 2018. Tampure got place yeah 25 years old 26 at that time 26 are you going? You're young and you still have a lot of time ahead of you. What's your goal? What do you want to do in this field before you actually retire? My goal is to reach the Olympia, God willing. That's what I'm striving for. It was my father's dream, so I'm striving to achieve it. My father is the one who motivated me and wanted me to reach the best, so I'm striving to achieve my goal and fulfill his wish for me to reach something like... Yeah, his dad was a big motivator for him to get into the bodybuilding scene and he pushed him to get as high as possible.  So with his death, it's it's been a very important thing to make him proud and um he just really wants to accomplish that for him.  So he hopes to do it.  See I'm hoping for number one the number one spot. Insallah.  So, thank you so much.  Thank you.  Appreciate you taking the time and I want to wish you very good luck at the France pro.  Thank you, bro.  Thank you, bro.