Hey everybody, welcome to Ask Dr. Testosterone starring Dr. George and Tulianos brought to you by his book, The Bible of Bodybuilding 2. Over 700 pages, everything you need to know about training, nutrition, supplementation, and peeds. Of course, if you're on Amazon.com buying that book, Amazon.com, you can get this Real Bodybuilding by Ron Harris. Links to Dr. T's book are in the description. Now, all the way from Athens, Greece, the only medical doctor who is also a champion bodybuilder. You can ask questions every week on YouTube, Dr. George Tulatos. How are you, George? I'm good, bro. Yeah. Yeah. How was uh how was Easter? I know that's a big deal over there. Easter was good. I mean, we went down to South Greece because that's the hometown of my wife and I had some good time under the sun with my daughter and uh I chill out, you know, and um we know we fast the last week before Easter. Oh, wow. So, yeah, we skip a little bit of protein. We have some lentils. So, it's good because you need a little break from uh stress and work, you know, right on. And fill up your batteries. So, how was your history? You had a the same uh day. Uh yeah, I didn't I didn't really do anything special, honestly. Hard. Sorry to say. Uh but I relaxed. Went to the gym. Yeah. We didn't do We usually go out to a big brunch, but my son is dieting. He was two weeks. Yeah, the gym was open. Yeah, he's still dieting. My My sho My son's contest is in uh It's less It's two weeks from Easter. Exactly. So, we didn't go out to eat anywhere. No brunch because he can't eat anything except diet food right now. I see you you you're experiencing a vacuum, man. He's trying to suck up the When he pulls it all the way in, it's 25 in. Wow. Yeah, that's I never had a waist like that in my life. Not even when I was a little kid. I never had a skinny little midsection. So, yeah, he's he's not big, but he's going to have a tiny tiny waist. How much of body weight he lost to be in shape? 40 pounds so far. 40? Yeah. Yeah, man. Wow. Very cute. I mean, he's he's not competing again for a long time after this. He needs to put some size on, you know. He was fat or he was he lost muscle. Um, no, he didn't lose muscle, but he was he got a little chubby trying to put trying to bulk up. He got up to uh like 170, which for him was big. He he couldn't see any abs. He was, you know, love handles. He could grab around the back. Uh he's down to 133 or 134 pounds now. So just supplements and just supplements. Yeah. Yeah. I mean uh he'll be a bantamweight. He's doing uh one show that has only height classes and another show, the NPC show has weight, so he'll be a bantamweight bodybuilder. So are you training? Oh, of course. Of course. I'm the coach. You watch his Yeah. Everything he eats. I watch everything. I say no, that's too much. That puts some back. You know, he will deplete and carb up. No, I don't believe in that. I don't believe in that. I'm just going to have him eat a little bit more carbs the last couple days because he's been pretty low carbs because, you know, like I said, he's small. He doesn't have a lot of muscle, so he had to be conditioned. If you don't have a lot of muscle, you better be ripped. Water also 12 hours before uh we'll cut water. We'll we'll go down to like sips, but I don't believe in cutting water like completely. I think you still need a little water in the in the uh the muscle cells. So, I'm trying to keep I'm I don't want to do any voodoo with him. the carb depleting and loading, the the sodium, the water. You know, I believe if you get lean, if you just get all the body fat off your body that needs to be gone, you don't need to do anything crazy. That's that's just how I feel about it. Now, he has obliques. Oh, yeah. He's veins up and down the midsection. He's very, very lean. His face is all It's funny. His underwear are falling off of him now. That's how how much weight he's lost. His mother cooks the meals. Yeah. Yeah. My mom cooks and he cooks some of his meals and I I help a little bit. So, you will free to the show, right? Yeah, we're all going to go there support him and his his aunts, his grandmother, his friends, a bunch of people going to show up. You'll be backstage pumping up. Yeah, I got a coach's pass. So, I made him buy me a coach's ticket so I can go backstage. So, I got to keep keep him head, you know, little pep talk right before he goes on stage and everything. So, have you have you ever been through this coaching before with somebody else? Oh, yeah. Yeah. I've coached a few people to uh explain the you know who Carlos Thomas Jr. is, right? So the show that he won right before he won nationals was down in Virginia and I had a client who was competing in women's physique. She won the women's physique at that show and Carlos Thomas Jr. won the men's bodybuilding. It's funny she's texting me. She goes, "You know this guy, Carlos Thomas Jr.?" I'm like, "Oh yeah." She's like, "He's competing here today." I'm like, "What? No way." And that's he won that and then two weeks later was nationals and he turned pro. Yeah. But anyway, yeah, coach, it's it's uh it's his first contest. Do you remember what you're contest? Exciting. Yeah, I was excited about was also not not experienced, you know. And I was uh uh when you lack of experience, you you become so um astonished and I think looks like a surprise to you, you know. Oh yeah. We call it a deer in the headlights because you I'm trying to prepare him for everything so he's not overwhelmed on stage like that because it can be just to have fun and enjoy the show. Yeah, that's what I said. He's been dieting all it's going to be a 20week diet. That's how long we've been dieting. All this torture for 15 minutes on stage. It's his day and then you should enjoy with a good with a good dinner all the family. No. Yeah. Yeah. We're going out to eat. We found a good restaurant and it's a it's a Greek restaurant of all things because there's not a lot of restaurants in that area, but we found a really nice Greek place we're going to go and that's going to be his uh his big meal after we're celebrating after the show. Anyway, all right, let's get to some questions. Here we go with question number one. What is the best way to avoid subermal bruising at the injection site? I inject upper thigh with a 2 cm long needle. Is butttock better or shorter needle? Yeah, by far better is the best of course the upper and the outer. So if you cutting four quadrangulars then let's say for the right you have up to the and to the outer and to the left. Um and uh I don't think good idea is the fine because most likely you're going to hit some nerves. M if you have vessels and shoulders in the rear in the rear department of the shoulder. Okay. So you have the front, the side and the rear. So the rear the best. Okay. Personally I was injecting 1 ml here and up 5 ml in the back. My my and I was able to inject somebody who has completed the Olympia 2 ml to the side delt. It was enough to store half a gram of the stars over here. Wow. Jeez. So half a gram and half a gram. grab the shoulder and the rest for the butt, you know, the rest of the gear. Yeah. You know, the shoulder is that's a place you don't want to bruise because I can remember having a tank top on and there'd be a bruise on my side delt and people were like talking behind my back at the gym like laughing because it was a lot I wasn't trying to hide the fact that I use steroids, but you don't want to make it obvious like there's my bruise from where I injected my steroids. You know, it's just a bad look. Uh I want to show you something I found online because it has pictures. I love illustrations. So this is uh what I found on wiki wikihow. So they said in avoid uh aspirin and the proxin. Don't take those two weeks before and after your injection. Those will uh pro bruising I guess. Yeah. They affect the plate. Yeah. And these supplements raise your risk of bruising. St. John's wart and Fitz fish oil depression. Yeah. Fish oil. Yeah. Because also fish oil works in a similar way with aspirin in case. Look at this list. Flax seed oil, cod liver oil, ginger, garlic, St. John's wart, melatonin, valyan, niacin, turmeric, and cayenne. Wow, it's a lot of stuff you It gets worse. Limit eating food that have aspirin, aspirin like properties. So, root beer, apples, cucumbers. Geez, look at all these. Avocados, apples, apricots, cucumbers, grapefruit, grapes, melons, oranges, peaches, plums, raspberries, more shellfish, soybeans, wheat germ oil. Wow, there's root. Even root beer could all make bruising worse. And drinking alcohol. Geez, look at all this stuff you got to do. Avoid drinking alcohol. Uh, injection afterare. You could use a cooling pad. Uh, arnica and bromelain supplements that will help the bruising. Arnica gel. Uh, and this talks about the smaller gauge needles. Yeah. Because I used to use when my first cycle was sustenon 250 that came already assembled in the needle and it was an 18 gauge needle. It was like 2 inches long and 18 gau. It was like a harpoon. I got the worst bruises from that. Uh, and then they say use the the correct angle. So a 90 degree angle. Uh, let's see. If if the needle's going straight into the muscle, hold it 90°. is going just under the muscle subcutaneous 45. So if you're going into the muscle like we do for steroids 90 degree just straight down is the best way to go and then lay back and rest your seat. Good luck with that. It's a lot of trouble to go to to not bruise, huh? All right a little bit the spots. Yeah, I mean let's go to the next one. Proviron is proviron okay to run year round for high SHBG? I'm currently running 25 milligrams twice a day or 50 milligrams a day. 50 milligrams a day is a little bit a lot for all year round. So you can tolerate 25 uh in in terms of HDL and her thinning uh or acne. But if you go further than that, you can have a reduction in HDL, perhaping out um and you're going to notice some um baldness, you know, if you overdo it with prov, if you're prone to it, but it's not a steroid that will affect the liver. Uh I guess in that dose, it's not simply related, of course. Yeah. But it's bad for your hair though if you're prone to losing hair. is DHT itself. So no matter how much finasteride or you take it on tasteride is not able to block it because it's a real compound but you can block only the reduction from testosterone. So all testosterone is tolerated with finasteride and that yeah it's funny because I I was I probably would have lost my hair eventually but I noticed from my Facebook pictures they tell you you know the years the memories pop up 2020 to 2023 is when I lost the most hair and I was using proviron almost all the time during those years. Trend I was I was cycling on and off trend too but for me I think proviron was what led to me losing a lot of my hair. You have real hair. Well, it's my hair from the back of my head. They moved it to the front of my head. But it looks good now. Much defin one year left. Uh, so no, they said after a year is going to be your best result. And I It's been over a year now. So the back I'll show you. The back isn't isn't as good. You can still see a little bald spot, but most people see me from the front, so I'm cool with that. Um, you never had a haircut. A haircut? Yeah, I get my haircut. You let it grow for one and a half year now? Oh, no. No. I've been getting haircuts. I've been getting haircuts. They only tell you uh after the transplant, you're supposed to wait, I think, six months before you cut that area. So, I did let it grow for a long time. Do you think about doing another one here and back? No, I did it there. That's It's better than it was. It was it was really bald, but I don't want to go back to Turkey. No offense. I don't want to go all the way back there to do that again. And it was nice. I saw Eastn Bull. I don't need to see it again. It was It was cool, but I'm good. I'd want to see Greece, Italy, Spain, places like that before I go back to Turkey, you know. So, all right. Our last question for the week. Should you take HCG, human corionic gonadotropen during blast, cruise, or both? And how many I use? Um now for cruising um or or blasting I mean uh the HG is for to to avoid the shrinkage and the diminishing in testicular volume and size the sperm volume. Yeah. If you want to restore fertility you need over thousand I use so 1500. Now uh using 500 will ensure that there's not a single shrinkage but if you want to have a good effect you need over a thousand. Now I believe that 500 is enough to keep also a decent sex drive because if you use ACG means yeah those testicles are still producing testosterone that improves the sex drive when you hit a plateau with the steroids. Yeah. Um, so over a thousand if you want to have children, but between 500 and a,000 if you want to avoid the shutdown. Okay. Yeah. And I mean, I remember Okconor said because some people try to use it as their TRT. They just use HCG as a monotherapy. No, this is wrong. This is wrong because it shuts off the LH. And I mean nothing nothing works like testosterone was the real deal. Okay. Yeah. You you can do a kick with HG and and chop me but nothing replaces the hormone that is deficient. That's why we say test is best. Test is best everybody. Absolutely. had a video that says that uh testosterone is is a testosterone measurement is able to say if you're healthy or not in every aspect. Yeah. So we know that low testosterone leads to shorter lifespan because it makes you fat, it makes you diabetic and it it establishes the metabolic syndrome that leads to cardiovascular disease and cancer. Yeah. So we need to understand that testosterone measurement is an overall overall health marker and unfortunately we have compromise with the downhill process of the society the past 50 years and we believe that we we get accustomed with lower testosterone level as normal which is not normally healthy of course men thrive over 500 That's a fact. Below 100, all the bad symptoms begin. Okay? And the blood never lies. But you cannot just walk and see the uh the paper and the numbers. We're more than numbers. We're okay. We're um men with symptoms. We have to uh see if you are depressed, if you are tired, if you have lack of sex drive. You know, the lack of desire to have sex is way more serious than just an erection. Yeah. I don't want to serious. Okay. You're not a man anymore. So that's all. Yeah. You know, I'm obviously I'm no doctor, but when people ask me about TRT, do they need TRT? I say, "How's your sex drive?" Because I know just from personal experience, when my tea is low or high, the sex drive tells everything. If you have no interest in sex, your your test is probably down here. Unfortunately, they believe that sex drive it can it can improve with the scaler which is not. It's just an erection but you don't have the desire to go inside. Okay. Yeah. I mean that's that's a big misconception. If you have no interest in sex and no desire, you could pop all the Viagra and scalis in the world. It's not going to help. What happens after a show or after a cycle? I don't care about flirt, you know, because your test is going down here. That's right. All right. All right. Well, that is all the questions we have for this week, guys. The link is in the description for this book, The Bible of Bodybuilding 2. Purchase that on Amazon by clicking on that link and give yourself a really good education in all the things we talk about on this show. We're very, very lucky to have Dr. T every here, every week here, answering your questions, medical doctor who is a champion bodybuilder, still walks the walk and talks the talk. So, thank you, George. Appreciate what you do for us. Let me ask you, when is the pitch pro? The Pittsburgh Pro is May 10th. So next next week we'll let's talk about it a little bit next week because we'll have we'll have a really good idea of everybody heading in. Line up. Yeah, we'll know. So let let's talk about that next time for sure. Pittsburgh Pro. Going to be a great show. All right, guys. Thanks for watching Ask Dr. Testosterone with Dr. George and Tuliatoss. We'll see.