Hey guys, what's up? Ron Harris here and I want to talk to you today about something that's near and dear to my heart because I was a natural bodybuilder for years and years, 14 years in all. And that is how do you know when you have reached your full natural potential? because we all have a natural potential for building muscle size and strength. And then of course you can go beyond that with the use of peeds. And the fact is most people will either quit training or hop on gear long before they reach their full natural potential. And the reason for that is because it does take a lot of time and effort to max out your natural potential. It's not going to happen quickly. We'll talk about how long it takes and what are the indications that you've pretty much gotten to where you're going to go. But first, I thought it would be helpful to look back at my own career as a natural bodybuilder and show the progression I made. And we'll see did I did I reach my natural potential. So, here I am. This is age 17, shortly after graduating high school, 5'8, about 135 pounds here. I had been training for four years at this point. Um, but that had been only upper body. Hadn't touched legs. You can see how thin my legs are in those board shorts here. Uh, I was lean. I was naturally a wiry thin kid. This was also after uh high school wrestling which kept me in really good shape. But yeah, naturally you can see uh I had a little bit of clavicle width. I didn't have great genetics. My genetics were probably little bit above average. Nothing nothing special. Okay, this was spring of 1988. So, here I'm 18 years old. You see, I don't really look much different. I'm still about 145 pounds, something like that, outside the old World Gym in Venice. It's no longer there. I did love those bike shorts. This was the fall or actually late late summer 1988, just as I had returned back to Massachusetts after being in California for a year in school and staying there for the summer after as well. At this point, I was only training on Nautilus machines. You could see the back development was pretty weak. Leg development very, very weak. I had just started training legs, and all I was doing for them was leg extensions and leg curls on Nautilus machines. So, here, same height, 5'8, probably about 150 pounds here. So, still wasn't getting much bigger. This was summer of 1990, so I'm 20 years old, a couple months away from turning 21. Uh, again, 5'8. The height really didn't I didn't start losing height for quite a while. So, at this point, uh, as you can see, I'm 20 years old. I've been training here for a good six years already. Didn't have a whole lot to show for it. You can see I'm starting to get some delts, some pecs. The legs have actually started to grow. They would become my strong point. So, this is a couple years later. This is 92. I'm out in California. I'm 22 years old here. Bulked up. And I had actually started putting on a lot of weight. Uh, not all of it was muscle as I think you can see pretty clearly. A lot of body fat, but here I was about 220 225 lbs. Uh, when I would diet down, as you'll see, a lot of that did turn out to be fat and water. This is another shot of me bulked up. This is 92 22. I think it was about 23 years old. I just turned 23 year 225 230. But you could see you can see a lot of body fat there. This is dieted down in the spring of 93 with my wife Janet. You can see how drawn my face was. So this was that show. This was the 1993 ABC Mr. Los Angeles. Uh, I was about 170 pounds a few days before the show and then decided to stop drinking any fluids. This is on the advice of a of a seasoned competitor at the national level. Uh, and also go into a sauna twice a day the last couple days. And I dropped down to 158 pounds, but it was the first time I had actually been in any kind of real condition. You can see the muscle separation there. So, yeah. So, on stage here, 5'8 and only 158 pounds. I did not win. And I got second to that gentleman there. Here's 93 also, I believe. See, not a lot of muscle mass. So, here's where I made the most progress. In the next couple years, I got really focused with the eating. Training was always hard. So, this was probably my pinnacle. Age 25, summer of 1995 as a natural bodybuilder. Uh, looked pretty good. I think pretty good shape, taper, structure. Back still needed some work. So, here I was about 180 pounds. I would weigh in at 181 at that show a few days later. This was it. Yeah, this was the uh same show, 1995. So, I'm 25 years old. Uh I ended up going on gear a couple years actually. The So, this was 95. I went on gear in the fall, November of 96, shortly after turning 27 years old. So this was 95 96. Yeah. And again, this is still 95. So that was my as far as I took my physique naturally. Uh but 180 85 pounds lean at 5'8. And yeah, there we go again. That was the show. 95 Iron Man naturally. So this is the best I ever looked as a natural bodybuilder. Now, did I reach my natural potential? I don't think so. Um, I think I could have kept continuing and making progress as a natural bodybuilder. Um, but like I said, I went on gear because I was I was eager to see how how much bigger I could get. And I had this idea in my head that most of the great natural bodybuilders had been former gear users and they built the muscle. So, that was my plan. I was going to get on gear for a brief time. I think my original plan was one cycle and then I was going to go back to being a natural bodybuilder, but I would keep all that muscle. That plan did not happen, of course. So, what is your natural potential? You want to know ahead of time what your potential is. It's kind of impossible to say until you start training. So, one thing you can look at without even training is your muscle bellies. How far down toward the joint? So using the bicep as an example, your bicep, it originates under the delt and if you hold it up at a right angle, how much of a gap is there? If there's a lot of a long gap and you have a short bicep, you have less potential to build a big bicep. If it goes all the way down into the elbow, the muscle inserts way down there, you have potential. We see this in the calves. If you have calves that insert very high toward the knee, you're not ever going to have huge calves. If your calves go way down toward the ankle, as you see with guys like Flex Lewis, the late Mike Mike Morazzo, late Paul Deo, Tom Plattz, Dorian Yates, these people with very long calves, they can build a lot of calf mass because they have more muscle cells. So, you can apply this for the whole body. If you're somebody with long muscle bellies in over your entire physique, you have more potential to build muscle mass than someone who has shorter muscle bellies because they have fewer muscle cells to build. Uh another another very very clear indication that you have good natural potential, good potential for bodybuilding is how fast are you making gains once you start training. People with great genetics, people have the potential to have these physiques that are exceptional, that stand out in a crowd of people that train. When you walk into a gym, you can see these people immediately. They typically will make very good gains right away. It doesn't take them years to build uh more muscle mass. Usually within a few months or a year at the most, they've made more progress naturally, I'm talking naturally, than most people in that gym who've been training five years, even 10 years. It happens very quickly for them because that's how their body is programmed to respond. So now let's get into how do you know if you have tapped out and reached your full natural potential? Uh I would say it takes at least five years. At least five years. 5 to 10 years is probably about right. Now, that being said, that doesn't mean that even after those five years, you've reached your full natural potential. But odds are five years of hard training, you're going to be very, very close. So, let's say maybe you've hit 80 to 90% of your full natural potential. This is as big and as strong as you're going to get naturally. It's about 80% of that. So, to continue on, it's going to be smaller gains. As you guys should know, those of you who've been training for a few years, you all know that you made very quick gains or faster gains in the early stages of your training. And as the years go by, it becomes harder and harder. So I say the closer you get to your full potential, the harder it is to make any more progress. So let's say that after 10 years of training naturally, you're at 90% of as big and strong as you're ever going to get naturally. every year after that you might get a half a percentage closer. That's how much slower it's going to be. So that's why I say most people never reach their full natural potential. I never reach my full natural potential. I quit training naturally at the age of 27. I'm sure I could have gotten bigger and stronger. Not a whole lot bigger and stronger. I think I was probably a good 85 to 90% as big as I was going to get. Even if you want to be conservative and say it was 75%. Still, it would have taken me another 20 years of training to get to 90 95%. Because the gains do slow down. So, let's ask some questions. If you've been training hard with a good mind muscle connection, getting stronger over time, because inefficient training isn't going to get you to where you want to be. So just because somebody's been training five years or even 10 years, it doesn't mean that they're making the progress that they could have or that they're as close to their natural potential as they could be if they're not doing things right. Do you train hard? Do you really put out the effort? Do you try to get a really good connection and squeeze those muscles as you train them? Feel good stretch on the negatives? Are you trying to get stronger over time? Because size and strength do have a proportionate relationship. If you start off squatting a 45 pound bar and that's challenging to you for 10 reps, let's say five years later you're doing 315 or 405 for 10 reps, I guarantee you your thighs are going to be much, much bigger and thicker. Same goes for every body part. As you get stronger over time in that rep range for hypertrophy, which is generally speaking about 8 to 12 is a good rep range for the upper body. I'd say 10 to 20 for the lower body. As you get stronger in those rep ranges, you will get bigger. It's it's inevitability. But I do stress that you shouldn't be just moving a weight. You really need to feel the muscle working, contract the muscle. That's the biggest difference between people that go to the gym and just lift weights and the people that we call bodybuilders. Bodybuilders actually try to train the muscle, feel it working, feel the muscles contracting against that resistance, feel it stretching against the resistance as they lower the weight. So, there's a big difference between just training and training properly. It's like I could pick up a guitar every day and bang away on it and never learn how to actually play it. Or I could study and take lessons and watch YouTube videos and eventually, like my son did, figure out how to do it. Next question. Have you been eating five to six quality meals every day for at least five years? And that's where a lot of people fall apart. They might train hard. They might train consistently, but they're eating. They don't have the nutritional support to fuel the muscle recovery and the new lean muscle ti muscle tissue synthesis. You need to keep those nutrients in. So, I'm talking every day, not just a few days a week. Every day. Eggs, chicken, red meat, turkey, oats, fruits, vegetables, potatoes, sweet potatoes, rice, good quality food. And that's important. more important than the supplements and the shakes. Of course, we use supplements and they are just there to supplement a really good clean diet. That's what they're there for. And they can help tremendously. But the base of your nutrition always needs to be a lot of good, wholesome, quality food. And when I talk about chicken and and red meat, I'm not talking about fast food. I'm not talking about deli meats. I'm talking about fresh. You go and buy the chicken breasts or the chicken thighs. You grill them yourself or you bake them yourself. Same thing goes for all those the fish. You're not eating fish sticks in batter. You're actually buying fish and either frying it up or baking it or grilling or however you want to prepare it. So, if you've been training hard, but you haven't been giving your body the nutritional support to fuel the recovery from the workouts and the muscle gains, building new muscle tissue, you're not at your full potential. You're still not taking advantage of everything you could be taking advantage of. Next one. Have you been sleeping eight hours a night and avoiding recreational drugs and alcohol? If you don't recover, and this goes for whether you're natural or enhanced, if you don't recover from your workouts, you're not going to grow from those workouts. Recovery is key. It is critical. That's why we don't train for hours and hours every day of the week. It would be too much. Your body wouldn't recover. And I do believe natural bodybuilders need to be more aware and respectful of the recovery process because one thing that steroids and other peeds do is they enhance and speed up the recovery process and leave more room for error in things like overtraining and not getting enough sleep. But generally speaking, especially as a natural bodybuilder, you need to get your sleep every night. You can't be skimping on that. I know this hustle culture says uh team no sleep, but forget about that. As far as recreational drugs and alcohol, I'm not going to say you can never have any cannabis. You can never have a drink of alcohol. You can indulge yourself every once in a while. Maybe a couple drinks on the weekend, maybe a couple puffs of that joint, whatever it is you do in your I mean, I'm I'm not here to judge you, believe me. But if it's a regular thing, if it's every day, or if it's several nights a week or days, then you're starting to impede the whole process because without a healthy body, you can't maximize the effects of the training. You're never going to get the physique that you want if your body's not as healthy as it could be. So really pay attention to those things. And the final thing, have you been doing right, everything right, but you haven't seen improvements in either size or strength in at least a year? There is going to come a time when you're 90 95% of your natural potential. And any gains past that are going to be so infinitismal that they're barely noticeable. And there will come a day if you do it long enough and you do everything right long enough where that's it. You're maxed out naturally. And then you can either be happy with that physique and say, "I'm healthy and I built this physique and it's mine to keep." Or you can decide maybe I want to go over to the dark side. Maybe I want to use peeds to go to that next level. This is a personal decision everyone has to make. There are risks, benefits, and you have to look at the rewards. You have to weigh it out personally. What's worth it to you? You know, I I took a chance. I did go to the dark side. I went over to the peeds. Sometimes I regret it because I wonder how much better I could have been naturally. And I do think that naturally my physique looked better in some ways because I I had better overall proportions. Certain body parts of mine didn't really grow as much as I thought they would, like my arms, which sort of threw off the proportions, and I had better shape and proportions, I think, as a natural bodybuilder than I did as an enhanced bodybuilder. But long story short, it's going to take you at least five years, possibly 10, somewhere in that time range, even if you're doing everything right, to reach your full potential naturally. Naturally. And then it's up to you whether you want to be satisfied with that or if you want to take things another step further, take the risk, get on performance-enhancing drugs, and see how far your body can go. And even then, some people are very surprised to find that they don't have as much potential with enhancement as they thought they would. You never know until you try. But of course, this is an individual decision that you all have to make. But I did want to make this video today just to talk about how to know if and when you have reached your full potential as a natural bodybuilder. So, thanks for listening. Please drop a comment below. Drop some questions. That's what I'm here for. I'm all for it. My channel is still small enough that I do respond to any and all comments and questions in the comments section. So, fire away, guys. I'm here for it. And that's it. Thank you so much for watching. See you next.