Hey everybody, welcome to the Ron Line Report. Today's guest, very, very special guest. She is the twotime women's physique Olympia champion. Please welcome Dr. Natalyia Quolo. Thank you so much for doing this, Natalyia. >> Absolutely. Thank you for having me on. Super excited for this interview. >> Now I got to make you turn your phone again. So you can see that. So >> now it's sideways. Hold on. >> So it was uh I'm going to show this win. This is the moment of victory here which I was very very happy to see and this was when the announcement came and you had gotten second place two years in a row before this. So, I can imagine the emotions that you were going through at this moment getting your title back after two years of not having that title. Uh, what was what was it like in that moment, Natalya? >> Honestly, it's such a magical moment, you know, because we work very hard. Obviously, all of us do, but it's been a a crazy road of ups and downs and so much going on this year. I did like, as you guys know, I was studying to get my PhD. I was doing a lot of business stuff, a lot of family stuff. So, it felt really good. I was just feeling complete, you know. I'm like for for this year to end like with a A+, I need to get this title back. >> Yeah. So, I mean, what was I guess I'll go back in time. What was it like? You won the title in 2022 and then to lose it must have been tough and then the next year you still didn't get it back. How did you stay positive and and keep that belief that you would get your title back in those two years or three years really I guess? >> Yes. I believe it's like when you do something with your heart, you know, this doesn't really mean anything, especially because placing second in the world, it is a big deal. And I knew I was close. So, it was not like I still felt like a champ, you know what I mean? Because I knew I was doing everything in my power to be my very best. And then everything else was on the judge's hands, you know? So, I kept my faith. I kept working hard. And I knew that my time was going to come. And as I always say, you know, God knows what he does. Everything has a reason, has a purpose. We just have to trust his timing and continue doing what we love. >> Yeah. So again, like uh two years in a row you were runner up and then you got your title back. You trained obviously you've always trained hard, you've always eaten, right? What was the difference this year? Did was it something mentally? Was it a new coach? What made the difference to allow you to get that title back, which very few people ever get their Olympia titles back? It's a rarity once they lose them. >> Yes. I mean the mentality never change. You know I believe I have I have a very very strong you know mental game. It's something that came from my grandfather. He's a military. He's a admiral of the Navy. I grew up watching what discipline and hard work means you know firsthand. So it was never a problem. I believe my mental game is always you know second to none. And I did not change coaches. I've been with Angel for, you know, a long time now. I think about what five years, six years. Last time that we won the title, I was already with him. We lost the title and then now we got the title back together. And I believe I would say like in natural medicine, we believe we have five different bodies, you know, the mental, the supermental, the vital, the spiritual. And everything was connected this time. you know, I work as hard as, you know, I could on my physical, my mental, my super mental, my spiritual. So, I don't know, everything aligned. You know, I felt pretty good. I felt really ready, you know, to go and present my very best. >> Yeah. You were So, you were finishing up your PhD while you were prepping for the Olympia, which boggles my mind. I mean, you have other business ventures, too. So, you know, how did you how did you juggle it all and stay able to get all your meals, your sleep, your training, your cardio? It the time management skills must have been out of this world leading up to this show. Absolutely. I'm not going to say it was easy because I would be lying because it is a lot on my plate, but as you said, we got to know how to manage your time properly. And I am very strict with my time, with my schedule, everything else. So, I was always planning. I have this like little agenda. Hold on. I think I'm sideways again. >> Yep. >> There. >> It's a good cool picture. Can you see that? >> So, yes, I was just, you know, planning every single day what I was going to do. I had an agenda and I would not go out of that. I knew exactly how many hours I I would be studying, dedicating to my thesis, my dissertation, my papers, how many times a day I would be posing in my breaks between classes, I would go and train, come back and take care of business. So, it's just a matter of, you know, sitting down, putting everything in a list, organizing, and following the plan. >> Yeah. So, for those like me who don't know exactly what natural medicine is, can you explain it for the uh the uninitiated? >> Absolutely. I love it. So I started like going to I have two bachelors now three bachelors. Um and I started working and studying and doing everything in the conventional medicine. So I took all the pre-med classes, I did everything. But at the very last semester and year of school, I knew I want to go a different route. And natural medicine is pretty much uh integrative medicine. We believe in the natural way of healing people. Not just putting a band-aid, not just trying to address whatever is going on, but go to the root of the problem. So if you have something going on in your physical body, it is a reflection of your internal body. So you have to understand what's going on physiologically to reflect in the outside. So just like everybody says, it's not about looking good but feeling good. So the outside's going to reflect what's going on inside. The natural medicine tries to address that in a very natural way. So we focus a lot on nonalopathic stuff. So for example, essential oils, herbs, natural things that we can get from like the soil, you know, to take care of the health. And the most important key here is preventive prevention. So we're always looking to prevent some disease or some illness or whatever it is to come. So, it's all about prevention and the natural medicine. A lot of people think, oh, okay, you're going to go to the to the woods and meditate and do all this stuff. It is part of it. Meditation is very important. However, we know that there are sometimes in the world that we do need to use the conventional system, the western medicine. So, if you have a broken bone, I'm not going to tell you to apply some oil and sexual oils. You know, I'm like, go to the yard, go get this taken care of. However, in the healing process, we going to address that in a different way. We are going to combine, you know, integrate the natural and the conventional medicine world. >> Okay, cool. You're sideways again. So, >> you know what I noticed? It's I think it's when you >> Yeah, don't you look There you go. People going to break their necks trying to see Natalya, >> right? Sorry, guys. So yeah, but I guess preventative prevention is something that conventional medicine really doesn't address. Uh they wait until you're already sick and then they usually just throw a bunch of medication at you. You know, pharmaceutical industry is very closely tied into the to the big to the medicine uh modern medicine. So you know, do did did you what what led you to study this? Was it a realization that conventional medicine just seems to be, you know, prescribing a ton of drugs to people without looking at the root causes of why they're sick? >> Yes. Um, my aunt was sick. She had cancer and unfortunately she passed away. >> And I wish I had the knowledge that I have today, like two, three years ago, because I'm pretty confident that I would be able to help her a lot, a lot more than what I already help her. But I always look for natural, you know, ways of everything. I've been eating organic and very fresh natural stuff for long long time. So I was always into this like more health lifestyle. >> Yeah. >> I know in bodybuilding a lot of people think it's not a healthy sport. However, there is a way for you to do everything in a healthy way. So I started studying on my own just doing some courses and I took a good health course at Harvard. I qualifi I did like a lot of certificates and stuff and I was very very interested. So [snorts] I went to some biohacking conferences and start doing like workshops and all the good stuff for I would say at least like two years and then in one of the biohacking conference that I went we having a speech and the the guy who was talking was a doctor very very well-known and knowledgeable guy and he was natural medicine doctor he was talking about all the amazing technologies that we can use to heal your body from the inside out and I'm like this is so interesting So I just started like being mentored by him. We became close friends and he taught me a lot. And he talked to me about this university and he talked to me about this diploma, this degree that I could get and just get better and start working and helping people. >> Y >> and honestly it was so amazing because one of my professors listened to this. He's a doctor. He used to work in the conventional medicine for like 20 years or plus >> and he didn't really believe in the natural way of healing people. He he said okay but it's not really powerful you know you can maybe use something here and there and have some luck. So he didn't believe it at all until uh he made a trip. He went to China where everybody use acupuncture and a lot of like medical natural medicine there and he decided to do a open heart surgery using no anesthesia at all >> just [clears throat] with acuncture because we know that every point in your body reflects something else. So like your organs are reflected through points in your body in the compuncture you know. So he's like, "The only way for people to make me believe is for me to actually try because I'm a very scientific guy and all this stuff." Anyway, long story short, he went there, he did the surgery, he didn't feel any pain. And I'm like, "This is possible. That's not possible." But talking to him and seeing all the testimonials and everything that went through, I'm like, "This is incredible. Amazing." So I was just fascinated about the whole like all the routes that we can take to take care of our bodies. And it started like getting bigger and big and bigger, my passion for that. And I'm like, you know what? I'm going to study. I'm going to become a doctor of natural medicine. And I'm going to help so many people to feel better and to heal their bodies instead of just putting band-aids and taking so many prescriptions that are just not really taking care of the problem, you know. >> Yeah. It seems like you've been in school, college forever. I mean, how many years? It seems like from the first time I met you, you were already you were in college back then. That had to be like 10 years ago. I mean, how many years all all in all post after high school, how many years of schooling have you had now? >> It was 10 years, nine years and eight months. Yeah. >> Yeah. So, I mean, >> it was a lot. I got my first degree, my AA degree, and then I went to UCF. I got a bachelor's and then I went back to school for the pre-med and everything. Then I got my other bachelor, masters, doctor, doctorate, and PhD. So, a lot of years. >> Yeah. Wow. I mean, God bless. That's a lot of schooling. A lot of homework, a lot of reading. Um, is is clear this up for me because I'm Isal the same as holistic medicine or is there a difference? >> It's very similar, but it's not exactly the same. The concepts, I would say, are probably like 80% the same. But the natural medicine is a little different in terms of the integrative aspect of it because we do believe in using the western medicine which is the conventional way when needed. We believe in combining both of them. The holistic focus more on just the the natural approach of things but still a lot of natural medicine doctors use the holistic approach. So I would say it's very very similar. >> So obviously your I imagine most of your patients are not they're not bodybuilders or anything like that but do you feel like you're you could be able to help because like you said bodybuilding can be unhealthy. there's things that that we use as bodybuilders that can do damage to the body. Uh will you make it your mission to try to help some of these people do it in a safer way? Because most most guys I've ever known, they just don't want to know. They don't do the blood work. They don't do the the heart test. They don't do the cardio, the organic food. They just sort of keep push push pushing with the bodybuilding and and all that stuff and the damage gets done. It's too late. But you're in a position now. You have this platform and this voice. you could speak out and and make a difference. Do you do you plan on doing that for our people, the bodybuilders? >> Absolutely. You know, and that's um I keep some of the medical records, you know, private because it's a confidentiality and liability stuff that we do, but I am already working with some big names in the industry. They are Olympians. They are open bodybuilders as well. And I help them with their gut health, especially because um the human body is not made to eat seven, eight times a day. and the amount of food that we eat. >> So even though we push food down, we need to make sure that the body is breaking down, assimulating, you know, utilizing the food properly, not just sitting in your gut. And then the longer it sits in your gut, the more toxins, the more buildup you're going to build. And guess what? You're going to get bloated. You're going to get microbiome issues, disbiosis. There are a lot of things that can go on. And then people start having like acid reflux, burping all the time and things that are just your body trying to talk to you, communicate to you and say, "Listen, we need help. You know, we don't produce as much enzymes that we need or whatever is going on there." So that's what I've been doing with some of the bodybuilders. I do want to help so many more people um in the talent medicine. That's what I've been working mostly with. I do have some athletes not only in bodybuilding field but they are still like in the beginning phases of getting you know into this lifestyle but I want to just you know spread the world the word to the world and help as many people as I can because I know what it feels to really feel healthy. People don't understand how good they can feel once they take care of their their gut. So it's not about just looking good. It's about feeling good and making sure that your body is working properly. So longevity, you know, we have to focus on that. Bodybuilding is not forever. We are not going to be competing forever. So you have to understand that one day the bill comes, you know. >> So I won't I won't make this all about doctor stuff and medicine, but we we've seen so many American people all around the world using these GLP-1 drugs, ompic, wgoi, munjaro, and now reatride the peptide. hugely popular among bodybuilders. Cuts appetite, slows digestion. What's your opinion on that? Are you okay with seeing these millions millions of people use it or would you rather see them do it in a more natural way instead of these drugs? >> Well, um I believe everything has its own [snorts] I wouldn't say I'm for I wouldn't say I'm against it. I believe there are some cases that yes it can help you but in other case it can only bring you like negative side effects in terms of for myself I wouldn't like to be taking anything like that because okay it's going to cut my appetite but when I'm hungry I know that my body is working a certain way. I like to be in power. I like to know if I'm hungry now or if I'm not hungry. I like to be in touch in connection with my body so I know exactly where I am in prep. if I'm leaning down or not, it's pretty much like my matrix. I lose control of it if I'm just taking something to hide the hunger. However, if you stop to think about it, if it is slowing down your digestion, how would that affect your whole microbiome and the digestive tract and your intestinal like whatever is going on inside you? You're slowing everything down. Maybe that can have a play a role in nutrients absorption, you know, maybe that's going to play a role. There are so many things that you can go into. >> So, it's hard to say there's no one right or wrong reason. You know, some people are doing super well. Okay, keep taking it. You know, I don't know longterm what's going to happen to you, but you're going to find out. >> Yeah. >> And some people are completely against. I respect that as well. So, it's very individual. >> Okay. Yeah. Yeah, I was going I was hoping you would just say, "I hate it. Nobody should use it." >> I knew I would I knew it wasn't that simple. Um, >> but you know, you know what's funny? Um, I've seen people who had like very very serious problems, you know, overweight, obese for a long time. And this was just like the kickstart. They start with that, they lose a lot of weight, they come off and they start a new lifestyle. So, you know, it can be beneficial if you know and you have medical guidance. There's a good use for that. >> Okay. I had to pull up the Gilko footage. It's so good their footage. >> Oh my god, Gilo is the best. He has such a clear, you know, images and >> because I I watched the live stream, but I'm I always say like, let me wait until the Gilko stuff comes out the next day. Then I'll tell you the condition what how how people really looked. Yeah. So, um I I do have to just get this out of the way real quick. one of your fellow competitors after the show uh upset that she hadn't hadn't beaten you uh like all the other people that didn't beat you, she did make some remarks about oil and you know for the benefit of the doubt I said let me look. I went and looked at every picture, every video I could find from the show and I didn't see any evidence and I've seen plenty of oil use over the years. Trust me, I know what it looks like. Uh, I just want I just want to know what you what you what you were feeling when uh when you saw that post and when you saw that accusation about yourself. >> I'll be very honest. I think a champ knows how to win, knows how to lose. You got to be professional. You got to respect your, you know, whoever is competing against you and not only us but also the industry. >> Uh, I don't think false accusations serve any good for anybody in here. And I honestly was just disappointed to hear that because when I lost, I was very professional. I kept it classy, graceful, you know, I did everything that I was supposed to do, came back better, work harder. And that's how I think we should approach that, you know, not trying to make someone looks bad for you to look better or whatever. However, you know, everybody's different. Sometimes we we need to go through a few things to learn. She's going through whatever she's going through. And as you said, you didn't see anything. I didn't do anything. Those who know me and the experts in the sport can see when someone use something else or not. And all of them analyze the videos, the pictures, and they said the same thing. >> So, you know, it's it is what it is. But the negative comments don't affect me because I am so happy and blessed to have this title. So, I just focus on the good and the good grows. >> Yeah. I mean, you've already, it's only been a month, but you've traveled. You've done so much in one month already. Um, this is what really surprised me. You went to Mexico and competed in the Mexico ProAm show. Clearly, you didn't need to do that. You're already the Olympia champion. Uh, what made you what made you go down to Mexico to win that show? >> Oh my gosh, that was so much fun. I have a lot of Mexican fans and friends who are always telling me to go to Mexico. We had Farm Labs, one of my sponsors at the show, and I was already going to go there to do an appearance and I'm like, you know what? They have women physique for the very first time in history. They added the division. A lot of girls competing, a lot of fans over there. And I'm like, I want to get back to the sport. I want to help to hype up the show and have fun and enjoy another show before, you know, I close this season and focus on next year. >> So, I just took the opportunity. I always tell everybody, we never know tomorrow's day. So if you have an opportunity today, embrace it. Go for it, you know. So everything was good. My health was good. I was excited and I'm like, I want to try another one. Went there, took another gold medal, and I was super super proud of it. >> Yeah. I mean, the promoter must have been so happy. Oh my god, Natalya Qualo is going to be in my show. You know, >> they had very big names, you know. Shen was there. Um Jessica competed as well. We had a lot of Olympians going there right after the Olympia. You know, I believe it was like a two hours flight from Vegas there. So, two, three hours. >> Did a lot of people. >> I I had interviewed a woman who was uh who competed with you there. I don't know if you met her. Mariana from Columbia. >> Yes. >> She she had had a beard, but she shaved it for the show. But uh what the the courage on her cuz she gets she I interviewed her and she got she gets so much negativity but she just responds with kindness and um you know positivity and that's I I I was just so amazed at how she's able to do that because other people would have just let it let that get her down. So I'm glad she >> I met her I met her. She was super nice. She was sending me a lot of messages. Oh my gosh, I can't wait to see you, to compete with you, to be on stage and, you know, make memories. So, I met her the first time in the check-ins the night before. >> We spoke a little bit. She was super emotional and it was very special to me as well. And as you said, she's very, very positive. And that's the type of energy we need in the sport. We need people who are positive trying to, you know, improve the industry, improve and grow the category because of course on stage we're competing, but outside the stage, we need to be together. We need to get, you know, do whatever we can to grow together. This is a rated division with a lot of muscle and a lot of people don't really understand outside the sport. So why would we be against each other, you know? >> Yeah. I mean, the division is having a rough time at the amateur level in the USA especially. So, I mean, we need people. I'm glad that you're in this position now and you are so dedicated to traveling, to promoting the division, the sport in general. Um, you've done so many appearances. I mean, look at this. This was your local, the Orlando CBS affiliate. They had you on there. They had you on, was this earlier this week? >> Yeah, it was actually last week on Thursday. >> We filmed it there because it was International Bodybuilding Day. >> Ah, >> so I went there. We filmed. This was just a preview. We're going to do another one. The full interview next week is going to air on Open TV as well. So, it's gonna be fun. >> Yeah. I mean, how did that Did they contact you and you know, because obviously Yeah. >> So, in 2022, we filmed for the first time. They contact me. And then this year, I guess they follow me on Instagram or something. They saw that I got the title back. They sent me an email, talked to my manager, and we just made it happen again. It was super cool. And we do have some projects together. So, stay tuned. We're going to be working on some things that going to be amazing for the sport, not just for women's physique, but for whole the whole industry. >> Yeah. I mean, I can't remember the last time I saw uh an IFBB Pro on any kind of mainstream news, you know, unless it was unless it was a bad thing, which is pretty rare, but [laughter] I mean, I'm so happy to see this because this is Orlando is a huge that's a huge market, a big big population out there. So, this got >> as a matter of fact, I'm going to tell you some secret that nobody knows yet. >> So, next week I'm going to Brazil. I'm going to be co-promoting a show there, muscle contest show, but also the following week, Rammon, me and um Ed, we're going to be on Open TV in Brazil as well. So, we're going to do something very, very nice for Brazil because bodybuilding is huge right now. And we have three champs that are from Brazil. So, we're going to be together in a TV show that is going to go live. It's going to be super super cool. >> Yeah. Uh I don't know if you had mentioned are are you planning some sort of tour like an appearance tour all across Brazil in the near future? >> Yes, we are planning that. Um I have four states I'm going to be visiting very soon. And we're going to be doing a big tour there to just you know show everybody what bodybuilding and women's physics is about. >> Oh, every time I every time I come off the video it does that. Yes. So, you've done you do posing workshops. You go to you go to all the it seems like you're somewhere every weekend. I mean, is that is that about right? Every single weekend you're out somewhere. >> Pretty much. We already have the annual woman's workshop on the books for 2026 January. I believe it's the second week with Sandy the head judge. This is one of the biggest events we have. It's free. Always like over 500 women come over and we give back to everybody. We do posing seminar. We do Q&As and we do like meetings and all this stuff like speeches. So, it's very fun, you know, and I'm trying to do everything I can because I truly truly love what I do. So, this is of course work job, but it's also something that I'm very passionate about and I want people to feel the energy that I'm putting into that and I want to inspire a lot of people to just, you know, even if it's not to compete, but to come to the shows to watch, to support, that's what we need. You've been doing this so long, I think people forget how young you actually are. How old are you now, Natalya? >> I'm 29. Yes. I started when I was 15. So, it's >> And you turned pro as a teenager, didn't you? >> Yes. I turned pro when I was that was 2015 at Miami at nationals. And then I've been I turned pro in figure and then I transitioned into women physic two years later and I've been women physics since then. >> How old were you when you turned pro? >> I was 19. >> 19. Wow. [laughter] >> Yeah. I mean I'm trying to find a picture. I'd have to go so far back. But yeah, I mean figure obviously it was a good fit in the beginning but how quickly did you realize women's physique was probably where you really belonged? Listen, I didn't want to go to women's physique at all. I was very scared. I'm like, I just want to be, you know, tiny and I thought I was going to become like super huge. And I don't know, I had a lot of misconceptions by then. But, um, when I was 19, I turned pro and I did a lot of shows, like a lot. I would say like at least eight shows a year. And I qualified for the Olympia in the very first time, very first year that I pro. So at 19 I was already at this on stage at the Olympia stage. >> And I believe was 2017. Yes. Two years later I decided to go to women's physique after talking to Bob. Bob is like listen girl you're in the wrong category. You better step up. I talked to Tamara. I talked to the judges to Steve. I literally called Sandy to understand the criteria because everything was very new for me you know. So, I started working and studying the woman's physique poses and everything else. And I'm like, let's give it a try. One week later after the the Olympia in 2017, there was a show, a woman's physique show, muscle contest show, and I enter. I won and I was to the sky. Super super happy. >> Wow. >> And after that, I went to the Arnolds, played second to Chenique, and from there was history. Just found my place. >> Yeah. I remember I remember seeing you in figure and your legs were like way bigger than everyone else's legs already. >> You know what it was? I don't think it was this size. Maybe on [snorts] stage, you know, we always look bigger than we actually are, but I think I was very conditioned for the figure category. And then the judges always told me, we cannot see the striations on your quads, not in figure, >> you know. So they would mark me down because of that. They would penalize me because of that. And I'm like, but I work so hard to have the striations. They're like, yeah, but we don't want that. So, I had two options. Either step up and keep working hard and bringing my very best conditioning or come a little bit softer and stay in figure. But as an athlete and someone who's always trying to get better and challenge myself, I couldn't step back. I'm like, "Okay, let's give it a try." >> Yeah. So, I mean, you're you have you have this title now and you're the you're the face of the division. And like I said, this division, it's it's a more difficult division than say bikini or fit model or even figure because it takes it takes a long time to build a physique that's good enough to succeed in in physique or or bodybuilding. Um, how do you encourage young women, maybe even the ones who get into it older, that this division is worth waiting for? It's worth maybe taking a couple extra years before you're ready to compete instead of maybe fit model. They want to do that because they could train for a few months and and do a fit model show. You're not going to train for two or three months and and go win a women's physique show. >> Yes. I think like it's all about the right timing. You know, the good thing about always sporting industry is that we have a category for the beginners, for the mid, for everybody. >> So, fit model is a great division that was just added recently. I think it's great for the people who are just starting, but as I said, when you start training, you become addicted to it. It's something that you're not going to just stop there. And as you build more muscle, eventually you're going to step up. It's just the like the physiological response of the body, unless you know, you adjust your nutrition and your training to fit in whatever category you are trying to compete. But I don't know, I would just tell the girls to not be scared and tell them that they can still be feminine. they still can do everything that they doing now and take it slow. Don't try to rush. Don't try to, you know, overstep anything because life is too short. You don't want to put your health at risk. You don't want to do anything that you're going to regret later. So take one day at a time, one show at a time. And the most important, you know, make sure you're smiling every day. That you wake up, that you thank God to be there, and that you do your very best. And things are going to come to you. I tell everybody everything that goes around comes around. You know, the universe is there listening to everything you put out there and it's going to return to you. >> Yeah. The up on the screen now, I picture you and your mom and every show I've ever been to, your mom's been there. It seems like she's your best friend. I mean, how important has she been in the s in your success, I guess, not only in in the competitive competitive IFBB Pro League, but life in general? How how important has she been in all that? >> Wow. She's my angel. She's my best friend. She's everything to me. Honestly, in the sport, outside the sport, the bones that we have, I've never seen anywhere else. I trust her. I talk to her. We talk. We laugh. We She's always there no matter what. And I always tell everybody, and this is something very interesting when someone ask you like what is success? And I'm like, for parent success is when your child can like call you when they get older instead of just, you know, when you get older and you're just like, "Oh, I don't care about them or whatever." >> When you have this bond that you're older and you still want your parents in your life, >> that means that your parents are successful in my eyes. >> So my mom is that person who is always next to me. If something happens, I'm like, "Oh my gosh, I got to talk to her." It's not like, "Oh my gosh, I don't want her to know or what should I do?" No, this is the opposite. I'm like, she's part of it. Everything. And she's such a warrior. If it was not her, I would not be in US right now. She came here. She fought a lot. You know, she's very strong. And I grew up with a strong woman. So, I believe I became a stronger woman because of her. Everything that I am today is because of her. And one day, I just want to be able to tell her like to give her back everything she's been giving me. And I know why we do that. She deserves the world. I love this woman so much. >> So the physical genetics, did they come from mom, dad, or mix? >> I think it's a mix. My mom was a ballerina, >> a professional one for a long time. She used to dance like she would go to the gym and to the practice. She would be like 16 hours a day. It was literally the whole day. and she moved to US because she wanted to dance professionally at Broadway. You know, things didn't go that route, but that was her goal. So, since I was very young, she was always like teaching me and schooling me about posture, about, you know, she put me in ballet classes. I did ballet classes for a long time and I love it, but I found myself into bodybuilding. And she's like, "No, you got to be a ballerina." I'm like, "Okay, in moments you think I can do both. I can have posture and class on stage and still have muscles." She's like, "Okay, deal." But it was funny because when I was younger, I used to see to study or whatever. She would put like a broom behind my back. So, I would have like my chest up and the posture the whole day. >> If I relax, she would come and like Natalia. >> And I'm like, "Okay, mom." So, she was always on top of me. And nowadays, I have a very, very good posture thanks to her. [laughter] >> I mean, I see a lot of people slouching. But, uh, is her name Christina? Is that her name? >> Yes, Christina. hours takes me sometimes it takes me like an hour to remember that time it didn't take so long cool so >> everybody calls her moms I call my moms so everybody calls her mommies >> let me go down >> your camera your phone keep want to go that way so uh man you um what what other appearances you got coming up right away because I I if you follow your Instagram which let me leave it up there you can keep track of everywhere you're going to be but yeah like I said you're somewhere not just every weekend but it seems like two or three times a week you're at a workshop or a contest or something out there promoting the sport, helping other competitors, people. I don't know how you do it. I don't [laughter] >> Yes. So, in two days I'm going to Brazil. I'm going to be the official ambassador of Muscle Contest, which is a muscle contest show uh with Luciano Cruz and Tindi. I'm going to be co-promoting that show. We're going to be doing a lot of good stuff. We did that last year, but this year is going to be even bigger and greater. We are having women's physique throw and men's physic. We added men's physique throw and all the categories for the amateurs. And then after that, I do have a seminar in Brazil. And then I go to film with Ramon and Ed. We still working on all the stuff that we're going to be doing in Brazil, the tour that I talked to you about. >> But there's a lot of good things coming up. >> Yeah. I mean, I'm I'm just amazed because Braz we didn't have any great pros coming out of Brazil for most of the time that I've been in the industry and then once the IFBB had that split and it became there became so many more opportunities especially with the muscle contest shows and pro qualifiers we've seen good lord so many amazing athletes coming out of Brazil and not just figure wellness uh physique it's it's every category it's men women I mean you must be like a huge celebrity there. I'm sure you and Ramon >> and trust me all of that because of muscle contest. Just like you said, the work that Tamar has been doing there is literally amazing. People have no idea how many shows and how hard this guy works to promote this sport there. It's crazy. I've been there like every single time that I go to Brazil and I try to talk to him and we, you know, just put some plans together, ideas together. I'm impressed. He's non-stop. So, kudos to him. He has my respect. I want to help him to continue growing this sport there because we have a lot of great talent there. They just need you know the opportunities and now we are having it so the world can see all the talents that is coming from there. >> Yeah. I mean I remember talking to Tamar years ago and he said the talent was always there. You just never you never saw it because there was almost impossible to turn pro there. So they they were stuck in Brazil. We never found out about them. So, >> yeah. Amazing. Um, as far as you now, obviously, I assume you're done competing for the year. There's no more big shows. We're in No, it's November already. Uh, besides defending your title next year, which is a given. Are you thinking about anything else like Pittsburgh or anything else, or is it too early to plan? >> It's very early to plan. I'm just planning, you know, like whatever we have to do this year still to promote the sport. We do have two more uh women's physique pro shows. I'm not competing, but as I said, one of them I'm co-promoting and the other one is going to be here in the same weekend. So, there's no way I can be competing. >> Yeah. >> Um, so next year, still on the plans. I'm going to see what I'm going to be doing. I'm going to wait until after the holidays to plan, but as soon as I have a position, I'm going to be posting and letting everybody know for sure. >> I just realized that pendant on your necklace. That's the Olympia O. >> Yes. Customade. [laughter] >> Nice. Okay. And that and show the metal one more time. I love that metal. That looks like it weighs about 30 pounds. >> Yes, it's [clears throat] super heavy. I wasn't expecting when the gate believe you that way. >> I held one years ago and it was very heavy. Gee, look at that. Nice. I said I would never put those down. Carry them everywhere. Uh so again, Natala, I'm so happy. I was so happy to see you get your title back. um couldn't happen to a nicer person, a more a more hardworking person, more humble person. You know, you embody everything that we want to see in a champion. So, you're doing so much work as an ambassador already. It's only been a month and you have so many more things in store. So, congratulations and um you know, I'm I'm just very happy to see all you're doing for the division to to help grow it because it needs it needs help and you're just the right person at the right time to come along and do that. So >> trust me whatever I can do I will do. >> Uh this is a two broad you know thing that it needs all of us working together you know using the media you know how it is what you guys do to promote this sports very important but the athletes need to do their part as well as promoters the audience everybody you know >> so I just want the the league to know that they can count on me as much as I can count on them. >> Cool. All right well we're going to wrap it up. So guys, follow the doctor at IFBB Pro Natalyia Quello right there. And uh that's it. I wish you continued success uh in everything that you do professionally, personally, in the sport, in your uh in your medical work there, too. And that's it. Thanks for uh thanks for the interview, Natalyia. And uh thanks everybody for watching Ron Line Report with your twotime women's physique Olympia champion, Dr. Natalyia Quo. See you next