Hey everybody, welcome to Ask Dr. Testosterone. The only show on YouTube where you can ask your questions to a medical doctor who was also champion bodybuilder and still lives a bodybuilding lifestyle. Ask Dr. T is brought to you by his book, The Bible of Bodybuilding 2. Over 700 pages full of everything you need to know about training, nutrition, supplementation, peeds, all that good stuff. You can get that on Amazon. The link is in the description. While you're on Amazon, pick up my book, too. Great book, Real Bodybuilding by Ron Harrison. Now, all the way from Athens, Greece, please welcome Dr. George Anulatos. How are you, George? I'm good, Ron. How are you doing? Great. Doing great. Yeah. My my son is less than four weeks off from his first bodybuilding competition as a nerd, right? Yeah. He's very natural. He's very natural. He's 134 pounds right now. So, how come you convince him to do the show? Oh, I didn't I didn't uh He wanted to compete. He's been wanting to compete and now the time feels right for him. So, he's been prepping. He's been dieting, doing the cardio. He hasn't he hasn't cheated on his diet once. He hasn't skipped one cardio session. He's small kid, but he's he's getting very very lean. Like he needs you're training and sometimes he trains on his own most of the time. But I I do his posing. We pose almost every day. Uh it's fun watching because you started, right? Yeah. Yeah. I got him in the gym when he was 11 years old and he hated it. Hated it. He used to fight me. Didn't want to go. But now he loves it. Now he's he wants to follow your steps. Yeah. I mean, I don't think he wants to compete for 24 years like I did, but he definitely wants to try it and see what he's got up there, you know? It's it's fun. I mean, how old were you when you did your first show? 26. Yeah, he's 25. I was I was 19. U But yeah, it's exciting. Anyway, you did not get the questions ahead of time. So, guys, this is how this is how good Dr. T is. right off the top of his head, he's going to go and answer these questions for you. Our first question, very important here. How can we lower high blood pressure or maintain a healthy blood pressure while on cycle? Because they call high blood pressure the silent killer. Yeah. So, we can follow um certain uh protocols like of course stopping the salt, using more potassium from foods and stop the stimulas. But if you want to lower the real deal then you have the SC inhibitors you you have the arbs you have the calcium channel blockers you have the diuretics personally I'm using I was using the tommy sartin tommyart but uh now I'm using the nabivo okay which is a bit blocker um they both remodel the heart but u don't use allotizing agents the ones that u are you you prefer them for the bulking incision, you know, and you need to control also um perhaps your armization by an AI, but um use mainly the dry drugs, the DHC derivatives, the ones that do not do this bulking effect and um uh go low of course in in sugar, but go low also in insulin to avoid the bloating, you Yeah. What would you say the most dangerous steroids that raise your blood pressure the most are? Would they be the ones that make you hold the most water like anadrol, dianol? Not necessarily. Also, yeah, the animal also and testosterone abuse, but also hollow testing and trembl. And I remember an Olympian coach. We used to have we had lunch by the Acropolis three years ago. He was top Olympia coaching coach and he told me that uh an Olympia winner because of his kidney issues he didn't use hollow testing and femalone even though he was a consecutive Olympia winner. Uh yeah so uh because of the blood pressure uh he avoided those two drugs because they're very endogenic even though they're dry. Yes. So you see it's not just about the water retention also trembling and the fluximestone elevated blood pressure because perhaps of the high androgenicity. So this is another factor. Yeah. But yes generally steroids as corner says increase the eldoststerone. Aldoststerone is the fundamental process of how you increase the blood pressure. Yeah. By retaining sodium and water as a as a result. So I would imagine anything constricts your blood vessels like smoking would be uh would be bad for your constriction. Yeah, smoking of course stress of course stimulants of course. All right. And lack of cardio because cardio relaxes and actually cleans the vessels in order to relax and contract. So cardio in the long run lowers the blood pressure while too much of lifting weights are super heavy and actually powerlifting lifestyle thickens the heart and is this is not cool for the eentric part of the contraction the diastolic that means when the heart relaxes it has to diastol and let let the the ventricles fill up with blood in order to contract. So this diastolic phase needs to be prolonged. Okay, we do this with a nebolo but we need to slower down the the heart rate in order to give this um to give this moment for the heart in order to relax das and fill up with blood. No. Yeah. Because I I don't know if you were the first person to point it out to me, but a few years ago, I had no idea that your kidneys are damaged when you have untreated high blood pressure over time. The filter is is is hardened as corner says that GF glome the glomeal glome sclerosis, you know, where the the glome is actually is the filter of the blood of the kidney where the blood becomes urine. Okay. Okay. So when it's toasted or when it's hardened then you pee protein and you have proteinura that actually you have to you have to find traces of protein in a normal specimen. Okay. Yeah. If you find proteinura then this is the beginning of the neurotroic syndrome and this is what many bolders face as part of the chronic uh renal failure. Okay. Next question is about high blood pressure, but if they're directing it directly to you said, you mentioned that you had stress a while ago and arrhythmia and a high pulse for 12 hours. I assume you also had high blood pressure from the tension. How do you maintain your blood pressure during stress? And after this situation, do you take something to calm down like mint, glock, or valyan? Yeah. So I'm taking the bibolo tablet which is 2.5 milligrams that slows down your heart rate and cuts off the submaximal heart rate. Okay. Actually technically it's antiarithmic that avoids you to go into tachicardia um and also improves diastolic phase of the heart the relaxation phase where the heart is supposed to be filled up with blood the ventricles. Yeah. And the thicker your heart, the LVH, the less uh diastolic phase you have. Okay? Because as the ventricles are thicker, the space of the ventricles is less. So, uh there's less space to occupy for the blood, you know. Gotcha. Okay. All right. Next one is in the previous episode you mentioned that we on when you're on TRT it's normal for SHB SHBG to be low. Does that mean it's okay to have SHBG below the lower limit of a lab while on TRT or some dose of testosterone? Well, usually bodybuilders face a crash attacked SHBG because of the high doses of the steroids and those steroids that bind tightly to the SHBG. the DHT derivatives, DHT itself and testosterone also. All right? So, usually bodybuilders that have used steroids have a very low CBG and a very high for testosterone. But for 90 people, the higher the CHBG, the better. Oh, for 90 people, the lower CBG, the worse. Now, fat people, obese people with metabolic syndrome have very low CBG naturally because of the very high insulin, you know, right? H. Okay, fair enough. And vice versa. Now, if you follow the keto diet, you kill the insulin, but the HPG goes up. H that of course blocks the free testosterone. Fair enough. Um, so we talked about DECA a little bit on the last episode and someone responded in the comments for that video. What is the point of taking Deca? For the anabolic, you have test 100, 100 androgenic and anabolic. You don't need more if you train normal and care about your health. If you want to be a pro bodybuilder, have to compete. Okay. I don't think a normal person should risk his health with Deca. So, is DECA really that bad for you? So, Deca has a triple effect. First of all, against wasting, second of all, against anemia, third of all against osteopenia. So, it feed your bones, it feed your blood so you don't have fractures, you don't have anemia and fatigue. And you don't have muscle wasting for elderly people. And it's a a perfect tool for rehabilitation. Okay. All right. Now, you can have a very good round effect in your delts for instance with Deca because it um influxes water into the muscle with the aldos effect and you have this round watery muscle but tight muscles. You know, you can have a very good pattern with 100 milligrams of de. It's not liver toxic, not lip toxic in the long run. Yes. may affect your HDL or your homocyine but it's the number one drug used in medicine for 60 years now after testosterone it's an all-time classic drug to many countries around the world okay yeah yeah I mean there's there's a reason I mean I got my frontline shirt on they don't prescribe tren or equipoise or you know dbol but they do prescribe I get testosterone sip of course and I get 100 milligrams a week of deca because doesn't matter now my shoulder's screwed. But for for many many bodybuilders or anybody that weight train seriously they need that joint lubrication especially if you've been training for years or else yes has quite a four effect. So one of them is yes as you said is lubricated synovial cavity through the aldor which is off label uh indication but the broad science believes because we feel it when we stop the deca we have the crack joints. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. I I can tell the difference when I'm not when I'm not using it. Is low androgenic, meaning that also women can use it 50 milligrams for the oxy per week. Yeah. And also it has a decent anabolic effect, higher than primo, higher than 140 the anabolic effect. Okay. Good old Nanderlone. All right. Well, we didn't have any prep for this one, but I hope if you know the answer, yes. If you don't does AAS or do steroids in general make Crohn's disease worse or do they not affect Crohn's? If it affects it, what should I avoid? Like so I guess he's wondering if certain drugs or PED the steroids that will mess up uh with the Crohn's if the the pills because they disrupt intestinal flora and that's why you have bloating effect when you take anabolic pills because they mess up the good bacteria in your gut. So I I believe you can use testosterone for prostesis testosterone and inflammatory by lowering the visel fat and file fat releases inflammatory cytoines. I have no idea about the rest of the steroids but I've had a couple of patients with the Crohn's disease and there were no complications with testosterone. You see testosterone is a familiar mode. It's very innocent compared to the other steroids. Okay. is the real deal, the natural good testosterone that you produce. Okay. And in the deficit of testosterone, you have many problems. Yeah. I mean, that's why if you're if you're drug tested, you never test positive for testosterone because you already have it in your body. It's the testosterone to epitosterone ratio. Exactly. Yes. Yeah. And then Victor conduces magnificent uh testosterone pesto cream that uh you know cheated the text because the ratio was perfect six. Yeah. No matter how much you're using the cream and the clear that guy was a mad genius, wasn't he? So yeah, he's still around. Yeah. All right. Our final question. Someone says, "I have serious issues losing body fat and my endocrinologist said I have metabolic syndrome. Because of this, I've gained a lot of visceral fat. Can tesimalin help with that? Yeah, you can use tesimalin, but you can use also testosterone gas. Low dose of gas burns a visual fat and in the long run improves insulin sensitivity along with testosterone that burns itself fat. Okay. So, testosterone against obesity and against metabolic syndrome in combinations with with GH. Yes. Fair enough. All right. Well, those are all the questions. Uh now you're headed off to Germany in a couple days for the Fibo. You've been to Fibo sever you've been there. I don't know how many times you've been to that. This is the second time. And actually we going together with the bodybuilding collab you know I worked for them. I was writing articles in the the magazine like with muscle development. Yeah. And um they would give me some sponsorship um with supplements. So I worked for them for almost two years and then we did with Jay Cavlin Marcus Wolf seminars in Athens. Yep. And uh I want to see Sergio because I believe he's in the best shape of his life and he's ready to win and be again on the Olympia stage. I'm looking forward meeting him in at the X his booth. Okay. Yeah. He looks very good shape. Yeah. dry enough and very good separated, you know, very well separated. And uh I believe he's leaving tomorrow for Europe in order to uh get sent down and do the carb up, you know, the waration things with the airplane. So, uh hopefully I'm going to be at the show on Saturday night. Yeah. No, look at that. He looks 280 to me, you know, around 280. Yeah, he's a big big guy. if you ever stand next to him. And yeah, you pointed out, we were talking before the show, he hasn't competed since the Cali Pro almost two years ago. Yes. It was exactly before the Remedy when I met him. Yeah. Yeah. Reiny. So, it's two years, but he did a very good offseason with Dorian. Three years in uh Spain. Spain. Yeah. And then he went back to the States. Yeah. He looks phenomenal. I mean, we just I looked up his age. He's 40 years old now and he hasn't done many many shows. It's only been I think he's only done six six seven pro shows since he turned pro way back in 2015 10 years ago. I would Yeah. So I I hope the best because not just because he's Mr. Olympia Sergio Leva's son uh but he's very good bodybuilder in his own right and uh you know I like Sergio get along well with him. I know I know you've you get along well with Sergio. So yeah, we we had him in in muscle development, right? And he was a guest for us. That's right. That's right. Yeah. I mean, he's lived he's back in the US. He's lived in Spain. He's lived in uh Australia. Geez, he's been all over the place. Dubai, was he also? Yes. Was it Dubai he was in? Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. He'll never go back there. He doesn't like Dubai anymore. First time I met him in Dubai when Panata told me uh could you introduce him to me and then they had the contract and we met again in Italy but uh Panata always believed in him and he was in front of his father of course. Yeah. And and Serg said who the hell is Panata because everybody hates my dad. He's the only person that likes my dad. Wow. Yeah. I mean I I always hear stories about his dad too. I mean, even Sergio has some stories to tell about his dad, but obviously he passed on some amazing genetics to his son here because I I see a lot of similar similarities in there for me. Yeah. So, I don't know who else is doing the show, but uh I hope he gets it. I He belongs on the Olympia stage. He should be on that every year. He should be Come on. Yeah. So, let's wish him well. I wish you good luck, Sergio. If you watch this, tag you on that. And that is it. So, guys, check the description for the video. you can get your copy of the Bible of bodybuilding 2. And if you're at FIBO in Germany uh this next weekend, what are you going to be at a booth or where can they see you? No, I'm going to be around. Yes. And uh I'll be at the at the show. Yeah, I'm gonna buy the VIP tickets. Yes, I'm going to be at the show. Well, we're going to go around because the the body beauty club bosses um are going there in order to um we're going to see Jay Carter, of course, again. I mean, they used to bring Jay Carlo supplements, but they go, you know, to make new deals and arrangements with supplement brands. They import all stars. They import also mutant. Okay. Oh, wow. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, because I I I've always heard Fibo is two or three times bigger than the Arnold Classic Expo. It's just huge. That's what they say. Yeah. Different levels. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, good luck trying to find Dr. T. But if you find him, go up and say hi. I'm sure he'd be glad to meet you if you're a viewer of the show. And if you guys have questions for the next show, please drop them in the comments below or any just any comments in general. We love your feedback. And George, Dr. T, thank you so much. We're very, very fortunate. And I you know you stay up late to do this. It's 9:30 at night over there in Athens. So appreciate it very much. I'll let you get back to your wife and your baby girl. So that's it. Thanks everybody for watching Ask Dr. Testosterone with Dr. Georgian Tulattos.