What's up everybody? Welcome to Power Hour with me, your host Ron Harris, and of course the one and only Big Mike Cox. originally from the Buckeye state of Ohio, now living in the sunshine state of Florida, fellow meatthead for life, fellow bodybuilding superfan for life, and uh we're going to get right into it. Uh but before we start talking about the Olympia qualification, all that, uh thoughts and prayers out to Ronnie Coleman. Yes, we don't know exactly what happened. They're being very uh private about it, which is understandable. The family, um he's had some sort of medical emergency and he's getting the best care possible. We do know that he did have to cancel his tour or postpone I should say with Giles who normally host Power Hour with me. He would have actually been picked up this morning in the UK at the airport. So this happened and we're me and Mike were just talking. It's probably for the best that it's terrible that whatever happened happened, but at least at least he wasn't already over or on a plane or in the UK. He's he's in the US. He's going to get the best care possible with his family around him. So thoughts and prayers. God bless Ronnie. Yes. Yes. Yes. Love Ronnie, bro. Yeah. Who doesn't love How can you not love Ronnie? I mean, he's just they get him, right? These guys are like these guys are I mean, kids now don't I don't if they can grasp how big he is to us like the enormity that is Ronnie Coleman because we've all seen him either guest polls or at the Olympia and in person. It's just it was a it was a different level of nastiness that these kids right now have no idea. when you sit there. I was sat there like this like just I couldn't say anything like she just when a physique makes you shut up that's a hell physique and he's a good guy too bro. So you get well Ronnie. All right so uh let's jump right into it. There's too many damn people in the Olympia that's the bottom line. um it all every time we've added divisions uh which I understand for the sport to grow and to sustain itself financially they had to keep adding only division fine but what that did is it made the Olympia a bigger longer show every time they add a division now you have another division that has to be judged given awards to posing routines whatever we're at the point now I got some footage here this was the classic guys last year this is just uh them filing out for the for the judging And I think there were almost there 57 60 roughly 60, put it that way. Yeah. Um these this this crowd of I don't know 5,000 people has to sit there while the judges they have to do their due diligence because everybody earned their way there under the current system. They all deserve to get a fair look. Uh so nobody gets left out on the sidelines without a call out. So you have to as a judge, as a head judge, make time for all those people. And it's it's it's a it's a it's a hall if you're sitting there in the audience. Um you know CLA we both like classic and we're not we're not neither one of us is fans of all divisions meaning we respect them but I don't want to necessarily sit through an hour or two hours of bikini judging. Um, the best way I put it, Mike, is somebody said it's kind of like going to a music festival and there's 40 bands playing and you only kind of like three. You really love one or two of them and you kind of like three or four others and the rest are like, eh, but you're there for the weekend. You you have, you know, you got to stick around. So, that's classic. I mean, what? Look at this. It is the best way to do this round. Remember back in the day when we had the cut round at nationals? You come out there. Quarter turn. Quarter turn. Quarter turn. Foul off. All right. This guy stayed. You say, you stay. The rest of you guys, bye-bye. This is the best of the best, right? And so, and everybody earned their trip there. They earned their approach. That's hard to do. But now you're dealing with the best of the best. And unfortunately, if you're in the 12 call out, you're not the best of the best. And that's just that's just the reality of sports, right? I had to try out from a basketball team in high school. I didn't I didn't get to go, "Hey, I'm going to join the team cuz I'm I enrolled in high school." You got to try out. They want the best of the best. And at the Olympia, it's the best of the best, right? So, but dude, it's it's one o'clock in the It's 2 o'clock in the morning. My Manny one year, bro, remember Manny got up while I was on the show. She said, "Are you still watching that damn show from work that day, dude?" You know, it's it's again, man, it's not it's not fair to some of the maybe to the athlete, but to the fans, too, right? Um, you got there's fans overseas. J can't watch this, right? You know, nobody in Europe, your everyone in Europe is, me and you are three hours ahead of of West Coast where the Olympia is held. th those people are another five to seven hours ahead of us. Yeah. Middle East is like another couple hours on top of that Asia. So, forget about it. Um, and that may be revenue you're missing, too. Are you going to buy this and fall asleep? You can't tape it. You could watch it the next day, but what's the point? Yeah, you already know. It's kind of like taping the Super Bowl and watching it like two days later or something. Manny goes, "Why don't you just tape the game?" I'm like, "Why would I tape a football game? It's already over with. What are you talking about, bro? So, the invite only concept, I don't know whose idea that was. Immediately, I think, how's that going to work? I mean, the Arnold Classic has always been invitation only, but that's sort of what separated it from the Olympia. Olympia, you have to earn your way there. Arnold Classic, it's not really earned in the same sense. You didn't have to win a show. They do invite all the top Olympia people. They invite the biggest names and they they try to get basically the whole top 15 in the Olympia if they can because they want the highest quality show too. They're giving out some good money. Um but the Olympia has always been you got to earn your way there. I mean I think when we were young when we started following the sport wasn't the top 10 every year. Top 10 at the Olympia top five at every pro show. Yeah. Because there weren't how many pro shows were there back when we were kids? Three. not aren't pro world not a champions Olympia maybe a pro world show over in Europe and maybe maybe a couple grand prix shows after the Olympia and that damn that's it bro that that's not a lot yeah I mean let's the sport the sport has grown there there's no doubt it has grown exponentially since those days even open bodybuilding growth though but sometimes growth is too much listen my my last company I work with we grew really fast and I got laid off so growth is good, but at what expense? At the expense of quality, right? Not saying the Olympics is not a quality event, but Ron, when you have it's it's July, it's not even July. And how many men's physique shows, how many bikini shows, I mean, just the other left until the cut off. We're going to world. We're going to get into it, trust me. But uh as far as the invite, so let's say there was an invite and let's say Mike Cox, we want you to be in charge of who gets invited. Obviously past winners, but who else gets invited? How do you Is it based on merit? I mean, who do you think is the best? Who's going to sell more tickets? What do you do? Here's what I would do, right? Okay. I would say obviously best Olympia winners. I automatic invite the top 10 automatically, right? And however many pro shows, right? You gota say maybe you have to win an additional three pro shows to get an invite. So how many just say there's and I suck at math people so don't talk [\h__\h] Say there's 10 pro shows, right? You get 15 guys in those. Whoever you got whoever wins those 10 pro shows goes to the Olympia. 10 automatically and 10, you know, and now the 10 that automatically qualified. What if they want to do a pro show, they can do a show, too. It makes it more more entertaining. But I like the top 10. You you the top 10 in the You're the top 10 in the world, right? You deserve I I feel you deserve another shot to come back. There's a lot of pro bodybuilders, right? Yeah. So the top 10 I feel automatic invite and then let the rest fight for it. It makes it more entertain like kind of like a gladiator cutthroat guy. So what if Hottie wants to do five pro shows? He takes up those slots. Hey man, you got this. And we're at Brian. I'm old school. If you want to stop somebody, just beat them. Yeah. Don't get pissy because somebody's competing. Beat the dude. Right. Yeah. That the thing about the invite only that immediately where it falls apart is it's either going to be based on merit like who really deserves to be there and who's to decide who some committee or something. I don't even know how that work. Or are they just going to say well this is a business which it is. This is all about money guys. If you if you didn't realize that, let me tell you right now, it's 100% about money. It's a business. Business is about is about profit. That's what businesses do. They make money. So, would they invite someone like I don't know some social name? I can't even I can only think of Sam Sull who's not open. That's classic. But would you invite Sam Sull to be in the classic physique Olympia even though there's only 15 guys because he's got a billion followers and you know he's going to bring a lot of eyes to the show and people going to the pay-per-view. Listen, it's a business man. If you get butter hurt, you get butter. Go find something else to do. But this this Listen, college football has a committee that picks the 12 best teams based on their previous performance. Now, some teams get left out and some teams get butt hurt, but guess what? Your butt hurt, you're mad for a minute, the game start playing, we forget about you. Happens in bodybuilding, right? What happened? Nick and Nick and Derek were kind of an afterthought right now. We're going into Tampa, bro. So if you get buttth hurt, you get buck, you get left out, you get left out. Yeah. You know, these guys know where they stand in this sport. We know where they stand. We know there's tears to this. It is what it is. It's And you said, Ron, it's a business. It's entertainment. I want to be entertained. I want Next Zilla at the Olympia. You know what I mean? Yeah. Like say he hadn't won the show for like maybe Nathan jumped in and which Nathan would have won. I believe Nathan would have won that that show that was over the weekend over there in Italy. But would you invite Nexzilla because he does have a massive fan base even if he didn't earn his way there if it's invite only? I think someone like that invitation only really opens the door for favoritism politics and and just profit driven selections rather than who really deserves to be there. I don't think you want to get into things like who deserves to be there because then it's it's it's too subjective and people are not you're gonna have a lot of disagreements and a lot of butt hurt people when you do it that way. But think about Ron think about the conversation on social media. Think about all that chatter all year round. Was so and so going to get in? Is he gonna get in? It it just makes for more talk. It makes Listen, man. There's certain times of this sport, Ron, it's a lot. there's not much going on and we're trying to find anything to to to pick at, right? So, when when you have a lot like what they when they had the um the point system, it was it was talk, right? It was chatter. So, and so deserve it was exciting to see who was going to qualify, right? And for me, I don't give a [\h__\h] how many open guys there are because I love bodybuilding. I love it. Right now, 25 is two is a lot. But even 15 to 20 for me, Ron, I just love bodybuilding. So I'm biased for 212 and open, right? Let them all do it. But you're not going to have this is the open. You saw how packed the stage was. This is the open Olympia from last year. It's not that crowded. There's not that many guys. I think it was I think it was like 24 guys in the show or something. Yeah, that's very manageable. Whereas the other when you have 60 people anywhere between 50 and 60 and I think this year we might even see higher numbers when when I show you how many competitions how many how many shows have already happened how many are still going to happen. Mhm. Um, you know, open there aren't that many open shows as you'll see because it's it costs promoters a lot more money because we we I think we had a private glimpse. We're not going to say how we saw it, but we saw what the sanction fees are. An open open division charges, you know, IFBB, the pro league charges promoters a lot more money for open sanction than many of the other divisions. I think Bikini and MPD were were like a fraction of the price. Hardly nothing compared to open. But we guess what and again I think we we yeah you should have feelings are involved in this Rob like you said before it's a business what do we want to see on in October on a Saturday night the open men that's what we pay a ticket for that's why me and you are up at 2:00 in the goddamn morning waiting for these guys to come out and again and maybe I'm playing devil the the bad guy here but you know sometimes feelings get hurt in in in sports. Feelings get hurt in business. Yeah. Right. Like Arnold didn't get to where he was being a nice guy. I hear there's horror stories about business. You don't get to be rich being nice. And you know, Dan and Jake have a have a an issue with the size of this show. It's grown so much that when it grows so much, Ron, something's going to go. And next year, guess what's next year? Don't they have the fit model ladies coming on? Yeah. Yeah, they they have to. People were saying, "Well, they're never going to have they have you can't have a pro division and not to have them represent the Olympia." It's it's not even a it's not an option. You have to have them. This year, they didn't have to do it because it was their They're still building pros. I think there's only a few pros, but by next year, they're going to have Yeah, they'll have like 50 pros, 100 pros that are fit model pros, and they'll be able to have all their pro shows qualified Olympia. So, let me This is what I came up with. We can talk. I came up with my because I'm I'm not I'm mathematically challenged just like you Mike. So I had to make it very very simple. Top three from the previous Olympia qualify and that's in any all Chris is across all divisions. Open all pro show wins qualify for open because there's not that many of them. That's the only reason. It's not because I think open's great and everyone else sucks. It's just a sheer numbers thing. We're not going to we're not going to have 70 open guys on stage. Someone just pointed out it's going to be about 16. Okay. So, tier one shows, and maybe I missed one, but I I think Arnold, obviously, the Pittsburgh, where I left the H off the end, my bad, guys. Dubai and New York Pro, those are all $30,000 in and up. Those are Did I miss any any shows that are big? Those are big ones. Those are real big ones. Okay. So, if you win your any of those shows in any division, be it open, 212, wellness, whatever, you qualify. all other divisions. Uh if there are more than 25 pro shows, and there are, you got to win two to qualify. I'm not going to make it any more complicated than that. I think that's it's a very simple way. You got to have two pro wins, unless you want a tier one show, which as we just said, you're in. Uh and this is how I define a tier one show. It has to have open bodybuilding because a lot of these pro shows do not have open bodybuilding. Oh, trust me. Down here especially, dude. The vast majority as well. The vast majority of pro shows only have they're they're held with an amateur show and there's only like two or three pro divisions. Sometimes only one. It's usually like bikini, men's physique, classic, uh, two or three of those, you know, each of those and that's it. Or sometimes just like a wellness something. It's tacked on. Uh because it's, like I said, it's a cheaper sanction fee. Um, they don't make money off the pro shows. I don't know if it was Tim Gardner who told me that the pro shows aren't really profitable at all for for most promoters. The amateur shows are where they make their money. The pro shows, you got to pay the big sanction fees. You got to pay the prize money. Uh they don't fly them out of it's it's a lot more expensive. It's a lot. It's a lot. Listen, it's a lot, bro. Like I think sometimes we we think that they're making they're millionaires, but when when you see what it's a lot of what Tim does, man. It's a lot of stuff going on, right? But I think what you just put up there, I think you you probably should like trade trademark that or do something because that's a good that's a damn good idea and someone may try to steal that idea. So like Ron Harris's idea, but it makes it easy to that's that's very simple, right? And maybe if you win the Olympia, you you qualify for life obviously, but that top three round it makes it very interesting because you know you get Samson, Derek Hottie, then everybody else has to qualify. It makes sense, man. It just you got to do something because listen, and again, I like the invite because I think it's real it's real cutthroat, you know, and you may have to you may have to wait your turn. You may have to wait your turn, right? You know, so I like I like the invite, but that what you just presented, bro. I actually stole part of the idea from this gentleman, Raven Vulcan. He was putting that up during my uh coverage of the the the Italy show and I said I'll do it I'll do a whole show about this because we we don't want to talk about it now. We're talking about Rubel Nexzilla winning the show but you know he gave me a good idea to come up with this. So thank you Raven. You're the actually the one that gave me the idea to do this. Otherwise I would have waited like another couple months to do this show. Um but I want to show the pro schedule just so you can see how different different the divisions are as far as representation in terms of how many contests there are. So, let's go to this is a great website, guys. If you don't know about iffbro.com, like this is where uh every Monday early evening if there's a contest next weekend, this is where the uh like you'll see right here about the FBB Pro League. Got to go back one. So, here's the the homepage has the the flyers for the shows and uh oh, the competitor list for Mr. Big is Mr. Big Evolution has just been in. Oh, nice. So, this is where you go to check that out. I don't know. I'm just curious. Open. Good. Nathan Dasher, congratulations, Nathan. You won. There you go. Oh, but next he's going again. Well, no way. Good for him. See, this is exciting. Like, I don't get this kind of excitement. No offense, with Wellness. But go ahead. No, that's I'm Wow. I'm surprised Nexzilla stuck around Europe for Right. That's That's a competitor right there. Now, listen. Now, now see, we have something to talk about, too, because what if Nathan doesn't win? What if Nezilla wins again? Right. Right. That's exciting to to see. It's gonna be some good [\h__\h] man. Yeah. Well, we we'll talk about the point system later because I wouldn't mind seeing that back to be honest. But all right, so this tab here, you go to pro schedule on the left. It's it's by division. So, I have it clicked on men's bodybuilding right now. So, you can see I always go to the bottom first to see how many of these shows are there. Now, obviously the ones that happen after the Olympia, they're not qualifiers for this year's Olympia. Uh so the Olympia happens in uh October 9th through 12th. So everything after that uh is not is a qualifier for 2026. So even though it says 46 entries, it looks like about the last 10 of them are not qualifiers for. So like 36 and then if you look and see some of these are natural shows, those don't qualify for the Olympia. Some of them are only master shows, which again, you're not getting no you're not you don't get to the Olympia on a master show win. It's just not the way it works. But still, it's a pretty manageable. Look, look at big font and everything. You can you can rip through that pretty quick. Men's 212. How many 212 shows? Hardly any. Uh, so there's 28. And of course, anything after the Olympia, so about roughly the last 10 of those don't count for this year. And again, you subtract all the ones that are master shows. on the left it tells you open open. So all these Okay. The only one the Masters Pro World doesn't qualify you. Uh and I think there was was there a natural one's an open open Bingling show in Mexico. I don't think anybody even realized this. It's after the Olympia. Is it really nice? Nice qualification maybe. All right. So now we go to classic physique. Look at that. It takes me like a minute just to scroll down. Two pages. And then you go to the bottom. It tells you 98. There's 98 shows on this list for this year. Dude, come on, bro. 98 classic physique. And again, I'm going to just roughly estimate, I don't know, 10% 10 or 15% of those don't count toward the Olympia because they're let's say 20% either either after the Olympia or they're masters only shows. There are some shows that are just masters or if they're natural shows, which is great, but those don't get you into the Olympia. So, 98 men's physique. Let's see if they can beat if they can beat. Oh god. Okay, we had 98. We have 106, dude. Really? 106. I always go to the bottom. 106 entries for men's physique shows. Takes you a while to scroll down. Okay. So far, they're in the lead. Wheelchair is going to be tiny, I'm sure. Yeah. Eight. Eight entries, including the Olympia and the Arnold. Two Arnold. So, aside from the Arnold, the two Arnold shows in the Olympia, there's only five other other ways they can get to the Olympia. So, that's obviously a smaller division. Women's bodybuilding, that won't be very big either. Three. Wait, I'm surprised. Yeah, 20 20, which is more than I thought. Yeah, maybe I should amend how I qualified. With with these, but listen though, with the women's bodybuilding, the ladies got to start showing up because the numbers I mean, the numbers that the competitors aren't very aren't very much, right? Like in New York or Toronto, there are what, like three or four? Yeah. Something like that. It's not good. No. Uh, so they had a pretty small, that's a small division for shows. Women's fitness. Goodness gracious. God bless all those girls. Seven 17 including the Masters Olympia, the Olympia, the Arnold. So, it's not a lot of Let any of these divisions where there's not that many. I have no problem with obviously all these show winners should get the Olympia, right? Yes, definitely. Uh, women's figure is going to be big. Not as big as it used to be. Uh, 53 53 shows for women's figure this year. Pro shows Bikini. So, what's our leader right now? 106. Can we beat 106? I'll say 122. Uh, let's see if you're right. Let's get down there. 115. You weren't that far off. Wow. Okay. Right. So, we got to win because like I said, mo a lot of these I don't want to if I call if I if I even mention a particular show that's held with a regional show, people go, "Hey, you're saying that's a small easy show?" Well, yeah, a lot of them are. Sorry to say they're held with they're held with regional regional NPC shows and and Ron listen too going we we can't in my opinion this is my opinion a pro card should not be awarded at the junior USA or junior nationals right you're given you know is the bikini class J no offense you know in the junior nationals going to go on to the Olympia maybe but the odds are no right it's just is that really needed you know I mean it. Do you need a 100? There's going to be 70 physique guys on stage, bro. Like, at least I guarantee there may be like close to 80 girls if doesn't win half the shows. Yeah. There will be like close to 100 bikini girls on stage and then Jake pays for all that, right? Yes. That's another thing people don't consider. They don't care. They don't care what the Olympia because they think the Olympia is making billions of dollars. Yeah. They make they make some good money. I'm sure they do, but it's a lot of work and it's a [\h__\h] ton of money they're spending to put this thing on. They fly every every one of these people out and a lot of these people are from Europe, Asia. We got a ton of Europeans and Asians that they got to fly out to Vegas and they're putting up putting them up at the very expensive hotel for like five days. They give them money a pdeium for food every day, a food budget. Like someone said, I think Chris Cormier pointed out, they've had to cut back on things like the tracksuits they get now. They used to have their names on all them. They don't do that anymore. No, I don't think they can afford to. You You got to You got Listen, you got to save money somehow, right? That's that's Listen, that's the least at least you're getting a tracksuit, right? You're at the Olympia, but again, something's going to pop. There's going to be come a time to where financially it's not it's just not going to be doable. But God bless them because they're up in the prize money every year, too. So, I don't know, bro. You got to figure this out. Man, I would just say because this this is a frightening. The numbers are just it's alarming. Well, so now we get to women's physique and they're on the decline, too. You can tell by the number of shows because promoters aren't going to put shows on if there's no one showing up to compete in them. They're not going to have they're not going to have divisions. Like I've seen that's why you don't see that many shows with women's fitness uh with women's bodybuilding because why are you going to put out get sponsorships and get the awards and all that and then no one shows up? You have like three people show up. It's not. So only 31 31 events all year long pro events for women's physique. Wow. Which it's I don't know what they're going to do. I don't know if that division is going to go away or what's going to happen with it. It Yeah. Listen, it's blend. Everything is starting to blend together, bro. Figure. I love it. Listen, we love it, right? I love the freak show. I love the ladies division, but you know, that's a whole another topic. So wellness is the last one listed. uh 66 entries. I mean, it's not it's not as bad. I mean, so Bikini was a winner, I believe, I think. Yeah. Congrats, lady. 122. Yeah. And I I guarantee you though, next year, uh because they don't have fit model listed there on the left. They haven't had they haven't they're not going to start pro shows for that division until next year. But, uh I bet that's going to blow the doors off the bikini numbers. Now, it may do that, but remember the criteria has to stay the same. But you go, Ryan, listen. It's it's a it's an easier division. It's an easier entry to a pro card, right? And everybody wants to turn pro. Everybody wants to be remembered. Everybody wants to be bigger than dad. So, it's an easier path, right? And I've seen no offense to some of the ladies but you know you see that a lot at the gym in Zumba class right so it's just and again it's people it's a business so it's more entries prep coaches have more clients you know more entry for the nationals it's a snowball effect it's genius marketing right it's it's a genius business model bless them you know it's going to sustain this for a long time. But unfortunately, I think it's going to cut into women's physique, maybe figure, and women's bodybuilding again, man. Like, y'all got to step it up. Yeah. I mean, it's I I keep I keep harping on this, but once you understand that it's all business and it's all about a profit. This isn't like a charity. This isn't, oh, the the grand, you know, the the nobility of athletic competition. It's not the Olympics, guys. Not that the Olympics is even that anymore itself, but I I guarantee you in Pittsburgh or somewhere there's a meeting every year and they get together like any corporation should and say, "Okay, uh things are going good. How can we how can we make them better? How can we get more profit?" Because that's what a business does. And that's what fit model is created for. Let's make this let's add another division where you know how do we get more competitors because that's an NPC card now is like 140 bucks or 150. My son had to buy one a couple months ago. So that's money and the entries for the shows and this and that and every you know everybody makes everybody makes money. Ron, when you're when you're in it head first, when you're a competitor and your nose to the grind, you don't see that. Like we can see that now like kind of on the outside looking in that it's a business. But when you're in that when we were in there, I didn't I didn't care. Like I'm like I didn't give a [\h__\h] I I thought they were I thought they were millionaires making money and like they're kind of hoarding the money away from everybody. So like you're like oh these rich guys then I'm like then I see what what they pay. I'm like it's a labor of love man. Oh I'm sure a lot of these smaller promoters they they probably break even and maybe make a little bit of money. They're not they're not they're not living that large. They're not buying stuff, you know, on the the freaking St. Louis Pro or I just pissed off all the people in St. Louis. I had to come up with something that sounded like a smaller show. But, uh, I mean, they have shows out in places like Idaho and for, you know, you know, Kansas, you know, out of the way places that aren't huge metropolitan areas. So, um, yeah, the point system, what about bringing that back? because I the only reason I didn't like it was because it made me do math and I don't you know but he said it was kind of cool because they had on the Olympia website mrly olympia.com guys they had the point standings and you could see at any time where who had the most points who had the least points and every week it would change when there's another show. So, it was kind of exciting like who's going to make the Olympia and how many more points does this guy need and how many more shows left and how many points because there were different points for different places at tier one, tier two, tier three. So, yeah, there was a little bit of thinking involved, but it did make it kind of exciting, didn't you think? It was fun. It was fun to watch. It was fun to follow along. The math sucked, but you What if you put like a maybe a a cash bonus to whoever has the most points? Yeah, you go to the Olympia, but guess what? you also, hey, here's 10 grand because you accumulate the most points throughout the year. It's something for the fans to latch on to. Um, in bodybuilding, especially even like for European guys, too, right? There's, don't forget, we have shows in Europe, a lot of shows in Europe as well, and a lot of good quality competitors over there, too. So having that point system, man, it it made you follow along to some guys that maybe got hot and maybe picked the right shows at the right time that may not have qualified for the Olympia normally, but here's so and so like from east for Eastern Lithuania doing the Olympia, right? And and he's got a he's got fans over there. But when you don't need this for classes where there's humongous shows, right? there's 70 whatever bikini ch 122 bikini. You don't need a point system to bring more girls on. Like it's it's done. But bodybuilding is special because it's harder. Yes. It's a lot harder than everything else. Yeah. Um and it's the draw. It's it's it's the main event of the evening, right? So it's that's exactly what we you want to see. That's what you you come for. So I love the pointing system. I think it would do great. Set it up. So maybe like even like the fourth and fifth place guy gets some points so they're not discouraged. So maybe goes down to a little bit further. So even those guys maybe they they peak a little bit later. You know they don't do good in Pittsburgh but hey Tampa they nail it. So it's just it's it's something for the sport to do to talk about more. And think about it, there's so many media outlets now that everybody's talk it gives people more to talk about, right? And everybody benefits. Yeah. So Sasan Herat is a good example of even though he eventually did win a show, which where do you where did he win? The MRO or something? Mro and he won one show, but he had it took him five five shows before that. He started the season off in March, second to Bonak. Then he did, was it Pittsburgh or New York? One of the He got he got several second second to Andrew Jack. He got second to Rean Grimes and under the point system that probably would have given him enough points to get to Olympia because I think it was top three in the point standings. U but we don't have that now. So he had to keep going because it was either win a show or that's it, you're not going to the Olympia. Um, but I've heard other people say, "Well, if you can't win the show, if you're taking all these second places, you shouldn't be at the Olympia anyway." No. Listen, listen. Second place in a professional bodybuilding competition. I think people look at this like it's kind of like, ah, this is pretty easy, but be second to in a professional bodybuilding show is not easy to do. Becoming a professional bodybuilder is hard. becoming a successful to where you place top 10. We're talking about second place to Andrew Jacked, right? Like Andrew Andrew Jack. So I think when people say, "Oh, he just he can't do you took second. You're not." Yeah, he is right. Second place is great. A lot of second place, good second place guys made it to the Olympia before. So but again with Sas man, he he would have made it. And you know what too, Ron? He would have been taking up a lot of points for somebody else that maybe we had to keep compete. It's competition, right? I think we get away from this that, oh, everybody gets a trophy and everybody should be there and no, you did good, Johnny. No, Johnny. Sometimes you tell Johnny, you suck. You know what I mean? Like, my coach kicked me in the ass in eighth grade when I missed the block in eighth grade, right? A coach here got fired from gravity kids face mask. My coach grabbed my face fast, spit it all in my face. But anyway, it makes it we have this is a competition, right? The best of the best and the cream always rises to the top, bro. Well, that's the whole point is Olympia is supposed to be the elite. And if you have I mean 20 20 to 25 guys, that's still to me that's elite. Okay. Because that's what the Olympia was when we were younger. It's never been it was never the the the Arnold is the only show that really limited the uh the divisions to like 15 because they wanted the show to have a certain pace to it and not be dragged on all night, right? You know, they had other things going on, circus acts and all this [\h__\h] going they stopped doing that. But, you know, open shows I think are different because even when there's not a strong lineup in an open show, there's always at least a couple names you're like, "Oh, this guy, that guy, you know, like this past example weekend pro Italy, good example. Weak line. It was a weak lineup. Let's say it. It was weak." Um, but we still I know who Andrea Andrea Prey is. I know who Nexzilla is. Most of the other I've heard of Samir Tree, but most of those names I'm like, who the hell is that? If you look at pro show lineups for other divisions in a lot of these tier three shows or whatever you want to call them, I have not I don't know who any of these people are. So, do you watch the Olympics ever? Yeah, I do. I'm AI'm AI'm a sports junkie like that. So, I'm going to rely on you for this info. Let's take an event like uh what's the the top track thing? 100 meter or something. 100 meter 100 meter dash. Yes. Okay. So, that's the biggest the most prestigious event in track at the Olympics. How many guys in the they have they have different heats? I mean, how many guys run? How many guys are on the track at once? Well, I think listen, I'm not an expert like Traval Bl he he is, but there's like four three or four to five different heats. The winners of those heats all me at the very end to race for the gold medal. There's probably like 12 12 guys, 10 or 12 guys in the final event. Okay. So, there's not 60 guys on track running at the same time. Exactly. So, it's the best of the best. If you win an Olympic gold medal, you know, obviously I don't want to say the Olympia, if you won the Olympia, you're not that great. No, you are obviously, but you don't have people you're never going to see someone at at the Olympics in those heats in the 100 meter that's not one of the greatest runners in the world, right? On earth, right? We do see some people that manage to get to the Olympia and they know, you know, they're the people that are in like the fourth, fifth call outs at these big divisions. I don't want to say they have no business. They earned their way there. So, I can't say, "Oh, you don't deserve to be in the Olympia." Because under the current system, they do deserve to be there the way it is now. But, do they really are they of the elite? If you're 50th, ranked 50th or 60th in the world in your sport, can you really say you're the you're one of the very best? You're one of the elite of the elite. That's that's like back in the day when like somebody goes, "How'd you do in the nationals?" You go, "Oh, I was 15th." Right? Or you know what I mean? So Brian, I think too, bro, is that the the Olympia to us is like the gold standard of everything. But I think nowadays people don't see how truly prestigious this event is. And how much just hearing that theme song to a lot of cats our age does something to us. You hear people talk about like, "Oh, I'm going to the Olympia." There's there was a local girl here. She'd always go, "I'm going to Olympia. I want to go to Olympia." And I was just like, it's not, you know, it's just it's just, you know, it's just old man [\h__\h] right? But I think because so many people go and so many people qualify that they don't get just how and fans too go, "Oh, you took fifth. You suck." Fifth place. Gary Stridum took fifth place, Ron. We know who took Robbie Robinson was fifth in 87, right? We know who how prestigious that is. We know all the the line of the the the guys the champions that maybe never even placed top 10. You're right. Right. Don Long never made it and he was the one of the greatest national champions ever. Right. So that show it is prestigious but when you have 122 girls going right and again you said they're not they don't they earn the right but you know 13th call out man like there's not that many call outs but yeah I mean it's it's hard work for the the judges you know no one care no one has any sympathy for them I'm sure anyway but I can't imagine as a judge they do rotate the judges so it's not the same judges judging everything all weekend that would be ridiculous but I've seen them them up there for, you know, literally hours and hours with just a little water bottle and maybe a little granola bar or something and I'm like, "Oh my god, I'd have I'd be peeing my pants and I'd be starving if I were these people. That's just me." So, here's but here's another interesting question to raise. If we make it much harder to qualify for the Olympia in any way, um, is that going to take away a lot of revenue from now we're not going to have as many pro shows because, well, first of all, people say, "Well, just cut the pro. They're not going to cut the number of pro shows. That's not going to happen, guys. that is absolutely not on the table. But if you make it that much harder to get the Olympia, like say now you have to win two pro shows, I think that would discourage a lot of pros because they know the odds, you know, I think some people they're not delusional. They have a realistic idea of how where they really stand and they know they'd be very very lucky to win one pro show in a season. To win two, you know, it's that's like hitting lotto or something. It's probably it's, you know, they know it's they just be spinning their wheels and spending all this money on coaches and gear and food and everything for nothing. So, get better. Get better, dude. Just get Well, then you know what? Get better. Right. Tom Brady's lost. He's lost Super Bowls. Guess what he did? He came back better. When you lose a show, guess what? Guess what we did back in the day? We didn't go to a different class. We got better. We come back again. Hey, I didn't win another show. Let me go back. You You chose this. I may not be your prof, but you chose this. You you this is not easy. It's hard to turn pro, right? It's hard to win a pro show. But the elite of the elite, if you can win two pro shows, right? Maybe you can't. Ashley can win 17 pro shows. You want You don't want Ashley winning all these shows, beat her, right? It's again, it goes back to competition, Ryan. Like it shouldn't get like if they made it harder, you shouldn't go, "Oh [\h__\h] man. It's going to be hard." You should be like, "She I can do this. I got this. Ain't nobody gonna beat me." No, listen. I I may not have won every show, but I trained like I'm going to beat everybody's ass. We all did. And you know, and it just be get better. Make yourself better. Win some shows, right? If you What if So, if if you made the Nashville like the overall winner again only turns pro, I think I guarantee I don't think people have that that killer instinct anymore, right? To where they'll just say, "I'm gonna do this. I'm go in." We know I knew I wasn't going to turn pro at the USA. I knew, but I still tra I still visualize myself winning that middleweight title and that do just doing the impossible. But it didn't discourage you from doing it. But I don't know if people have that kind of um that kind of gumption, that kind of kick in the ass attitude anymore. Well, you brought up you brought up the participation trophy generation that we're in now where you know like back in our when we were kids if you were in on a sports team whatever and you sucked you got told you sucked and if you lost the game you got chewed out by the by the coach or the man whatever they didn't oh you know you guys did you have fun did you try hard that's all that counts now you got chewed out if you lost a football game or a baseball game and your kids and you know you felt awful you know they don't want anyone to feel bad anymore more. But here's the thing, Jimmy, you know, Jimmy Menus. Obviously, Jimmy's a he was an IFBB pro. I guess technically still is. He's a promoter himself. He put it this way about making things more difficult to turn pro, uh, making it harder to get to the Olympia, things like that. Those would all sort of take away the carrot that's dangled in front of these people. And without that carrot, you're going to lose a lot of competitors starting from the very ground up, from the lowest levels of the NPC. if they're like, "Oh, well, the junior shows don't turn you pro anymore. The top, you got to win your class now at nationals, not just top two of the USA and nationals." If you make it that much harder to turn pro, I think it would discourage a lot of amateurs because they're just in it for the pro card and the attention and the the validation and put it on their Instagram account. It's not a lot of it's not as many true athletes as I think there were back in the day. Back in our day, it was a lot of people that came from football, wrestling, you know, very, very competitive athletic backgrounds. A lot of them played up to like college level and this was just a further extension of their athletic career. So, you know, like Phil Heath is a good example, division one basketball player. They didn't have that mentality like, uh, well, I want an easy, if it's not going to be easy to turn pro, then I don't want to do it. They don't want it to be that difficult. They want the odds to be in their favor. It's why you go to the national shows and again it's a business. So this is great for the national level promoters but you'll see especially in those shows that offer masters of visions the crossovers are insane. So you're I've seen I've seen shows where there's likeif there's A-50 year old there's 35 40 50 55 whatever and if someone's old enough they'll do every single division that they're that they're able to they'll do over 35 40 4550. Yeah. you know, they're paying a couple grand just in entry fees, but what they're doing is they're trying to stack the odds in their favor. They want to find a class that's easy enough because again, a lot of them, they know they're not that great. You know, they're not like Olympia caliber competitors. They'd be very lucky to turn pro. So, they're trying to increase their odds of being lucky by doing as many classes as possible. So, if we remove that, if we make it that much harder to turn pro, if we make it that much harder to get to Olympia, uh it's going to be bad for business. though I I don't think any of these changes are they're even feasible because again and I don't blame the the IBB pro league and the NPC. I don't blame them for one it's a business. Are they supposed to not make money? You know all of you guys out there if someone said you're making too much money you you stop making so much money. You'd be like screw you telling me how to make don't tell me how much money to make. I wish you could see my blood pressure. I wish we could take my blood pressure right now when you said that because remember in Popey when the the steam shut out their ears. Yes. Getting a listen if you getting a job's hard, right? Bodybuilding is nothing compared to real life [\h__\h] If you don't think body if you bodybuilding is not that difficult, getting a job's hard. Make it hard. I It's I get Ron. kills me because I just that like they don't have that kind of like I would go through a brick wall when I was dying for a show. Like I don't get I would eat cat litter if you eat cat litter, right? It want I knew it was going to be hard. I you know it's going to be hard. It's supposed to be hard, right? The we do hard exercises. We tune in broccoli back in the day because it was hard, right? Yeah. you life you can't it's it's kind of like life you can't be handed things in life because when it gets really hard you're going to crumble right so it's just I get like it is a business but you got you got sometimes you gota just like you got to suck it up man and no like these kids they're not competitive it's just not competitive anymore you know like Martin plays sports so he has that kind of competitive you know I'm going to kick your ass attitude and Derrick was a wrestler so he knows right y but I don't know Man, I just it's just weird. It's just all weird to me, bro. Well, it's you know, I I don't want to make this an old versus young argument. I don't want all the youngsters to hate my guts, but I I watched a video today about it was comparing the dating market and how people are they have too many demands to like they compare it to like the job market. If someone said to you if they're out of work and you ask them, "How's your job search going?" And they're like, "Ugh, I don't know why it's so hard. All I want is a super highpaying job that's very low stress where I don't have to work too hard and it's very personally fulfilling. You'd be you'd laugh in their face because if a job is going to be that well-paying, it's going to be stressful and it's probably not going to be, you know, you're not gonna you said you're not going to make a you're not going to become a millionaire doing a habitat building homes for habitat for humanity or saving the freed seals or something. You can't have everything. You have to you have to pick and choose. You got to work for what you want, man. Like Branch and Johnny worked their asses off, right? There was no fancy [\h__\h] no fancy equipment. They busted their ass in that dirty, dingy gym. But again, like, and I'm not [\h__\h] on guys now. I'm not [\h__\h] on any any of these guys now cuz listen, to get where these guys at, they're they're hyper competitive, right? Derek Samson, they're uber competitive, but and and they stuck with it. But I think people forget too in this sport, I think what a lot of coaches don't tell a lot a lot of people to is this is the sport for the genetic elite. You can do it and have fun, right? But know where you stand, right? I got real quick, I'll never forget my last show, a kid was backstage. He wasn't in great shape, right? I mean, he was decent and he he goes, "I don't feel good." I go, "What's wrong, man?" He goes, "My my coach told me to take another diuretic. I don't feel right." I go, "Well, then don't take it." But this kid, he didn't have the genetics for it. What the point is, right? Yeah. And instead of saying, "Hey, man, let's just go have fun, get in shape, see where you go, they're throwing all these stuff." You got to know where you stand in this sport and not be delusional, right? Because we all have a delusional part of us in this sport, Ron. And like we all do. It's We don't see it, but we all are nutty, delusional sometimes. But you have to be honest with yourself where you fall in the sport and if it's worth that. But again, you can't tell if you told a 30-year-old Mike Cox that, I would have said, "Kiss my ass." So, whatever. That was old man [\h__\h] You know, it's funny because I've talked to so many competitors from the people with the shittiest genetics to the to the people with the most god-given genetics you could ever imagine. And ironically, a lot of the people with the best genetics I've ever met had the least realization of how good they were. And they had the lowest confidence. I'm like, "Dude, you don't understand. You could step on stage probably like with, you know, an extra 20 pounds of body fat and still kick everyone's ass because your genics are that good. And I meet a lot more people with average or below average genetics who've been gassed up by, I don't know, people at the gym, their friends, their family, social media. They think they're way better than they are. and you know they have glaring glaring flaws in their physiques that nobody is either have the balls to tell them or they're just coaches there's a lot of coaches out there who will they'll lie to these people's faces and say yeah you're you could win this and like dude you're telling this person they could turn pro and they got a waist this wide and their clavicles are like this and you know they got a torn muscle and no back you know just glaring glaring weak points that you can't have because uh even though it's a lot easier to turn pro now in terms of there's a lot more pro cards opportunities there way more opportunities I I I'm not gonna reiterate how tough it was back in the day but give you anam just just one tiny example first NPC national champions uh Rich no Lee Haney was the first I think Gaspari was the second maybe it was Mike Christian was the third Christian Paris Bob Paris they didn't get a pro card from winning the overall nationals No, the only way in those days for anybody around the world to get a pro card, you'd have to win your country and then you went to the IFBB World Championships. Some people used to call it the universe. You had to win your class there against all the other national champions from all around the world. Then you were a pro. If it was like that now, how many people would even how many people would even show up to compete at local shows if like because now it's, you know, people wanted to turn pro back then, but they didn't have the expectation. No, I'm definitely going to turn pro because I want to turn pro and I deserve to turn pro. I think too when it's about like I think a lot of it too is about like now like belonging to something like we only we had a small circle back in the day, right? Our our gym circle, maybe a few cats at another gym. Now it's like everybody wants that that jersey with your name that says so and so team so and so IFBB Pro right so it's just I don't know man it's just how how much is it is it do they love it right like how much do you really love this or how much you doing it just for that that name I love I can't everything hurts to hell but I still love going to that gym and training right I still visualize myself on stage while I'm in the gym doing legs you know what I mean so you know That's love, dude. Like that's that's the love for this crazy [\h__\h] But I don't know. Like, do they have Are they still going to be training after competing? That's because I know a lot of guys, man, that I see could use compete that don't even go near a gym, bro. Oh, I put this way, social media is a very new thing in our to us. It's like it just happened as far as we're concerned. uh you know these other kids there's a lot of Gen Z kids they've grown up with it they think it's always been around but if there was no social media at all if there was no Instagram if there was no YouTube Tik Tok Snapchat whatever the hell they have many people wouldn't even bother to train if there were no if there was no way to like blast it out to the world here's my workout today here's my selfie and yes I post selfies guys so I'm I'm not I'm not [\h__\h] on you guys who do that but there are a lot of people I believe who purely train uh like I I've seen them. I've seen them if if they can't I've seen kids, young guys at my gym, girls, whatever, if they were having issues with their tripod or something, they just went home. They didn't even finish their workout. I'm like, "Really? You're not even going to finish the workout?" They're like, "Ah, this is for content. I needed the content. I'll have to come back tomorrow and do this." That blows my mind. Holy crap, dude. Like, I remember like I would put my pager away when I go to the gym. Back when I thought, you know, I had a p every had a pager. I'd leave the pager at the front desk so we would just go in there and train. And that was we were in the moment. You were with your boys. You were training heavy. You're talking [\h__\h] You're seeing who's over there who's trying to like train as heavy as you. It was that kind of like atmosphere was comp. It was competitive, right? Like which goes right back to what you were saying to everybody's trophy. People aren't competitive anymore. But I guess listen, if you're going to the gym and you're making changes, that's good, right? You're taking care of your health. If you are if you find competition, God bless you. You're going to love it for the rest of your life. But I don't know, man. Like, I love this [\h__\h] man. Even I can't do it like I used to. We got a question for you, Mike, from Stefanis. Yes, sir. Break eggs individually for egg whites or did egg whites pasteurized already available when you're bodybuilding? Also, was color television around yet? No, I added that part. I always crack my individual egg whites. However, remember Ronnie Coleman's video, the cost of redemption, we had the liquid egg whites. Yeah. The L was it? It was Las and something else. I did for a phase through my cost of redemption phase get the liquid egg whites. However, they were very expensive and when I was young, I hate saying that eggs were I remember around when I was in college 95 between 39 cents a dozen and 79 cents a dozen. I would eat like 36 egg whites a day. Wow. Because they were cheap. Yeah. Egg whites, tuna, if I was lucky, some chicken every now and then. Yeah. I I can remember in the 90s, I want to say it was early 90s because it must have been because, you know, I had my first child at 94, but I was out in LA from 91 on. And my wife, we've heard about a place. Okay. So, it must have been after 92 because we were living in the Pasadena area. We were living in San Gabriel Valley. egg whites as far as like buying them at the store and it didn't that didn't didn't exist yet, but we heard about there was some uh local egg farm that on Sundays between like noon and 3 p.m. could go and they they would sell gallon jugs of egg whites for I don't know what the price was but like oh my god egg whites you can buy egg whites and every Sunday I'd be there and there was a line of people waiting because it was such a rare rare thing because otherwise yeah we cracked and you know now we know I just did a whole thing with Dr. te about egg. Whole eggs aren't that bad for you. Like we were sold a bill of goods. They eat a eat a egg white eat egg yolk and have a heart attack like five minutes later. Can't have the fat, man. I can't have the fat. I have like no fat, zero carbs, high protein. Like the chaceto contest diet basically. It worked, man. Holy [\h__\h] Oh, you could you could go on about this. Some young 20s. A lot of guys that work for us suck. Well, you were uh you were dealing with a lot of the the Gen Z's uh you have to um you got to be very patient and not if you're on a video when I'm on a video I have to like watch my facial expressions now because sometimes they'll say stuff and I just want to like go are you ser like real real quick one girl we had a we had a job fair from online and she was on the toilet Ron she was on the toilet. Wow. Yeah, man. Could you hear like the the poop? I heard the flush, Ron. And she said, "Hold on a second." Put the phone down. I knew she was pulling her pants up and she's walking out of the bathroom like, "All right, thank you." I thank Wow. Yeah. So, Yep. Unbelievable. Are you related to Mike Hunt? No, I am related to Hugh Grection. However, he's good, too. Let's see what else we got. They're all teen chimps got old and I don't know who that what that was in reference to. We guys back then so much were guys back then so much better than today. Uh that's a good question. Do you think the physiques there's a lot more bodybuilders now? But I put bodybuilders if I had two hands I'd use I'd make air quotes, but I only have one. I'm going to have one quote. I'd say there's a lot more people training in in gyms now than there were when we were young. But yeah, uh I wouldn't I'd say the quality of physiques overall was better back then per capita, right? You walked into a gym and you didn't have uh 500 people and only like three of them had a decent build. You know, I I remember like you could probably you could probably confirm this. I remember back when a a 500 pound bench was good, but it wasn't anything special. I every gym I ever went to, there was at least a couple guys that could bench 500 lb. Freak. We had to do We had some freaks at the gym. Like Michael Lockett came into my gym a couple times training where early early on like early like late 90s before he was lock he you know there were some freaks I was at a parl gym for a while Ryan so those guys threw some [\h__\h] but the physiques I think the quality was better I think classic physiques stole a lot of great pro physiques right like Cormier and Milos had classic physiques but they were open bodybuilders Mikefeld Terrence Those guys would be great open bodybuilders if there weren't but classic stole a lot of talent unfortunately. Dorian Dorian said in an interview a year I don't know when this was but he said the same thing is you know when there was one division all the genetic freaks the people with the best genetics we saw them on bodybuilding stage. Now a lot of them they might go to men's physique and they'll never put on the size they could have. Maybe they don't want to anyway, but we never got to see those physiques what they could have been because they went into another division where you're not supposed to be that big. And same thing with classic. There's a lot of guys in classic if they filled out more and put on another whatever 20 30 pounds, they'd be amazing. But we're never going to see that because there there's a weight cap that they have to stay inside of. But too, Ryan, you know what? I think we're at a point in sport now where some classic guys will be rewarded because we're rewarding opens rewarding that X frame now, right? So even a little bit fuller, you may not be the biggest guy out there, but what they're going to see you, right? The judges, they'll see that shape, you know, they'll see it. So you you you can earn earn your stripes, man. Yeah. Let's see what else we got. They want to make it invite only. Am I missing something? Oh, so your mom's flip-flop. He's over in Germany. It's probably time for you to go to bed soon, kid. But uh it's like 11 o' midnight over there already. Yeah. So uh we we covered that in the very beginning. The invite only concept which has been brought up. I think it was mad at Muscle Discord was the first one that really wanted to make a that a big talking point. It it just wouldn't work. It's too it invites too much room for politics and favoring people with huge social media followings. Uh there's there it's just too subjective. is like who's who are we going to invite versus who should be invited and it would right it'd be a [\h__\h] show. People would be up in arms over who who didn't get invited and even who did get invited. You should go to pro if you pro in person. Yes, that is absolutely true. As Bob, you know, it's Mike Mike can say this. When you're up front, as we've both been swimming, it's completely different seeing what these guys really look like when they're 10 feet in front of you and you can see every little freaking fiber when they flex and all the little strange lumps and bumps that probably shouldn't be that you may not see. Even the the the vascularity, bro, you can't you can't see that on this. It's just not not going to It's not the same. You can't see when they're when they're turning. And it's a whole different point like when you're in person. It's actually absolutely mind-blowing. Yeah. What else we got? Sorry, where that was a grammar thing. I always say this. No social media would if they're on a social media gym's gonna meet lose half their memberships would be awesome again. Same with no phone. I mean, I I I my my younger brother who does he just goes like a plan of fitness. So, he's not serious at all. But he said the one thing that pisses him off is there's people that will not nobody lets you work in anymore and they will sit there on their phone for up to five minutes between sets scrolling through media texting people whatever watching videos before and they won't and the con and if you ask them he's asked people to work in they're like uh I'm not done you ask them how many were sets like I don't know and they'll sit on the same piece of equipment for you know 20 minutes 30 minutes it I'm like, I've seen that where I go, I'm working in with you. I'm not asking you. I was like, I'm working in with you. Or I go, how many like um scrolls do you have left? Yeah. How many scrolls you have left? Who was it? Uh I don't think it was Stridum. So, I don't want to make him to be the [\h__\h] but was it Romano? Romano was wrote he was with somebody training for the Olympia. Maybe it was Stridum. I don't want to I don't want to say it was because I don't know who they're going to think he's an [\h__\h] But if somebody was on a piece a machine that he wanted, he would physically if they wouldn't get up, he would physically lift them up and says, "I'm training for the Mr. Olympia. Get the [\h__\h] out of here." You know, because they didn't want to let her work in on it's dude. I would I would kill a pro work in with me. What are you doing? And that's just etiquette, bro. Like there's no etiquette anymore at the gym. They don't understand that. There's none. Zero gone. Oh, well, here's a good question. So, yeah, this has been I think it was uh John from Serious and Silliness said, "It's so much harder the pros now because they get [\h__\h] on on social media, but is it really?" So, this this Raven says pros like Samson Derek, uh, they hate on the new MRO. Do they really get that much hate? I think they can choose to read the comments or not read the comments. You know, nobody has to read. If you don't want if you don't want to uh turn your comments off or don't read your comments because you can never be guaranteed that everyone's going to blow sunshine up your ass and tell you you're awesome. You're going to always have trolls who say you suck, you're this, you're that. So if it bothers you, don't read the comments or you can turn comments off on all your posts because you're going to get some [\h__\h] no matter who you are. You could be the greatest bodybuilder in the world like Samson Dout is right now. He's Mr. Olympia and people [\h__\h] all over him. He's got oil in his arms. He's He's fat. He's this and that. You know, you could be the greatest and people are still going to be negative as it comes with the sport, man. Listen, they don't talk any fans talk worse about these college football players. Trust me, these 18, 19 year old kids, like they get so they get wor way worse than pro bodybuilders get because there's gambling involved now. There's sports betting. And so these body listen I get when you're dieting you may be able but you're in charge of like how you feel about yourself with social media you choose to like and it it's some random dude it's not like it's your mama right if your mama call saying you suck then yeah but some I I enjoy listen I enjoy the trolls I enjoy interacting with people like that I love when people talk I'm very witty and I've got a whole slew of beams saved for people so I thoroughly I get it I love it Well, I guess when you're dieting, you're a little trended up and you know, electrodeed up and your hormones are out of way. I get it. I want to kill Rocky at one point when I was two weeks off from the show. So, yeah. Well, you you were you were a big a big star or whatever you were. You were a major personality on getb.com. Yeah. And that was like troll heaven over there that was infested with trolls. And it's not it's funny. Every now and then I'll still go over there just to like to troll some people cuz hey [\h__\h] but you have to learn to take it and not get so you you know what you I tell people just turn it off like just turn it off and then then then you turn off real life happens like real life's gonna happen when I go out there I'm going to like watch TV talk to Manny that's real life like I love shooting this [\h__\h] online talking [\h__\h] man that's hilarious to me get big yeah I mean I remember one time someone posted pictures of my wife on get big when she was in contest condition so her face was a little sunken and I think she was on a little bit of a little bit Anavar at the time perhaps maybe a little bit of primo I think whatever they said this she looks like Stephen Tyler not Stephen Tyler uh the guitarist for Aerosmith and I should know this Steve Perry or Joe Perry my god I got I just wanted to like jump through the computer and murder this person I was so angry and most people They're they don't even train. Like they don't even like they go to like go it's like me going to a NASCAR website forum, right? They don't they don't train, bro. So, but like people are idiots. They just, you know, people just seem to calm down and why go to somebody's page just to be a dick on purpose, right? Like what are you what are you getting from that? Like appreciate being able to have constant contact with Mr. Freaking Olympia. Like whenever I see somebody like like Samson dollar like like I'm like oh [\h__\h] fanboy. Yeah right. Like appreciate it, man. Yeah. When we were when we were kids, how many times have I said this? If you took a shot for every time I said that during this episode, you'd probably be drunk as [\h__\h] right now. But we had to write letters to the pros. They would have like a PO box and you would have a self-ress stamped envelope to get them to write back to you. Maybe they wouldn't, maybe they wouldn't. That was your only way unless you went to a seminar or something that they were coming into your area. We had no we had no access to the pros. These people can message the pros. They can leave comments on their post for them to read on their YouTube videos. You know, the amount of access that the fans have to the pros now is insane. And I think that takes away some of that like superhero type of um view of them, right? Because like I remember I saw Robbie Robinson Ryan the first time he guest posted. Like this guy was in pumping iron. I was 16 years old and I was like Robbie freaking Robinson. Like now it's just like they're so desensitized kind of to seeing these guys. It's like I see I'm gonna see Lon Murray in like six weeks, bro. I'm like I'm excited now. All right, this will be the last question then we're going to take off. 2017 Phil. So that was Was that the last year he won? Yeah. Yeah. 2018 he got beat by Rhoden. So 2017 was his last win versus 2025 Derek. I'm assuming they mean Derek at the uh at the Arnold. Uh who wins? Ah man. Listen, Phil not great is still Phil. He still I don't Ryan. You know what's funny? That's pretty good question. Like because Dererick checks the boxes that X frame and Phil wasn't great in 2017 that he started to get that distension. Yeah. And the from the back that Derek I'm gonna say Derek beats 2017 Phil. Really? I'm gonna I'm gonna go the other way. I'll go with Phil. And you know why? Detail, separation. Um I like Derek. Derek knows this. He won't give me an interview because I'm small potatoes now, but please Derek, please. You just don't see the the reason Phil beat so many people. It one of the reasons there was a lot of reasons. He had mass, but it was such deep clear muscle separation, so much detail inside the muscle groups. Derek hits a front double and it's just like a big blob. Whereas Phil, there was a you could see this fiber, that fiber, there was a stick your fingers in the separations between every every different head of the of the triceps and all that. He had crossstrations on his triceps. It was just it was it was a sight to see. You know, Phil Phil said we would miss him when he was gone toward the end. Gee, damn, was he right. I do miss Phil. That was that was next level. So we won't again we won't see something like Phil again either, bro. And like he he set a standard that again fans appreciate what you're watching. Stop talking [\h__\h] because when they're gone Yeah. they're gone, right? Samson's getting up there. If he wins, appreciate them. Congratulate them. Don't hate Hate the judges. Don't like the decision. Hate the judges. Yeah, I mean that's a good point because Samson's he's not showing any signs of leaving anytime soon, but he's not he's already almost he's almost 40. He's not You think he's going to be doing this when he's 60? Come on, guys. So, exactly. Exactly. I'm going to cut it loose. It's been over an hour. Mike, you've been very generous with your time. Didn't have to wait an hour this time because last time we're I was waiting around to see if my surgery was getting cancelled at the last minute. Uh, but guys, we had a lot of a lot of ideas, but give us more ideas. What do you think about how to get this Olympia down to a reasonable number of competitors per division so we don't have 300 competitors in the show and we don't have judging going till 1 in the morning and, you know, people in Europe having to stay up till 7 or 8 in the morning to watch the live stream. It just makes it better. It makes it a better experience for everyone if the show's just a little bit smaller and more bite-size, more manageable. So, give me your ideas. Point system, invite only. What do you want? What do you think should be done? Let me know in the comments, guys. There are no wrong answers here. And I can't say I'm going to forward all your ideas to Pittsburgh because I'm not. Anyway, thank you, Mike. Appreciate you as always, bro. Love it. Big Mike Cox, Michigan sucks. But that's just Ann Arbor, Michigan. Yes, that's it. Everybody else cool. You're everywhere else cool. So, thank you guys for watching and I will see you right here hopefully on the next episode of Power Hour. Thanks for watching.