Hey everybody, welcome to Ask Dr. Testosterone starring Dr. George Anulatos. The only show on YouTube every week where you can ask questions from a medical doctor who was also a champion bodybuilder. Show is brought to you by his book, The Bible of Bodybuilding 2. Over 700 pages full of everything you need to know about training, nutrition, supplementation, and of course peeds. You can get that on Amazon.com. While you're on Amazon.com buying books, buy my book, Real Bodybuilding. What a great book. And now all the way from Athens, Greece, please welcome Dr. George Anulatos. Hey, George. So, hi. We're uh Saturday. We are one week away from the Pittsburgh Pro, the first men's open Pittsburgh Pro. I saw a picture of Steve Weinberger with Chriso saying that Chris will compete finally in New York Pro. Oh yeah. Yeah, that's right. He's doing New York Pro because it's so crowded. I guess he's gonna win the New York Pro. I mean, he he deserves he's the best we ever seen. Let's take a look. Yeah, I'm I'm very impressed. This is uh he's got a new coach, George Farah, is not George isn't a new coach. I want to call him to to Milo saying he's the European power and he agreed, of course, because he's a he's the best white guy in Europe, you know. So, look at that. Wow. He's a freak. His finger with the same uh crazy conditioning. Yeah, it's you know the it's the thin skin that really the detail in the shoulders, the arms, the detail. We never seen that from uh I mean since the era of field he never seen this popping and strides in definition and vascularity. He resembles a 3D structure of field here. Yeah I agree because some of these guys a lot of these guys unfortunately they put a lot of their gear in the shoulders and the arms. It takes away the detail. This guy you can see every muscle fiber midsection is very tight like everything is sucked. And uh actually he looked he had the same structure three years ago when he was a pro he was an amateur. Now he he um progressed a little bit. He evolved of course but it's the same crazy thing he had when he was in the elite and everybody was saying this guy deserves the Olympia stage. Yeah. I think he was the top he was the top champion in IFBB elite, wasn't he? He turned a pro into a knife from amateur to a pro. Uh, look, 23 inches arms easily. Look at that. Wow. Yeah. The only the only guy I think Derek Lunchford's probably gonna win New York Pro, but Nick Nick Walker is looking fantastic right now. Very impressed with Derek looks more impressive from the rear. Way more impressive. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. The only I mean I mean quads are the best of uh of all. I mean, Walker has the best parts, but we skip the C department and then from the rear, uh, back is more pressure than Derek, I think. Yeah, the same because Derek has also amazing glutes. Ridiculous. But this rear double biceps, uh, is really crazy with Walker. Yeah. I mean, I think Derek Derek, do you think Derek has the best back today in bodybuilding? Derek Lensford. Uh, the whole pack is from head to toes. Yes. Yeah. I mean, conditioning and and hardness and separation, but has this real demo of biceps is very crazy because of the shoulders. Yeah. We haven't seen anything from from Derek from he has small calves. Oh, you're talking about Derek? Derek? Yeah. Related to his arms and he Yeah. I mean, you remember Dexter didn't have very good calves. Ronnie didn't have very good calves. Dennis Wolf Dennis Wolf had awful calves. I mean, if it was a calf contest, Mike, the late Mike Morazzo would have been Mr. Olympia among all the Olympias who won only once the shadow Dickerson Jackson. Um, we have also not Cedric. Um like Roden Roden Sean Curry and Durk who's the one that is like the weakest and the in the in the best of what do you think is who would out of those Mr. Olympia. Who's the best out of those that won only once? The shadow. Oh, I see what you're saying. Who dominates? I I like Dexter. I always was a big fan of Dexter's physique. But the freak of all. Who's that? Hottie is the freakiest of all. Yeah. Yeah. I'm interested to see what Hottie can do because we haven't seen Hottie all since last Olympia. He's the only guy who's fresh. Everybody else is competing multiple times this year. He's the only one who's resting and training hard and not dieting and prepping because last year he was tired. He did many show. He did the two to two amate to Arnold. Yeah. And that was a drawback in order to bulk. I mean I I you know Ronnie Coleman I I had him on the show a couple weeks ago and he doesn't think anybody any bodybuilder can peak 100% twice in one year. You believe that? Um, Samson did it. Uh, I mean, Samson Samson got second at the Arnold last year, then he won the Olympia, so he looked better at the Olympia. Hottie looked better at the Arnold and then not as quite as good at the Olympia. So, I don't know. I've never seen someone look exactly as good in the spring and then again in the fall. So, maybe Ronnie's on to something there. We'll see. Jay, Jay and Brendon Curry. Yeah, I think I, you know, people say the smaller guys, the lighter guys have an easier time dieting and prepping multiple times versus the bigger 270 to 300 lb guys. It's much harder for them to peak twice in one year. I don't know if that's true. We're all human beings. I don't know why it should matter that much. But yeah, Hottie I think's a wild card this year. The Olympia is still very far away. How much bigger can Hadi become? You know, he has a a certain structure, a certain frame, but he cannot put more muscle than that. He's he's fully packed. He's, you know, probably 5 foot five. He's he's not a tall guy. I mean, how much he's kept the waist pretty small, but I don't know how much muscle more muscle you can put on that that frame right there. Like, I mean, they hit a plateau because they are short guys. Yeah. But, you know, does he need to be bigger? I don't know. I don't think so. He won Mr. Olympia looking like this. And he he almost won last year. I think he was only a couple points away from Samson last year. It wasn't like uh Samson blew him blew him away. They say that Walker carries the related to heightening weight. He carries the most muscle of all. I I agree with that. You think so? Because he's five 5'7. He's uh in these pictures he was about he said 273 pounds in these pictures and this was two weeks ago. He's probably lost a little bit of weight but he's a he's just a massive human being. Yeah. You you've stood next to him, haven't you? See what Bob said he needs to come off. Oh yeah. Yeah. I mean Derek probably has to be a little off for Nick to beat him. Honestly. Yeah. It's a shame because he was almost there for two years in a row and he didn't compete. So much weights all this year. Yeah. much stress. Yeah. Well, I tell you what, if he if he he probably I I think he's going to get second place in Pittsburgh and I think he's going to win the New York Pro. That's what I think is going to happen. We'll see. So, you think Derek is unbeatable? Derek, if he's on, if he's even 90%, none of these guys are beat. The only people I think that can beat Derek when he's on are maybe Samson and Hottie, and that's it. He's just he's too good. He's just so complete. He's got such great shape and he's massive and that back. It's just a lot. It's a lot to take. So, it's hard to peek twice, you know? I mean, right after the arm. I agree. So, and what if he peaks twice perfectly? We're talking about Derek. And then the Olympia, he has trouble peaking. That could happen because that's three times in one year he's trying to get into perfect condition. So, we shall see, right? We shall see. But, uh, you going to watch Pittsburgh Pro if there's a Oh, no. It's going to be so late for you. I just realized the time difference. Perhaps Jazz. Perhaps Jazz. Yeah. Um, I'm not gonna because my son's competing tomorrow and then he's competing Saturday, the same day as Pittsburgh. So, I won't be watching Pittsburgh, unfortunately. I got to be a good coach for my son. All right, let's get to some questions, guys. Here we go. Number one, is it true that 30 milligrams of Winstrol pill pre-workout four times a week or 120 milligrams weekly is more effective than 50 milligrams of Tren per week? And then he says, what's the minimum dosage of Tren that you see benefits from? I don't know. I mean, the trend is supposed to be twice almost as more anabolic than Whistle according to the Bill Welling anabolic index. But you know, this is I like doing mathematics comparing one to the other. 50 milligrams of tren per week. I don't think it's a serious anabolic dose. The one wild was 175. It was the old parabolan was 76 milligrams in ampule. Yeah. But was 1.5 so it was 100 milligrams because what was one and a half cc, right? Um well Dorian, you know, claims the old parabolone that he used when he was Mr. Olympia. He says he would do once 76 milligrams like on a Tuesday let's say yeah it was like 150 grams a week milligrams a week not grams but that was very effective these I would say 50 is better than nothing and it has to be the end of tester the slow yeah because like most people get the acetate the very fast acting and that's that's gone in like 48 hours faster than the proponate so you need it if not every day every other day for sure yeah so I I mean, I don't know. I' I'd be more inclined to go with the Winstro pre-workout for me because I don't I don't do train anymore. Pre-workout because water based. It goes straight into the blushing, you know, and it I used to shoot them in my delts before my workouts, half one hour before, you know, Winstro. Yeah. I used to inject them before my shoulder workouts when I was prepping because the one basically go straight to the blasting with no Yeah. Very painful. Wasn't the winrol very painful to inject? Yeah. Well, you had to shake it really fast, you know, to break down the particles. Had like crystals in it if you didn't shake it, right? Yeah. I mean, uh suspension was way Yeah. Way harsh. No. I was I remember giving uh an injection to a pro bodybuilder. This is many years ago. Like 15 years ago. Yeah. You told me blow it. You know, it blew because it it wouldn't go. I think the crystal got stuck in the needle and I kept pushing and pushing and it just went all over the place. It was terrible. a waste of perfectly good wind straw. Okay, next one is I have a nagging shoulder impingement. I've been seeing many good reviews online about BPC-157. What is a good dose for oral BPC-157? How long should I run it for? We manufacture 1 milligram. Actually 500 micrograms, but I suggested to use one milligram every day. Now I'm injecting BPC 800 micrograms uh twice a day. So 1.5 milligrams injectable BPC because I have a nasty uh inflammation in my shoulders in my triceps and I want to see the effects of it plus the GH of course they combined each other. Yeah. Um so half to one milligram uh okay uh for injectable and uh well the if you go for some information there it says 200 micrograms to 50. I asked Rama lay once and he said he's injecting 800 micrograms. So it's almost 1 milligram. Wow. So I'm doing this twice a day every 12 hours. I want to see the effect of this within two weeks because my APC is 25 milligrams. If you cut down this to 30 days, it's almost less than one milligram a day. Okay. But I want to see how it works. Now, does the oral version of BPC-157 is that it's not even effective, right? Come on. We don't know if it sustains to the stomach, you know? Yeah. Your stomach would your stomach would destroy it before it could even get into your bloodstream, right? Everything infected was better. I mean, people are afraid of needles, but let me tell you. Oh, come on. Do something else. Pill pills in general are just across the board. The the oral version of everything is worse than the injectable version. Inject, guys, if if you're afraid of needles, have your have your It's not in the batht you can do just like right into your stomach or you actually do you put it right into the shoulder area? No, I do it in my stomach, but uh and it's locally, so I have to inject over here. It's painful, so I do it in my stomach. Okay, fair enough. All right, next one. I've heard this question before. I've been on selfadministered TRT going on nine years. I'll be turning 44 soon. I would like to switch to doctor monitor. The clinic I spoke with wants me to stop taking tests for at least 3 weeks prior to getting blood work done. I'm dreading coming off for that long, then waiting once I restart for things to become stable again. Is there another option that either of you aware of that wouldn't require crashing my testosterone levels? Why to to come off for two weeks? I mean, you're gonna definitely crash the clinic because he the clinic wants him to be off everything for three weeks. I understand the reason. I mean, you need to to check out your levels. It needs to be at least one week apart, no more than that, unless you use the inido or the AV, right? But come off, why? You never come off of something that you're dependent on that, you know? You never come off of the T4 for instance, right? Never come off of your insulin or your cortisone if you're if you are depending on that. So why come off of testosterone? See what if the HPDA restarts, it's not going to start going to be zero for months. What are these things? So one week, one week post injection should be fine. One week with after last injection should be fine, right? One week if it's CPA, I think. Yes. So levels to see the 12 levels, right? And how much is just before injecting? That's the important thing. Okay. So uh sir, you can show the clinic, pass them this video, you can email them the link or whatever. Or if you want to be sneaky, just tell them you've been off for three weeks. people in the comments because he asked this in the comments for your last video. Find a particular reason for two weeks. I mean, let them explain why what they want to see if he can't if he if he can uh um come, huh? Yeah. I mean, you said it's maybe they want to see if his HPTA is going to start again, but it's not. This month, man, if not years, it takes months, not three weeks. In three weeks, the level is going to crash. He's going to be become fatigued, depressed. All right. So, there's no way HPDA after nine years of crashing your levels of suppressing your levels. This is crazy [\h__\h] This is [\h__\h] Come on. But I mean, even if he does have to crash his levels, it's only for a couple weeks. I mean, the world's not going to end, guy. You're going to be okay. To do that, it's only, you know. Yeah. All right. Next one is uh this is our last question. I was recently diagnosed with early repolarization which from what I could do I did a tiny bit of research it's just a slightly abnormal heart rate uh like a little arhythmia and stopped all stimulants I want to use 50 to 100 milligrams weekly of test sip will this affect my condition I don't think so but as a matter of fact abusing testosterone may give you some ariththia because uh then you disrupt the uh the the balance between The electrolytes in magnesium calcium affect the muscle contraction and one of the muscles is the heart. So abusing testosterone above the dose of the TRT can give you some heart palification and speeding the heart rate which is arythia but I don't think so this is TRT dose so I don't think will affect I mean that's a very low TRT dose 50 to 100 milligram. try to take also magnesium and then go for um for not ECG but ultrasound a triplet of the heart to see the rhythm you know and then put also a holder and be very cautious with with arhythmias because it's a silent killer just like the blood pressure okay all right well that is all our questions so next time I speak with you uh doc we'll know who won the Pittsburgh pro we'll see If you know how Krezo did, how Nick Walker did, if Derek won, Martin Fitzwwater, William Bonak's in the show. When is the Masters Olympia? Uh, Masters is in July. And I I thought Brandon Curry was going to do it, but he already now he says he's not doing it. So, yeah. I don't know who's going to do in the Masters. Any any big as far as like big names? Jimmy Mis is doing the Masters. Who's that? Jimmy M. Jimmy Mis. That's right. He's 60 now. How's he look? He's big. He's big. Yeah. I met Jimmy. You know, Jimmy, obviously he owns Supplement Company, but I met him two years ago in Orlando at the Olympia finals. I mean, he he said George George in Greek. A picture, we took a snap, but he was big. He was big for a 58 year old guy because I remember he he's was he is he born in Greece or is he born in US? I don't know. Greece later. He grew up I know he's America. He grew up in New Jersey in America in the USA, but he turned pro by winning the Greek Greek Championships. Yeah, he went over there to turn pro. So, yeah. Cool. Now, you did that show a couple times, didn't you? Which one? The Greek the Mr. Greece or the Greek national tournament. Yeah. So, all right. Cool. That is all the questions we have, guys. So, uh next week, we'll probably skip the weekend unless uh unless you're around on on Sunday. We'll see what happens. But, uh man, happy spring, everybody. Hope you're enjoying May AC around the world. Get your questions in, questions and comments underneath and get that book. Where did I put it? It's over here. The Bible of Bodybuilding 2 on Amazon.com. Support the doc. Support the show. Lots of great info in there. And that's it. Dr. T, thank you so much for doing what you do every single week here. You are much appreciated by the viewers around the world. So, thanks for watching everybody. We'll see you right here next time on Ask Dr.