Hey everybody, welcome to the Ron Line Report. Today's guest, you know him well as the voice of bodybuilding. Please welcome Bob Chick. Bob Chickillo. What's up, Bob? >> Yo, what's up, Ron? >> Yeah, thank you for doing this. I know you're off. You're off. You're out of town like every weekend, right? Pretty much. Well, this is AI got a big one coming up uh tomorrow. So, tomorrow I'm off to Italy for Panata. So, I'll be there at the home office in Apiro, Italy with Rudy Panata, Eduardo, the entire family and all that. Then, uh we are off to Australia uh for some business over there. And then right from there to Turkey, big expo in Turkey coming up. Um for anybody who wants info on all these, they'll all be on my IG. Uh then it's back to America. I got about five days and then uh the Olympia. You got a big show called the Olympia coming up, bro. I think I'm still working there. >> Yeah, that was my I'm going to get right right to it. You know, there was a an outcry of I don't know how many signatures the petition got. Was it a million, five million? How many? >> Well, yeah. They were all by the same guy, though. Yeah. >> So, there was a petition uh trying to get you ousted as the MC of the Olympia. They felt, oh, it's it's inappropriate for this guy to be doing these podcasts and critiquing bodybuilders in what they felt was a disrespectful way or a mean way. >> Uh, and then he gets up on stage and he's going to announce them coming out. How would you feel if Bob announced you, and this is a guy that said you're going to eighth place? I mean, Nick Walker took it in stride. He made shirts, said, "Who the [\h__\h] is Bob?" >> Probably sold a million of them. But, uh, so that's my first question. Bob, have you heard anything from Dan or Jake to indicate that your position as MC for the past 20 years plus as Mr. Olympia is in jeopardy? >> Uh, no. No, not at all. If anything, it's it's probably solidified my place even more because this is coming from people like like Mr. Potato Head and and his merry cast of misfits over there that nobody cares what any of them think. You can put all the petitions you want. First of all, and Ron, you and I go back long enough to know that this isn't anything new. I have been doing what I'm doing and and including MCing the Olympia for this will be my 20th year on the Olympia stage. Before that, even we go I go to other shows, but let's just stick with the 20-year deal. Me and Dan Solomon, as you know, were doing PBW before anybody uh did it. We were the the innovators. We were the ones breaking that ground. And we did >> Let me let me tell people that was the first bodybuilding podcast. It was called Pro Bodybuilding Weekly. So all of us who have podcasts, they were the first one. Go ahead. >> That's correct, sir. But and we did it better than anybody for 10 years. We ruled um you know with with commentary with critique u with breaking down competitions. We also at the same time used to do the playbyplay uh at the Arnold with Arnold u for many years at the Arnold. Then I finally got the microphone for the Olympia. So for the past 20 years I've been doing the Olympia in the entire 20 year history. also uh writing as you wrote many years for MD. I wrote for Flex Magazine, MD, other other uh magazines that we had going on at the time. So, this isn't anything new. We have been doing critique in in uh you know um predictions and different things like that for 20 years. It's never been an issue until now. So, I ask you, has the game changed or have the people changed? I I think uh as we've talked about in many discussions uh privately and openly on podcast, it's what we call the pussification of the bodybuilding world, bro. People can't take critique. They they they get offended. And the funny thing is is I haven't even heard anything from the athletes. It's all people like Mr. Potato Head and some of the rest of these fools. I I actually saw he had a guy named Abbis Katami that what dust bin he got this this loser out of is beyond me. I barely even know the guy and he's on there ripping me to shreds about it's inappropriate. How How would you like it? How would you like it? Do you think an Olympian on stage gives a crap? Well, number one, who's announcing them? And two, what what I might have predicted them to place or had some critique on. If that's where your mindset is at as an Olympian, then you're in the wrong place at the wrong time. Hm. Yeah. I mean, so just to put in perspective, the Olympia has been around for 60 years. There's been 60 of them. So, you've been the MC for onethird of the entire existence of the Mr. Olympia contest. >> Currently, if they didn't like what you did as as an MC, they would have replaced you long. They had many opportunities. >> And and Rob, your point, three administrations. I I started with leader obvious you know that entire you know the originator then went to AMI and Robin Shang and now with Jake Wood and his crew and there's only a few of us that have been around that long. Martin who's actually the the uh you know the guy that actually does all the production at the shows. He's been around as long as I have. Dan was in the mix for most of that time. Uh, and then there's me and I've withtood uh all. Um, obviously if they didn't like what I did, they they certainly wouldn't have me back. But I don't honestly see it as any type of a conflict. And the funny thing was is one of them. I think it was Abbis. This this again, I don't know where Mr. Beth comes up with these guys, but he says, "Well, well, Lonnie Keeper never did that. Lonnie Teeper never did it. He was he was the best and he just did this and he did that." How would you feel in that whole thing except for one problem, Ron? And you'll remember this being the historian that you are. It was a famous Lonnie Teper comment that Jay Cutler when he turned pro would just quote and I quote another blocky white guy who will never do anything as a pro unquote and then he proceeded to announce him at the Iron Man Championships which Lonnie hosted and the Arnold. So again, I could just blast these people with example after example, but what does make it and if you're doing predictions, because that was the other half of what he said. Well, you know, he he used to do the swami. He used to do predictions. It's like that was all innocent except for one thing. If you're doing predictions, aren't you predicting some people to lose? >> Yes. Yes. >> Right. So why is that okay? But but me predicting somebody or having my two cents on uh is a conflict of interest. What how does that stop me from doing my job on stage? Um again, which I've done for many. And by the way, go ask all these athletes to all the doubters out there. Um what they feel about how I announce him on stage or how I've taken care of. I ask Dennis James who I got out to a standing ovation in front of 10,000 people or a Joseé Raymond uh or or announcing uh Seabbum who put a nice message out to me um after his victory saying you know your your voice was in my head um for for this entire prep. You know I I would dream about your your voice announcing me as the winner. That's what that means to these people. You think true Olympians do not think about uh who picked them to place where and all that stuff. It just doesn't happen. >> Yeah. I mean, I've there I won't name names, but there's a few people just because I didn't predict them to win a specific contest. They never interviewed with me again. They were so irate. >> Wow. >> And they would and one in one case the guy did win and he said he gave me one message and he blocked me. He said, "Ha, what do you got to say now?" And I'm like, "I'm happy." I said, "Congratulations." And that was it. He blocked me. That was >> Listen, I mean, and again, just a further on the point. Um, because again, one of them over there, uh, you know, as they like to oppose me, you know. Oh, well, how do you think Nick would feel? You know, it's like, well, I don't know. Why don't you go ask Nick? I just announced him at the Pittsburgh show. >> It didn't seem to bother him. He didn't not come out when I called him. Um, I actually gave him a fist bump when he was coming off the stage after Derek was declared the winner. I don't know. He seemed pretty good. But, uh, and listen, if if Nick were to win this Olympia, great. I'm gonna give him the same over-the-top great intro that that anybody would I would give as the winner or wherever he might place or not place and that's kind of it. You think at that point he's going to be Karen. Actually, it would be a nice feather in his cap, right? I mean, so great. But this is all part of the game. This is exactly why bodybuilding is still where it's at is because this attitude. I mean, bro, can you imagine people getting on uh, you know, Troy Aman, you know, for for getting on some football play, you know, hey, this guy hasn't had the best season or, you know, gez, he's really got up his game. He's missed his last three field goals and then he's got to announce him in the Super Bowl. I mean, imagine how that player would feel, Ron. Right. >> Yeah. I mean, the, you know, I'm not a big sports fan, but they they call the plays and the players exactly see if a guy's having a bad game, he's not performing, they they they'll say it right then and there. We don't they don't have to sugar. Why do we have So, I guess a lot of people in the comments are saying it's it's not so much what you say, Bob. They don't like your delivery. They think you're >> it's like your it's your you know, but you have >> you got to know Bob. I've known Bob. I've known you for like 35 years. And you have that you have that really dry, sarcastic sense of humor. Um, >> yeah, a little bit. >> If you're not really used to it, you could take it the wrong way. So, I understand the quick question. Have you spoken to Nick Walker like in the past year since he made these comments that supposedly everyone, you know, >> well, we were the funny thing was at the height of this whole thing like when he he made his comments. So, I was asked a qu how it all started was I was asked a question by Jake Cutler on his Cutler cast if I thought Nick Walker could win the Olympia. I said, "No, that's just my opinion. I don't think that physique." I said there'll always be some guys in front. He, you know, he's put together a little blocky. I said, you know, he's built more like an H and a, you know, a Vtaper, you know, obviously being a little bit tongue and cheek there, but um that's his physique, okay? And it's like, no, that's my opinion that no, I don't believe he could win. Well, of course, that starts making the waves. Um, by the way, forget any any of the compliments I've given any of these guys, be it Nick, Rean, I I gave compliments to Phil Clayar last year before we, but nobody ever ever says anything about any of the compliments. They only focus because compliments aren't going to get headlines. So, um, anyway, fast forward, somebody asked Nick in response, so hey, what do you think about Bob? And he says, well, you know, who the f is Bob, right? And again, >> being being facicious on his Craig, listen, I'm all for it. The funny part was then he had some shirts, mate. >> I texted Nick. I'm like, "Hey, man. I appreciate. Hey, you got that in a 2X." He's like, "Yeah, sure." So, we're texting back and forth. >> He took it all in stride. Like I said, he was he didn't take it personally, but everybody else did. That was the funny part to it. >> Did he send you the shirt? >> No, I never did get a shirt, but I I you know, you know what I was thinking of? was a smart guy. But, you know, in case the planets did align and let's just say Nick did win the Olympics, I should have AI I should have a shirt like underneath my suit that I can uh you know, bust open with, you know, I I love Nick or you know, some kind of thing would be hilarious. But, uh, you know, it's just it's like I say, it's a sign of the times, Ron. Unfortunately, you know, society as a whole, as we're seeing, it's just they can't take critique. They can't take somebody and again Rean Grimes like we were talking about Rean um and I made probably five six count I love Regan Grimes' physique. I've said that a thousand times. Great physique, great structure, put together, you know, good, you know, a good-look guy. Um you know, could be a future Olympian. I I said all those things. You never heard one person repeat it. All you heard me say was >> I don't think that the physique he's presented so far is top six material. >> Yeah. >> And that if that's the best he can bring, then he's probably going to be fighting for 10th to 12th, you know, somewhere in that range. >> And then people went ballistic. Oh, you're who are you to tell Rean, you know, again, never even mentioned the compliments. They just went right to that one thing. And then the funniest part was is Rean kind of responded on one of the uh uh topics, you know, one of the things IG's or whatever. And he said something about, I mean, he wasn't being like nasty or anything. I've actually got a good relationship with Reagan, but he said something about, well, anytime uh you qualify for the Olympia, you you absolutely need to go. Like you you without question, period, except for one thing. I do my homework. Rean just a couple of years ago did qualify for the Olympia. was working with Milos and then pulled out about six weeks out saying that they just didn't feel like his physique was ready. And so it's like, well, that's exactly what I just said. >> Yeah, you can say I think we just tend as as humans in general to focus on the negative. I've noticed you could say 500 great things about an athlete. The one time you're critical, that's what everyone will hone in on. >> Oh, yeah. >> Sean, what a bum. Yeah. So, I just lost AI just lost a subscriber. Dog gone it. because I'm >> for because of you know what guys I would have anyone on this channel anyone that anyone that's newsworthy and Bob is certainly this has been in the news yeah I'll put I'll I'll interview whoever the hell I want to interview on my channel and if you don't like the person you don't have to watch the video go >> the funny thing is they are watching the video so >> well he's he's apparently he's all done but oh well they are >> yeah so uh someone wanted you to explain because I think it was a the big misunderstanding with the Arnold people. What happened where Let me try to get back to it. Geez, he's coming. I'm sure >> uh time of >> easily explained. >> Yeah, I'm sure. This was from Drew. Civil God, it's way back there. >> That's okay. I mean, uh I tell everybody exactly what happened with the Arnold people. >> Go ahead. While I try to find it anyway, >> we have a a difference of opinion. Listen, obviously I've been doing this many many years at at the highest level. Um, I've worked with Arnold for many years. They Jim Lurmer, God bless him, uh, used to bring me just to do the Sunday seminar, which we turned into a very big success over the years and finally got an opportunity to host it. And I'm like, great. So, I did it for a few years. Well, um, not this year, but last year. Um, you know, they got a new administration over there and they're very unprepared. Uh, the production was not up to par, up to snuff. Um, things weren't being done in advance. They weren't, you know, set. I don't have a set. There is no teleprompter just to let everybody know. Okay. Not at the Olympia, not at the Arnold, not at nothing. I'm on my own pretty much. I have a basically a bullet point list of of of a general running of the show. That's it. I have to fill in every other blank with everything. Um, we can get into that stuff later, especially at the Olympia as it's coming up. But there was things that were put together and I'll just give you one specific. um during the show they wanted to go to a commercial break and but they weren't going to show it on the screen there in in attendance um at at the show at live. >> Okay. >> So I said okay well how long's the commercial? They says you know the commercial's a minute. Okay. I said well then obviously I'll fill in like which I do at the Olympia as well. Then they said okay then you're coming back to me. They says no then we're going to go to the back where Tuad whoever was was doing the commentary uh you know and and was doing commentary. So, they're going to go from the commercial right to that. I says, "Okay, you're going to show that on the big screen." They says, "No." I said, "Well, how long are we going to them for?" "About 2, three minutes." "Whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute here. I know a little bit about production." So, you're going to go to a minute commercial that they're not showing on the screen. Then they're going to go to the backstage, show them for two, that's about four minutes. What am I doing during this time? Well, uh, nothing. >> I says, "Do you have any idea?" Now, this this is their inability because they've had in the three years I've done it, they've had three different uh sets of production people on it. So, everybody's new every year, which is part of the problem. I said, "Do you have any idea how long the bedtime four minutes on stages with when you have a live audience and kind of fell on deaf ear?" So, sure enough, we go to the first I says, "Look, it it's your production. I'm here to do the best I can and to help." We went to that first round and there was nothing going on stage. Zero. And it's dragging, dragging, dragon. And I look down and I Arnold's right in front of me. He's right in the the front row and I see, you know, the producer go over to Arnold and I can read Arnold's lips. He's going, "What the hell's going on? Why is there nothing going on, you know, and I they're kind of going back and forth." Well, the producer got basically throws me under the bus like like this was my fault. And I says, "Hey, I don't have anything to do with your production. I told you this was going to happen. I told you it was going to be a mess and you didn't want to listen but you know we we had some choice words and I told him look it um I was already committed to doing the Arnold UK which was like a week later or two. Um I I served out my time and I told him I think you need to find somebody else. I'm not going to I'm not lending my name which the UK was a disaster as well production wise. Uh but I said look at I this ain't >> I'm not gonna work like this. Okay. It's I'm not gonna lend my name to it. I've got a reputation as well and I and I've been doing the Olympia for 20 years. So, I wish basically I wish you the best and that was the end of it. It's that simple. >> Fair enough. Yeah. One thing I want to note is the MC, it's an important job, but I don't think anyone goes to the Olympia or doesn't go to the Olympia based on who's the MC going to be this year. So, when they when they say, "Oh, we're going to play the Olympia if Bob," you really you're not going to go to the Olympia and see Samson, Hottie, Nick Walker, Andrew Jack, Martin Fitzwwater, Derek Lunsford, uh the classic guy, the summer. You're not going to see any of them because you're mad that Bob's the MC. No, no one's going to do that. Come on. >> Well, again, two different things, though. They're two different angles. And that's is why I can't express people to know what I say on my podcast, your podcast, uh, in print or whatever predictions, uh, my opinion on things. Again, I'm an analyst. We've been doing this for over 20 years, okay? Nothing different than we've always done. It's got nothing to do when I step on stage. I'm a professional. I don't care whether I like somebody or hate their guts. They're still going to get the same intro. They're still going to get a, you know, treat them like a professional. Um, nobody's ever accused me of not being professional on stage. I've never heard that one. So, >> um, but you know what's funny, Ron, is you got to keep things in context because, >> you know, the unsilent minority is the ones who go on these podcasts and they say stuff and they, you know, oh, I hate Bob or I don't like this or I don't like that or whatever. But the overwhelming silent majority who who just look at this stuff as, you know, interesting when they're when they're on the toilet, um they don't listen, they're not going to get involved. They don't care, you know. But but here's what's nice is like when I go out out of the country, um go to different events. There's hundreds if not thousands of people who come up, thousands overseas. I go to the Turkey Expo, Australia, uh, uh, uh, Reiny, Italy, Fibo, Germany, which, as you know, I'm bigger than Hasselhoff in Germany. Um, >> bro, they were coming up in I have a line a mile long. I'm not even exaggerating. I tell you what, we'll put footage up at these things of fans and they come up from all over the world and, well, man, I I hear your voice in the gym and, you know, they're very complimentary. Hey, can we get a picture? Can you autograph it? They come up with pictures. Those are the real fans that are out there, not the basement dwellers and the idiots on on Eggheheads podcast that come on there. Again, the the the aisle of uh of misfit toys. You know, it's funny is this. They're all in the same category. Matt, who who boasts as himself as a you know, twotime Mr. Canada, well, it took 5 seconds of research to see he's a no time Mr. Can. Even that's a lie. If anybody should be apologizing, it should be him to the guys who won the overalls. He's not Mr. Anything. He won his class two times at something. That doesn't give you a Mr. title. Somebody beats you for the overall title. And you know me, Ron, I'm a stickler when it comes to titles. I don't want to see men's physique guys calling himself Mr. Olympia. He's not. Um, but you know, and then you've got, you know, Phil again, you know, enough talked about him, but you know, a poor sport and a loser who who, you know, can't take critique. Um, you know, was a poor sport, walked off the stage basically and now has quit, you know, the Federation. Well, good. And that's why I told him to retire, by the way, for everybody. Oh, he's telling athletes to retire. No, I'm not. I told Phil Clayar to retire. You know why? Because he doesn't have the mental acuity to be in this game and be judged. Clearly, he's got a problem with the judging. Which brings up the next point, Ron. I'm just rambling here, but um why are they on my ass? Like I if your problem was that you thought Steve did a horrible job and Sandy, our two top Olympia judges, or that there's a conspiracy that they somebody called, don't forget Ron, the bat phone to the uh >> to Jim Manion. Um and they called and they had them switch it and all that stuff. Where where's your uh where's your petition to get rid of Steve and Sandy? Where's your petition to get rid of Jim Manion or Tyler Manion or boycott the IFBB Pro League? What? You want me removed as the MC like like I voted or uh like why you're going after the wrong people. >> Yeah. Well, someone wanted to know uh what what actually they're asking about Earth. We'll get that out of the way because I was gonna ask about that eventually. So, >> yes, >> we have a new uh a new new qualify. You only say new if they win. It's not just being in the show, but uh you weren't Were you at that show or No, >> which one? Uh Italy. >> Italy. Yeah. >> No, but I will say uh this is very provable. I am the only podcaster, Ron. The only expert that picked to win this show. I take great pride in >> Wow. Okay. So, but you'll get no credit for that. >> No, I get no credit for that. But listen, this was an easy call. And actually, there's footage. Um, I believe TK has footage that he's put up on the Olympia TV of us at the New York Pro. Not this year, but last year where we're all backstage, me, Chris Cormier, TK, and Z. And I'm telling him to go into the Open. I'm telling him like, you need to switch over, man. You've got all the the attributes, you got the size, you got the shape, you know, and he's and he's kind of nodding like, yeah, you know, okay. But, um, yeah, listen, you could see this coming a mile away. This kid's got tremendous potential. um great bodybuilder and and this was a great move. >> Yeah, I mean I was I I have I was I called this the best surprise of the of the 2025 season because when I heard he was 30 pounds going to be 30 pounds heavier. I said, "Oh no, >> AI thought it was he was miscalculating. There's no way he was going to be 260 on that stage." B I said, "If he is 260, he can't be he can't be in condition at that weight." But >> good condition. >> He did that. Phenomenal. tremendous job, great move. You're again, you're going to see a few other athletes and, you know, this brings up another great subject that that we can, you know, delve into a little bit. But, um, for some odd reason, and I've actually heard this on other people's podcast, some people are very prominent in the industry saying, "Well, you know, a lot of the best bodybuilds are in other categories and, you know, they're not in the open, they're in other categories." Yeah, listen people, that, you know what that means? That means the system that we designed is working. We don't lock the doors from the outside. these athletes can come in and move to any division they want after they're already in, i.e. Logan Franklin started as a men's physique competitor. Now, yeah, >> a champion and and knocking on the door of of his first Olympia win. He'll certainly be in contention. Keon Pearson is is going to move up. Sean Clarita has gone into open shows has done well. Derek Lungsford, Hottie Chupan, were both two 212 guys who have moved over. You know, to all these cries I've heard, Lee Priest and other people, you know, we don't need these divisions. They just need to get rid of these divisions. What's the point of it? There's a very good point of it. First of all, not everybody, all right, has the ability to move up to the open. Okay? They just don't. Some guys in the 212, they they'll never have that kind of a physique that they have. Keon does, but he's an exception to the rule. All these guys are exceptions to the rule. But go ask Flex Lewis uh how important the 212 was or Guyy's sister Nino or Jose Raymond who wouldn't even turn pro. As you well know, this guy could have turned pro a hundred times in the NBC, our most celebrated amateur of all time, but there was nowhere to go for him until we created the 212 division. But this is a starting point that you can move in and move up. If you go to classic, which is bodybuilding, everybody don't get it confused. They make it sound like this was some big shift, you know, you know, seismic shift in the thing. These are bodybuilders and there's some damn good bodybuilders in there. When they feel like they're ready or they wish to to go in the open, go. But the idea that we don't need other other uh divisions or classes or opportunity is there's people that wouldn't even had a career if they didn't have uh an opportunity to be a champion in a different category. So, um keep it in context people. Okay, just keep it in contact. No, we do need other divisions. It's good for the growth of the sport and it allows more opportunity and it allows for growth within the sport. >> Uh, I wonder I want to address this real quick. How do you got his visa? I heard that yesterday. >> Don't worry about >> he's here. >> I hope Bayou is right behind him, bro. God willing. >> Yeah. What else we said? >> Because that's a big difference in that lineup. If if if Hottie and Beus are there, that's two of your guys in your top five. Well, obviously, uh, Beirus, I don't know. I've heard, >> no one seems to be able to clarify this. I've heard that he was in the Iranian military and that's why >> he's most likely not going to get a visa because that's, you know, a country we're not on good terms with. And he was in the military. >> Hypothetically, if he can get her, and again, we've all speculated because he hasn't gotten here the last two years, which is a tragedy. But, um, if he can get, most people aren't familiar like, oh, Beirus, why would you have Beirus in the top five, you know, and all that? I'll tell you why. Because me and a whole bunch of other people that have seen Beirus in person and I've seen him for the last three years, you know, winning the Dubai Pro and and selected shows overseas know that he's a tremendous bodybuilder. He's a threat. He's bigger than you think he is. Uh he's put together very well and he's very consistent with his conditioning. But would he be a threat to the top five? Absolutely and without question. But most people just aren't familiar with him, Ron. >> No, I agree. I mean, because he's he's never got into the USA to compete where we can see him. >> He's won many I I think he's got six or eight wins overseas already. >> He's he's a great body, but like I say, it's only, you know, then now there's politics. We talk politics, people. That's real politics. It's not the [\h__\h] that you hear from these other idiots like Mr. Potato Head on there crying conspiracy every time somebody doesn't win. And it's like, you know, and the funny part was, oh, Ron, I don't know if I if I didn't send you this uh remind me to. I stumble on a piece of video footage from when Phil Clayhar won the uh the Orlando Pro. Okay. >> Yeah. >> And it's actually it's your your buddy Giles who's interviewing him. >> And Giles says, "So, Phil, you won. You know, how's it feel?" And he's like, "Wow, it hasn't even sunk in yet." Now, you know, they're doing the usual dance. And then he says, "Wow, after prejudging, you were behind." You're going to love this. So, you were behind after prejudging, so you had to catch up. But it was only a few hours before the finals was coming up and somehow you were able to put it together and you came back and you and you beat Hassan. You won. >> And Phil goes on to explain what he did. You know, I ate this, I did that. And I was like, geez, you know what? That sounds really familiar, doesn't it? >> Yeah. I don't want to get to I don't want to keep dragging that up, but what do you think? But just to clarify, okay, it's it's interesting when it's on that side. It's okay when you're on the receiving end though of somebody overtaking you. Now it's politics. This is why I got a problem with not just him. Other people that that have that have uh you know, they always got to go to the politic or the excuse pile when in reality it's like maybe the other guy was just better than you that day. >> Yeah. Well, I mean, honestly, the the the that's I did want to touch on the Masters in general because it didn't have the best lineup. I mean, if you go back in time, we had guys >> Hey, hey, hey, don't be a hater, Ron. What do you mean? He doesn't have the best lineup. >> It didn't. I mean, look, think about when So, the Olympia, the Masters Olympia began 1994. Robbie Robinson was the first champ. Lo was second place to him. Vince Taylor won it five times. Dexter Jackson won that show. Dennis James competed in it. We used to have a lot of big names, guys that were When Dexter won, he was still a very active open competitor and still winning open shows. It's sort of become a a place where the guys who never really were very good in open, some of them have won an open show, like Phil won one open show. Dorian Haywood never won an open show. He won a master show. Um, what would it take? >> What it's turned into, Ron, is not what it was designed for originally. It was originally designed by Weer to showcase some of the old legends coming back. It was actually really put in place for Lou Farigno to win. uh for people that like to cry politics and stuff. That show was put on a silver platter for Louisie and he ended up getting beat by Robbie Robinson. Not that Robbie was bad by any stretch, but you easily could have given it to Lou. Nobody would have batted an eye, but you know, you talk about lack of politics. I mean, come on. They could have done that all day long, but you know, here's an interesting spin, Ron. You'll appreciate. I just thought of this the other day, but you know who blew it big time in my opinion. >> Who? So, we're debating whether Phil or Dorian should have won the Masters and that whole thing. And you know, again, we see the lineup and you and I agree. It wasn't the most stellar lineup. I know people want to give me [\h__\h] about that, too. But listen, people are just when I say there was no superstars. Well, in our context of superstars, now there wasn't a Dexter Jackson. There wasn't a a Brandon Curry uh or a William Bonak or people that were eligible. But you know who was eligible though, Ron, >> that didn't go in and I think probably made a big mistake on that >> is Sergio. >> Yes, he is over 40 now, >> bro. >> Think about this, right? >> Sergio, we we just saw him, right? Comes up fourth in this Italy show. Now he's not doing Germany, but that's a separate issue. But I it it the other day a light bulb went off. about, oh my god, like why didn't Sergio Sergio, with all due respect to to the uh you know, the present that were there would have wiped the floor with these guys without even a question. I mean, that's he's miles ahead of both these guys and anybody else that was in that lineup. But he's over 40. Listen, the chance of him winning the Olympia is obviously ebbing out these days. But bro, he could have won himself a Mast's Olympia title, put 25 grand in his pocket. It would have been the easiest money he ever made and then gone on to Italy and and whatever else he wanted to do. But what a what a lost opportunity. >> Yeah, I mean I I I want to contact him. I've been remiss, but I don't know why he didn't do it. It would have been I don't want to say easy win, but I mean it would have been easy. I can u I can speculate why and this is purely just my own speculation but I'm going to guess if you were to ask Sergio why didn't you consider going in the Masters he would have said I don't want to really be a M I'm not a Mast's competitor right I'm still competing on the circuit I don't want to be known as a Mast's competitor you know that type of thing >> would be my guess but to me it's like bro you got to seize opportunity listen his father is an icon I don't care what Sergio ever did as Greek you could never his father was a time and a place and an icon and you're not going to get around that. Um, but you know what? You could have got a Masters Olympia title. So, just my own two, but now I heard he's not going in Germany. >> He's not on the list. And you know, other two other guys who are very active and they're going to be in the Mr. Olympia who are over 40. They're both I think Brandon Curry's 42 and I want to say William Bonak is 44. >> Either either one of those guys could have blown that show away. You know, they could have came in 85% and probably still won. That's how good they are compared to >> Well, like I said, that the show was made for, you know, we'll call them superstars again, icon type of a things. And that's that's just not where it's at these days. And and I think that that's something they kind of need to look at for the future of, okay, if you're going to do this, like in my opinion, I would, you know, offer a few different things uh up for grabs and, you know, I can have that discussion with the the powers that be um down the road if you're going to continue it. The problem is it just doesn't have a big fan base and and that's unfortunate, but um not all the divisions have have a great fan base. That's just a fact of uh of life. >> True. I mean, we we wanted, you know, my dream Masters Olympia lineup would be all these guys that are over 40 who are excellent. Bonak, Curry, Kai Green, Jay Cutler, Phil Heath. You know, Kai and Kai and Phil have both said, you know, they both sort of indicated they would do it for the for the right amount of money, meaning they would want like >> like a million dollars just show up. I I think >> so. So would I. >> I mean, but I just I don't see how the the promoters would get their money back on an investment like that. >> Listen, I'm sure the promoter of this show uh found himself in a you know, bit of a pickle at the end of this thing, but you know, I'm not going to go into all that. I I tell you what, just a suggestion, but if if it was me calling the shots, Ron. >> Yeah. >> I would award a Mast's Olympia title kind of like you award a most muscular award like at the Arnold or a best poser award, I would award a Mast's Olympia title to whoever the athlete is that finishes the highest that's that's over 45 at the Olympia. >> So, >> you know, and and it's not a separate show. It's just if we have anybody over 45, let's just say there was three of them and this guy ends up, you know, taking sixth place. He's the highest. So, he wins the man, you know, we we award a people's champ. We award most muscular. Why not? >> What do you think about having the Masters Olympia as part of the Olympia weekend, which would have to be an Olympia two weeks at that point to to >> accommodate? I'm not I'm not in favor of really anything. I'm not even a big fan, I got to be honest, of the amateur. like I would take the amateur I think and move it um to a different time frame because it it does add a lot to the cost of the Olympia. You you listen, you need facilities and staffing and all that for another two or three days >> for the amateurs. You know, the judges are there longer. And if you're going there for the amateurs, you're there on Saturday or Sunday or Monday. The chances of those people hanging around to spend thousands more dollars that they've already spent, you know, competing and being in Vegas and and preps and all that um is very little. But uh it's already a big enough weekend because unlike the Arnold and I've explained this many times to people, we are saddled with the honor of having all the divisions. >> Okay, the Arnold has half and and that's their right of Arnold, his people. >> They can have whatever they want or not have whatever they want. The Olympia is the Olympia. We have 12 divisions or we will have 12 when the uh fit model I believe is is introduced next year. >> So we've got 12 divisions to fulfill. Now, to their credit, we've now got some point system in place, which is great because that's hopefully going to cut some of those numbers down in half. Again, not all of the divisions, but at least the big four um are going to get cut because this year and because this goes into effect next year, people, guess who's going to be on stage for for hour upon hour on announcing, you know, 450 names. So, >> you >> I think I think it's Hang on a second. >> You do you do the amateur as well? Hang on. >> Yeah. Uh, >> okay. Great. Beautiful. All right. Yeah, I'll tell Ron. Thanks. >> Okay. >> I'm in. >> Okay. Well, I didn't know I didn't know if you did the amateur as well. I haven't been to the amateur in years. >> No, no, no. I I don't do the amateur. Uh, thank God. I believe uh Tim Wilkins does the amateur, bro. We're going to have over 450 pros. >> Oh, just in the Oh, it's 450. Oh, god. Well, that's, you know, that's remedied, I think, because of this point system. They will be cutting back. I I estimate it's going to be about 30% fewer athletes total next year because those divisions that have so many so many Olympia qualifiers, classic physique, men's physique, bikini, uh I think wellness was in there too. So now that that they're going to drastically reduce, we're not going to have 60 70 of them on stage at once, which is >> Yeah, >> for sure it's supposed to be the elite of the elite. 70 people in a division is that's not very elite to me. >> No. And this is it's a good start. Listen, there'll be some some uh you know, things we got to look at or make minor adjustments to. There's 10 systems you can put into place. Um but this is a good start, like I said, because it could cut it almost in half, run, if we're lucky. Depends on a couple of factors. How many people win multiple shows? You've got 25 that are getting in just on points, and then you've got some people that qualify uh from the year before. I've never been a big fan of the other than the Olympia winner themselves. I wouldn't qualify anybody else to be quite frank. Let them get out there. Let them compete. We need the superstars out there to to sell tickets. >> Yeah. I mean, obviously back in the day there weren't as many divisions, but I I don't remember the divisions having so many damn people. I think the biggest Olympia I recall from the past was maybe like 91 Olympia that had close to 30 guys in it, but most of the time it's between 20 and 25. Well, keep in mind it's it's when everything exploded is when we split from the uh IFBB elite, Raphael and his merry band of people over there. So, exponentially we we took on the rest of the world. >> So, that increased it a lot. And we've also increased as a sport. And listen, don't get me wrong, it that's what you need. You need growth, right? You need more competitions. You need more opportunity. You know, again, we're old school. I know Ron, we've talked about this many. I'm not a big fan of all the pro cards. I think I would at least just have winners. I think you need to win something cuz don't forget now with the points, technically speaking, you can go from zero to hero. You can go from amateur to the Olympia stage without ever winning a show. And I'm not a big fan of that. I think you need to have won something to to earn your way to the Olympia stage. >> Yeah. I mean, it's you do want to see winners. I mean I although I the thing I did like about the point system I kind of wish they had kept it for the open or brought or included it in the open. It's only five more people. It wasn't going to stuff the stage with a and say you had >> a situation like Cassan Herat earlier in the season where he was taking second second over and over again to really good people. It wasn't like he was beaten by bums >> in with the point system. He probably would have had enough points to get to the Olympia that way. Instead he didn't. He had to keep going and he won two shows. So he's going to Olympia on two wins. It's just there are situations where like let's say Nick Walker didn't call he got beat by Derek at Pittsburgh. Say he went to New York Pro and >> who else could have beat him. Maybe Derek went to that too and and won that. So Nick gets second at two of those shows. He still wouldn't have been qualified for the Olympia. >> He would have had to keep going. >> And this is why I say and you're dead on the money around Ron. There's going to be some growing pains. I I can see a few down the road. And that's a great scenario that I've also uh thought of which it's like well who's better that the guy that took three second place finishes and um or the the guy who just had the money and the time to go take fourth and fifths all throughout the season get enough points to get in there but obviously by the time they even get there they're going to be so burnt out. The other problem I I can see is uh again where we'll need some adjustment is it's going to be very difficult for athletes, let's say from the halfway point back um let's just say from 16 to 25 in the points to figure out what to do because it's like well what do you do? Do you rest on your laurels? Okay, I've got 30 points. Is that enough to stay or am I going to get bumped out? >> Yeah. >> And the only way to get points is to compete. So, it's like, well, if you're going to start preps for the Olympia on on the idea that I'm going to stay in that top 20, the lower, you know, let's just say 20th, you know, you're around there, right? >> Right. >> What do you do? Like, like all of a sudden, you see some people pile in front of you and you're 27th now. You don't have enough time to go into a show. You're not in shape to go into a show. So, you've got, you know, let's just say 8, nine, 10 weeks of prep involved and now you're out. So, there's going to have to be some strategy that gets used with some of those people because there is no safe point count. You're just you're going to take your best shot and then hope other people don't bump you out. So, like I said, good system, great move from the IFBB Pro League. Probably going to need to make some adjustments as we go. But, you know what? It's going to cut it down dramatically from we may have upwards of of 70 something almost 80 people in some of those classes this year. And that's not fair. Well, here's the problem, Ron. Again, people don't I look at it from all directions and production standpoint as well. When you've got that many people going across the state, first of all, God bless the judges because they're sitting there glazing over as number 78, 79, 80 is coming across. Two, it's not really fair to the athletes either because we got to keep cutting down the the free post, you know, their their individual routines because well, listen, you do the math. If they were one minute routines and you got 80 80 of them, that's 80 minutes plus on off plus me announcing them, you're looking at almost a 100red minutes so of just individual presentations. They're not even getting judged yet in comparison. So everybody's got to get cut down and that's not fair. When you make it to the Olympia, you should be able to shine and get your 15 minutes, so to say. So again, great moves, good positive stuff going forward, but um definitely be some growing pains I think as as the next year or so we can um you know, get these things ironed out. >> I could see Matt. Matt, you keep calling him Mr. Potato Head. His name is Matt. >> Mr. Potato Head. >> He just posted a a quote from my meatthead podcast because I said, "I love Sid's voice." Sid Farooq. I I like Sid's first really cool guy. Me, too. I just think Bob has a little more personality and pizzazz as an MC and he's posting that as I think to make it seem as if I'm insulting Sid, which I'm not. You have two different styles and >> right, >> you know, you have your catchphrases and your suits and your Sid's got that beautiful announcer voice. So, I never say anything bad about Sid, but Matt, if you want to go ahead and try to twist my words and >> Ron, he would never do that. Ron, come on. >> You're doing it right now, Matt. you know, you're doing it. You know, >> bro, this Listen, this guy is a complete loser, okay? He's he's not he has no pedigree. He has no background. He's not an expert. He got a Mr. Microphone for Christmas from his mom. And he decided to call himself a, you know, podcast, you know, guy in bodybuilding and some sort of an expert. This is the same guy who, by the way, who, you know, looked right into the camera. By the way, back up out of the camera. No wonder they call you Mr. Potato Head. That's all I see is this big giant face. in the camera doing these videos. It's like, bro, back up. >> Secondly, this is the same guy who who shoved his face into that camera and begged beg Derek Lunford. Bro, listen, bro. Listen, Derek. I know you're watching, man. Listen, bro. Bro, listen to me, man. Don't Don't do the Arnold, bro. Tell me, it's a bad move. It's a bad move, man. It's bad for your Don't Just listen to me. Don't do it. Oh, yeah. All he did was was win the show. Put a half a million dollars in his pocket. which is more money than than Egghehead's gonna going to make that's made in his life or probably ever will make total and and but this is the expert, right? This is the guy uh you know giving the advices. So I just tune him out, bro. He's not he's not even worth How's your petition going by the way? Uh Mr. Potato Head? Good. >> Is it an egg or a potato? You got to make up your mind, Bob. We need consistency. >> I like Egghehead is good. >> Okay. >> But I didn't Listen, I didn't start Mr. Potato with it. fans did, which is funny because when you go on his stuff, half his own fans don't even like him. >> Um, or people I should call him fans watching his stuff are very adamant that, uh, he's making a fool of himself on a constant level and then bringing other losers in of like kind. They're all got screwed. They all cry conspiracy. They, you know, they all, like I say, same same, you know, Island of Misfit toys is the best description I've heard. Uh Bob, someone is uh someone is uh attacking your body fat levels. Who was it? Bodybuilding cast. Bodybuilding News Network. Is that Josh? I think your name's Josh. >> Where's this notion that I'm some big fat bastard come from? Like >> how fat are you? I'm just curious. >> Listen, >> actually I'm knocking on the door into the 250s here, bro. I've been I've been leaning it up. But uh you know listen the faces I'll be handsome for the Olympia but you know Ron you've known me for again our entire career is in this game. >> Listen I'm not a small person just by nature. I I lift consistently because I've got I don't know about $250,000 worth of panata equipment in my my home gym. So u but to say I'm fat is is is kind of funny. But that's bodybuilding, right? By the way, this is the tolerant left here, bro. Who get on me for for saying something negative about somebody, but then turn around and rip on me for my appearance, my my voice. Uh, you know, they want me fired and and it's >> at its finest here. >> How you're Are you 61, 62 years old now, Bob? >> No, I'll be I'm not even 60, bro. I'm the I'm the baby of the group. So Shawn Ray just turned 60 the other day. >> Flex the rest of the They're all 60, bro. But I I got till December 1st. >> Okay. So, you're not even 60. All right. I was trying to give you credit and say you were 60. But still, I mean, people people looking at a guy who's 59 years old who was competing from age what? 13. >> Yeah. >> 13 until How old were you when did your last show? You were in your 40s. >> 40. I I won the Oddly enough, I won the Masters World Championship, which was the Masters Olympia at that time, and uh and hung them up. That's me at uh 15 right there. What's that? 1981. Yeah. So, oh yeah, it says 15 years. Yeah. So, >> I mean, this is the only sport I know where >> people will look at a guy who's been retired for 20, 30 years or more and say, "Ha, he doesn't look that great anymore." You know, >> by the way, I'll I'll invite any of these guys these days to put themselves where I am right there standing next to Marcus Rule, kicking his ass. I I might admit right there in that picture. That was the night of the fame, Night of the Champions, 2002, bro. Bro, that's Beauty and the Beast right there. How How do I not win this show? >> Well, that was that was the one where Rule was just on fire. He was a tank, >> bro. Politics, man. Politics. >> Politics. I'm just saying. I mean, no one expects these guys commentating in the in the booth uh on ESPN the football games who retired from they haven't played for 20 or 30 years. No one would expect them to get back on the field with these guys and run around and play. But people seem to think that bodybuilder, pro bodybuilders should try to maintain that physique until the day they die. And let's put it in perspective. If you were to keep doing all the juice and eating all the food and doing everything it takes, you're not going to make it to 70, 80 years old. There's no way. >> You know, I heard AI heard a real good quote the other day on one of the things I was flipping down, but it said it says, "Have you ever seen any 80year-old 300 pounders?" And you know what? And and when you think about that, you go, you know what? Listen, people, I ain't trying to be 200. My body naturally, for whatever reason, wants to be about 270, you know, two to 275. It's just I I been lifting weight since I was a kid. I have I had good receptors. I eat clean five or six days of the week. Um it's chicken and rice. It's eggs, egg whites in the morning. It's, you know, the usual Icon meals. Big shout out to them. Um, I got the cardio and and all that jazz. >> I am trying to get down to about I'd like to be about 240. I think that would be a good weight for me. Uh, better on the joints, better on everything. But, you know, the difference, Ron, is is we've been where they are, but they haven't been where we are. And that's a big difference. In your 20s, you should be training like an animal to get bigger and all that jazz. In your 30s, you should be perfecting your physique. When you get into your 40s, it should all be about preservation. >> Okay? You should preserving your joints. Your training needs to change. Even if you're a competitive bodybuilder at the highest level at that point, and Ron, both of us know numerous guys like the Dorian Yates type thing where they injured themselves out. Ronnie at the end was was getting injured and all that. What got you there is not what has to keep you there. Maintaining a world-class physique is easier than building a worldass physique. But the word to the wise people. Yeah. 59 years old. Um I'll put myself up against anybody. If you if you want to compare some picks, let's go. >> Yeah. I mean, someone just said, "Oh god, these going so fast." I appreciate you guys all being on the chat, by the way. But yeah, Matt saw saw that I was doing this podcast with you and that's that's when he just put out that uh clip of me saying Bob trying to make it look like I was I was throwing Sid under the bus. I like Sid AI would never do that. I pref when I say prefer. I can have a preference or opinion in physiques, MC's, anything. That's my everyone. You all got an [\h__\h] right? You all got an opinion, too. >> That's it. >> And you're all entitled to have your own [\h__\h] and your own opinion. So, >> well, most of them just are [\h__\h] Ron. But, you know, the funny thing, me and Sid are good friends, actually. It's funny because they all think like we're like we're enemies. It's like, look at I'm not enemies with them. David Bay who took over my spot at the Arnold. Um I have put in not that position but I have given David Bay jobs for years because we're good friends. I've given Tim Wilkins jobs. Um I've recommended Shann and Dave for jobs. Listen, we all have our own unique blend. Okay? Obviously somebody likes what I do. I've been doing it for for many many years now. But uh listen, Sid has a tremendous voice and you're right. Listen, Sid's an announcer. Okay? I'm an MC. There's actually a slight little difference there. and Sid does a great job with but what we do is two different worlds just like Lonnie Teper who you know wasn't the most you know boisterous type of an MC he had a particular style and that was fine for him but that's what he does and what I do and what's they're they're very different in in their approach um as announcing goes one of the best I've ever heard man he's he's great >> yeah I mean I I think I'm listening to a TV commercial or a movie preview whenever >> Mad Rapper Why am I a fraud fraud. Why am I a fraud? Did I Did I say I would never talk to Bob Chick again or something? >> Who's that? >> I don't know. The mad rapper. >> What's he want to know? >> He says I'm a fraud because I have you. I guess because I'm interviewing you. I don't know. >> You're a fraud >> apparently. I'm just curious. I'd like a further further elaboration on that. >> Okay. I mean, >> I'm just curious. I'm just curious. >> Yeah. >> Send those questions in, people. Here. This is your golden opportunity. You got something to ask? Go ahead. We got you. What's that list right there? I just want to this is uh the 1991 NPC nationals. So there was no I just want people to see how hard it took Bob years to turn pro but I want people to see what the amateurs used to look like in terms of the quality. This was one class at the nationals 1991. Kevin Leon won. Flex Wheeler second. The late Paul Cadzilla Deo third. A guy named Ronnie Coleman who would go on to win the guns fourth. fifth place Matt Mendenhal who was probably on 200 magazine covers in the 80s. Bob Cherillo was sixth. Chris Cormier who did okay for himself was seventh Fletcher Dinkaputo. So I mean >> yeah it was I I just I don't even know why I I put that up there. I just want people to know that the caliber of people that you had to go up against when you were competing. It was not not a bunch of slouches. >> Well, listen, I don't think there's anybody today that knows bodybuilding. And that's part of the problem today is I've seen podcasters just in the last I don't know what it is the last year in particular but everybody and their mother thinks they're a bodybuilding expert and the funny thing is they just don't know physiques. I just saw I don't want to get away from this because I want to comment on the 91 but I was watching uh somebody was doing some playbyplay. I don't know who it was. I was just listening to it and and I watching it as I was scrolling and they were doing the playbyplay on Italy and out comes Quinton. Now I I'm a tremendous Quinton fan. I think he's great. Um two years ago, unfortunately I predicted him to maybe do an upset victory, but he showed up not at his best and he took it the next year and and we saw the real Quinton this year. Good for him. But he comes out Ronnie, he's doing his his routine and this guy's going nuts, man. Look at Quinton. He's great. Oh, he's shredded. He does this. He's ripped. he's going to win the show. And I'm watching this thinking to myself, he's flat. Like, I'm not seeing what this guy's saying. I mean, I He's in shape, you know, and he's got some lines in his legs, but his whole upper body, chest through his shoulders, there's nothing going on. He's flat. All right? And I'm going, he's not going to win. But the difference of what I'm looking at versus what that guy was looking at is is two different animals. And this is why I say bringing it back to the 91 nationals. When I say something like you couldn't even have turned pro in my day or this guy would have had a difficult time even getting a pro card back in my day. Listen, we're not the old Muppet guys in the theater. Forget all that stuff, guys. Okay, we know. >> All right. So, you know, when I said to Nick, you know, like you wouldn't even have turned pro invite. That that wasn't so much as a put down rather than a fact. If anybody wants to take, we'll just use Nick because he's he was the subject. The pictures of him when he turned pro at the North American or whatever it was. >> Yeah. >> Go back into my day and and take that picture and put it next to I don't know Chris Cormier, Flex Wheeler, Ronnie Coleman, uh um Mike France, Dennis Newman. I mean, I can just I I listen, it was a very very difficult time. Um there was no super heavyweights, okay? He was a heavyweight and we were all bunched in there. Um, bro, even Edgar Fletcher, you just he was what, an eighth or ninth in it? Edgar Fletcher, this guy did couldn't even turn pro. Matt Men did them all. These guys were tremendous and they couldn't even get a pro card. That's the difference between yesterday and today. But you know what people, that's just the way it is. I mean, there's, you know, it is what it is. >> Yeah. I'm just showing Nick here. People want to know where you have him. uh you if you think he's going to be better because he is you see his updates he's looking enormous enormous lately. >> Um >> so here's the deal with Nick. >> Um and listen Nick's made great improvement. Again, nobody everybody negates anything good I ever say about Nick. Okay, listen. He's not my cup of tea when it comes to physiques. I definitely favor a Samson DA uh who everybody knows I'm been very much in support of uh a Clinton Beastwood. Again, same type. I like the bigger uh Arrian Grimes. Um Ed um Andrew Jaff I think is tremendous. That's my style of what I like as a Mr. Olympia. Now that said, Nick has made tremendous improvements. Um there's only so much he can do. Your shape is your shape. Okay? You can only change it so much and unfortunately proportions you can never change. So where do I have Nick? Well, some of it depends on whether uh Hottie and Beirus are actually in the show because that's two guys I would have in the top five. Let's assume everybody gets in. Okay, everybody's in and everybody's 100% which is never going to happen, Ron, but let's just go with it. Okay, Nick is not going to beat in my opinion. Everybody can chalk this up Samson Hottie or Derek. And people say, "Well, he almost beat Derek in Pittsburgh." It's like, well, and Martin Fitzwwater almost beat Nick in New York. So, that doesn't really mean anything. He the best Nick I've ever seen in Pittsburgh didn't beat a Derek Lunchford who was at 90%. So, you got that going. Okay. The coin Nick's phrase after Martin uh almost beat him in New York. If he couldn't beat me at my at my worst, what makes him think he can beat me at my best? Okay. That's three guys right there. That puts Nick in fourth. Can he do fourth? Yes, he can place as high as fourth. However, he's got to get past Martin Fitzwwater, who by the way, on a side note, Ron, I think if Martin showed up in in Pittsburgh like he did at the Olympia, he to be both of those guys in one. Um, Martin Fitzwwater, Andrew Jax, and Beirus Tobani. That that's your next three that Listen, they're all good bodybuilders, man. These guys are good. They all have better shape and proportion than Nick does. Nick has more muscle and is very consistent with his condition. This guy is one of the most consistent guys that we got in the pro. So, you can guarantee, assuming he makes it to the stage this year, and which we'd all love to see. Um, he's going to be fighting for those spots. He can go as high as fourth. He can go as low as sixth or seventh. You don't have Hunter in there this year. You got Nexzilla, who's a true freak. We don't know where he's going to end up. Um, we haven't even mentioned, uh, you know, uh, uh, Brandon Curry. You got William Bonak who's still bringing it. Um, who else we got in there, Ron? Who am I forgetting? >> Uh, well, as far people are gonna could possibly beat Nick, I don't I think you've got them covered. >> Yeah, >> there are other guys who are very very strong top 10 guys. Hakee Williams, Tonio Burton, >> um, Brett Wilkins pretty good. But I mean, we got we got guys, but I mean, >> I I could see Nick pulling an upset and being as high as second. I just don't see him beating >> I don't see anybody beating Samson unless Samson comes in super flat or He'd have to be off to get beat because he's looking so good right now. >> Well, he's I don't think Nick's ever beaten those other guy. He did beat Samson a couple years ago, but that was before Samson became Samson, >> right? >> So, um the other guys I don't think he's beaten, unless I'm mistaken in that, I don't think he's ever beaten Hottie, and I don't think he's ever beaten Derek. So, no, >> he's got his work cut out. Again, listen, I I hope everybody shows up in 100%. That would be awesome. And could he place as high as fourth in my opinion? Yes, he could. But, um, he's going to need some help. Nick's like a Branch Warren type of a guy where he he wasn't blessed with the best genetics, but he outworks everybody. He comes in in dice condition and he's got a lot of muscle and it's still a muscle show at the end of the day. But, Branch, uh, like a Nick, like those type of physiques, they need help. They need help from the other guys in terms of that guy's got to come in at 90%. That guy's got to miss the mark a little bit. That guy's got to soften up a little bit as he's posing because Nick's not going to fade away. He's never done that on siege. If anything, he gets better as he goes. So, um it it's rounding up to be a great Olympian. That's for sure. >> Yeah. And I mean, I think that that should be the focus. I hopefully that's all we're going to be talking about because we only have is it four weeks now? Is it that quickly coming? >> Well, we're we're at four. I actually get back from this trip And I'm and I'm packing shiny suits for for the Olympia, man. Like that's it. >> So yeah, I mean drama and stuff and negativity. I know it gets the clicks, it gets the views, but I I I want to focus on the Olympia moving forward this next month. It's going to be an amazing Olympia. Uh hey Bob Shigorilla, greetings from Germany. Okay. >> Ah, hey. Yeah, they spell it weird like that. I told you Hasselhoff over there. It's crazy. >> Sheilo. Wow. >> Yeah, they it's they got you know Germans got weird humor. So that by the way that's all due to my buddy Marcus Rule. Um he's the one who started that whole phase. But bro I couldn't even walk around at Feibo. I had to have full security because I couldn't get information. I went to Marcus's booth and um we had almost 2,000 people that were in line wanting to get pictures of me and Marcus at the same time. And like I say, it's all Marcus, man. I mean, we're we're good friends and we have been for many years. But uh but I still think I was prettier than he was at that show. No question. Well, yeah. You know, you were I mean, you were in a lot of movies and you got a lot of magazine coverage for a reason. You were not to say that you're not a good-looking guy now, but in your youth, you're a very good-look guy. I mean, I >> In my youth, man, now I'm a big fat [\h__\h] Look at Look at this rap. Look at >> beautiful. Yeah, you fat bastard. Anyway, you've been very generous with your time. I know you got to pack and get off to uh Europe again. So, uh Bob, I want to thank you and guys, appreciate you all being here. If you're catching this on the replay, drop your comments below. I can't promise you Bob will respond, but I will read them all and respond to them. >> I got some, bro. Listen, I will absolutely get on there as we fear nothing. By the way, congratulations to you, Ron, on your new venture here, your new podcast. Glad to see you got uh you got away from the dark side. To be honest with you, bro, >> you didn't really fit in over there. You were definitely the black sheep of that crew. So, good for you, bro. Get out there and and and uh you know, speak your peace. I mean, I I've said nothing bad about Matt, but he has made several posts, >> you know, trying to portray me, calling me out for flip-flopping or whatever the case may be. I have never come after you, Matt. I don't know why you feel necessary to come after me. Uh, I've said nothing bad about you or your podcast, but if you want to if you want to do that, I'm not going to say, "Ah, you're to keep my keep my name out of your mouth." That's not me. I'm Mr. I'm Mr. Nice Guy, unfortunately. But, uh, I I I'm not going to play that game and and go back and forth with you for views and clicks. It's not >> Listen, Ron, we've both been around long enough to know that's what people who are mentally inferior do. They can't debate. They can't go toe-to-toe. Um, they they can't rest on their laurels. They don't have any they they don't have any background. Again, no pedigree. So, they always resort to like street stuff, right? Like they start calling you. That's when you're truly losing the argument is when you start calling people names. >> Now, we're not talking about Mr. Potato Head. were just saying had good fun and and again I didn't give you that name that your your fans did. Um but they can't debate a topic. They just can't do it. So you know they they start again getting nasty calling threatening you know like I know Phil Clay he likes to call people cowards and stuff and all this like cowards like what are you even talking about? First of all we're I'm almost 60 years old. What do you mean cowards? Oh you know I saw him in Tampa. He didn't even say I never even saw him in Tampa. I had no clue he was even there. But if you saw me, why didn't you come up? Why Why didn't you say, "Hey, man. I want to talk to you for a few minutes." Or, "Hey, let's go over here and hash this out." Like like like real men. That's what they do. I And I I never got nothing. So, we're the coward for for speaking the truth or, you know, we're the coward for not backing down of our opinions. Come on, man. But I This is what I expect from these people, though, Ron. I mean, it's honestly, it's it's not shocking. >> Yeah. Anyway, well, let's wrap it up. Bob, I want to thank you so very much. Uh, one of these days I'm going to get you on the Meatthead podcast when you have time. It's We do it every Wednesday night at 7. You're still on Eastern time, right? >> Yeah, when I'm here, you know, more than happy, bro. Uh, we What's the meet at? Is that Is that just more nuts and bolts or like what are we doing on that one? >> It's just a panel. It's, you know, just like Muscle Discord or Bro Chat or uh Think Big. It's the one with the four or five guys in on at the same time, which it took me this long. >> Anytime, brother. Anytime. >> Appreciate it. All right, guys. So, drop your comments below. Good, bad, ugly, whatever it is, we can take it. And, uh, thank you, Bob Cherilla, the voice of bodybuilding. Have an excellent trip over in Europe. >> And looking forward to seeing you, MC the Olympia, once again. All right, thanks for watching everybody. We'll see you later.