Hey everybody, welcome to Wrong Line Report. Great guest today. You might know him as the older brother of David Bay, my former co-orker at MD and the MC of the Arnold Classic. But this guy is a master trainer. He's a Dorian Yates HIT certified master trainer. He's got a great blog uh about hit training on bay.com. Great YouTube channel. And I am someone who can talk about training all damn day. I don't really care to talk about drugs and nutrition. So, Drew Bay, I'm so happy to get you on because I know you have that passion about training. Uh, give us a little background of how you got into bodybuilding originally. >> Wow. Um, well, I think like a lot of guys our age, we were watching Arnold and Sly, JeanClaude Vanam, the action movies back in the 1980s, and I wanted to look like them. I wanted to look like a comic book superhero. I started working out uh pretty regularly when I was around 13 with some old iron weights and those plastic covered concrete weights that we got from one of my sister's friends uh fathers and a a rickety wooden bench in the basement and didn't have great genetics for it but enough that I responded pretty well and uh enough that I I was encouraged to stick with it and did that all through high school. Eventually ended up doing some uh natural bodybuilding and uh trying to think where to I should probably talk about how he got into highintensity training since we're kind of going that direction. But that's how I got into bodybuilding. got into hits specifically when I saw Dorian Yates and I think we all remember this uh Flex magazine in 1993, the Black Sock Photos. >> Oh yes. Yes. >> And it was just uh shocking. And I started reading everything I could about Dorian Yates and how he was training. And that led me to Mike Menser. And at the time I was doing typical bodybuilding training. I was probably working out about 2 hours, four days a week, sometimes five, depending on how often I could get to the gym. and um man I I was burnt out on it and I was not gaining size and started reading Mike Menser's articles. Dorian stuff led me to Mike Menser and I decided to give it a try. Why not? And I cut way back actually cut down to an upper lower split from one of Mike's articles twice weekly and ended up blowing up. I went from the low 150s to the low 180s. >> Wow. >> Within about 6 months. Now, a little bit of that was muscle memory from before. I'd gained a lot of I I was up to maybe the mid 160s in high school at 5'8. Uh not terrible for for a natural in in relatively lean condition. Thought I was going to go to the Marines after high school. So, I spent a lot of time running uh during the summer and not eating as much as I should have. went down to about uh 150 or so, but I was not building muscle back from there. I I've got no hearing in my right ear. They couldn't give me a waiver. So, ended up not being able to go. Got into college as soon as I could. Got back into lifting, dropped the running. Uh but, uh just couldn't seem to put the weight back on until I had started doing HIT and I just blew up from there. So, I regained that about roughly 15 pounds that I lost and then another 15 pounds on top of that. And people in the gym noticed uh they started asking what I was doing. Uh started training a few people and uh got in a little bit of trouble cuz I was not a trainer. I was going and meeting people to train them at gyms that I was not employed by and was told I was not allowed to do that. and a Gold's gym had just opened up near the college. Actually, it was a family gym, but they became a Gold's Gym franchise. And I thought, it's right down the road from the college. I'm going to go there. I'm going to get an actual staff training job so I can keep doing this and not get in any trouble. And I went in and I remember talking with the owner and expecting that there was going to be a little bit of a confrontation when I told him how I trained people because um it was it was a little controversial still what Mike was doing very different than the typical uh multisat more frequent bodybuilding training and as soon he asked me what I was doing and I told him that I was doing Mike Mener style heavyduty hit training. And he said, "I'm going to stop you right there." And I thought, "Shit, that's that's it. I'm I'm going to be shown the door." And he says, "I'm a client of Mike Mensers. That's exactly what we do here." >> Wow. >> And so that that was really how it got started. Um, working for him, a guy named Mike Moran up at Gold's Gym in Green Bay, Wisconsin. And he introduced me to Mike Menser. We would do monthly phone calls. They let me sit in and we did do a conference call. And then in early 1996, I moved down here to work with a guy named Ken Hutchkins who used to work for Arthur Jones at Nautilus uh starting in the late 1970s all the way until just before Arthur sold the company. And it just uh I just got lucky uh between you know staying in contact with Mike Mener and then through Ken Hutchkins got to meet and and spent a lot of time with everybody involved in highintensity training down here. You know Arthur started the company over in Lake Helen Florida and it was based out of Dan and a lot of the old hit guys are still in the area. El Darden is not too far from here in celebration. uh Jim Flanigan who was Arthur's general manager at Nautilus after uh Ed Farnum and who was a speaker for Nautilus. You see him in a lot of the older Nautilus videos. Um he's over here not too far from where I live actually. Jim Flanigan introduced me to Arthur Jones and so was able to talk with him a lot, mostly phone conversations, but actually got to go and visit Arthur at his home in Ocal a few times and and uh it was it I I just kind of fell into this. It was all just perfect timing and coincidences and been doing this now for well that was 94 that I started working for Mike Moranic Golds up in Green Bay. So, it's been a little over 30 years now. And uh it was 2 years ago, it was October of 2023 that I got to meet and finally meet and uh train with Dorian Yates. He was doing the DY HIT master trainer course at the CMI Muscle Gym >> near Orlando. And when I found out that he was going to be here, I signed up right away. And it was just an incredible experience. And uh man, if if anybody out there has the opportunity to go through the course, I cannot recommend it enough. Uh you will learn you will learn what it really means to exercise intensely. >> Yeah. >> Uh the workouts were were absolutely brutal. So yeah, it's it's coincidence that I I actually posted a picture from when I got I only got to train with Dorian twice. Um once in New Jersey and once in Birmingham, but uh man, still very very memorable workouts. And he wanted to let me know because you're a DHIT master trainer. There's one camp coming up in September. Not sure where. You can find it on the website, but he's got one spot left, guys. >> I think it might be in Marbella, Spain. if I remember correctly. >> So, have you been to Marbella? >> No, I would love to eventually I even though I've already gone through the the course and I've already got the certification. >> Yeah. >> I would love to go through it again just to go through all the workouts with Dorian. So, it was it was really it was an experience. Um I I don't think that there's anything that I could say that would really do it justice. It is um I don't think my legs worked properly for almost uh 2 weeks after the final workout. We we went through uh so it was 4 days in a in a row and normally with the HIT workouts uh even with enhanced trainees you would not do that many of those workouts on consecutive days but because of the schedule and time constraints >> we did. And the last one was the leg workout. We followed the the same workouts that he was doing um in the later 90s. It was a back workout for the first day. The second was chest and triceps. Uh then oh yeah, no chest and biceps. Then it was shoulders and triceps. Then the last one was legs. And something else that Dorian had us doing that he said normally he would have people do things like uh forced reps and rest pause after failure and finishing negatives sparingly. That it wasn't something that you wanted to do every workout and every exercise, but he was going to have us do them every workout and every exercise so that we could experience how he liked to have people do them. how he taught them as well as and see how they were instructed because we had a group of people. So, we weren't just learning how to do the stuff. Of course, with an instructor program, you also have to learn how to teach other people to do it. So, four workouts in a row, all with rest pause or force negatives after failure, um, and forced reps. And it was it it was absolutely brutal. But you're you're sitting there doing these exercises and there's Dorian Yates. I'm sorry. My dogs are >> It's okay. >> Getting excited over something. There's Dorian Yates. So, you don't want to to hold anything back at all. So, it was it was pretty intense, >> man. Yeah. I mean like I I I did that in and I was there for that body power expo. It was actually the second year. It was a much smaller expo back then. But Dorian I took a redeye flight from New Jersey from New you know over to to the UK. Trained with him early in the like 10 in the morning and then my legs were sore for probably about eight days. Uh geez it was there it is right there. I mean wow. Anyone who's had the privilege or the Yeah, I call it privilege of training with with under Dorian privilege can say a 30 minute workout for what he puts you through is tougher than any two or three hour workout you would ever do on your own. >> Yeah. I don't I don't think a lot of people realize how much harder these kind of workouts are. I know a lot of people kind of dismiss the idea of just performing one work set to failure. >> Yeah. But I I don't think people in general perform their exercises anywhere as hard as they think they do. And it's something that unless you've had somebody like Dorian or somebody who trains this way for a while and knows how to push people, unless you've got somebody like that pushing you through the workout, >> I I I really don't think most people have uh I don't think most people train nearly as intensely as they should. And until they've actually experienced it, they've had somebody who knows push them to do this, they can't really appreciate it. And it frustrates me because I hear a lot of people saying, "Oh, I tried hit. I tried cutting back to one set and didn't get very good results doing." Well, if you if you're just doing one set the way most people do one set, it's not going to work. It's not HIT is not one set to failure. Hit is one properly performed set to actual failure. Not not to when you feel like stopping, when you can't keep going, even if somebody had a gun to your head. If you get to that point where no matter how hard you contract, you physically cannot continue positive movement and strict form, that's that's when you stop. If if if you keep contracting and what I recommend is once you think you've gotten to momentary muscle failure, gradually try to contract harder and harder and harder without breaking form because you don't want to injure yourself. You don't stop unless there is no positive movement at all for about 5 seconds. Wow. >> And I say this because some people they get to the point where they think they've achieved momentary muscle failure, but if they really dig deep and try to contract as hard as they can, sometimes they'll find that they can it's sometimes it's really slow, but uh they may surprise themselves and find out they can perform one maybe even two more repetitions. And in fact, something that I used to do with uh clients when they were starting out is if I suspected that they were holding anything back or that they could push themselves a little bit harder, I would tell them, "I'm going to help you complete this repetition." And I would pretend to do a forced rep. I would apply just enough force that they could maybe feel that I was helping a little bit and then I would back off and I would see if they could complete it. And if it seemed like they were able to do maybe one more, I'd do it again. I'd say, "Okay, we're going to do one more." And sometimes people thought there was no possible way they could get another repetition. And they ended up completing two more repetitions. And and these are really slow, strict repetitions. So, um, I I tend to be a little more conservative with, uh, form, a little stricter than a lot of other people in high-intensity training. Uh, part of that comes from working with Ken Hutchkins. When Arthur hired him to work at Nautilus, Ken was working with Dr. James Keys, who was uh, running the Nautilus Orthopedic Clinic. Nautilus actually had physical therapy uh, there when they were earlier on. And then I think later he worked with uh Michael Wolf there. So they had all this therapy stuff going on. So instead of working with a lot of the bodybuilders like like El Darden was, Ken was over on the rehab end of things and also later supervised the exercise portion of a major osteoporosis study at the University of Florida that Nautilus had funded. So I I got into this because of bodybuilding and I thought that when I was doing personal training I was going to end up working mostly with bodybuilders. That was my interest. Found out that most of the money is in middle-aged people needing to lose fat and working with Ken. We worked with a lot of older very frail and injured people. And it wasn't as exciting as as maybe getting somebody ready for a contest, but on the upside, I learned how to work with and around all sorts of injuries and all sorts of conditions. And in doing so, also learn how to make sure that when you're training somebody, they can work as hard as humanly possible without sustaining those injuries in the first place. And quite frankly, I don't think most people need to train anywhere as strictly as what I do. It's it's not necessary for normal, healthy people that don't have any joint injuries, that don't have any any kind of conditions. But there's also no downside. And the problem with a lot of injuries is you don't really know how much your body can withstand until you cross that limit. And and so I've always been really really strict with this. Anyways, coming back to the point. So, when I've got people performing their repetitions, the reason that doing one to two more reps was uh significant is one or two of the repetitions that I would have somebody do is comparable to most people's, you know, probably three to five repetitions. Um, at the absolute minimum, uh, repetition cadence that I'm having most people using is a five 5-second positive, about a 2 to 3 second hold at the end point on exercises where it's challenging to to hold there, and then about a 5-second negative. And that's that's the minimum. If I got somebody that's a little more beat up or has some joint issues, I might have them go even slower or in some cases just have them do a static hold or a timestatic contraction. So, another one more rep or maybe two more reps, you're looking at probably another 10 to 20 something seconds that they didn't think that they could have done. >> Yeah. So, uh people are watching this, they want to know, is hit training really more effective than standard volume training. Have you worked with a lot of people who come from a volume training and higher frequency background or history and watch them make their progress? Is that >> a lot of hip people are going to be upset with me for saying this, but no. >> Oh, okay. >> So, here's the thing. You need five things if you want to get bigger and stronger. You have to train hard. You have to train progressively. And you have to train consistently. And the volume and the frequency of the training has to be within what your body can recover from and adapt to. There are a lot of programs, there are a lot of training methods that meet all of those requirements. >> The biggest difference is that HIT isn't a specific program. Instead, it is a system of principles for designing programs and adjusting them to individuals based on how they respond to exercise. And you've got a huge amount of variability in individuals in terms of the amount of exercise that they can tolerate within some time frame >> and how quickly it takes their body to recover between workouts or in some cases how long it takes particular muscle groups to recover between some uh between workouts. So it's it's like height. You've got some people who are practically giants. They're 7 and 1/2 ft tall. You've got some people who are barely 5t tall. Most of us are somewhere in between. And with recovery, you have some people who can work out hard for an hour, two hours most days of the week, and they can recover from and adapt to that because they have exceptional genetics for that. And you have some people at the extreme, and this is rare, but you do have some people who are just they have such poor genetics that they can only tolerate a very small amount of exercise very infrequently. These are typically not the people that go to the gym to work out, though, because they usually have all sorts of other problems. So, you're not really encountering them in most situations outside of rehab and and working with chronically ill people. it it goes pretty far in that direction. Again, most of us are somewhere in between. So, if you've got somebody that has really good recovery ability, they can adapt to a higher volume and frequency of training, they can do a lot of stuff and it's going to work pretty similarly for them because they can handle that. It's the people that are in the middle and lower that need to be a little bit more uh cautious with their volume and frequency and need to know how to adjust that to their body. And this is one of the things that is I I want to say that this is this is more of a hit thing, but there's a lot of hit people who don't understand this either. I get this all the time. people wanting to know what Mike Mener's program is, right? And they just want to follow the routines that Mike did. Well, Mike would have told you that these are a starting point. This is not something that you just do as is blindly. >> You start with it and then you adjust based on how your body responds to it. Now, this doesn't mean that somebody with exceptional genetics might not do a little better with a little bit more conservative volume and frequency because exercise is only going to stimulate your body to produce an increase in muscular strength and size up to a point. Beyond some point, any more exercise is not going to provide any additional stimulus, but it does continue to increase the stress on the body that your body has to spend resources recovering from. And your body is not going to produce as much of the adaptations until after it has already recovered from that stress. Beyond the point where you've achieved the maximum stimulus, additional exercise starts to become counterproductive because it uses resources that could have otherwise gone to adaptation. Now, this this is we're getting into optimal versus effective, but any program, literally any program, if you do it hard, progressively, and consistently, and you make sure that the volume and frequency is within what your body can recover from and adapt to, you're going to eventually get about as big and strong as your genetics allow. thing is people need to track everything that they're doing, make adjustments, uh measure, record, periodically evaluate and adjust and then repeat until they find what's working for them at the time. Unfortunately, this is also a moving target and as we get older, you know, maybe, you know, things change and and uh so we have more or less stresses in our life. Maybe we're sleeping better or worse, eating better or worse. There's a lot of things that affect recovery in response to exercise that people may need to make changes in these things with. Now, while all sorts of different programs can be similarly effective, one of the differences with and this is what I would consider modern HIT versus the old school Nautilus stuff is it is safer for people. Uh, one, if you're doing fewer exercises, that's less wear and tear on the body. fewer exercises and fewer sets. And if you're doing it with minimal acceleration and instead of just focusing on making the weights go up and down, you're taking your time with your repetitions and you're trying to start gradually, accelerate minimally, move in a way that you're keeping the muscles under relatively constant tension. You're also going to have a lower risk of injury, both acute injuries, because you're going to have less of an increase in peak force with the lower acceleration. If you're not yanking, swinging, heaving, jerking, dropping, and slamming the weights, you're lot you're a lot less likely to tear something or revulse something or or fracture something in worst cases. But also if let's say you spend one minute and let's say you lift in 5 seconds, you hold for two, you lower in 5 seconds, that's about five repetitions per minute. That's not a lot of repetitions. >> If you watch most people, they're going up and down in about a second. And I've actually spent some time watching all sorts of bodybuilders videos, watching people in the gym, and actually timing them. Um, if I go to a gym to record video, I I don't want to end up on a Joey Swole video. I'm very careful that I I don't want anybody in the background. I don't want to get in anybody's way. I don't want to piss anybody off. So, I wait until everything is clear, but I don't want to waste the time waiting. So, I'm doing social media stuff there. or sometimes I'm just watching, not filming people watching and just recording their set duration and their repetition duration because it is something that interests me. A lot of people will perform a repetitions that last maybe about 2 seconds, sometimes less. So most people in one minute might perform, if they did a set for a minute, might perform 30 repetitions as opposed to five. Now, most people don't do 30 repetitions per set, but you see a lot of people doing still 8 to 12. 8 to 12 has been a very popular repetition range for a long time. That many repetitions is about twice. Let's say you do four to six reps at a slower cadence, taking your time, >> versus 8 to 12. you're doing half the number of repetitions, but your muscles are going to be under tension for a similar or longer amount of time. >> So, in addition to the lower peak forces, less risk of acute injury, you have a little bit less wear and tear. And a big advantage to moving more slowly is that with the slower movement, you give yourself more time to react, to adjust based on what you're feeling during the exercise. If you've got maybe a shoulder issue and you're doing a pressing exercise and you're going at a typical cadence, at a typical speed, by the time you perceive that little pain, that twinge or that sharp pain in the shoulder, >> and your brain processes it and you realize what's happening, and then you make the decision, by the time you're able to act on that decision, you've already gone right through that position where it's irritating it. and maybe you have worsened an existing injury or condition or caused one. If you're taking your time with your repetitions though and as soon as you start actually if you're taking your time you might not even have that because the the forces involved are a little bit lower. >> But if you're taking your time with it as soon as you perceive that you've given yourself more time to make an adjustment so that you're not feeling that pain. And it also goes the same with attention. The whole point is not to do work. It's not to make weights go up and down. Making the weights go up and down is a means to an end. What we want to do when we're making the weights go up and down is use that weight to create tension in the muscles we're targeting to recruit and then have all of the motor units, all the fibers in those muscles under tension. And this and it seems to be at the fiber level that this is most important. So when we're doing an exercise, we want to make sure that the tension is on the muscles we're targeting and not going everywhere else. >> If you are moving more slowly, it is easier for you to focus on the tension that you are feeling in the muscles that you're targeting and also to be aware of what you're feeling in other parts of the body. So, if you start to feel a reduction in the tension in the muscles that you're trying to target with the exercise and you're moving slowly enough, you're able to adjust to get the tension back where you want it. And a lot of times it is a matter of positioning. And if you're feeling tension or discomfort outside of the muscles you're targeting, maybe something in the joints that are involved or other muscles or other body parts that are required for stabilization, start feeling a little bit something is off somewhere else. also gives you the ability to adjust. And um recently, actually about two years ago, there was a study was done by a James Steel, James Fiser. Um I think Wayne West guy Wayne >> Yeah, Wayne Wayne has been around forever, too. I got to meet him, man. This must have been like 907 98. Uh we I haven't talked with him for a while, but I don't want to go off on a tangent of Wayne Wescott. super nice guy. He actually came and visited us at Ken Hutchinson's facility a while back. Got a bunch of his books here. Any anyway, super nice guy. But uh I'm going off on a on a tangent. So I all of this is is uh so connected. So with the the it's talking about the tension on the target muscles and oh this the study they compared a 24 10 and a 3030 cadence which so L Darden came up with this idea where he'd have people do a 30-second negative followed by a single 30-cond positive another 30 second negative 90 seconds. So they compared that and the 10 10 seconds up 10 seconds down and the old Nautilus 24 protocol. They had everybody use enough weight that they were achieving momentary muscle failure in a similar time frame about 60 to 90 seconds. And they found that there was no difference in strength and size over that time. And this is u important to mention because they matched time. They didn't match repetitions. There have been a bunch of studies going back at at least to the mid 90s comparing the effectiveness of different repetition cadences. But most of them compared the different cadences with the same reps. They were thinking about mechanical work instead of thinking about time to failure, which is a better way to standardize it if you're comparing duration. Because if you take somebody that's lifting in a second and lowering in a second and have somebody else do the same number of repetitions with a 55 or 10 10 or definitely not a 3030 cadence. They're going to have to it's going to take forever. They're going to have to reduce the weight way too much. And I've had people see videos that I've done where I've just done a few repetitions and they ask, "How long do your workouts take? Three hours?" No, the workouts typically take about 20 to 30 minutes. If you reduce the speed of your repetitions, you don't do the same number of reps. If you double the duration of the rep, you have to have the rep count cuz you don't want to have your sets take that long. It people get the idea that if you slow down, you got to go super light. You don't have to go light. You you need to reduce the number of repetitions proportional to the increase in duration. Otherwise, your sets end up being way too long. And instead of doing strength training, you're just doing cardio with weights. >> I should be careful about that. Technically, if you do weights correctly, it is the best cardio. But that's I don't know if we want to even get into that. Something else that a lot of people don't realize about this is the amount of force that your muscles produce when they are contracting positively varies with the contraction uh velocity. Most people know that you're stronger lowering a weight than lifting a weight. You got your positive strength, your static strength, and your negative strength. What they don't know is that your positive strength is not a fixed amount. Your positive strength gets higher as your positive contraction speed gets slower. This is why the reps get slower as we approach momentary muscle failure. Everybody who's actually performed their exercises to momentary muscle failure on a consistent basis has noticed this. Your rep speed isn't the same rep after rep. There comes a point where it starts to slow down a lot. Well, if you start by moving more slowly, your positive force, the the force that your muscles can contract with positively is higher, which means that you have a smaller difference between your positive and negative strength. Now the negative strength doesn't I don't know why uh differences in how the cross bridges function but the negative strength doesn't appear to vary or at least not significantly with different negative speed but the positive does. So if your positive speed is relatively fast, this might be your positive strength and then this is your negative strength. But if so what ends up happening is you're limited by how much weight you can lift during the positive unless you got somebody helping you with it. >> So when you do the negative you're partially underloaded. Most people have have noticed if they're not going so fast that they don't. Most people noticed it's easier to lower a weight than lift a weight. But if you slow your positive speed down the force you can produce during the positive increases. So now the difference between your positive and your negative strength is even smaller. So the negative becomes a little bit more challenging if you move a little bit more slowly when you are doing the positive. Anyways, I could go on and on about this, but uh what I would recommend just as a practical guideline for most people is to move at least slowly enough that you can do three things. One, you want to be able to start and reverse direction with relatively low acceleration so that you reduce the peak forces, reduce your risk of injury, and also so that there's not a lot of momentum. So that instead of having the tension go way up and then drop off before it levels out, you have relatively constant tension on all the muscles you're targeting over the full range of motion. Go at least slowly enough that you're able to focus on the tension in the target muscles and that you give yourself some time to be able to adjust your body's position and your path of movement and and your range of motion based on how you're feeling. There's a lot of exercises, especially with free weights, where you're not challenged over the entire range of motion, >> and there are portions of the range of motion that are just a complete waste of time. >> A good example is a dumbbell lateral raise. The first third of a dumbbell lateral raise, the resistance is so low that it there's there's almost no point to to spending any time there. When you're lowering, if you're taking your time on the way down, if you pay attention to what you're feeling in your delts, there's a point where it starts to feel like the tension drops off even faster. As soon as you start feeling that tension going, you don't feel like you're being challenged. Reverse direction. Don't spend time in parts of the range of motion where you're not challenging the target muscles. And this would be an example of what I would consider a relatively controlled cadence. >> Quick question. So you remember you would know that the meners were experimenting with negative only training for a while where you know they would lower like 500 lb bench press slowly for reps. They didn't do any of the lifting. They would have a guy on each side of the barbell for the squat for the bench press whatever because you know studies had shown that negative negative theor part of the rep produced far more strength increases. We thought so. We thought so for a long time and uh within the last decade or so. There have been a bunch of studies and I I don't have any that I could pull out of the top of my head, but if you want I will go and get everything later on. If you want to post links and post uh citations, it used to be believed and I still get this from a lot of hit people that the micro trauma, the damage to the muscle fibers that occur during exercise was the primary stimulus for growth. You hear people saying you got to tear down the muscles so your body can build them back up and then grow. >> And it turns out that the primary stimulus for growth is not the damage. it is the tension. >> As as long as you've got the tension, the damage doesn't make a difference. And uh there were some studies showing that if you compared more damaging and less damaging protocols, >> yeah, >> there was no difference in the uh strength or hypertrophy. >> If if the damage was the primary stimulus, then you would expect it. Now, it might play a role, but it is probably the case that beyond some low level. Uh, this is I I needed to put on some more size for this year. So, that's that's old. I got a couple couple more pounds. Tamara Vaughn, she's going to the uh Masters Olympia next week. She is phenomenal. >> Oh, wow. >> Uh, so yeah, she's gonna fit she's a fitness Olympian. She's >> it. >> I don't want to go off on too many tangents, but uh fitness is probably one of not probably is one of my favorite divisions. I I enjoy watching them almost as much as I do the classic and the open. The routines are are just uh phenomenal. Anyways, she's Yeah, she's going to the Olympia next week. So, >> just not not to just to interrupt for a second, I believe they're the only ones that no one can argue that they are athletes. >> Ah, absolutely. They they are They are indisputably athletes. I know a lot of people say bodybuilding is a Here's the thing though. Anybody who says bodybuilding has is not a sport >> has never stood up there being put through the ringer by the judges over and over and over going through the mandatories. >> Um you if if you anybody out there right now who says that bodybuilding is a pageant, it's not a sport. >> Yeah. go get in contest condition and then while you are in that condition, get on stage under those lights and assuming that you get called out enough to be able to do this, you have the judges put you through four or five rounds of posing and then tell me it's not a sport, >> right? >> They don't know because they haven't done it and they have absolutely no idea how challenging posing is when it's done correctly. Um, bodybuilding is a sport. Yeah. There is absolutely no question about it because that posing is demanding when it's done correctly. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. It's uh >> Yeah, I know. I >> But the fitness the fitness competitors, holy [\h__\h] >> Yeah. There's something >> and and the crazy thing is they're being judged on their physique as well. So, they're getting in the kind of condition that all the rest of us have to, but then they're going and doing these routines, >> which I mean, you know what it feels like to be in that shape and just posing sometimes you step off stage and you just you're trying to make sure that you don't fall right right when you get past the curtain. >> Going out and doing what they do in the condition that they're in is just uh incredible. And and if anybody's never watched the fitness routines, I know a lot lot of bodybuilding fans probably they're just watching the posing routines and watching the prejudging. Watch some of these fitness competitors routines. It is it is something again, especially when you consider the kind of condition that they're in. >> Yeah. I mean, I was at I think it was the fame Olympia when Missy Truckart tore her patella tendon on stage during the routine and then um I can't recall the woman who was uh the champ the year before that. I think she tore her hamstring on stage and >> I know I know Whitney Jones had a lot of injuries from that. >> Yeah. So, I mean Yeah. But it's crazy if you see her at events. She looks she still looks amazing and she she moves around like she's she's uh still in in great shape. >> Of course she is, man. I I wanted to share my Nautilus background with you. Yours is far more expensive, but that's actually how I got into bodybuilding. I picked up a copy of I had a copy of Flex magazine in the fall of 87 and I said, I got to find out more about this sport. I want to look like these guys. So I was in uh I was in college. It was my first semester. I went to the campus bookstore and I I said where what books do we have on bodybuilding here? And I saw the Nautilus bodybuilding book by Arthur Jones. And next to that was the Nautilus advanced bodybuilding book by Ellington Darden, PhD. So I bought both of those. I bought the advanced book. Boyer Co was doing a novel with preacher crow on the cover. Yes, that was the book. That was the book right there. Boyer. Yeah, I've got uh pretty much everything El Darden wrote within arms reach. >> Yeah. So, I said, "Well, I want to get big fast. I'm gonna go right to the advanced book." And I did, you know, every chapter was like a shoulder this and that. I did all the routines in there. And in fact, even though we had a free gym on campus with free weights, the book, the Arc Jones book had convinced me that those are just obsolete caveman tools, uh, Nautilus machines were the future. So I the campus had a a knowledge room that you could join for a fee. I joined that did the workouts, you know, started getting bigger and stronger. Um and uh at the end of the following summer before I started my next year of college, I sent a letter to Ellington in because there was an address at the end for Florida for land headquarters. He was I think he was the CEO of the company at the time. >> L was their director of research. >> Okay. And um so I sent pictures and I said, you know, you rate my bodybuilding genetics and I I put my phone number and my my uh my address and one day the phone rang and it was garden and I was taken back. Oh my god. He's actually calling me. He said, "You don't have the genetic sport, kid. You don't have the muff bellies, but uh you know what? It's it's a it's a terrible sport for most guys. They just throw their lives away anyway. going out to California and becoming bums and I'm like, "Oh, I'll show him, you know." So, where are we now? Like, 40 years later. He was absolutely right about the genetics. I had a great time. Well, I guess the point is I kept training that style for about it was about a two-year period and I made great gains. And the only reason I stopped was I had started competing and I went to uh the head judge the day after I got like fifth place in a teenage show and I was really upset. So, I drove up to his gym. He owned a golden gym and I wondered what do I need to do? And he asked me about my training and I said, "Well, I train uh train the Nautilus style, one exercise per body part, full body workout. I think it was twice a week, three, three days a week." He says, "Well, your training is all wrong. You need to start training like a real bodybuilder. You know, five, six exercises per body part, four or five working sets. You got to train like six days a week." So, I started doing that. And to this day, I wonder if my joint wouldn't have would it would be in better shape now. I mean, I just had I just had a shoulder break four weeks ago. >> Might have. But and here's here's the thing, though. Uh and this is also something that actually frustrates me with a lot of hip people. There's a lot of hip people who are stuck in the 70s and 80s. And we've learned a lot since then. And uh a lot of HIT people think if it comes from anywhere outside of HIT, don't pay any attention to it. But three full body workouts per week done this way is excessive for people. If somebody wanted to do full body workouts in this style, I wouldn't have them do it more than twice weekly. >> I would rather have people do and if they want to train more frequently, upper, lower, alternating. So Monday, Wednesday, Friday, upper body, lower body, upper body. next week, lower, upper, lower. And that's similar to how Mike trained for the 1980 Mr. Olympia or pushpull legs or if you've got somebody cuz sometimes people can handle a certain volume of exercise within a week, but individual muscle groups may take longer to respond, in which case maybe even split it up four ways. And uh and a big a big part of the problem too with the frequency of workouts and the frequency per muscle group is you also have to consider where the advice is coming from because there is a massive difference in what you can handle, what you can recover from and adapt to even on a moderate cycle compared to what a genetically average natural trainee can new, >> which uh I think is is a a big it's a big part of the problem. You can't train like an enhanced bodybuilder if you are not enhanced and you don't have their genetics. But again, there five things. Everybody has to have those five things hard, progressively, consistently. Part of training consistently is not getting injured, which is part of the reason I put so much emphasis on form. But then where a lot of people get tripped up is that volume and frequency. It doesn't matter who you are. There is only so much exercise that your body can recover from and adapt to within some time. And different people's muscle groups require different amount of time between workouts to be able to recover. So you take somebody like Jay Cutler who was training twice daily, six days I think six days a week or oh man I I know he's probably changed. I know Ronnie did the same thing for years and years and years, but if I remember Jay was doing twice daily workouts, six days a week. Here's the thing. Jay is doing a lot of exercises. He typically does four sets per exercise. He's doing maybe four or five exercises per um per body part, but that volume and that frequency is within what Jay Cutler can recover from and adapt to. The fact that he got as big and mus as muscular as he did says that he wasn't overtraining. But what constitutes overtraining for somebody like that is going to be way higher. Yeah, Jay was He's still huge. >> Yeah, >> he's uh he's my age. I think he just he might be just a few months older. >> And if you if you run into him at events, his arms still stretch his sleeves. The guy is just unreal. But um Jay trained hard progressively and consistently with a volume and frequency that he could recover from and adapt to. But if you take the average person who is not enhanced and you have them try to do the same workouts, >> they're going to very quickly overtrain. And and this is why keeping track is so important. If people are not recording everything that they do and evaluating how their bodies are responding to it, then they can't really adjust what they're doing over time. If you've got these records, let's say you're doing something and you get a particular result and you're not happy with it. pick one thing and change it. And then after, you know, another maybe two, three months, compare what your results were in that time frame and see if the change either improved your results or maybe it made them worse or maybe it's the same. If it's the same, then just do whichever you like best. But if you got better results, then that change was a step in the right direction. Maybe taking another step in that direction, which for a lot of people is a reduction in volume or frequency, might give them even a little bit better results. They can't know if they're not keeping track, though. And it drives me nuts when I go to gyms and I see all these people working out and they're busting their asses, but there's no workout charts. They're on their phone on Instagram, but they're not tracking things. >> People have to keep track. You want to treat your workouts like a lifelong experiment, record the data. And Dorian Yates did this. He recorded everything he did in every every workout. >> Y >> again, recovery and adaptive ability varies so much between individuals. You can't just take a program that worked well for somebody else and say, "Well, I'm going to do this." Because you might not have their genetics or you might have better genetics than them. There's probably some kid out there who is the next Ronnie Coleman. Maybe chances are like one in 10 million, but maybe there is some kid out there who's the next Ronnie Coleman. If that kid just f some random routine and does it, he's going to get great results. But it but it might not be as good as they could be if he was tracking and experimenting and adjusting until he found out what gave him the best results. But uh and speaking of volume, one more thing when it comes down to the single versus multiple sets, and uh this is something again, it's probably gonna upset a lot of HIT people, but it bothers me that they haven't figured this out. HIT people like to talk about how the HIT workouts are low volume workouts or low volume workouts, and what all these bodybuilders are doing are high volume workouts. It's it's really not. If you look at effort over time rather than just the number of repetitions performed, >> if you go in time most people doing their sets, again, most people it's like 2 seconds per repetition. If they're doing 10 reps on average, that's about 20 seconds. If you're doing and uh you know, the old Nautilus guideline was 24 with maybe a 1 to 2 second pause. Y >> Arthur Jones and Mike Menser later reduced that for similar reasons to what I'm recommending. And they were about the last the last thing that Mike put in writing was 44. But I know people that he trained just before he passed away and he had them moving even more slowly than that. And at the late 90s and up until uh he died in I think it was June 2001. I was talking with Mike and Mike was also talking with Doug McGuff MD and a guy named Greg Anderson who's up in uh Seattle, Washington and we were all talking about repetition speed with him at the time and he did change that. Anyways, if you are doing a set that lasts 20 seconds, you're doing 8 to 10 or sorry, 8 to 12 reps about 10 reps on average, 2 seconds per rep, about 20 seconds per set. If you do four sets of that, that's about 80 seconds right there. >> A lot of people, they're three to four sets per exercise. If you're not swinging and and dropping the weight, if you're taking your time and maybe it takes you as almost as long per rep as some people do a few. Um, again, I like as a minimum cadence about 55 with about a 2 to 3 second hold. I like to really squeeze when I get to the end point. Um, you're looking at about 12 13 seconds per rep. So, five repetitions is a minute. If you're aiming for four, and I like four to six with that, the old Nautilus was 8 to 12. This is more than twice as slow, but we do half as many repetitions. Four to four to six repetitions ends up being, and you also have to consider the reps get slower when you actually go towards failure. About 50 to 75, 80 seconds or so on average. you're doing the equivalent in that one set of the time of most people's 3 to four. And again, most people don't go to failure when they're doing that. If they do, it's usually the last set. It's almost like you're just doing the sets consecutively. But if you go and you watch bodybuilder doing typical form, you time all their sets and they're doing maybe five, six exercises and they're doing three, four sets of each exercise. They might be in the gym for an hour, hour and a half or longer, but the difference in the time that they are putting their muscles under tension is not that much different than somebody's who's doing maybe seven or eight exercises where they only do one work set to failure. That takes again maybe 50 to 75 80 seconds and some people go a little bit longer about 60 to 90 seconds. a lot of times on stuff like leg press or deadlifts or squats where the spine is involved but want to be a little bit more cautious. So >> the difference in a lot of conventional bodybuilding workouts and what I would call modern HIT workouts isn't in the volume per workout. It's just the distribution of the volume over time. With the HIT workouts, it is continuous tension for again, let's say, 50 to 80 seconds in a single set all the way to failure as opposed to 3 to four sets, maybe 15 to 20 seconds each where you maybe get to failure maybe cuz a lot of people don't even do that on their last set. So, it's actually not that different. It's it is a little bit more demanding because you don't have all the rest between sets. But in terms of the volume >> and this is why if you do the sets in this way, you have to be careful to not do more than one set per exercise or do too many exercises in a workout. If you're doing a set that takes 15 to 20 seconds, you need to do more than that. You're not going to be able to get all the motor units in the target muscles. It's going to take you a few sets if you do it that way. That makes sense to have more than one. But if you're doing a single longer set, and even if you look at how they were doing it at Nautilus, if you're taking 2 seconds to lift and you're pausing for a second or two and then 4 seconds to lower, you got 8 seconds per rep. So 8 to 12 repetitions, you're looking at about a minute to a minute and a half or so with that. So even back then, again, I'm I'm doing half as many reps, but they're about twice as long, but it's still a similar time frame. But if you do one set that lasts that long, that's that's about as much as you want to do, especially if you start throwing in few forced reps. If you actually go to momentary muscle failure and then you start adding in forced reps. And although I don't think most people need those things if they're going to momentary muscle failure, I think a lot of people who are doing those things aren't going to momentary muscle failure and that is how they get that last little bit out of it and they just need to learn to push themselves harder. But in terms of volume, >> yeah, >> these HIT workouts are actually comparable to most bodybuilding workouts if you think of it in terms of effort over time. The frequency is a little bit different. Yeah. >> Um, for most uh enhanced trainees, three to if you're doing it this hard, 3 to four days per week, um, every other day or maybe like Dorian did, Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday, Friday is probably enough. Um, if you are not enhanced, I would be a little more conservative with the workout volume and not more than three workouts on non-consecutive days for somebody who's natural. Probably fewer exercise. Again, they have to experiment. You might get a natural who's genetically exceptional who can do more. There's a there's a tremendous range and there's going to be some freaks. Again, most of us are somewhere between five and 6 ft, but there are people over 7 ft out there. Again, there's guys that are like 3 ft tall. So, you never there there are I you you got to be careful not to say everybody should train this way, but most people seem to respond well to this because there are some some freaks. But for most genetically average natural trainees, if they wanted to do a HIT workout, I would not recommend more than two full body workouts per week. >> Okay. >> But if they want to do more frequently, again, upper or lower, just alternating every other day or three days weekly or pushpull legs. >> Yeah. But uh >> I interviewed Dorian just interrupt but I interviewed Dorian a couple months ago and I said if you had trained like Ronnie Coleman and Ronnie Coleman had trained like you swap training styles you think you would have looked the same and he would have looked the same and he said our training styles when you break it down it really just speaks to everything you just went over they really weren't that different because you know he trained in a slower pace running did his reps faster the amount of tension that was probably put on their muscles wasn't that different. Um, so they probably would have both the same. But this is the last thing I want to ask you about because I've been around this industry for almost 40 years now and I've seen plenty of people with average genetics obviously and I've seen some people with awful genetics and I've seen some people with god-given spectacular genetics. And the conclusion I've come to, and it sounds horrible because it's gonna it's going to hurt a lot of feelings of a lot of people, but I say if your genetics are awesome, incredible, any style of consistent hard training is going to result in an exceptional physique. If your genetics are awful, doesn't matter how great you train or even how many peeds you push, you're never going to look like anything special. So, please please comment on that. Absolutely. And it's unfortunate that most people don't realize this because I think it leads to a lot of frustration. The number of people that have the genetics to become champion bodybuilders to become the absolute best of the best is extremely small. And even if you look at all the guys on the Olympia stage, although I I have I think they were better in the '9s. Sorry to everybody who's competing now, but Shawn Ray, I mean, Dorian, >> Flex Wheeler, Kevin Leon, Lee Labrada, some of the these guys looked like Greek statues. They they were >> Milos. >> Yeah. >> Milo. Yeah. Milo Sars. Um, and man, and he was That's all he did is compete. It seems like he didn't he do like 30 something. It was just some huge >> He did 90 course to 90. >> Wow. >> I know. I know. It was a lot. >> Yeah, it was a lot. I didn't realize this that much, but uh these guys had phenomenal genetics. But even if you look at all the guys that are on stage right now, the Olympia, the Arnold, you can, you know, pick little things and say, well, you know, they maybe don't have as well-developed calves, massive thighs, and then where where are the calves? Little issues with shape and proportion. Maybe one guy's lats uh don't uh don't go as low as it. Even these guys have little little flaws. Most people, I would say most people do not have the genetics where they could get on a bodybuilding stage and look impressive. >> Great. >> And I I want to be careful about how I phrase this because I would not want to discourage anybody from bodybuilding recreationally. I think it's the best thing a person can do because the vast majority of benefit in terms of overall health that we get from exercise is from strengthening. Every literally every single person that is capable of doing so should be strength training. It's like brushing your teeth. It's just something responsible adults should do. If there are any adults, literally any adults who are not complete invalids who are not working out regularly, they're being respon they're being irresponsible. It's it is it is a must for your long-term health and functional ability and independence. But when it comes to competitive bodybuilding, you need to have at least a certain level. And what I would recommend people do is go to some contests and look at the people that are winning. >> Yeah. >> Unless this unless the class is only like a few people deep and and then it's then it's not the guy it's the guy with the least worst physique that's winning. Right. >> But I should say go to go to some national qualifiers. Go to some regional contest. Look at the people who are winning and ask yourself realistically if you got in their condition if you would be able to stand on stage with them. And but I think we both have talked to people who grossly underestimated how much fat they need to lose to get into that condition too. >> But here's the thing. If you have at least good enough genetics that you could get on a bodybuilding stage and look like you belong there, even if there's no way that you're ever going to go to the nationals, there's no way that you're ever going to learn earn your pro card, it's still a lot of fun. >> Yeah. >> I should That's subjective. I think it's a lot of fun. I think a lot of people would enjoy it. And I would encourage anybody that has at least good enough genetics that they can get on stage and look like they belong there at the local level if they want to try it to try it. And if they don't have the genetics for that, there is something that they have the genetics for. If you take any body type again assuming somebody's a normal healthy person they don't and even people with disabilities have uh different things that activities that they can uh compete in too but there is something for everybody. If bodybuilding is not for a particular individual there is something out there that they are good at and they just need to try different things and find that and do that instead. But for bodybuilding, >> yeah, >> I I hate to say it, but yeah, you're you're absolutely right. Unfortunately, it does come down to genetics. And for years and years and years, we've been told anybody can look like their favorite bodybuilder as long as they take the right supplements, follow their routine, and do this and do that, but they really can't. I wish I wish it would be it would be awesome, but then if everybody looked around looking like like pro bodybuilders, it wouldn't be special. But um yeah, I would encourage anybody who has the genetics to do it to at least give it a try. It is I I can't say enough good things about competition and what it does for you. Um maybe not in those last couple of weeks of prep, but just the overall experience. And I think a lot of people would be pleasantly surprised to find out how supportive the bodybuilding community is overall. And I especially going to a lot of the contests around here. So I tried to go to every NPC contest that is within driving distance. The the sportsmanship is like nothing I see in in other sports. It is on a whole another level. I I cannot say enough good things about the Florida NPC and all the contests here. It is it is an amazing sport. And again, it's a sport. And one more time, I'm going to challenge anybody who doesn't think it's a sport to get in contest condition and then get up on stage and go through all those rounds of posing. Then if you still don't think it's a sport, fine. But but until you've done that, you you haven't experienced it. Your opinion is invalid. Now you just you started competing fairly late in life. Am I right? >> I did a natural show back in 1995. >> Okay. >> And it was a disaster. I didn't know what I was doing. I overdieted and I ended up just shrinking. It was awful cuz I was at the time I was about 182 183 lbs in beach shape. I wasn't in contest condition. And I thought, well, I'm going to lean. I'm going to drop maybe 10 15 pounds. I'm going to be shredded. >> Yeah. >> Didn't know what I was doing. I dieted down to like 152 lbs I think was my stage weight. And I was stringy. I was absolutely peeled. I had cellophane thin skin, but I was stringy. Didn't know what I was doing. Um posing was terrible. A week later, I weighed about 165 pounds and I was shocked. I I didn't know and I wasn't getting a lot of advice at the time. I was absolutely shocked at what I looked like just a week later. You know what it's like? You have that pizza, you you get some carbs in you and you just blow up and you got veins popping out everywhere. and I realized that I had screwed up. And then I moved down to Florida shortly after that and just got I should have gotten right into it right away. Uh but I didn't. But uh what happened, if I could go off on a little story real quick, is after getting married, I was not as strict with my diet for a while and I wasn't fat, but I was not as lean as I should have been. >> And David gave me a hard time about it. uh which I greatly appreciate because I needed that. And he kept pushing me to get back in shape. And so before my 50th birthday, I decided, you know what? I need to do this. I' I've got to got to got to get back in in condition. And figured I'm going to take my time. I don't want to lose any muscle. I'm at my age, I can't afford to lose any. >> And started leaning down and started taking some progress photos. And David sees my progress photos and he says, "You pose like a dork and you take old man selfies." >> So, I needed to learn how to pose. >> So, I go to this posing clinic. I figure, you know what? I I wasn't planning on competing. I figure maybe maybe a year. Started thinking about it. Went to this posing clinic. It was over in Daytona. And I I think the first there was a couple of them. No, it was Jacksonville. I went to opposing clinic in Jacksonville and actually uh NP IFBB Pro Alex Pomemeroyy's a classic physique competitor was the guy that worked with me up there and um I remember going in there and I had no idea what to expect for any of these posing clinics. I'd never been to one before. We didn't have this back in the '90s in Florida. There's once you get to about April or so, March, April, there's posing clinics all over the place all the time. We are spoiled here. It's it's great. And uh so my posing was terrible. I didn't know how to do anything. So he fixed that. And I started thinking, you know what, maybe maybe I'll do a competition cuz um when I was standing there just waiting, you know, for everything to start, Mike Matasa uh he promotes the U Daytona Classic, the Monster Classic, couple other contests was coming around. They they always do these little raffles at the posing clinics. You get, you know, wrist wraps and supplements and things. and I hadn't met him before. He asked me if I was a pro and I don't know what I was thinking, but I blurted out, "Not yet." Which was I which right after it came out of my mouth, I'm like, "Why did I say that?" But he he pointed at me. He said, "You will be." >> Wow. >> And I thought, "Okay, maybe I need to do this." And then a couple weeks later, I went to opposing clinic and this is the one that was over in Daytona. And I just thought, you know what? I'm going to keep going to these. I'm going to learn and I am going to compete next year. Now, this was 3 weeks before the 93 Daytona Classic. And we're all doing the posing clinic and then everybody's talking about, you know, what contest you doing, what contest you doing. And somebody asked me if I was doing the Daytona Classic and I said, "No, I need I need at least another year to to be where I want to be before I compete." And a couple people said, "No, you're ready now. You you step on stage." So, and this was from the Badger State Championships. This was 3 weeks after that. So, I figured, you know what? 3 weeks, why not? And, uh, IFBB pro Jordan Wise helped me with my prep for that. great guy, did a phenomenal job. Um, and I ended up winning the Mast's 50 plus class at the Daytona Classic. I took second in the Mast's 40 plus Classic Physique. No, 45 plus Classic Physique. And then I took third in Mast's 35 plus and I think I took third in the novice and true novice classes. So, I got a first, a second, and and a few thirds. I don't feel too bad about my second place in the Masters 45 plus classic physique because the guy who beat me ended up turning pro not too long afterwards. >> Yeah. >> So, I'll take that. And then David was MCing the Badger State Championships a couple weeks later. So, he said, "You know what? Stay lean for three more weeks. Yeah. >> Come up to Wisconsin. Do this contest that I'm MCing. It'll be fun." >> Yeah. And so I went up there and uh they didn't have masters 50 plus or mast's 45 plus body or classic physique. They had masters 35 plus classic physique and 35 plus bodybuilding. But that so I figured you know what I'll do the bodybuilding classes. Why not? I'm up there anyways even if I don't do well because I was I had to make weight for classic physique. I'm 5'8 so I have to be under 187bs. >> Yeah. So, and this was from this last year for the Daytona Prom, but so I ended up winning the Masters 50 plus and Mast's 40 plus bodybuilding at the was I won the Mast's 35 plus because there was nobody else in that class. So, I don't really count it. It's not a win. I just was the only one there. But I did but I I competed against other people and won the mast's 50 and mast's 40 plus and then I got third in the mast's 35 plus in the body in the bodybuilding sorry classic physique was first for the the bodybuilding. So I figured you know what yeah let's let's do this uh get a little bit bigger compete again next year and uh did pretty well uh first place in the Florida state NPC Florida State Championships this year. Dee Warner's show. Um, and then I placed second in Masters 50 plus uh classic physique at the TAMP extravaganza at the NPC uh uh the TAM the IFB uh MPC Tampa Prom. And then in Daytona also got second place and I got the same feedback from the judges on both of those. Conditioning was good, legs were good. I need more size on my arms and a little bit more on my upper chest. So, that's pretty much what I've been focusing on. Also, and I I got to I've got to give credit to IFBB Pro Jimmy Menus. Um, I met Jimmy at opposing seminar at the CMI Muscle Gym >> the previous year and I worked with him for and again, Jordan Wise was absolutely phenomenal. I can't say enough good things about him, but it was easier working with Jimmy. We hit it off at the posing clinic and he's right over here uh by the CMI muscle gym. So, working with uh Jimmy Menus has been phenomenal. Made a huge difference in the posing and he's uh he's helped me put on a little bit more size before I compete again. And I really wanted to do Daytona this year, but it's 10 weeks and I'm not 10 weeks out. Uh but yeah, Jimmy's absolutely phenomenal. >> Cannot recommend him enough. Uh so yeah it was uh it it it's been two in two years in Mast's 50 plus classic physique which is my primary focus. >> Yeah. >> I've got oh yeah the the two first places and the two seconds and then I got the first in the masters 50 plus bodybuilding. So for all the 50 plus stuff I'm doing pretty good so far. >> Absolutely. And hopefully, and I keep I keep replaying in my head what Mike Matasa said, I can picture it clear as day. I want to eventually go to Mast's Nationals and earn my pro card just so I don't let him down. >> That's awesome, man. All right, cool. Well, it's been very enlightening. I've never actually well it's been many years I should say since I spoke to anyone who practiced the hit philosophy and coach people and trained people in that style and you know you made very convincing arguments and I always say even if you guys have been doing volume and it's working okay for you try everything try everything might work even better for you >> this is my recommendation first off and this is something people have to understand a lot of People are worried that if they stop working out for a couple days, they're going to start losing muscle. You have to stop working out for a lot longer. As long as you're not sick, as long as you're not sedentary, as long as you're not undereating, >> if you stop working out, your pump will go away after a little bit, but you're not going to start losing size until you've been out for weeks. >> So, taking another day or two between workouts isn't going to kill you. But I would recommend for anybody that wants to try it is to just give it 3 or 4 months and see how two things. One, see how their body responds in terms of their progress. Do they build more muscle? >> And two, how their joints feel? Now, I know hit a lot of people think, oh, you know, it's it's dangerous. You're going to hurt yourself. If you are strict with the form, you and this is a this is the problem. We I I don't want to go too long, so we end up talking for another couple hours. But um if you are strict with the form, you're not going to hurt yourself doing hit. Um unless now contest prep is another thing. We know that there are certain compounds that make the tendons a little more brittle. You know, things like windstrol will make you a little bit more more vulnerable. You do have to be a little bit more careful with loads and form in contest prep. Pay attention to how your body responds and pay attention how your joints feel. I think most people will find if they do this correctly and they do it with reasonably strict form that at the very least they're going to have the same results and they're not going to feel as beat up. And some people who have a little bit less capacity for, you know, recovery and adaptation are going to find that with a little bit of a reduction in volume, they're going to get better results. >> Record everything that you're doing and record how your body is responding to it. And then try this for a few months and compare. And if the results are exactly the same, that's still a plus because you're getting the same results with less time in the gym, which means you've got more time to practice your posing, which that's another type. One more thing for anybody considering competing. Posing is at least as important as your workouts in your diet. Don't just assume that you're going to know how to do it. get somebody to coach you or go on Kenny Wallik, uh, Lee Labrada, Terrence Ruffin, all these guys. Uh, find all their stuff on you. Watch Shawn Ray's Olympia routine. >> Um, I take the posing seriously. Anyways, try it for for a little bit. even if you only get the same results, then you know that this is an option for you that's a little bit more time efficient. And the time is something I think a lot of people don't really appreciate. Again, like I mentioned earlier, the volume really isn't different. A bodybuilding workout and a modern HIT workout with a slower, more controlled uh cadence, the time spent with your muscles under tension is going to be about roughly identical. The difference is just usually in the frequency. Again, with enhanced trainee, three, four days a week. With most natural trainees, maybe two, three. Some people I don't like to have people train less frequently than twice weekly. If they're natural and they have such poor recovery ability that a particular body part takes longer to recover, I would just split it up more. >> Yeah. But um yeah, I would and if anybody wants to try just going through a hit workout if they're in the Orlando area, I don't do any one-on-one training other than just, you know, family and it's just some relatives here. But the CMI Muscle Gym has an open gym every third Sunday from 1 to 4. And I try to make it out there for all of those events. Uh Jimmy Menis trains there, Vince Taylor trains there. >> Wow. um just off Akim Mabarak over there. Uh he works out there a bunch of pros that work all really great guys and I try to make it out there for every again every third Sunday from 1 to 4. And if somebody that's watching the show wants to go through a hit workout, if you see me there, come and grab me. I'll be I'll be glad to to answer any questions you have and and put you through one. >> Right on. >> Oh yeah, John. Holy crap. His arms >> look and uh he should have pulled up his sleeves for this this picture. Uh just unreal. Yeah, >> it's it's something standing next to him. Like it's one thing to see the photos, but it's hard to really appreciate how big he is. Well, you know what it's like. He's everybody everybody's looks but you you got to kind of stand next to some of these guys to really appreciate the kind of shape that they're in. Yeah, he looked absolutely phenomenal. I stood next to Ronnie when he was 330 lb. Nasser when he was 330 lb. >> Wow. I would I would feel like a hobbit standing next to those guys. >> Kovac was 400 lb. These were the days. Anyway, >> wow. Yeah, he was just massive. >> That was a mountain of a man. Anyway, Drew, thank you so much taking the time and you're clearly a very very uh intelligent, well educated guy. I love people I love to talk to people who really come at it from that scientific point of view and break it down the way that you did instead of just lift heavy and train hard, you know, that doesn't really help. >> Training hard is the first thing, but you want to do it in a way that is also relatively safe and time efficient. That's if I had to summarize everything that that's really what it comes down to. I want people to get the best possible results from their workouts and you have to train hard to do it. But in the long run, your health and your time are your two most valuable resources. And I don't want people to get hurt. And I don't want people to spend more time in the gym than they need to to get best results. That's what all of this comes down to. >> Right. >> So follow Drew on Instagram at Drew Bay. Check out his HIT blog and his other services available on bay.com. He's got an awesome YouTube channel. He was able to get his own name on there before someone else grabbed it. So that's it, man. Thank you so much for taking the time. Thank you for having me on. It was great hanging out and talking. And next time you're in Central Florida, let me know. We need to get together and train. It' be it'd be fun. >> Oh, my shoulder will be all nice and strong by then again. So, yeah, we'll be good. >> And and if it's not, I can go over some stuff. I've worked with people shoulder problems, neck problems, spine problems, you name it. I can show you a few things that we've done with uh different issues to work around that so you can still train it without irritating it. Oh, this is $40,000 worth of titanium in there. I'm good. >> Well, hope hopefully you're fully recovered then by the time you come down here so we can just go all out. >> Sounds good. All right. Well, thank you Jo everybody. Thanks for watching Ron Report with this man Drew Bane all about HIT training.