What's up everybody? Ron Harris here. Happy Sunday to you in this holiday season. So, the Arnold Classic UK list came out a couple days ago, and they did say it's not a complete list, but let's take a look because Nick Walker is the big name from the Arnold Classic, Ohio list who is conspicuously missing here. So, of course, the Arnold UK promoters reached out to everyone doing the Arnold and wanted them to participate in their event, too. It's just two weeks later and the ones who have said yes and committed probably signed the contract even Andrew Jacked, Headi Chupan, Martin Fitzwwater, Hassan Mustafa, Akim Williams, and Brandon Curry have all said yes, we will be there. Where is Nick? Why would Nick not do it? Uh, and I'm I'm reaching out to you guys because I don't know the answer and I haven't seen anything about Nick's posts or videos that would indicate why he wouldn't do the Arnold UK. It's just two weeks later. In the past, I know that he didn't have a passport. Didn't have a passport. Uh, and that's why we never saw him competing internationally. However, I I have done a little bit of digging and he has he has gone to Japan the past couple years. So, he has a passport now. That's not the issue. Uh, he could go to the Arnold UK. Is it a matter of just not enough money for him? Because first prize is $250,000 versus $750,000 in Ohio. However, if he's good enough to win Ohio, there's nobody that he's going to beat there that he wouldn't be able to beat two weeks later. So, theoretically, he could pick up 750 plus 250 is $1 million. In two weeks, he could make a million dollars in two weeks. What's up, Tots? He's reportly said he hates flying. He won't fly for even a vacation. Wow, that is crazy. Oh, yeah. Nick looks ready to do it. Absolutely. He is barely lost any condition since Jal. We'll take a look. We'll take a look at his recent updates, but I want to show you his podcast. He might consider flying once he retires and loses size. It's only disappoint. Who cares? Well, I don't know about that. So, uh, I wanted to take a look because I haven't looked at this in a while. The he has only done the Arnold twice now. He won it in 2021, I think it was. Was it 2022? But this was the uh the last time he did it, which is almost three years ago now. Yeah, he won it in 2021. It say right there. So, this was the 2023 Arnold Classic where he took third behind Simpsons and Dada and Andrew Jacked. And I remember him not being pleased with this look either. just like he wasn't pleased with the last Olympia look, saying him and Matt Jansen his coach, his longtime coach until fairly recently until, you know, he got rid of him at the [snorts] right after right before the 2023 Olympia, I'm sorry, 2024 Olympia. Um, but this was I thought this was a great look. They they felt like they they pushed the conditioning too much and they lost some of the pop and fullness, but I prefer the smaller version of Nick. I don't know about you guys, this was a great look. I think it's better than when he won. Uh I like it better than when he took third at the Arnold at the Olympia in 2022. I'm going to let this play [snorts] because I I prefer this look much more than the look he brought to the most recent Olympia where he took sixth place and arguably some people had him even lower. Uh they a lot of people particularly thought Brandon Curry should have beat him. Uh Brandon was seventh. So they they a lot of people felt that they should have flip-flopped places sixth and seventh, Nick and Brandon Curry. However, so these are some interesting things. I'm I'm glad that you guys let me know because I have never heard this about how he he hates flying so much. I mean, that's crazy to miss out on every single international competition because he would have to fly there. I guess the the only option would be a a boat, which takes a long time to go across the Atlantic. As most of our your immigrant ancestors from Europe here in the USA, they they all came over here on a boat. Most of them. I know mine did long long ago, like 120 years ago, almost. Uh so they did say the list, more to come. However, um yeah, he could still join. They're they're not going to say no. I mean, Nick uh Nick on Nick Strength and Power, Nick Miller said, you know, Big Ramy, I'm going to throw up his 2022 Olympia, too. I like that look a lot for him. Um, where did I put that? Yeah, this was 2022 Olympia. Another really good look for Nick. Clearly, he only lost to that was the year Heidi Chupan won, Derek Lynford was second, and Nick was third. So, this is 2022 Olympia. Uh, yes. So, the list could change. Absolutely, it could change. [snorts] Um, yeah, [clears throat] I was saying Nick Miller from Nick Strength and Power said big Ramy seems to be prepping. He's hired a coach and from Nick Miller's inside sources, uh, in the Rammy camp or someone who knows Ramy, I don't know if Ramy gets back to him or not, that he is prepping. If Rammy if you if Rammy contacts the Arnold Ohio promoters, the UK Arnold promoters or both with an interest in competing, they're absolutely going to say yes to him. They're not going to turn down a two-time Mr. Olympia who has millions of fans and followers because big names are what sell the tickets, put asses in seats, as we say. Uh it's just going to bring more eyes and attention and money to their show. So, of course, they're not going to say no to any of the big big names. But the fact that Nick is not committed now when [snorts] those other six men on that list have already committed, that tells me that that your theory about him not flying is probably probably it. You know, Charlie's kind of weird. That's case. [cough and clears throat] Oh, the the supplements. If you're talking about drugs, the gear, the PDS, whatever, all these guys, they usually have a contact, a local contact to whatever city, country they're going to who will make sure they have everything they need for the last whatever, however long they're going to be there. So, if they need someone to say, "Hey, I need some diuretics. I'm going to need some anavar. I'm going to need this and that." They'll they'll have it. It's these guys get that. I've talked to them and they they all have quote unquote hookups in these cities around the world. So, that wouldn't be the problem. I guess it's his Ramy wants. Oh, hell no. Would you say no to Ramy if you're if you're putting a contest on? Even if you already have Heidi Chupan, even if you already have Martin Fitzwwater, Andrew Jack, these big big names. Brandon Curry is still a big name. Uh, of course, you want all the best guys in your show. They want the top Olympians in their show. [snorts] HD Muscle should shuttle a private chick. Well, he still doesn't like to fly. Maybe they could do a really arrange a really fast boat so he could get over there in like one day. I don't know if that's even possible. I don't know if that's poss like the thing in the 90s where if two indie bands have the same name, the slightly crappy one would add UK to the end. Well, you know, it's funny. I I always joke about on Instagram, I see people saying the official so and so. And a lot of times it's someone you've never heard of with a couple thousand followers. I'm like, dude, I don't think people were trying to pretend they were you on Instagram. I don't think that was really necessary that you had to go there. Uh let's put some more footage up from uh so Nick at the O. This is uh Nick as he appeared at the Olympia. We'll go to his page in a second because his updates he looks really good right now at 11 weeks out. I guess yesterday was 11 weeks. So we're just under 11 weeks out. It's coming up. Those weeks are going to fly by guys. The great thing about the Arnold or one of the great things about the Arnold, it's it's not just one great thing. They usually have a free They've had a free live stream, a free webcast, webcast live stream for the last couple years, which, you know, we love that. We love that. Of course, we love that. I love free. Uh, it's the only reason Romney competed so long is he won't get a visa. Uh, I don't think we have any issues with Egypt. I mean, if Beerus Tobani could get a visa to the USA a few months ago for the Olympia, I'm fairly confident Big Ramy could get a visa. you know, he's he's doesn't have any terrorist ties or military ties, anything that would that would be a problem. His skin looks splotchy at the uh Ramy is not that old. No, Ramy's uh I think he's right around 40 41. No, he's he's not he's in the same age range as Andrew Jack and Samson who are still at the very top of their game. So, no, I don't think that's it. Uh let me go to Nick's page. some updates because Nick is looking great coaching himself. I think coaching himself was the thing to do. Great, great move on his part. Share this. Share screen. You like how I say it out loud and I can't just think it in my head. Yeah, look at that. So, that was yesterday. Now, granted, uh, this is a very carefully posed photo, but still the waist does not look anywhere near as thick and blocky as it did at the Olympia. I love that Arnold is free. Oh, yeah. Free free live streams. I love it. Um, you know, I pay for a couple like I'll pay for the Olympia because it's the Olympia. I would I would pay for the Arnold, but I'm so glad they they have it for free. It it just opens up opens up the uh the platform for that many more people to check it out. Why hasn't Ramen competed so long? Don't know. He's never said Ramy has never come out and said why he stopped competing. Obviously, the placings were going down. He went from being Mr. Olympia in 20 2020 and 2021 to fifth place in 2022. Came back at the 2023 Arnold Classic and I think he was fourth place there even though he looked really good. So his his physique looked a lot better at that last Arnold which was a few months after the Olympia where we had seen some definitely some atrophy going on in a couple areas like one of his calves, one of his lats, one of his triceps. What's up Raymond Jones? Do the Arnold send you a They never know. Come on. [laughter] Nobody sends me any press invites. Um I wouldn't go anyway unless again somebody was paying for me to go and I've taken some heat for that. They said Ron can't afford to. I could afford to, but I'm not going to spend a couple thousand dollars of my own money when even if I'm getting plenty of content there, I'm not going to make more than I'm not going to make more than it costs me to go there. That's bad business. That's a bad return on investment. So, I'm not going to spend 2,000 2500 $3,000 to maybe make a,000 or $1,500 maybe at the most 2,000. That's that's just dumb business doing vacuums regularly. Nick, yeah, we're back on back talking about Nick. We're not talking about Ramy now. Yeah. Yeah. Your mom's flip-flop the the You're talking about Ronnie. Yeah. I don't know why, but yeah, Nick's vacuum seem to be paying off. Uh I think he looks This is the best he's looked in a very long time. Uh I like his training style. I like the fact that his form is impeccable. He gets a very full range of motion. You know, I'm sure he could use a lot more weight than that if he wanted to, if he was going faster and cut the range short, but really big fan of his training style. It's very, very strict and it's still pretty heavy. I mean, all you guys who are looking at him with this two 245s, I'm just going to call it 225 on the Smith machine squat say, "Ha, I do more than that." Well, maybe you do, but do you do this? Do you go down that slowly below parallel controlling every negative like that? If you do, good, good for you. This was his 11 weeks out uh shots from two days ago. And yeah, that midsection looks a lot better than it did lot better than it did back at the Olympia. [snorts] I said I I saw some Gilo pictures of him from the Olympia, which if I were him, I would have said, "Please take these down. you're making me look awful. Even though it was, you know, it really was him. It's not like uh Yeah. I mean, I'll show you the difference. I'll go back to Gilko. I know Gilko's probably like 30 pages ahead of this by now, but they were the ones who had all the pictures. Nick Nick only posted a couple of them. So, let's see if I can find the Olympia. It's going back. Guilt goes. They're amazing. I I love the work they do. It's the Mitchell brothers. Gilbert and I don't know what the other one's name is, but uh fantastic videos. These are all from nationals. I may be going I might have to might be might take too long to go back. I might give up on this in a second. I probably will. Yeah. Did Nick Yeah. You know what? I give up. I give up. [laughter] Yeah. It's too too many shots. They they have so much content. I'm going to go back to Nick because Nick put some shots up from the Olympia. Uh, and they weren't all super complimentary because his his midsection was it was really thick and blocky looking at the Olympia. Uh, I people were talking about his condition. I mean, yeah, he didn't. Even there you can kind of see it although it's in the it's in shadows. Did he not even post the other ones? Yeah, I don't think he did because they were not complimentary. That was a good shot. That Pittsburgh I like the Pittsburgh look, too. the waist was still a little bit thicker and blockier than what I like to see from Nick. You know, he's never going to have a tiny waist. He's never going to have, you know, like an Andrew Jack Vtaper that that dramatic, that pronounced, or even a Samson has a really good vtaper. Lunsford has a really good taper. You know, they they have amazing structure and shape. Nick has okay structure, okay shape, just not as gifted as them. Loads and loads of muscle tissue, just so much muscle mass. But uh hey no what's up really priest where it is 6 in the morning over there. Geez Nick took second in 233 Arnold. Now I have to fact check you on that. Let's see 2023 Arnold Classic placing Simpson Dota. Oh yeah you're right. Nick was second. Andrew was third. Man see I'm a hater. I got I must be on Andrew's Andrew Jack's jock because I had him beating him when he didn't really beat him. What do you see? New place. Don't know yet. [laughter] I don't know. I hope he does very well. Hope he does very well. He He could win. I mean, I would I don't sit here and say Martin can't win. Nick can't win. It's got to be either Hottie or Andrew. Hottie and Andrew are to me they're the two favorites. And I favor Hottie just because of his track record and the fact that Andrew's never beaten him, which doesn't mean that Andrew can't beat him. He just hasn't done it yet. This might be the first time that Andrew beats him. Then he might beat everyone at the Olympia. Who knows? Or Heidi might do exactly what he did in 2024, which was to win the Arnold Classic, Columbus, Ohio, and then go over to UK and win that, too. Nick trains very hard with very strict form, time, attention. Yeah. Yeah. He doesn't need to be bigger. He definitely doesn't need to be any bigger. Larry wheels, Sam Cull huge draw. Uh well, Sam is competing. Sam Cull is competing in the uh Arnold Classic. Larry Wheels did not get an invite, I don't think, or he didn't want to because Larry is a pro in classic physique. Uh of course, he did not earn his way to the Arnold, but the Arnold is invite. You don't earn your way there like the Olympia. You don't have to win anything to get to the Arnold. They do want big names, but it is an invitation show. The pro card from this year. Yeah, Larry turned pro last year or this year. Yeah, we're still in 2025. I think I'm getting ahead of myself. Sam is doing the Arnold. Yes, Sam was invited because he's won the Arnold amry. Yeah, you know, even if he hadn't Well, if he had turned pro somewhere else, I'm saying if Sam Sull had asked for an invitation to the Arnold Ohio, I mean, they they've always treated him well anyway because he's a superstar. You know, he was at the meet and greet with all the other VIPs last year when he wasn't even a pro. They would have let him in. I'm fairly confident they would have they would have let him into the Arnold anyway. Like see Sam and Larry side by side. Well, neither one is going to set the world the classic the the world of classic physique uh in the pro side of it on fire. Neither one of them is awesome. Sam's structure and shape is not on par with these guys like Somerfeld and Wesley Vissers and you know a whole bunch of these other guys. But he has he's got a huge name. His personality he's going to be a big big draw. Lee is always up bright and early. Yeah, Lee Lee gets up at like four in the morning or something. Think we'll probably do the New York Pro or Pittsburgh. I sure see him do those shoes in their own UK. Well, uh, we talk about money. So, New York Pro is like I think they bumped that up to 20,000 25. I know Pittsburgh is 100. I know it's not all about the money, but it's pro bodybuilding. They're professional athletes. So, they need to they need to go after the money. Especially if you're a top guy and you're capable of getting that money. Why not? Why wouldn't you? Don't think they would invite an actor to compete though. I think has more integrity than that. It's not about integrity. He's a pro. Arnold can invite anybody. It's not, hey, this guy doesn't deserve to be there. I mean, let me show you something. Let me show you something. So, look at who's going into Arnold sport. The the Arnold Ohio. If you look at this list, and [clears throat] hopefully I won't piss too many people off, but I might. Is this Arnold UK? It's Arnold UK list, which you already looked at. Uh, Arnold Classic. Okay. So, here is the Arnold Ohio list. Raphael Bondo absolutely belongs up there. Nick Walker, of course. Aim Williams, I don't know. Does Aim really Aken hasn't been doing that well lately? Why Why would he? Not to say he's not established pro. He's won a bunch of shows. He's been as high as sixth place at the Olympia. So, yeah, let's give him Brandon Curry's a former Olympia champ. Hassan Mustafa. Yeah, I don't I I'm not sure why they went with Hassan other than maybe having a huge fan base over in Egypt and the rest of the Middle East. He's a great bodybuilder. I like Hassan a lot, but if we're going for all the biggest names, I don't know if that necessarily would have been my biggest my biggest choice, my first choice. Heidi, obviously, Olympia champ, Arnold champ, of course, Martin Fitzwwater. Interestingly, they they turned down Martin last year when he a year ago, I should say, when he applied or he tried he asked for an invitation for the Arnold to compete in this this year, the 2025 Arnold, and they they turned him down. Probably kicking themselves for that, but it's too late. Anthony Williams there on the lower left corner. He qualified for this because again, he won the Arnold amateur last year. And not only do you get a pro card for that, but another huge perk is you were invited automatically to compete in the following year's pro Arnold Classic, which is that's how Roly Winkler made his pro debut. Gez, 15 almost 15 years ago at this point. Uh Muhammad Hassan, that is actually uh Mofod, same name. He's he's really good. Antonio Burton, okay, I could see him. He's a he's been in the top 10 the Olympia a couple times. And of course, Andrew Jack. So yeah, they all belong. Uh, and if you go into classic, uh, all these guys have probably won shows. I'm not totally familiar with all of them. I did go over this the other day. Uh, but if Larry Wills had wanted to be in this group of classic physique guys, they already have 12, which I think they they usually like to cap it at 12 per division at the Arnold. They like to keep that show smaller, uh, more elite, and the show runs faster. So much faster with they don't even have all the divisions, as you probably know. They don't have women's bodybuilding, women's physique, women's figure, men's 212 bodybuilding is not in this show. So things go, the Arnold, the Arnold moves along at a much faster pace than the Olympia does because they have so much fewer athletes to get through. I think Nick has to bring up his legs more uh than he has to No, I I disagree. I think it's all about the waist. Now, obviously, his waist is only going to come down so much. Uh, it is what it is, but I've seen his waist smaller and it's it's smaller now. And I'd like to see it stay exactly the way it is now. See, that's kind of an illusion because he's got his hands there. But there you go. It's never going to be a tiny waist, but it's that's a much smaller waist than he had at the last couple shows. So, there we go. He definitely looks a lot more streamlined, a lot more aesthetically pleasing. No one's ever going to say that's a classic bodybuilding type physique or that's aesthetics. However, it's it's still got more of a Vtaper there than he had at the Olympia. Uh [sighs] yeah, I I I I wish I had saved all those pictures. There were shots that Gilko posted from the Olympia uh photos of Nick where like there's one we had his arms up and it was just a block his his torso just like one huge block up AC Andred the Lat man. Why do you think Hassan's living ill duplicates his condition once? Yeah. When we're talking about why guys can't get in shape, I never have. I don't that that's you know he might not even know or his various coaches might not even know. He's got a new coach that he worked with for this year. Um still didn't come result in a win. Couldn't get to the Olympia. I talk about this is Greg Goose only. I mean a lot of people prefer the Arnold because it is a smaller show. So much fewer athletes, fewer divisions. You know they picked and choose they picked and chose the divisions that they want to keep and which ones they want to get rid of. The Olympia does not have that option. The Olympia is obligated to to include every single division. They have to. It's the Olympia. Uh [snorts] the Arnold, no, the Arnold could if the Arnold wanted to only have men's open bodybuilding. If they decided that's all we're going to have, they could do it. There's nothing to stop them. They they play by their own rules, which is pretty cool. Olympia would cap out at 15. Yeah. I mean, we've had this argument about the uh the Olympia when you have, you know, 50 60 people in a division. 70 I think was the was the max they had a couple years ago which is why they put the point system back and now they're making it a lot more difficult for those divisions that have so many contests throughout the year. So now it's not an automatic qualification to the Olympia for those divisions which I think was women's physique, women's figure, classic physique and I think men's physique was there too. Those divisions they have to win uh a couple shows or win a big show. They can't just get in on one win because that's how we ended up with like 60 70 people before 3:00 a.m. Geez, you got up at 3 today. You're saying it's the witching hourly. That's a very dangerous time to be awake. That's when uh satanic and paranormal activities at high. So you got to be careful. Grey Goose Arnold live stream is smooth, high quality, free shows for nicely. Yeah, they have an excellent excellent uh stream quality. I think I don't know who does it for them. Um, I know Gilko did Pittsburgh. Whoever does their live stream and their and their their their video content for that, they're top-notch. Whoever they are, it's 8:23. So, you are 16 hours ahead. It's already Monday at 8:23 in the morning over there. House work done, grocery shopping done. Must be at 24. Geez, Lee, you you your day is done. You can go you can go to bed at at 9:00 a.m. The Arnold just feels more premium. watch the podcast Sean Ray Mulos. I don't know if you did, but agree with Sean. No, I didn't watch that one. A lot of times I only see the the clips that people post on, you know, all those Beyond the Stage TV and bodybuilding, all the bodybuilding news, Instagram channels. Uh, that's how I I don't watch a lot of the podcast. I wait and just see the little the little excerpts that they pick and choose, which are usually the most newsworthy or controversial items. So Nick, yeah, I'm gonna try to find this guy. So I please bear with me because Gilko Gilko had pictures up from the AR from the Olympia which God knows how far back that's going to be now. But I want to show you what Nick's waist looked like at the Olympia because while he was moving and posing, it wasn't as obvious, but they caught him between poses, which you know, that's I know that's not fair, but you know, when you're on stage at Minnesota, uh oh, Minnesota State, they're in a lot of trouble in Minnesota with this scandal about the Somali, which I won't get into. This isn't uh Ron Harris politics channel, it's Ron Harris Muscle Channel. If I don't if if I don't get back to Olympia pretty soon, I'm gonna give up. But it's a lot of these guys cover a lot of events. Gilo. I'm just holding out hope that we get Okay, the Olympia. All right. Okay, then I can find it. I can find it, guys. We're almost there. Uh because I do want to show you how much better Nick looks now than he did just two and a half months ago. How long it's been since the Olympia? Hasn't been that long. Is that the whole Olympia? The heck was that? Did they take a bunch of pictures down from the Olympia? That can't be all their Olympia pictures. No. What? What's going on here, guys? Oh, here we go. We're back. Huh? I think they might have taken them all down, guys. Yeah. Well, trust me, there were some pictures of Nick that were just not Oh, no. We got more. We got more. Okay, so here we go. Uh, so obviously that's not great. The side looks great. this I I thought his condition was pretty damn good at the Olympia. So there I know it's it's off center a little bit. He's not facing completely straight on, but the midsection the the that whole area just needs to be smaller. I don't know how much bigger his legs are ever going to get to be honest because [snorts] they haven't improved much in the in the five years he's been a pro. I mean his arms he's gotten bigger uh overall but the legs don't his upper body has kept getting bigger too. So, just don't see much of a Oh, did they take it down there? You can see obviously he's not not worried about how his waist looks while he's walking across stage, but it looked pretty big. Side shots are fine. Yeah, that's So, this is what I'm saying, guys. And I mean, Nick says he's okay with constructive criticism. So, that's what I'm doing is giving constructive criticism here. I'm not saying Nick sucks. No. Nick Walker is an Arnold Classic champ. He's a three-time New York Pro champ. He almost won the Pittsburgh Pro. A lot of people believe he should have won the Pittsburgh Pro. He's been as high as third place at the Olympia. He's been top five in the Olympia a few times now. So, Nick is damn good. I would never say Nick sucks. But the midsection is the key with him. He has to keep that midsection under control. It has to be smaller because he's got all the muscle in the world. doesn't need to be any bigger. He just needs to keep that midsection under control. Whatever was blowing it out, whether it was, I don't know, insulin, GH, just too much food, I don't know. Whatever it was, he needs to get a handle on that midsection because that's that's the weak link in his armor here. The the weak link in the chain. Like I said, even though he's never going to be the prettiest physique, he's had a much smaller midsection in the past. I'm going to put it back up again because I love this 2023. This is the This is a look I really liked on Nick, the 2023 Arnold win. As you guys corrected me, he did take second place here to Samson Dow and then he missed that year's Olympia and he missed the next year's Olympia. We didn't see Nick for a while on stage. I don't want Oh, you're Yeah, it's late in Germany. Sorry about that. Well, have a good night, bro. Thanks for watching. Duncan Shane, don't give it to Fitz Walker. Well, I can't be [laughter] I can't give uh criticism if Mark Martin he's blocked me anyway, but I'm I'm not going to be at the Arnold unless somebody calls up says, "You know what, Ron? We'd love to send you to the Arnold to work for us." I'll be like, "All right, bet. I'm there." For Nick to play again has to be 100% on control his waist. Hope the other genetically structurally superior competitors are off. The odds are stacked against him. Yeah, they might be, but I don't think he's a he's a he's he's been he's been an underdog his whole career. He's had people talking crap about his shape and the varicose veins and his legs aren't that great. His quads, I mean, his hamstrings are incredible. From the back, his legs are pretty damn great from the side. From the front, they're still I still think his his hams look pretty good from the side. From his quads look pretty good from the side. From the front, just not great. They don't have as much sweep as somebody else. But I'm gonna go back to his page. I'm glad I was able to find that uh those shots those shots from Gilo because he uh Nick had some of them on his page and then he took them down. Yeah. Okay. 23 was money at the Olympia. Well, he didn't do the 2023 Olympia. This is 2023 Arnold. uh about a week 10 days before the 2023 Olympia which was six seven months after this he tore his hamstring so he didn't make the 2023 Olympia and then shortly before the 2024 Olympia which we still don't know his his reasons were never clearly given. He made like a 15minute video of him sitting there with Matt Jansen talking about not doing the Olympia and I I don't recall him ever exactly saying why he wasn't doing the Olympia. Yeah. 2022 Olympia was a great look, too. I I have that up a lot. I I put that up because I thought that looked This was a great look. Uh and 2022 Olympia, this is another great look for him. Third place. He How this lose? How' this lose? Well, he lost that to Samson. Samson was on the rise. Samson looked great. I mean, Samson data is still one of the greatest physiques in the world. He he bombed at this last Olympia. He was lost way too much muscle. Uh he didn't really wasn't able to get it all back in two weeks for Prague and got beat by Martin. But Samson at his best could still beat everybody. Don't get it. Don't count that guy out for one second. Um Samson could beat Hottie, Derek, Martin, Nick, every Andrew. He could beat everybody this year. We don't know. These guys are all I don't want to say interchangeable, but they're all capable of beating each other. We don't have anyone right now who is so dominant the way Ronnie was during his reign, the way Phil Heath was during his reign. Dorian, uh, we've had Mr. Olympia champs who were so hard to beat that, you know, Lee Haney, eight years in a row, nobody could beat him. Ronnie Coleman, eight years in a row, nobody could beat him. Dorian, six years in a row. Phil Heath, seven years in a row. But since Phil lost the title, we have not seen anyone who was able to hold on to the title for more than a couple years. Uh yeah, we saw Rhoden get it once and he was never allowed to compete again. [snorts] Sean Rhoden, then we saw Brandon Curry win. Then we saw Rammy win twice. Then it was Derek, I'm sorry, then it was Hottie, Derek, Samson, and now Derek again. So, we're not in an era like that anymore where same guy just keeps winning and winning and winning. But that was a great look. 2022 Olympia, 2023 Arnold Classics. For me, those are the my two favorite Nick Walker looks. And if he can replicate that, which is which would entail downsizing a little bit, he's going to have to come down somewhere closer to 250, 255 rather than what was he here? I believe he said he was like 275 here at this last at this last Olympia. When I heard he was coming in heavier, I was like, uhoh. Bigger is not better for for Nick Walker. He's already such a huge guy, it's all about the midsection with him. He can lose he can lose a little bit of overall size a little bit and still be the biggest guy up there pound-for-pound. And he would have better shape, better lines, better flow to the physique. That's how he beats people. That's how he will beat people by having, you know, still plenty of muscle mass, great conditioning, and getting that midsection out. If he can do those things, he could win this Arnold. He could win Pittsburgh if he does that again. He could win anything. These guys, I don't write anybody off. Hottie could win both of these shows. Andrew could win both these shows. Maybe it's Martin. Maybe it's Nick. You know, none of them are that much better than the others. None of them are that much further ahead than any of the other guys. They're all on a very very similar level at this point and they're all capable of beating each other. So that's it guys. So I think that's all I had to say about that as Forest Gump would say. That's all I got to say about that. So, we will see if Nick Walker's name gets added to the Arnold Classic UK list where he could pick up potentially another 250 after potentially picking up 750 at Arnold Columbus, making for a million dollars earned in just two weeks time. I feel whoever wins the Arnold Ohio is probably going to win Arnold UK because they just beat everybody unless condition changes that drastically for anybody in those two weeks. So, somebody is probably gonna win a million dollars this March, this coming March. 750 plus 250. Wow. I mean, that's This is what we dreamed of as bodybuilding fans for the bodybuilder. We were hoping and praying that someday these guys would be making really, really good money. It's still not on par with the best soccer players, football, baseball, basketball. It's It's not on that level of money yet, but it's a lot better than it used to be. Remember the Olympia for the first I think the first 10 years they held the Mr. Olympia first prize was $500. Then I think they bumped it up to a,000. Yes. $500 in the old days. That's what you used to win. I think Arnold, most of the Olympians Arnold won, I think he made 500 or $1,000. So, you know, even though it's that would be more in today's money, it's still [\h__\h] money compared to other sports. So, that's it, guys. Appreciate you watching. Got some more content coming up this week. So, I hope you all subscribe to the channel. Please like, share, and do all that stuff. You got one more last comment. Two last comments about the Olympia when he was third. So at the expo didn't say anything to his first Olympian second. Yeah, Derek's back is pretty diverse% to Nick. Yeah, except the Nick is probably 57. I'm gonna give Nick 57. Anyway guys, that is it. I appreciate y'all watching. Enjoy the rest of your day or night, wherever you are. Australians, you're it's already Monday for you. So that's it. Thanks for watching and peace