What's up, guys? Well, it turns out everyone who doubted Ursinsky, which includes me, I really wasn't sure what Urs was going to bring to the Italy Pro in his debut as an open bodybuilder. Turns out Urs is a damn good open bodybuilder on his first first try. Oh, failed to play that. Okay, so let's look at some judging. Got Urs there next to Quint. Uh, left to right we have Lewis Breed, Sergiva Jr., Urs, Quint, Mark Hector, and Matias Holwick from Germany. That's your top six. That's most likely going to be your top six. Finals are actually starting now with Bikini and Wellness. So, we're probably going to have the results within an hour uh hour and a half at the most, I'm guessing. So, I won't go too long on this, but I want to know what you guys think of Urs. I'm very, very impressed at what he did. When I heard he was 260, uh I said I I there's no way he's going to be in the same kind of condition that he was as a as a top classic competitor all these years. Not with all that new mass. Maybe it's going to take him a while to figure it out. But in the back of my mind, I also said Urs is very, very consistent with condition. He's got a great coach, Stefan Keel, the boss of Outlaw. I I don't think they would bring Urs in smaller, I'm sorry, less conditioned. And they didn't. And he is in contention for the win. Now, Quint Quint still looks fantastic. Um, but he's to me look in that shot there flat. He looks flat to me. I I don't know what went wrong, if anything went wrong. Let's look at him next to Urs. Oh, they moved Urs. Mark Hector definitely in the mix here. Definitely as well. Mark Hector looked fantastic. Sergio, too. I don't want to take anything away from any of these guys. It is a really good quality show here. And we're going to see all these guys next weekend in Germany, I'm guessing, except for whoever wins shortly. And I do believe it's going to be either Urs or Quint. Uh you can't always go by where they're positioned in the call outs. A lot of the times Urs and Quint were dead center next to each other, but the head judge, I'm not sure who it is. I wasn't listening. Head judge is giving everyone a fair chance. He's putting people putting people all over the place. So that was this one. And there you see uh Lewis Breed the brick also. I like Sergio. Sergio gives a little flare, little hip tilt to that front double bicep. So, here's what I was talking about. This is where you see Urs and Quint dead center flanked on either side by Sergio and Mark. And that could be your top four right there. Um, you know, either Ursi either Urs or Quint in first and second and then you could shuffle Sergio and Mark for third and fourth. It's a very strong show. Very close competition with these guys. I'm I'm really pleased with what I'm seeing. See what you guys have to say. Of course you're going to say Urs. And that's fine. I look I think Urs looks freaking great, too. Urs absolutely smoked competition. I had top two and he tore the whole show apart. Didn't even move once from the middle. He's now officially best open competitor. Smoked Amir and Tim. Let's look at this. There's a good shot of him next to Matias. Quint over on the side. Yeah, Quint. I don't know what happened here. Quint really, really looks flat, depleted to me. Ursa's legs much, much larger. Uh, you know, even Ursa's back, which has never been a strong point. His arms have never been a strong point. They're much better now than they were in his classic days. So him fighting to get down to the weight was definitely taking away from those body parts because you've heard it said before when when people have to fight to make a weight or to get into condition their weaker body parts are the first ones to go. And I think that's what we were seeing with Urs all along. Uh, and now that he has no restrictions, no weight cap to worry about, and he's basically a full 30 lbs heavier, which is a lot of weight to put on in in a year's time because he was competing a year ago, almost almost exactly a year ago at the Olympia. Much much lighter than this. Uh, I'm going to go to the Instagram. The Instagram, as old people like to say, and show you some. This way, you'll actually be able to study the shots because they won't be moving. Let's leave this. Go here. And okay, so there's your lineup. There's the front lat spread. I'm leave that up while I get some more comments from you guys. Ursa still need to bring up his arms and back. I actually at the beginning saw his back in the real last sprint looked rough for some reason with the close-up it got better. It's still not as thick as it needs to be. There's no doubt. You don't get a very You don't go from having a thinner back to a super thick back quickly. That that's going to take time. It always does. Uh and he's well on his way. Well on his way. Side shot. Look at that side leg on us. He always had good legs, but now now that he's free to be as big and heavy as he wants, his legs are are definitely a stronger point. Sergio, I don't know if he wasn't in the post. Sergio looks pretty soft in that shot. I don't see much separation there. Quinn looks better in the side shots. I'll give him that. The front shots, he looked flatter. The side shots, he does look thicker. Mark Hector looking very thick in the upper body side shots. Uh legs. I would still want to see more hamstring drop on him. Your mom's flip-flop. Big earth fan. So he's filling us in. Legs are now on these guys level. Yeah. Give him another year or two. Made us Germans proud. Wonder how much he'll improve. I don't think he's going to look too different in one week's time. Uh what could he really do? I think he he did a great job with condition and fullness and all that stuff. Scott was shaking while hitting the back. does that factor in? If it's super super close, like the judges literally can't make up their mind, that's when they'll say, "Well, this guy was shaking and that guy wasn't, or this guy let his belly loose for a split second, let it hang, and the other guy didn't." Um, it that that's going to factor in if it's so close, like splitting hairs close. I don't know if it's going to come down to that press, but he can't win either with that back. Uh, I don't know. Quint's, we'll see. Luckily for him, he's up against Quint and Ara. Quint and Aria, Quint Beastwood. Quint doesn't have the greatest back either. In fact, I don't think Quint's back is any better than Ursus, to be honest with you. In fact, in that shot, it looks really shallow in the rear double bicep. Uh, not very thick at all. Hector has a thicker back. Lewis has a thicker back. Sergio is not known for his back, but Sergio has a thicker back. I think Leo says Quinton is more complete, but Urs is in much better condition. I am winning. Yeah, Quinton's still I'm not going to say Quinton doesn't have the better shape. Quinton's got god-given beautiful shape. Uh but I don't know. I don't know. It's It's close. It could go either way. I I don't have AI don't have a favorite right now. They both look so good. Quinton's hernia very much brings me down. I need to get that removed. Now you want to make me look at the hernia. I'll have to go to the abd and thigh. I don't Where's the hernia? I don't see it. I don't see a hernia. Where is this hernia you speak of? Back to side. Try. Do we already look at that rear lat? Let's look at the side try. I don't know, man. And you know, I was still I was still being critical of his arms. They've come up a lot. They've come up a lot. Look at that. his his side tricep, which he never hit that pose in classic. He hit variations of it, you know, aesthetic variations of a side tricep, but never a true side tricep because classic guys don't hit that shot. By you muscle, what's up, Davey? Just caught me heading up to a pull session. Urs looks surprisingly great compared to the big guys. Still short and possibly take it or Hector. I I I like Hector, too. I think Hector's a factor in this. And I wouldn't fall off my chair if uh reminds me to put my thing down. I wouldn't fall off my chair if Mark wins, but based on the way they've been positioning them in the judging, I really think it's going to be either Quint or Urs condition will bring him the win. I mean, it's very impressive conditioning. He's sharper than Quint. Quint's in good condition, don't get me wrong, but Urs is sharper. Urs filled out properly where to me Quint looks flat in the front shots and the back shots. AST says, it's Quinton's time. I think Earth's on pace to win the Germany show and that will be a sight to see. Yeah. So, that's a good point because whoever wins today, they're done. Uh even although if Quint I'm sorry, if Urs wins today, there's nothing to stop him from going on to Germany and and winning that too or trying to win it. I don't know who else is going to be in that show that's not already on stage today. Uh same thing with Quint. If Quint loses, he could try to beat us next weekend in Germany. He could stay in Europe another week. We shall see. First looks like a young Dorian. I see the resemblance. They're both white. Both kind of blondish hair for now. Hector. Okay. Strong lineup. Yeah, I want to go to some individual stuff with the guys. Urs I think an open version or Bumpstead. Earth open version or Bumpstead open. I liked Bumstead better as an open. Bumpstead just got the best physique. I mean whether he was classic, he was the best classic physique guy in the world. And I think open if he had taken a couple offseasons to really grow, he would have been one of the best in the world for open. I don't know if he would have been miss Raymond Quint winning versus too narrow. His back still needs work. I do agree with you. Quint does have a better structure. His clavicles are wider. Uh as far as the back, neither one of them has a great back. So I think they're sort of evenly matched there because they they don't have strong backs. Davey says Bay Muscle says Quinton doesn't look quite as sharp as before. Seems to fade as judging Perez. I think Mark and Earth stand out. Sergio still in the mix, just missing something as usual. Quinton just now came in slightly drier. There's an AB and thigh shot for you. Uh Quinton just knocks on top. Yeah, they rolled right into finals with a very brief break. So they'll they'll be wrapping this thing up like like in an hour. Quinton just came on. Mark has been Quint for me. Yeah, Mark is no joke. Mark looks really good. Mark kept his right lattice half his left one. I think they'll reward him to talk to for that. I noticed one of his arms seemed to be his right arm seemed to be smaller. I'll go back to the You notice it in the front double unless it was just a weird weird angle which I don't think it was. What happened on the no front double on this one? Okay. Wait. Yeah. Okay. Was there no frontal bicep in this group of pictures? Oh, there it is. Okay. So, yeah. Yeah, I think it's just the way Mark is tilting away a little bit from wherever the cameraman's position was. Um, making that arm look smaller. Ursa's biceps look fantastic. I mean, they're right on par with Sergio's biceps and Quinton's biceps, and they both have really great arms. Like I said, his triceps were a weak point for his entire classic physique career. They look better to me now than they have in quite a while. German beast. It's a lot of good Germans in this show. You got uh Urs Buddhism did not make the first call out. Amir Omaric did not make first call out, but Matias Hwick's in there. He's he's right there. He's right there hanging with these guys. Let's join. Who's second from left? That's Mark Hector from United Kingdom. Uh assuming we're you're talking about the same picture, I give Quinton back double buy and rear lat spread every other post to Earth except for the most muscular which is debatable. Yeah, the hernia was visible during transitions. I don't have any pictures of that. You look up close up developed a hernia. I believe you. I mean I have a terrible hernia. Scratch that. Side tricep also debatable. I think they're going to give it to us. I wouldn't be surprised and it won't be politics. Uh the results are probably about 45 minutes to an hour away. Sonia, we're not we're not far. They they started finals. They're going to go through um confirmation round for the Open Man. They're going to do confirmation round and awards for wellness and bikini. Uh I guess they're going to do the posing routines for the Open Man, too. They should. The mark of the width of Mark's shoulders. Mark Hector is amazing. I'd love to see Mark win this. Wouldn't be wouldn't be crazy. Why is Lewis knock talked about? Uh they just they never really had him in the middle. Bumpstead didn't have nearly enough time to grow like Earth. Yeah. Uh because Bumpstead did his open debut two weeks or three weeks. It was three weeks. The Prague show, EVLS Prague Show was three weeks after Olympia last year. So that's he was only about eight pounds fuller, heavier. He didn't have time to grow at all. Uh he just was a little fuller, kept his conditioning where Urs had a whole year. Uh I I believe he knew after last year's Olympia he was done with classic. Yeah. Psionic chowron cow. That's a good Italian phrase. Elite pro coverage more pumped in a pasta bowl full of carbs. That's all all they eat over there is stand carbs. Urs won two years top five open. Yeah, I don't doubt that. I mean, if this is what we see from just one offseason where he's allowed himself to grow a cartoon character, why doesn't he get a better comparison? Uh, it's just his shape. He's kind of blocky. He's kind of short in the torso. It's just his proportions. He's he's a very good bodybuilder. structurally he gives up a lot to these these guys we're looking at. They got to figure out a way to take shots alive. Yeah, you're right. It will really bump up your viewers mess with Yeah, you're right. You're totally right. I saw I saw like muscle Discord had couple thousand or 3,000 people watching his uh live doing that and um Xavier had I think 1500 or 2,000. So, you're right. I'll figure it out. It can't be that hard. What are your top five though from what you've seen? I think we're looking at it right here. Uh I don't know. I know a lot of you guys want uh Lewis up there, but Matias has just a prettier shape and structure. So I think it's going to be I'm going to go Urs Quinton Mark Sergio Matias or could be Matias Sergio. Let me know what you guys how can a so-called extra like you don't see Hector's imbalances. see them. But nobody's perfect. Yeah. I mean, calcified bone collector, if the imbalances were as bothersome, as troublesome as you you feel they are, they wouldn't have him in these callouts. They wouldn't have him up there next to Ursen Quinn. The judges would have said, "H, this guy's left to right symmetry is awful. We can't have him winning. We can't have him up there." Uh, look at the lat spread. I think you said the lat spread. It was the most glaring. Yeah, I see that left lat on Mark seems to be hanging way lower than the right lat. It's just one pose. It's only one pose. Yeah. And you can see Urs needs a lot more back thickness. Quinton needs a lot more back thickness. Sergio needs more back thickness. Lewis has a pretty thick back. Mark's got a thick back. But it is it is lopsided. Yeah. But like I said, if if the judges thought it was that big of a deal, he wouldn't be up there with these guys. He would have been like second, maybe even third call out. Uh yeah, most muscular Yeah, Mark looks phen Look, the delts on Mark look phenomenal in that. I'm I'm a fan of all these guys. I have I have no skin in this game. I'd be happy for anybody that wins. They all look great. They all brought the condition. They all worked really hard to get there today. Yeah, it's it's close, guys. It is close. I don't see a clear winner at all. At all. Could go could go several different ways this show. You see, they did give Lewis a look. They give Lewis a good look there. And there's Matias. head judge is doing a good job because normally a lot of times you just see the the top two front runner people in the middle the whole time and no one else gets a chance. They gave Lewis a chance in the middle. They gave Matias a chance in the middle. So, good job judges. Yeah. See, Lewis got some love. Don't worry. The judges, they try to do their best in terms of giving everyone a really fair look. Mark, Urs, and Beastwood, that's your top three. Okay. Urs currently doing his routine as we speak. Uh, yeah. I'm not watching the stream, but we did have some footage of us doing his routine. Who had that? Byes without borders. No. Oh, yeah. He did. No, these are just still photos. My bad. My bad. Uh, was it Beyond the Stage TV had some routines up? Believe they did. Yeah, they did. So, here's Earth. I know it's it's like a copy of a copy, so the quality is not fantastic, but gives a good idea verse. So, yeah, I'm I'm pleasantly surprised at how much bigger he is and still brought that granite hard condition he's known for. Um, and brought up some body parts. The arms look so much better. I'm really impressed with Urs today. Good job, Urs. As if he needs me. Yeah, I see what you're saying. His clavicles are not the widest and there's really not a whole lot he can do about that. But look at that fantastic front double bicep. That was Urs who was before him was impressed you. Here's Mark Hector. Can Mark win? Yeah, there's more than a few people that are favoring Mark for the win. And you know what? Why not? What's he missing? I I do hear what you're saying about the imbalances with that lat. So, yeah, the rear lat spread and the rear double are going to be issues, but it's an overall it's an overall physique package. Um, he might he might be good enough in the judge's eyes to take this. He might be see next guy, Quint. So Quinn close up looks to be in better condition than he does from further back. Beautiful shape and he could still win this. That's why I didn't make the title. Is Earth Urs winning? Because it's Is it Urs or Quint? I feel it's it's very evenly matched. They both have strong points and weak points over the other. Quint looks really good. Earth looks really good. Hector has some really strong shots, too. Kuba. Kuba was actually the coach of Mark Hector and he's very good on in his own right. Absolutely. Massive arms and delts, quads could be a little better. He was not in the first call out. Uh but you know, he did him did himself proud. He came in really good condition. Brought the best package that he could and he got a good look. So that's Kuba Kuba Sylvester Cellin got after that. There's Lewis breed the brick and he is built like a brick [\h__\h] house. Look at that guy. Look at that. Definitely packs a lot of muscle onto a smaller frame. He's a shorter guy. That's a lot of bodybuilders are not too many really tall guys in bodybuilding if you haven't noticed yet. And yeah, so yeah, I mean the only thing that really hurts him is just shorter and stockier and a little thicker in the waist and that's just his structure. But he's done an absolutely phenomenal job of maximizing his genetics and what he was given by his maker, creator, fate, whatever you want to whatever you want to attribute the physiques these people have in terms of the raw blueprint. They obviously did the work to maximize that genetics. And then that's Bikini. Okay, what else do we have? Search beyond. Did AJ have anything good? Uh, he's got Urs Quint. He's got at least looks like he shot this with his iPhone. So, there's Mark Hector without a big block of text covering covering him from the knees down. Yeah, he's on point, man. He's on point. Thick guy. Nice round muscle bellies. Clean separation. Yeah, Hector's really good. Very good. There's some Beastwood. I did not mean to open up WhatsApp. Okay. The imbalance is ridiculous. Well, the judges don't seem to care. The judges uh must think his strong points outweigh the weak points and they justify him. And you there are people There's Logan. There are people talking about him for the win. Quint. Yeah, Quint looks great here, man. His front shots are they're tough. Side shots, too. That's that's the only shot to me. He looks really flat. That that front latch spread. He looked so much fuller in the progress photos leading up to this in that particular pose. But you know what? He knew he had to bring the condition because Texas Pro, he dropped down to third place because he came in fuller, but it wasn't as conditioned. Um Tampa Pro, he was second. Second because uh was it Jordan won both of those, right? Yeah. Jordan Pet Jordan Hutchinson Peterson. Jordan Hutchinson won both of those. Yeah, Quinn brought a really good look today. Quinton for the win. I could see that as one of the comments at a distance. Earth facing looks like Dorian Yates. Yeah, absolutely. Love your neutral sense, professional attitude. Thank you. I mean, yeah, thank you. I mean, I don't have any clear favorite. I mean, I' I'd like to see Quint win. I'd love to see Urs win. Anybody I'd be I'd be so happy for anybody that wins this because it's a tough tough show. And this is the second to last chance to qualify for the Mr. Olympia coming up in less than six weeks now. And I just laid out a possible scenario. Say Urs wins this and then goes to Germany next week and wins that. Then that's it. Nobody else qualified for the Olympia. Just Urs after after last week after the uh the last show we had, which was Texas was the last Olympia qualifier before this that we had. Yeah. And back to Earth. Oh, there's Yeah, there's Urs. Urs looks great, man. So, a lot of us doubted Urs. I did. I didn't know what he was going to look like as an open guy. When I heard he was 30 pounds heavier, I rolled my eyes, shook my head, and say he's not going to be I can't believe I know he won't be like out of shape. He won't be smooth or anything, but I can't see him being shredded at 30 pounds more than he was a not even a year less than a year ago. But what do you know? He did it. He did it. He has such an imbalance though. Geez. H I mean it's usually it's usually some sort of injury. When someone has like one one side of a a muscle group like the back or one shoulder is smaller or something, it's usually an injury or a nerve a nerve inj nerve injury or a muscle a muscle tear or something like that. See Ursing his own biceps more. No, I think his his arms in general Yeah, his arms in general, but I always thought his triceps more so. I don't know about Amber. He wasn't in the first call out, so he's not in the top six. I don't like his midsection got slightly wider. Yeah, 30 pounds is a lot. It's a lot. You know, a lot of guys go through their entire pro careers and never, most guys never put 30 pounds on from the time they turned pro. We see it with these classic guys. We're seeing it more and more uh because, you know, they were at a weight cap and they were growing and they couldn't show that the new gains. Also, his biceps, they go bigger, but they're like lungs are big with no detail. Yeah. You know, I don't know if he ever had a lot of detail in the biceps to be honest. My best wishes to you. Thank you. It's It's actually called the Meathead podcast. The Meatthead podcast. I've had people send me like AI logos for meattheads with a Z. And that's I've decided I decided it was going to be called the Meatthead podcast. So, appreciate all the the ideas, guys. But that's the name. Charles missed massively on his prediction when I heard him say it live with Shock. Well, he he always admits when he's wrong. And we'll be talking uh we'll be doing a power hour later, you know, in later in the week, probably Tuesday. And Charles always admits when he's wrong and he's going to be very complimentary of Urs. And if he sees something that he doesn't like, he'll he'll say it. You know, he calls it like he sees it. Just like Earth one, quit number two, Mark three. Is it over? Finals wrapped up. Geez. Okay, so it's already over. Earth one. Wow. Congratulations, Yavul. Urs Quint Mark. Wow. So look at that. Right. It was Ursqu Quint Mark. Okay, so that's pretty much the way I saw it. Uh, verse one going Olympia shows already. Well, no, I mean I didn't I'm not trying to be live. Earth one terrible will come back for Quinn show is already over. Yeah, you can go to uh Nick Strength and Power. He'll have a wrap-up. Uh, we don't have any more placings. Uh, I guess he just gave us the top three. All right. So, let me create that. So, wow. Good job. I I I kind of saw it was going that way. Like, that would have been my top three. Earthquent three mark. Okay. All right. Well, it's already over. Well, good job wrapping it up over there so quickly. So, there's your results. Uh, wow. Good job. Good job. Good job, Urs. What an open debut. I I don't know to me I I don't know if there's ever been a classic guy that won his open debut. Anything that tells me that Urs probably walks the 220 season already? Well, if he's 260 here, uh, I mean, I don't understand how he could be the same weight in the offseason. Freaking cramp my quad when it got Sergio Fourth. Okay, thank you. Thank you, Sergio Fourth. Edit that. That's good. So, I wonder if I wonder if uh fifth was Matias or Lewis. Okay, more updates, guys. Who was fifth? Quint should have done the Tampa Pro. He did do the Tampa Pro. Quint got second place at the Tampa Pro. Do you mean he shouldn't have done the Tampa Pro? All he sees an open guy, he got beat by a classic guy. Kind of embarrassing. I mean, Urs is not just any classic guy. Proves back then and everything will be fine. Lewis fifth. Okay, good. Good. Good for him. Good job. That's good. Okay. I'm happy for him. Lewis Breed. Good job, Lewis. So, the UK had two in the top top three. in the top five. I'm sorry. Yeah. Wow. Oh, wait. What happened there? Oh, there we go. Earthquit Mark Sergio Lewis. That's your top five. Uh, just curious. Does anyone have any if there's any pictures already of the win up? Sometimes these people have really AJ AJ gets things up pretty quick. No, didn't do it. Didn't get it. AJ, usually you're quick. You're very quick, AJ. No. Okay. Bibles without borders. No, they don't have it up either. All right. Nobody's got any winning photos or videos up yet. The watch alongs, you know, obviously they use uh they use video. I'm sorry. for these screen grabs. So, okay. Good stuff though. That is great. So, Earth will add at least 5 kg next season. Yeah, I believe that. Looks like a young Marcus rule. Gladwell's Marcus. Marcus has been helping them a lot. They've been trained together. I'm sure Marcus has been giving him some tips, advice about three years time. We have a classic Olympian, open Olympian who are both German at the same time. Huh, that could very well be. Think Urs would test the waters this year or we sit out Ramire and come back next year. Uh I don't know. I have no idea what he's going to do. I'd like to see him jump in. So happy for Urs. Very excited to see Steph Matalo. He's going from classic to open. Yeah. Is Stefan Stefan is waiting for the for the France show I believe. Right. The show that's the first qualify for the 2026 Olympia if I if if I'm correct or I see Mike is just skipping the he gets qualification. I don't know. It's only another five weeks to die at or less than six weeks. If I were him, he'll go to Vegas. It means we see him over there. If I were Urs and I'm not, I would do the German show. He's German or he's Well, he's Austrian, right? He's German. No, he's German. I'm sorry. Why would I say Austrian? Yeah. Win that because it's his home his home country, Deutseland. Win that and then go to the Olympia. Why would you not Why would you skip the Olympia? Just because he's not going to do he's not going to do well at the Olympia. Olympia. He's not He's not ready for Olympia. Not with the back the way it is. He needs He's got some work to do, but I'd still go. I mean, it's not like he's giving up too much offseason time. He's only giving up a little over a month of offseason time. So busy buying Olympic cards, seeing up to Yeah, it's going to be a long night. Ven Fuks, of course, the Olympia. What else? Who else will be there next week? And yeah, it'd be silly if he didn't. I mean, why wouldn't he why wouldn't he go to the the uh German pro show being German? Keep looking. I want to see if anybody puts up Somebody's got to put us some winning pictures quickly. Video. No, still nothing, guys. Bibles without borders. Beyond the stage. What about who is the best bodybuilder? Let me try them. Who is the best bodybuilder? That's a good question. Sorry, I got a little sniffly. Oh, okay. Winner. Okay. Yeah. Take away the uh So, there you have it, guys. Great show. Great great open debut for Urs. It couldn't have gone any better. Not only did he come in conditioned with 30 pounds more muscle than he had less than a year ago, taking third place at the Classic Olympia, but uh condition was bang on and he beat it was not a weak lineup. Not at all. Quint was the heavy favorite going into this show. Mark Hector also a favorite. Sergio a favorite as well. I mean Sergio is no joke and Lewis Breed the brick. I mean these these are very strong competitors. You also had Tias Hullwick, Emir Majic. You had some really good good competitors in the show today. And Urs came out on top. So, good for him, man. Good for him. Yeah. All right. All right. Well, uh, that is it. That's it, guys. So, I guess I won't have to do a wrap-up video because it's all over. Congratulations to Urs Kalachinsky. Uh, Quint. I imagine he might head over tobach. Quinn should shut it down. I agree. It's been a long season. Jun, I don't know what that means. Okay. Earth looks like a young Dorian Yates. Young Dorian Yates. Earth looks good. Oh, it's over. It's over. It's all over. Yeah. Here are your results. That's the results. Who's winning? Results. It's all over. Urs Quint Urs Kchinsky Quinton Aria Mark Hector Sergio Lie Jr. Lewis Breed it's over. Urs won. Unbelievable. Do you think Urs with this package beats Prague? Seabbum. No. No. I don't. No. Seabbum was damn good last year uh at the Prague show. Uh no. Seabbum would have won this. Sebum the way Seabbum looked in Prague last year would have won this show today. Uh he's just it's a fantastic physique that Bumstead has. He's just beautiful shape, structure, everything. There's my book people of retirement. First pro show in the open class German for Oh, wow. I didn't realize that. Uh what about the FIBO show? What about the Fibo show? They've had open bodybuilding Fibo at the Fibo show many times over the last 14 years. What? Urs won. Yeah, he did. He did it. So just probably pissed. I mean, of course, he wanted to win. About damn time we got open bodybuilder who does some damage. Urs covered up going to the show and just Yeah, he kept it a mystery all the way to the end. We were wondering, is he going to be big enough for open or is he going to look like a little guy next to these people? Nope. He pulled it off. He did not look little at all. Not only did he hold his own, he beat them. He beat their asses. Unbelievable. Great job, Russ. I will be live at the Europa Pro. We'll send live comments. Thank you. Appreciate it. Uh I pro. Okay. I didn't know if you had further results beyond that prize money a joke. How many Deutsch marks did they win? How many Deutsch marks? I wonder if the score sheets up yet. Let me take a quick look and see if the score sheets are up. Nope. Scoreets's not up yet. prize money a joke. Yeah, I mean it was probably the minimum 15,000 for first I'm guessing. Yeah, I was hoping Sergio would have pulled it out. Lee Priest Lee has been kind enough to agree to join me on the premiere episode live this Wednesday night at 7 p.m. Eastern. It's 9:00 a.m. for him over in Australia for the first episode of the Meatthead podcast. I hope you guys all tune in. should only pay the winner uh 1k. Oh, they they had to pay him more than that. Lee, the minimum is uh the minimum is 15,000. They have to pay 15,000 for an open open show. It can't be can't be 1,000. I think Urs should skip all comps with purely build muscle. Uh well, that's one way one way of looking at it. Or he could take a pretty much a full year off like he did this time after the Olympia and come back and qualify for the Olympia again at another show real close to the to the end of qualifying just like this one. He could do Italy or Germany or you know something real close to the end last year. Fibo's open. Yeah. Loho. Okay. That it can't be $1,000. That can't be right. The winner already announced. Yeah. This is the These are the results. That's why I took everything off screen. It can't be That can't be right. It It I I I can't imagine that's right. That can't be correct. $1,000. First was That's a lot of zeros. 10 10,000. I could have sworn not enough to cover chicken. Yeah. I mean, that's not much, but So, if it was $10,000, I could have sworn that the the new minimum first prize was $15,000. I'm sure I I I remember that. But for open shows, I had high expectation. Mark Hector. Uh, I don't know. I mean, third place to to to Ursam Quinn is not not too shabby. I wouldn't be too upset about that. One, there's only 10K. [\h__\h] Okay. Well, I stand corrected because I I was very sure that they had increased the minimum. Thus got six. Okay. Good job, Matias. Let me Let me fix that banner. I want to hide it. I want to edit that to reflect Matias in sixth because on stage they usually do the top six and no one else. So, Pias, put him in six there. Save that. Okay, there we go. Lee, say hi from my mom. Oh, 1K to Lewis. Oh, yeah. That is that is pretty embarrassing. So, but 10,000 Yeah, 1K is only enough to cover KFC chicken wings and contest prep first 10,000. Geez. Hi, Mom. Uh Lee has a channel. You can go to his Instagram and and connect to it there called Lee Priest Unfiltered where you can get all the raw uncensored Lee Priest content that a true Lee Priest fan would appreciate. Can you put polls so you can vote for top five? I mean, it's over, so there's no point now. The show's over. There's no point. Uh K Lewis in fifth, second got 5,000. Goku says Sher Ursnut season. The other guys can compete for a while and they can't beat a classic guy. There's no excuse. No, I mean there's no excuses. A great physique is a great physique. It's like Bumpstead beat, you know, everyone except Martin Fitzwwater last year at the Prague show. And I don't think there's any shame in losing to one of he was the greatest classic physique competitor in the world for six years in a row. Losing to Urs who was one of the greatest, you know, third place three years in a row at the Olympia, second place a couple times at the Arnold Classic. Uh he's he's one of the greatest classic physique competitors of the past five years. So to take, you know, to to lose to him, I don't think there's anything to be ashamed of. Yeah, that's not a lot of money, man. Crazy. She made the others look soft. Lee, what's up? Lee had Quinton winning. Wonder if he still thinks that they were close. So, whoever had Quint winning, I mean, I wouldn't be too upset about third 2500, fourth 2,000, fifth 1,000 should just give first 20K. The rest don't matter. Uh, I think those people would be very upset if they got second, third, fourth, fifth, and got no money. I I hear what you're saying, but I'd rather see the the wealth, what little there is of it, spread out among the top five. I mean, for only one guy to get paid anything, that that's that doesn't sit right with me. How he looked before today was off today. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, going into the show, I had Quinton winning based on just track record and I know what he looks like. I had Quinton winning going into the show. Tai Holick looks not as sharp as usual. Think of Amr. I didn't really get a good look at him. Oh, the coach is gonna get paid a coffee in gratitude. This is the only one on. Is that you, Lee? Yeah. Yeah, that's the real Lee. Is it classic now? He's open. People that way. What time is it over there? It's 3:54 p.m. Here it is. 5:54 a.m. where Lee is in Australia. Geez, Lee, you wake up early. Appreciate you being on this. Appreciate it very much. I have Wayne 2002 was a press conference. Think about the new IPB rules for classic Zeke. What's the new rule? I don't know getting token money. That's an emoji. 554. Jeez. Been up since three. Jeez Lee, you stay. You get up early. Eight of the top five have a strong back. Uh Quintr, no. Quint, no. Marchback's pretty good. Sergio. No. Lewis's back is pretty good. No, no one had a great back there. Nobody had a great back. So, Ben was on the Prague. No. No. I I like the way Chris looked last year. Prague. You know what? I could actually pull it up. Let's see. Olympia, Clarita, Prague. Look it up. Look how close I have to go to the screen to see anything. 24 Olympia. Don't tell me I deleted. Creo Dorian Creo. Flex. Uh, I could have sworn I had that still. I know I do have it loaded somewhere. Bumstead Prague. Clarita Prague. Rone. Now I have this. So this was bumpstead in Prague. If you want to sort of take a look. See? Yeah, Chris Chris is just a fantastic physique. I think if he had a full year after this to put size on, he would have won most pro shows. Not the Olympia, not the Arnold. No, I don't think he would have been that that great as an open guy right away, but he would have won a lot of other open shows that he would have entered. Let's He's asking Lee, where do you see Urs in a couple years now? He put on so much mass, which is very dangerous. People like Martin Fitzswire. You think Joe Placus would have won this show? H it's a good question. It's a good question. Uh maybe. Yeah, Plasus looked damn good. Couple years top five and open Keon winning. I agree. Agree. Let's go. Steve, you're still the best ever though. Going way back, Lo. You're going back to the 50s. Poor Quinn. I confirm it's five. Ay Patriot. That was my Azy. That's my Australian accent right there. You heard it. All right. Anyway, guys, uh, you have to remember built this in a few months. Mark Hector reminds me of 80 star Christian. Yeah, I don't see that one. Thanks, Dan. All right, guys. I'm going to take off. So, there you go. The results one last time. Urs Kachinsky, your winner today at the Italy Pro. Uh Quint Quinton Aria, Quint Beastwood, runner up, second place. Unfortunately, did not get the Olympia ticket. Mark Hector from UK, third place. Uh first time we've seen him compete back in a couple years. You see you laterly. Uh Sergio Oliva Jr. fourth place. Not bad. Lewis the brick breed from UK fifth place and Germany's Matias Hullwick in sixth place. See you Wednesday. Thank you Lee. Guys tune in Wednesday 700 PM Eastern Standard Time in the United States of America for the first episode of the Meatthead podcast. We'll be talking about all kinds of [\h__\h] It's going to be a lot of fun. So join us. Join us. All right, guys. Thanks so much for watching. Appreciate it.