Oh, I'm live. Okay. Thought I was gonna play the play the commercial. All right, guys. Ron Harris here for Ron Harris Muscle. And uh Italy Pro is tomorrow in Milan. It starts at 5:00 pm in Italy, which is going to be 11:00 a.m. East Coast for the USA, 8 a.m. if you're on the West Coast of the USA, and if you're somewhere else in the world, you can adjust accordingly. Wanted to take a look with you guys at the latest updates. We have some guys showing plenty of plenty of updates and some not showing any. This is the miracle bear Kaljinski. This is the closest thing to a full body shot that we have of Earth. He's done a couple videos where you're only seeing him from upper chest up. You're seeing his shoulders and your traps. He's being very, very careful to keep the body completely covered up. keep the mystery going until he takes the stage tomorrow. He did post today uh on his Instagram. I want to show you the question. Someone asked him what he weighed and he said it was 118 kilos and I did the complex math. So, let's take a look. So, there's his new video three days out. That's a picture. You can kind of see what he looks like. There's him getting his competitor number number 130. Here he is with uh that looks like Lewis Breed. I don't know what this is. A line to go check out this cathedral. Uh there he's getting some Starbucks. So he's very uh very confident, very happy. He does look bigger. He says his body weight is 118.5 kg, which is 260 7 pounds. So, he is 260. He's going to be 260 on stage, the Miracle Bear. But we have nothing else to go on. He's keeping it all under wraps. He's going to surprise us tomorrow when he takes the stage. That will be the first time. You can definitely see he's thicker and fuller. So that's a 30 plus pound increase since the last time we saw him which was the 24 Olympia classic physique where he took third place for the third year in a row. Questions, comments about the Miracle Bear because I I'm very curious as I'm sure you guys all are what the heck he looks like. What's up Chad on the road? Glad to catch you live. Yep. Happy Saturday. Sarah to you, the new adult lord. Take another tell from Derek and more plates to I'm the new adult lord. I mean, not really. I just had this shoulder replaced. My adults are about half the size they should be. But thank you. Appreciate it. Urs will be top three. Uh I'm hearing people say they think he's going to be first place, top three, top five. Some people don't think he's even going to make top five. Is gonna be a beast. My opinion, he'll come second. Could be. Could be. Behind Quinton, though. So yeah, let's take a look at Quint because Quint is actually showing updates, which is exciting. So let's see what the most recent I always go to the stories even though they tend to Okay, this is actually in the photos as well. He's letting his clients know he's probably going to be a little busy. There's with his girl. Yeah. So let's look at these updates in large screen format. This was posted. Oh, it says taken a few weeks ago. Don't know why I didn't post these. just been gatekeeping. I was going to say the condition didn't look awesome here. So that's that explains it. This was this was a couple weeks ago, a few weeks ago. So let's see what's more more recent than that. Let's see. That was here. These were six days ago. The before picks were one week out and a few days attempt. The after picks are one and a half weeks out of Italy pro. On your right is a week and a half out of Italy. He's definitely tightened up. Definitely tighter than he was in Texas, which is all he needed to do. He just needed to tighten up. He's clearly the favorite to win this along. There's a couple other guys that could very well win this, but I would say, tell me if you agree or not. I believe Quint is the favorite. There's his food. because, you know, he's only showing the back shots because we know from the front most people are going to be bang on shredded when they need to be. It's the back. The lower back and the glutes and the hams is where men tend to hold a little bit more fat and fluid. And this was a week and a half away, a week and a half out. He was already looking very, very close to exactly where he needed to be on stage. This was obviously the Texas show. And you can see from the front, he was very full, very lean and tight. It could have been a little crisper here around the midsection, but still look at those quads. Deep deep clear cuts in the quads. Great shots. Fantastic physique on Quinn. I'm a big big Quinn fan. So aesthetic. I mean, that is classic bodybuilding. It's classic classic physique with open mass, I guess you could say. Uh I' I'd be I'd be more surprised if he doesn't win, honestly, just because I think he's that good. And these were these were a week out. These were a week out. Here he is with uh Marosasi and Andrea Prei. Was this in Italy? No, that was at Samson's gym, right? That was up in UK. Yeah, because he's been we know he's been staying with Samson and his wife Marina preparing for this show. I think he's took a full three weeks between Texas and Italy Pro to train with Mr. Olympia Samson Da. He's got no coach, but he does have some excellent people giving him giving opinions, input, feedback, which is all you really need. Marl Sassi is an excellent coach with a great track record. Uh, obviously Samson's Mr. Olympia and his wife Marina is Mr. Olympia's coach. So, I think between all these people he's got around him, he's going to be looking really, really good. Uh yeah, Quinn Quint's my favorite to win. Tell me what you guys think. I know there's some great great guys in the show. We we'll be looking at them. We're going to look at everybody. See rooting for Koopa. Any questions about Urs? I'll try and answer since I'm a big fan. Haha. Well, I guess you could you the one that told us his cut off for classic was 227 227 pounds because you got to remember I'm American so kilos get me kind of confused. I go with pounds. So 227. If he's 260, a little bit over 260 today, and he drops his water, let's say he drops like 5 lb, 3 to 5 pounds of water, that's still that still puts him at 255, which would be almost 30 pounds over for Kuba. Kuba that is uh the guy who's been helping Mark Hector. We're going to take a look at Mark Stefan Metallica up in the show instead of doing France in three weeks. France that far away. Curious about Sergio. Yeah, we'll take a look at Sergio. Urs don't got the mask me with Quinton even become slightly less shredded. I don't see a judge green Urs one. Yeah, I don't see I don't see Urs winning this, but I do see him making a really strong impression. I see him making a great debut as an open bodybuilder and you know that's that's good enough. That's good enough. So, I can't buy the pay-per-view, which absolutely sucks. Gonna ask if you any problems. I I didn't I don't buy the pay-per-views. Full disclosure, guys. Uh, I make I don't make a lot of money with this channel yet. Yet being the key word. So, if I bought all the pay-per-views for the show, I would actually make no money on YouTube. So, I wait until there's free footage available. So, I haven't even tried to buy it for you. New panel show. Yeah. Pick my [\h__\h] You have Jim Mantis is another panel called the Roundup. No, we're going to call it the Meatthead podcast, but thank you, Brian. The name is the Meatthead podcast. I don't want to call it Roundup. Roundup is a uh like a pest control, something you put on your lawn so you don't have bugs in your lawn. No, I like the meatthead podcast. I'll show you show you what I have for that. It's going to look like that. Same thing. Yeah, meatthead podcast. Yeah, I'm very excited about that. So, the first episode first episode of the Meithead podcast is going to be Wednesday night, next Wednesday night, 700 p.m. Eastern. uh the first group and it's going to be revolving people. It's me and B me and Big Mike Cox every every Wednesday night and then it's going to change every week. So tomorrow uh the first the first episode the premiere we're going to have I'm going to have Lee Priest joining us. He's committed EP09 and Leo Marhoffer. You may have known him better as Austrian Powers host of the Overcome podcast. He's going to have a great insight as to Urs and Urs's open debut because uh he'll correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm pretty sure he said that he was Urs's first coach or I know he was Urs's coach, Ers Kchinsk's coach before prior to uh you know him becoming super famous. So, he knows Urs very very well. Good friends and his former coach. So, we'll check that out. Uh back to the coaches versus adults of twice size. He's definitely bigger. He's definitely bigger. Still got Quint winning. Still got to get some water out of Earth. So 118. Yeah, he he probably doesn't have more than 5 lbs of water to go or two and a half kilos. 255 considering I mean the last time we saw Urs on stage. Show you what he looked like. It was a much much smaller Urs. Uh it was a 227 pound version. And he said that, you know, he was losing his fire, his passion for competing because he had to lose so much weight, so much pure lean muscle tissue he had to drop just to get down to the weight for classic. And he wasn't showing his full potential. And he was growing, but uh being forced into the position of having to diet away the muscle he was gaining every single time because he's a young guy. He's only 26 now. now, I believe. So, every time he competed, whatever muscle he'd been gaining, he had to lose all of it. And this has been going on for a couple years. So, this version we're looking at here, which was almost a year ago, I expect that to be almost unrecognizable compared to what we will see tomorrow in Milan. But let's keep looking at the guys. Let's keep looking. So, Quint looks really good, but uh Oh, was this Symposium? When was this? That was a week ago. Yeah, Quint's just got such an There's Marina checking him out in the background. Quint has just such an incredibly aesthetic aesthetic physique, aesthetically pleasing physique. Sergio Oliva Jr., another guy I think has a potential to win this. Serge is due for a win. Um, yeah, I'm pretty sure his only win so far was his pro debut in 2017 at the New York Pro, which I was fortunate enough to be there. covered it for MD along with Shawn Ray. We did all the uh wrapups, playbyplays, the interviews and stuff. I don't know where he is. It's some sort of something with all the Marvel Marvel universe action fit gallery. I don't know what that is. Yeah. So he's being coached by the boss Stefon Keenel just like Urs there has no coach. No posing. No posing. Yeah. So let's see. The the most recent physique update isn't totally recent. This was 17 hours ago. He said he realized he's the only American competing in the Italy show. Yeah. So represent represent the Yankee the Yankees the USA. USA. That's crazy. Well, I I give credit to the European guys because a lot more European pros come over to the US to compete than vice versa. I don't know why more Americans don't. You know, most of these It's not like we have trouble getting a visa. It's pretty easy to get a visa into any European country as an American. I guess we're just lazy and we don't want to be bothered. Here was a depletion workout. first prep with no beard in eight years, but that diet fakes makes me happy. So, here he is training yesterday, getting a final pump. Or it might have been the day before. He posted it 22 hours ago. Yeah. I mean, they're all they're all training. I remember Sergio figuring out that he needed to train all the way up until the show. In fact, one year when he did Tampa, after the judging, I think even before the judging, he went to uh I don't know if it was MI40. It was a a nearby gym. I think it was Ben Pakolski's MI40 gym. He realized he needed to train to stay full. So, he trained before before the judging. And I think after the judging, he went and did a quick quick workout, too. Look at that. That is some some nice full stripey delts. There's no pinning. Now, I'm not going to put anyone on blast for not having that type of detail in their delts. All those nice stripey splinters and striations, but there are some guys who have big delts, but there's not one striation in them. I can confidently say that Sergio is either not pinning his delts or if he is, he's going nice and deep so it doesn't blur the definition. But I don't think he does. I don't think he does. He's looking fantastic. There is with his clothing line. victory showing the back cuz you know that's been one of the one of the gripes is his back. People say his back is awful. It's not a great back but it's it's been getting better and better. Go back here for a second to that earlier shot. What I do with Come on, Ron. You can do it. Yeah, I want There you go. That's the one I want. I want to keep that one on screen for a bit while I Oops. While I take some look at some comments from you guys. All right, back to your comments because I'm falling behind as usual. Love Quinton's physique. Yeah, when I fall behind the comments, I miss helpful information. Like a lot of you guys were trying to tell me the other day, the point system is still not in place for open guys. And I got confused because on the left side of the page were all the divisions that are going to have strict point system rules. Uh men's physique was there, bikini, classic physique, and I think wellness. And on the right side of the page were all the other divisions which uh they had a whole list of ways to get into Olympia. And at the bottom it's it said wheelchair and wheelchair still has a point system but open still does not have a point system. So predictions Tim Tim Buddhisim Quint Hector Theo Wait so you only make $100 a month with this channel? Well okay well that's an exaggeration. I make more than that. But uh Okay. Well I'm just being cheap. I don't want to get all the pay-per-views. The reason being is I can't stream the pay-per-views. I can't show I know other channels do watch alalongs like uh Desktop Bodybuilding Muscle Discord. They do watch alalongs and he'll do screen grabs and show you the pictures. I've tried to do that and I'm not quick enough to do it that way. So I just wait I guess. No, we are doing your mom's flip-flop. We are doing it live which is unfortunate for you because you're in Germany. You're six hours ahead I guess. That's the reason I don't have Giles on it is because Giles is five hours ahead of me. I wanted to have it at a time where someone could always be there with me. And Mike uh I talked to Mike and we figured out every Wednesday night at 7 p.m. Eastern he could be available. He could make himself available. That would be 2 am for Giles. So no Giles. And it might be I don't know is it 3:00 a.m. for you? Probably for the Meatthead podcast. Yeah. I I I love it. I've been Meatthead's one of my favorite words. It was his coach for turning pro. Yeah. Austrian powers. Some of the more exciting shows here. This is a great show and I assume whoever doesn't win this, everyone that doesn't win is going to be showing up to Germany the next Sunday, a week away. Sergio's head in the right place. He went top pro years ago. Well, maybe now he does. His back looks a lot better. Freaking love the point section. Makes people have to show up. Unfortunately, the point system is not in place for the open bodybuilders. Dog gone it. All right, let's let's take a look at Buddha. Buddhis because he is looking great. He's another guy. I think he's capable of winning this. And I was wondering earlier in the season, what's what's going on with Tim? Is he taking the whole year off? I didn't know. I don't know why I bother with the stories because half the time it's just showing their food or stuff like this. Usually if someone has physique updates, they put Who's that? It's Tim. And is that Matias Holik Holik? It's a lot of good German guys in this show. A lot of good German guys. So this was Tim. Tim posted this two days ago. Look at that. I remember seeing Tim in the New York Probably like three years ago and he's he's much bigger now. He's put on a lot of good size. Look at that back. That is a thick, dense, rugged back all the way to the bottom. The lumbars, the lower back is even nice, thick and dense. Glutes are nice and clearly strided. Hamstrings lines in the outer quads there. Look at that. This is really good condition. He's a big dude. Look at those delts that back. Phenomenal. Yeah, Tim is Tim could win this, guys. Obviously Quint's a favorite. Sergio Le is a favorite. Ur, of course, because he's just been one of the top class physique guys for years now. And we assume with all this new size, somebody with that kind of shape and posing ability is gonna be capable of winning this. And you know what? Stranger things have happened. I wouldn't be shocked if Urs wins this, but we have no idea what he looks like. You could see that he's bigger, but we until we see him on stage, we don't know. But Budheim, he's looking phenomenal. Another ESN guy. ESN, huge, huge supplement company over there in Europe. I believe they're based in Dant, Germany. And uh yeah, Buddhism. Look at that. He's looking fantastic. Big fan of this guy. Uh, when does the show start? So, the show starts I don't know where you are in the world, Samuel. It's going to be 5:00 pm in Milan tomorrow for the pros. They're going to start with bikini, then go to wellness, and then open. And I assume they're just going to run. They might have like a little intermission between judging, and then they're going to go straight through to finals. So, 5:00 pm in Milan, Italy. For me here in the east coast of the USA, that's going to be 11:00 a.m. Uh, so 5:00 p.m. in Milan. Uh, so what I do is I always go to the phone and go current time in Milan, Italy or whatever, and it tells you what time and then you can do the math and figure out what time it is for you. 5:00 PM Italy time. Thank you. All right. Yeah, I should have just read that. Yeah, thank you. Your mom's flip-flop. It'll be uh we'll obviously you can always catch any live video that I do catch on the replay, but I wanted to do it live because I like the live format for these panel podcasts. Uh you know, Muscle Discord that I was on for 28 weeks in a row live. Uh Sirius and Silliness, John Livia, and I'm going to have John on as a panelist. I like John. He does his show live. Uh I don't know if Bro Chat I don't think Bro Chat is live. Correct me if I'm wrong. I've seen it, but I wasn't I don't think I've ever w tried to watch it live. Even Bible has that video on YouTube. I believe it was uploaded yesterday. Uh what video? Uh posed last year made Tim look small, especially from the back. Oh wow. Well, I mean Tim's very good. Tim is just too small structurally compared with being short on the show competition. Have very hard time. No, I don't think he's going to have a trouble fight. I mean, Urs has really narrow clavicles. if you look at him structurally. Uh, but he might be doing what guys in the past like Phil Heath didn't have narrow clavicles and Urs doesn't have narrow clavicles. They're just not super wide like some guys have. So, the only way to make up for that is to build a lot of big muscle mass on your shoulders, your side delts, and your upper back. And that's how you can create the illoo the illusion of, you know, wider shoulders. Clavicles are never going to be any wider than they are. That's just a bone. But you can do a lot with illusions. So, not a morning and night show. No, they're just going to run it straight through. I I assume they're going to probably have a little intermission, but they might not even do that. So, it's going to start in uh 5:00 pm for Italy, which I don't know if you're on the same time zone as Italy in Germany. But, uh 5:00 PM and it's going to probably go straight through, not on Sunday. No. All right. So, let's keep looking, guys, because we got some more more people on this show that are damn good. Mark Hector being one of them. Wow, that's a lot of guys. Yeah, Mark Hector. Let's take a look at Mark from the UK who has been lean for a long time. Uh that was that's old. That's 19 weeks ago. That was 38 weeks ago. Uh it's covered up so we don't care about that. He's got his competitor number. All right. So when was this posted? Last Sunday. So this was a week out. These pictures were one week out. And you can see great structure, big guy. Was uh Bino's gym in Dubai. It looks like judging by the Captain America plates. Yeah, I guess so. No, that was Action Fit Gallerate. Where's that? I don't know where that is. Where's that? I have no idea. We have to find out. Axi Galar is a gym in I don't know where is that I guess Italy. I guess that's Italy. Oh, they posted uh Yeah, it's Italy. First workout in Italy. This was posted three days ago. Yeah. So, Mark Hector from UK, overall British champion. I don't know why I always get I always get trolled. The first picture is the only posing picture. Everything after that's usually training, but Mark is looking fantastic. Fantastic. I go back to his page for any recent updates. Yeah, I mean, we know what he looks like. He looks damn good. Uh yeah, I mean, all the posing stuff they did was guest posing a while ago. That was guest posing back in July. But Mark Hector, when was this? Five weeks out. He's been in shape for a long time. Long time. I fully expect him to be shredded on stage. And you know what? He is somebody that could win, too. He definitely could. He's capable. Let's keep it going. Let's keep it going. Lewis Breed. Why not? Lewis Breed. That's an old That was from a year ago, but it looks kind of the same. Uh that was that was last year. Yeah, that was last year in Tampa. Here we go. This is 24 hours out. Look at that condition. That is crazy. They call him the brick for a reason. He look He's built like a damn brick. He's thick as a brick. And look at that conditioning. Wow. Look at that. That is I hope he doesn't wear that on stage. That that will get him disqualified. That thong. I think he's just trying to show you how great his glutes look. The breed is looking fantastic. Very impressed with that conditioning. All kinds of muscle mass. Super thick and dense guy. I expect him to be in the top five. I have nine guys in my top five. It's a pretty crowded in there. But yeah, I' I've seen Lewis before. Uh I think I saw him in Tampa one year. Very very good competitor. When was this? Quick look postworkout. Okay. So, this was yesterday. Yeah. Yeah. All the guys are filling up now. Carbing up. I don't know who that is with him there. Martin Winston. Yeah. Look at that. That is a That is a big dude. That's a thick dude. Short, thick, built like a brick [\h__\h] house, as we say in the US. I don't know if you guys have that expression anywhere else in the world where you speak English. Built like a brick [\h__\h] house. That's Lewis. Keep it going because we got so many good people in this show. This is a stacked stack show. Theo Legier from France. Okay. Well, this was a week out and Jiles pointed out something when we did our preview is by himself he doesn't look huge. So, you expect him to get out masked, but then when you see him up on stage with these guys, you realize he actually is a very big guy. Uh, he's not short. I think J said he's six foot or close to it and probably around 250, 260. Theo is a big man. There's the back shots. Nice Christmas tree. Very consistent. In fact, I I know he's done a ton of shows and I can't remember him ever being out of the top five. Of course, you know, my memor is not great, so I could be forgetting something, but I can't remember him ever being out of the top five. That was two weeks out. Look at those pecations. That is some quality muscle there. Good stuff, Theo. That was four weeks out. Theo is a very very consistent competitor. Always comes in shredded. Nice symmetry, nice lines. Just a really good physique. It's way too small. Look at those delts. Yeah. The Negriier. I've always had a lot of trouble with that name. I don't know why. It's a lot. Okay. It looks like the live chat is it was stuck now it's not. I think Matias Holwick Tim will be a good comparison. Let's look at Matias. Matias is another guy. The show is it's really got it's it's a deep lineup meaning the entire top 10 is probably going to be really good. A lot of times winner in the second place, third place guy is good and then after that things get kind of iffy. So this was uh last year in uh is it Prague? Czech Republic, isn't that where this was? I believe it was. Matias Holwick. He took fourth behind Martin Fitzwwater, Chris Bumstead, and Sean Clarita. Not too shabby. So he had been a classic physique competitor or pro I should say. And you can still see he's got that classic shape, poses like a classic. incredible poser. I will say that in terms of mass, he probably will have be giving up some mass, although this was a year ago and he's had a year to continue growing. I think last year was his first year in the open uh after moving over from classic physique. So, he's had time to grow and I expect he's going to be bigger than this. But, of course, the same fantastic lines, shape, symmetry, proportion. It's a very aesthetically pleasing physique. Yeah, Germany is killing it at this show. They have a lot of good people. I mean, geez, Ursarajic, Tim Budheim, and Matias. And I'm probably missing someone else. There's probably some more guys from Germany I'm not even mentioning, but Matias looks really good. I expect him to do very well. Let's see. Has he posted any any updates? because that's what this video is supposed to be. All covered up. Dang it. Why you Why you got to be all covered up? This was two weeks ago. It's not showing the whole physique. Just speaking wounds vod reverse shrugs. I love it when the they have the English in there. Reverse shrugs because I can I can understand that. So, Matias Hullwick really good. Take a look at Amr because AMR is a freak. Another young guy, same age as Earth, 26 years old. All right, this is posted today, one day out. So, this is his final update. Look at that. He is a big dude. He's so big he can't even get his arm down. Can't even reach his damn arm. F does some the bollocks with the boys alive. Oh, the bollocks. Bodybuilding and bollocks. Yeah, that was a great show with uh the late Luke Sando Paul Barllo. Good evening muscle fans getting ready for an UR. Yeah, Paul, that is like the talk of the show even though we have some fantastic guys competing. I mean Quinton is is great. Sergio Leva, Mark Hector, uh Amr really good. Tim Budheim, Lewis Breed, Theo, we have great guys, but of course everyone is just so anxious to see what Earth is going to look like. And I get it. I'm excited to see what Earth is going to look like. I can't wait. I'm just curious because we've never seen this was uh this was two weeks out, but this is a guy that even in the offseason, he looks like he's in prep. He's he's always lean. Emerald Marajic from Germany. Thick guy. Uh you know, the one the one thing I wish he had was a little more quad thickness and sweep from the front, but from the side, look at those look at the legs from the side. Incredible. Fantastic side leg there with the ham drop, the deep, deep cuts separating everything. Those separations between the quads, the hams, the glutes. Fantastic. Emir is very impressive. I expect him to do very well here. Uh where did I leave off? Where did I leave off? Is Italy Pro tomorrow? Yes, Italy pros tomorrow. A lot of these uh a lot of this a lot of the European shows do their do their finals on Sunday. A lot of Earth fans in here. Earth's got a lot of fans. He's got millions of fans. Would be so cool. Yes. Tomorrow is going to be super cool. Yeah. So I guess the German pro is inbach. Who wins? Urs will steal the show. Absolutely. Every cheering Urs like Theo's midsection control getting his foot in the door. Cheer for him. Oh yeah, he'll do great. Lego. Theo Lego. Thank you, Dane. He will embarrass Quinton unconditioned if they compare him. Uh, it's only have enough in the upper body. Got four guys win the show. That's about me. Heard close to 35 pounds of muscle. Yeah, congrats on the meatthead podcast. Do the right thing. Just self negative. It's not only It's not even that. I Yeah, but I I needed to get my own thing going. It's like I started this channel up 18 years ago, but I I really got back into it a couple months after MD went out of business in November of 2023. And I should have had a panel podcast a year ago. More than a year ago, Jose better than Quinton, by the way. Tim had knee surgery after that hernia fix we couldn't start earlier this season. Oh, thank you for clarifying that. Yeah, I didn't know what was going on with him. Earth's debut and open will be like Stano Stanal light. I mean Stan I like Stan did on Stano a lot but he's not he doesn't have the following that Urs has. Earth is like a phenomenon. He's you know he's he's mastered social media. He's mastered YouTube. He's got millions of fans all over the world really rooting for him and cheering for him. So has a better skill structure. Sergio and Quinton for the win. Uh yeah. So that's Amr Omaric. That was Amr at the Texas Pro. He looked really good. I think he ended up in fifth. Is that right? Yeah, I think he ended up in fifth. He got past Bruno. Bruno had been in fifth after judging if memory serves. I know it was only a couple weeks ago, guys, but you got to remember my memory is not that great. Look at the condition on Amr there. That is that's awesome. Look at that. Shout out to Carth Bajjo. Made a great debut. There is next to Bruno Santos from Brazil. He's actually got better quads than Bruno. People knock uh Emmer's quads a lot, but I I you know what? Bruno wasn't even fully into the pose there. So, let me let me not give them [\h__\h] for his quads. He wasn't even all the way into the pose. There we go. About equal on the They're about equal, I'd say, on the quads on the legs. Who else we got? A few more guys. Few more guys. Uh, William Martins from Brazil. Big big dude. This most recent update. Yeah, this was seven hours ago. William Martins, big beast of a man. Great side shots. Look at that side leg. Just a massive dude there. Massive. That's a great pose for him. Just shows shows how thick and dense he is. You know, a lot of guys are look good from the front and the back and when they're in their side shots, you realize they don't have a lot of front to back thickness, but William does. Williams a big bastard. He is number What number did he draw? 141. I don't know if that's good luck or bad luck. Showing you his face. Showing you the weight. Uh 128 kilos. Holy crap. So, what's that make him? Like 280 or something. [\h__\h] That's a If that's right. Yeah. So, he's It looks like he's about 128 kilos. Wow. This is three days out. Is that a car? The hell is that? Dinner is ready, my honey. I don't know why that caption has to do with Oh, I think he's just showing the dinner. Just showing they're all taking walks around Italy. You know, I would [\h__\h] if I was if I was blessed enough to be in Italy. There is four days out. Yeah, they're all showing us how cool Milan is. That was a week out. Mto Buim, I think that means very good for Miguel Chain, my buddy. Way to go. Oh, Miguel Chain is the by far the top bodybuilding journalist in Brazil. It's William Martins's. William looking great. Is that what I'm saying about everybody? Everybody's looking great. I'll leave that up while he takes a couple more comments. Judge don't care about someone following. No, absolutely. I agree. I'm just saying there's more truth. The reason there's a lot more excitement about Urs's debut is because of his tremendous social media following. He's huge on Instagram. He's huge on YouTube. Very popular competitor Sergio will be fourth. Geez. Long as Big Mike is on the panel. Yeah, Big Mike is gonna be on the Mi Head podcast every Wednesday night. Trend twins VIP post. Oh, no. I I I don't think the judges give a [\h__\h] about your social media following. How did Logan Franklin do? I don't know. You follow I check in. I'm sure it's still going on. Uh Logan Franklin today. Yeah, you can check his socials. Um I'm sticking I'm staying on topic here. Mark doesn't post at all. I like Russ lot. I mean, shocked. Quit runs away with this thing. I mean, he's he's the he's the favorite. Think good women out here run away. I don't think anyone's like gonna really run away with the show. Is there somebody else I want to see? I think I covered pretty much everybody. Search. I know there's more people. There are more people on the show, but uh Sergio, Tim, I think we've looked at everybody. looked at all the top front runners, I should say. All right. All right, guys. So, that is those are the final updates for the Italy Pro happening tomorrow in Milan. I will be doing coverage, so keep your notifications on. Uh don't know when I'll be on, don't know when things are going to wrap up and I'll find some footage, but I will do that. And of course, Wednesday, next Wednesday night at 7 p.m. Eastern live, we're going to have the debut of my new panel format podcast, the Meatthead podcast, me and Big Mike Cox. And joining us on the premiere episode, we're going to have Lee Priest all the way from Australia. Love you, Lee. EP09, because I needed somebody that was young because I'm I'm old. Me, Lee, and Mike are all over 50. And Leo Marhoffer of Overcome Podcast. You might know him as Austrian Powers. Uh does a great great YouTube channel himself, the Overcome Podcast, and he was Ursa's first coach. So, he's going to have some great insights as to Ursa's prodebut. And he might have some old Earth stories, some funny stories that we've never heard. Maybe he wins it and runs out with a big smile on his face. So, that's it, guys. Uh please join me tomorrow. Keep your notifications on. I will be doing a wrap-up. Uh if there's a if there's time in between judging and finals, I'll be doing a judging wrap-up, but if it runs straight through, I'll just wait until the whole thing's over. But keep your notifications on and we'll see what's going on. That is it, guys. Appreciate y'all watching. Enjoy the rest of your weekend and we got a great show tomorrow in Milan, Italy to look forward to. I'm excited. Want to see if Quit can pull off the win after getting second place in Tampa, third place in Texas, and after staying three weeks out in the UK, living in training with Mr. Olympia Samson Dada. It'd be pretty epic if he wins this. But I wouldn't be surprised if Sergio Oliva wins it or Mark Hector. We got some fantastic people in the show. So check it out. And that's it, guys. Thank you so much for watching. See you next time.