Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour with me, Ron Harris, and of course, Giles Tiger Thomas. And it's an exciting weekend in bodybuilding. It's the second to last chance to qualify for the Mr. Olympia at the Italy Pro. And Giles, this show is stacked. Let me show this list. It's a good one. It's a good one, guys. Be Would you say this could possibly be the best European show of the year so far? >> Oh, 100%. Yeah. >> So, look at this. I mean, we're going to go through the guys, but like Lewis Breed, Tim Buddhist, uh, Quinton, Quinton Beastwood, Quinton Aria, Mark Hector, thus Holwick, Ers, Kachinsky, Theo, Theo. >> Say it for me, Giles. Can you say it? Theo's name. >> Theoier. >> Legier. Okay, I'll just say it like you. >> There you go. >> I'm trying. >> You took five years, Ron. You took five years. >> Well, I tried too hard to pronounce it the proper French way. I think that's the problem. Sergio Leva, Emmer, Omar Roick, uh, William Martin. So, man, stacked stacked lineup. Um, geez. So, this is it. There's only one more chance after this the following weekend and then the Mr. Olympia is sealed. And we just found out, can we say that somebody's dropped out or is it not official yet? >> Go for it. >> Okay. I heard Rafael Brando is not going to be in the Olympia. >> Oh, the Olympia. Yeah. to be honest, I spoke to Neil Hill a couple of months ago and um because he's had some gut issues, some stomach issues >> um with his digestion and everything and um I spoke I asked Neil and Neil's I mean Neil didn't say don't put this out but he did say he said it's touch and go he said because he said he's trying to play catch up he says and even if he does make it to the stage I don't think he's had enough time because of this health issue to make any improvements because he hasn't been able to take in any food in the offseason not enough to absorb and his body like a lot of these bodies was telling me in Sweden he had the same issues. That's why I had to pull out the Olympia that one year. So, um because obviously with bodybuilding, I mean, Jay Cutler talks about it a lot about how much food you have to take in and if your digestion and your enzymes and all that are not absolutely bang on, you know, you're going to and then about to start a prep with everything going on, then it's um it's going to be tricky. So, I think they did the right thing. Um but obviously, I'm disappointed because he was eighth place last year. So, he's gone from 10 to 22. >> Yeah. To eighth place. You know, he was a he was a he was a he was in my top 10. Do you know what I mean? So, um, yeah, he must be disappointed, but he'll be back. Probably the Arnold. >> Okay. Well, wish him the best. So, uh, I know it's weird to start the preview off with somebody who's never competed in the open division before, but Urs Kachinsky, the miracle bear, he is the one with a lot of eyes on him right now. It's it's a similar situation what we had where you were at the show in Prague last year where Chris Bumstead >> Yeah. made his open debut and I think that was his probably the only open appearance he'll ever make personally. But the difference is we had just seen Chris a couple weeks before at the Olympia. We have not seen Urs Kachchinsky in almost a year since the last Olympia and this is the main topic. He says he's 30 35 pounds over his previous stage weight. Is that right? >> Uh thereabouts. Yeah. But he but he was 227 at the Olympic. That's the maximum he could be. and he's saying that he's what he messaged us, didn't he? He said um he replied to us and he said I'm 260 stage ready now or something. That was a week or two ago. So maybe couple of pound off that maybe by the time you drop water and everything 255. I don't know. But um I'm I'm really torn about this one. I don't know how this one's going to go mate because we've never seen anywhere near what he's claiming he will be uh on stage. Uh and thing is we've come to expect a certain level of conditioning from him. Um, I'll be honest, he's not in my top five. I don't see him as a factor in this show. I think he's going to look good, but um, I mean, I know we had like say Ronnie in 2002 to 2003 put like that 40 pounds on, but 20 25 of that was weight that he'd lost for the 2002 Olympia. You know, Dorian even when he put those 15 pounds on from 92 to 93, even that was some muscle that he'd lost to do the 92 Olympia. Do you know what I mean? So, it's not like I don't think I've ever heard of such a dramatic weight kind of increase with someone that actually will still end up looking good. So, I don't see him coming in and and battling with the likes of the caliber of this level of competition of open competition because he's he's really chosen a difficult show to do here to make his debut. >> So, for me, um I I I I'd love to see it. I would love to see it, but in all my 30 whatever years of experience in this industry, I just don't see him coming on looking like a fullyfledged, you know, really like huge 250, 260 open guy. I just don't see it. And I I mean, like I said, this is something I'd love to be proved wrong on, but I don't see him as top five. I'm really sorry about that. >> Yeah. I mean, well, the one thing to consider is that he says he's been dieting off a lot of lean muscle tissue the past couple years to make weight for plastic. Sorry, sorry to interrupt, Ron, but hang on a minute. It was only a couple years ago. He said he was still a few pounds under the weight cap. >> I I don't know how long ago that was, but I do recall he was saying he still had five, eight something, nine pounds to go, but >> yeah, >> the last doesn't feel that long ago. It doesn't feel that long ago. >> Yeah, but recently he has said that, yeah, I dieted I had to lose 20 pounds of sheer muscle to make weight, and I'm not going to put my body through this anymore. So yeah, this is AI I actually I'm I'm glad that he hasn't this is like the closest to a physique update. This was eight weeks ago just training with Marcus Rule. He has posted no updates. He's staying covered up. He's leaving it a mystery. So you're going to get that wow factor. Like when he walks out on stage, that's the first time you're going to see the new Urs Kachinsky, which I applaud him because in this day and age, it's hard to it's hard to keep things under wraps because people they hunger for it. They're like, "No, let's see some updates. Let's see some posing. Let's let's see what you look like. >> Do you think there's a possibility that he could completely ruin his physique or coming off? Do you think that or coming out of condition? Because when have we ever seen I've seen him in Prague. I've seen him up close. I've seen him at the Olympia. His conditioning is stellar. It's, you know, literally a top three Olympia classic guy because all those guys are in condition. The whole top 15 are. I mean, you never see anyone in the top 15 in the classic Olympia out of condition, which we do see in the 212. We do see in the open. So, do you think there's any possibility that he's just he's just he's just not going to be on? I mean, because at that kind of body if he is that kind of body weight, and I'm not calling him a liar or anything. I'm just, you know, but if he is coming in at 255 260, do you think there's any chance that he'll come in not like the conditioning we've seen? >> I'm gonna say no. And it's just because I because he has been so consistent and he's got a great coach, Stefan Keenel, boss of Outlaw. I can't see them bringing him in off. And if he's if he's marketkedly off, I would be very very surprised. I mean, this >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Like I said, I've seen this I've seen him from almost his first pro show and I've seen him probably six or eight times since then. Always always in shape, super crisp, dry. You know, I don't know if he's going to be that conditioned, but I can't see him being very far from that. Ron, I'm going to say something that the Earth fan earth fans aren't going to like. Now, if you look at his front double bicep from 23 to 24, I think his front double bicep had more shape and better lines in 23 before he put that little bit of extra size on. >> I actually think last year I think he lost some detail in his back. I felt like some of his lines were lost that look at the front of a bicep. It was like a it was an angled up stage shot, but if you compare it to 24, he was bigger, yes, but he wasn't he wasn't as detailed and and I don't think his shape was as good. So now you're saying you want to put another 30 pounds on top of that. I mean, we've seen guys like um Samson uh also Martin Fitzwwater that have managed to get bigger and also not just maintain their aesthetics, but actually improve them. I'm just really worried that if he's 30 pounds heavier, he's going to lose all his shape and he's just just going to get lost in the mix. So because from my experience, and also don't forget, we have not, like you said, Ron, we have nothing to go on. So I'm not a hater. Far from it. I love the guy. He's he's an absolutely fantastic athlete, >> but I just I just the signs for me, unless there's some fibs being told, um you know, some Porcupies being told, I just don't see him coming on looking 260 and wiping the floor with everyone or even being first call out. Um but like I said, I'd love to be proved wrong. >> Yeah. I mean, it's I'm I'm happy that there's this mystery because rarely do we get that these days where this is a guy we have not seen in a year and he's moving up supposedly all this stage weight and a whole new class. It's it's very exciting and in a way he's just like Chris brought a lot more uh excitement to the Prague show last year. Bumpstead, this was already a very good show with an excellent stacked lineup. He just added another level of interest. I think now a lot of the classic fans and Earth has millions of fans around the world. They're going to be paying attention Sunday to this show in Milan, but it's not making all hang on thing is think about how how good Bumstead look was six extra pounds because he was 241.5 at Olympia and he was 248 >> in Prague. I mean he you know he I had him I had him winning. >> So and now you're saying that is going to be coming 30 pounds heavier. And I know and I realize a lot of it's kind of regained lost tissue. not only s it's not all new tissue, >> right? >> So, um and like I said, because I I heard some I mean I got some rumors and I felt like because I messaged him back and forth. I think last year he really struggled mentally with getting down to the 227 he needed to be on stage. So, I imagine this is taking a lot of pressure off for him. Um I just I'm really got my fingers crossed for him. I really do because I don't I mean even if he doesn't make top five, it's not a disaster because there's no way he probably would have made the Olympia anyway as classic. So, I respect the fact that he's taking that leap. And and I also appreciate the fact that he's given us a lot of excitement, us fans, a lot of excitement and a lot of anticipation. And we've all been talking about and discussing it and calling each other idiots when we disagree. No, I I like it. It's kind of makes us more exciting. Like when Bumstead did Prague, I mean, that sold I was there. Sold the place out within something like an hour and a half or something. All the remaining tickets were sold. It was just, you know, the excitement that brings when you see these guys jumping over like when Clarita did the the Legion and did open and beat Regan and beat Sergio. It's like I love stuff like this. It generates excitement and he could have just played it safe and he probably could have found ways to keep his body weight back in the offseason so it wasn't such a so he could make like like Wesley and all these and Ramon all these other guys really and Chris so they have to really you know pull back on their body weights but um I really respect the fact he's done this. >> Yeah. So that's exciting. And uh Quint Beastwood, this is another amazing story because he decided to go over to the UK and he's staying with Mr. Olympia Samson Dada and his wife Marina and he's made it clear that they're not co Marina is not coaching him. He doesn't he he doesn't think he's ever going to have a coach again. He's very confident that he wants to do this on his own moving forward, but they've been obviously training together, putting out content. Um just having having that opportunity for a guy like Quint to stay with Mr. Olympia for weeks at his home, >> train with him, eat with him, uh, learn the mindset, everything. >> And I I honestly thought he was going to do the France show when he said he was going to do another show because that would be the first qualifier for 2026 Olympia. >> Ah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> But then he came out and said, "No, I'm I'm doing the Italy show, which would be obviously his goal is to to win this and get to the Olympia, which is five and a half weeks away at this point." So, here's his latest updates from yesterday. So tell me what's the Tigers take on this. >> He looks good. I mean obviously in um what was the two shows? Texas and Tampa, wasn't it? >> Yeah. So Tampa second place, Texas third place. >> Yeah. So um sorry Texas was first, >> Um Tampa was first. >> Yeah, cuz not Oh, Tampa, sorry. That's Yeah, of course. So yeah, Tampa loo he looked good, but um you know, obviously he he kind of flattened out as the day went on. You know, he came out strong, but he faded >> um in the Texas. He um he he came in fuller but obviously lacked that conditioning that he kind of had at Tampa. Um so I if he gets that combination right obviously he is the favorite coming into this. >> Um because if he can maintain because he's just he's just he's nearly there isn't he? He's only he's only you know it's only like you can you can you can squint there. Squint with Quint and um and squint at Quint and you can basically gauge you know you can see the silhouette. You can see the symmetry. You can see the proportions. I mean, he's, you know, in condition, nice and full, nailing it on the day. He's going to be very, very, very, very tough to beat. And, and I love the fact that he's been doing this with Samson because I think that's um and all thing is he said about no coach. He's had Samson, Marlena, Andrea Prey was there, Maro Sassy was there for some of it. They've all, and I've seen all the the photos and videos of um of him posing and they're all giving their take. And thing is when you're prepping, that's all you need. I think if you know what you're doing and you've got to that point anyway, you don't need to take on a coach at the last few minutes. You've got Samson looking at you, tweaking your posing, you know, looking say, "Yeah, your condition is exactly where it needs to be. Your lower back's got a bit a bit on it. Maybe let's diet a bit hard. Let's drop the card. Let's bump up the cardio a little bit." You're just getting feedback back from people that really know what they're doing because the end of the day sounds Bristol Olympia. Andre Prey Morosassi there in the background. I mean, he's going to be giving his take. they're going to be just sat with each other discussing diet and protocols and stuff like that and drying out and filling out. So, um I think this was the best thing that Quint could have done >> to basically secure a win and a qualification and I really applaud him for doing that. Um but um yeah, it' be cool. He has to be the front runner, but I think he's got some I think he's there's one or two guys that could give him a lot of a lot of problems if he's not absolutely better than he was at Tampering Texas. >> Oh, absolutely. And this is one of those shows where >> the American fans sort of get a little comeuppance thinking, uh, well, Quint's Canadian, so let's just call, >> let's just call it North American side of the water. >> You know, I I think a lot of us have this arrogance that uh, you know, the the good American Bible can go over there and wipe the floor with these Europeans. No, no, there's some guys here that are deadly. They're very, very dangerous. >> Hang on. He's done he he I I remember um doing commentary on on Quint in Romania. What was it three three four years ago? Yeah. >> So he's not he's no he's he's done it before. He's not afraid to do it. >> And I I to be honest I wish more Americans, more Canadians, you know, more Brazilians or whatever would come over to Europe because I like the fact that he's not just chasing the qualification, but he's he's testing himself. And his thing is he's he must have seen the lineup and must have heard the names going in thinking he could have tactically chosen you I think is all three of these next these European shows are going to be stacked mate they're going to be really really good. I mean you've seen you know they've got like Sergio in it and everything. So it's you know the big names coming into the show. This isn't going to be if he gets the win it's not going to be an easy win for him. It's going to be a very very very it's probably as tough a lineup as Tampa or Texas. That's basically what I'm saying. >> Oh I agree. And I I want to clarify just before people twist my words. That arrogance was on the part of the fans. I didn't say American bodybuilders thought they could go over there, >> right? >> Because someone's going to twist my words and make a Instagram. >> So we we uh I wish Quint the best. I mean, this is a he could have easily wrapped it up after Texas says, "You know what, guys? I'll see you next year. Back to the drawing board." That's what most guys would have done. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's and he's been prepping a long time, but he's he's he's still keeping it going. So, >> I I just want I I I I don't care whether he wins, loses, gets first, second, third, or fourth. I just want to see him, you know, the combination at T Tampa and Texas. It was It was nearly quite there. It was two different looks. One was a slightly fuller look. Another one was a not so full look, but it was nice and dry, good condition. >> Yeah. >> But I just want to see him get up there, look like, holy [\h__\h] Okay, that that's the guy. He's the guy to he's the guy to beat now. But I want to see him also try and hold it through the day because you've seen how he faded in Tampa. Yeah. >> You know, he came out really strong and then he just kind of just dipped off towards the end. So, if he can bring a really good look to the stage and maintain it, which he'll need to do against this level of competition, Yeah. he could win this. >> Yeah. And I'm sure Maro and Samson and Marina, they've they've been discussing that because >> Exactly. >> Everyone, you know, everybody knows Sam Simpson. Quinton Quinton's fullness can be an issue maintaining it. He's a big tall guy, long limb. So, wish him the best. Let's move on because this show is stacked. So, let's keep it going. Uh, coming from the USA. Where is he, Sergio? I know. I got you down here. So, so many people on my list here. Yeah. Sergio Oliva Jr., we haven't seen him on stage in a bit. Uh, his latest updates. I believe this is the latest ones we have from. >> Yeah. >> Wow. I mean, I know this is one of his best shots anyway, but I I'm I'm impressed with what I'm seeing. I think this um if these photos are anything to go by, I think we might be looking at the best serger we've seen since 2017, which at the end of the day, let's face it, he needs to he needs to kind of have a new best look because he's kind of he's kind of like he came into fever. He came in good, but he was flat. Remember, he did the Legion a couple of years ago. He looked totally flattened out. If he can come in nice and full and crispy, >> then um then yeah, Quint's in trouble. Quinn's in trouble. If he's not bang on and um and Sergio is then um because Sergio probably what you do who do you think is the bigger guy? I who's Quint or Sergio on stage? Who do you think looks bigger? >> I mean I know in body terms of body weight I know Sergio's heavier. >> Sergio hits the stage I want to say about 270 or something. 275. He's a big guy. >> Uh >> yeah, >> there are different looks. Quint definitely has the better aesthetics. Quint is just so gifted with the shape, the small joints, that tiny waist. Uh it it's this is this is going to be a battle. This is going to be a battle. >> They've both got very similar structures if you look at it. The wide shoulders, the small waists, big quads. They've both got good calves. You know, it's um I think um I mean they are good from the back, but uh yeah, I wouldn't say they're they're the best in the world from the back, but they're good. Do you know what I mean? So I think it's going to be it's going to be interesting comparison. like if those two turn up and they're literally at their best ever, it's going to be interesting to see those trade poses because I think it's going to be it's going to be pretty close. So, but um and also like Sergio, he's um like I said, he's he's he's um he needs he needs a good showing, a really good showing that kind of um wipes out the last few where he's kind of not quite got the look right, the ratio right. So, um I really hope he nails it for this one. Yeah, because you know fans are they're brutal and the they've been calling this guy washed up and he's never going to make it. But we both know it just takes one really good showing one >> and everybody changes their tune and now they're on the bandwagon and they love you again. So this could be that show >> because most fans won't even remember when he won the 2017 pro which was what his first that was his pro debut. So most of people aren't even going to even if they remember it they're not going to remember how good he was at that show. So, and you know what I also hope? Do you know what I also hope? I hope he really puts a good posing routine together because Sergio is such a competent poser. I think sometimes I've seen shows I think he just wings it, makes it up on the spot. And I and I know I think No, seriously, guys like that, like Cedric used to do that and his posing was amazing. But I think sometimes those are the guys that really do need to put the effort in because if they're that competent at the transitions and the level of posing, it's better when you know that you think you watch this and you think, "Yeah, he's put some he's put a few weeks of effort into not just got on stage and know like Theo does that. Theo's another one who gets on stage and wings it and he puts beautiful pose routines together, but when I I actually feel disappointed when I hear that they just wing it on stage like Cedric used to, you know. >> Yeah. >> Because I think if you really really put a couple of weeks, you know, even just a couple of weeks of effort into it, you could put something together really special that would stand out so far from the rest. So, um yeah, I really really hope that I really hope that. But I I I wish him well, Sergio, because like I said, he's he's been around a few years and he is good >> and he's he's you know, it should be said he's much larger now than when he made his pro debut in 2017. >> He's got to have Oh, yeah. Definitely. Definitely. Because I was there in New York. >> Okay. Oh, wow. There you go. There you go. >> You know, it's not dramatic. He hasn't put on like 40 pounds, but it's it's noticeable. I could see it. And it also should be said he won best poser at the Arnold a couple years back, and if that was uh done impromptu on the spot, that's amazing that he could do that. But do you get my point though? Because like some of these guys, they're so good at posing and they're so instinctive. Like Kevin Arone said, I never really used to practice routines until I got backstage and then because I see I photographed him once 2002 Olympia and it's like you can see they're actually just putting it together backstage and some I think okay if you're that competent go really put something together. you like Samson's Olympia routine was beautiful because he's a competent poser and you could see that he put effort into to the beat of the music the transitions and it was just it was just I had tears in my eyes watching it because it was that it was that powerful. So I think some like Sergio I think he's capable of pulling off something that would uh really wow the crowd. >> Well, here's his t-shirt guys if you want to he's got clothing line the victory clothing if you want to get pick up this shirt. I can't even tell what's going on in that picture. That's nice. >> Him on the left or him on the right. I can't really tell what's going on. Looks like a comic book. >> I wonder if I wonder if Kai drew that for him. >> It certainly Kai is a very talented artist. I wouldn't be surprised. >> Very talented. >> All right, let's move it along because we got more amazing guys. And here's another one. I I told I have nine guys in my top five, but there's only a few that I think are definitely capable of winning. There's there's I could probably count them on my hand. this guy Mark Hector uh from the UK. This is this is someone who's gonna Well, there's a client his gonna shock a lot of people. Lot of people. >> 100%. Ron, I saw like I said, I saw him at that um Cubis thing I took Terrence Ruff into back in May and as soon as, like I said, as soon as he was walking on the stage, I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] this guy's been doing something quite special with his physique." because I remember when he turned pro and in I've got the 2018 amateur Olympia in my head in UK in uh I sure it was Coventry and I remember looking at him thinking oh my god this guy is going to be something really special the beautiful wide shoulders the small kind of narrow waist um but he just for me he's his whole entire lower body lacked his calves his glutes his hamstrings his quads his abductors his sweep it all it it just looked like two different bodies >> and he really needed to bring and he has brought it up over the years but the dramatic kind of improvements he's made to to his lower body in the last year. It doesn't if you could compare him from a few years ago, the lower body, the whole posterior chain, I don't think you you think it was the same guy. So, I really applaud him for doing that because that must have taken real effort. And um and also what he's gone through with his shoulder as well because um the the fact he managed to compete with a shoulder issue and not have one atrophied shoulder is um I mean, I can't imagine the mental strength it took to get through that. So, I really um I'm really I to be honest, I think if Quint's not on um I can see Mark winning this actually. >> Yeah. And you know, I I remember you saying not that long ago when he turned pro or started competing as a pro, you thought he would be where Samson would be at this point, but you know, he had the shoulder issues that he had to get through. So, there's still time. There's still time for this guy to be one of the very, very best. >> Yeah. I think people like Quint and Mark kind of remind me of where Samson was in 2022. you know, that kind of they're they're moving up, moving up, moving over, but they the potential for them to break through to that next ceiling and take them to the very very top level is really uh I feel like they're really just nearly quite there. So, it all obviously depends upon what they'll be doing in the next couple of years in terms of improving and you know because the end of the day, you can see guys that improve, but sometimes the improvements slow down and they don't they stop. So, if he can keep moving forward and get a win here, get an Olympia appearance um and beat someone like Quint, who let's let's face it, 90% of people think he's gonna he's going to breeze in and take this one, um I think, um I think this will really really help him. So, but I think he I think regardless he'll be in condition and I think he'll hold his peak really well and I think he'll be a front runner 100%. >> Well, I mean this was this was guest posing in July. He was in this condition early July. Yeah, May. Well, hang on. When was it? I did the May I did the tour with Terrence Ruffin, the Olympic All-Star tour. >> Yeah. >> Um he was he was I mean he had his prep food there and everything. I mean he was in good condition up on stage. He was absolutely we got Terrence Ruffin and Mark next to him. We got both up on stage in the pose down. They got all the clients because a lot of them were competing. They did like a massive pose down and I was just sat on the floor like only a little little stage and I was just looking like because Terrence like I'd seen Terrence in the gym the day before my gym locally you know doing some posing and doing get for his uh for his Instagram and everything his YouTube and I was like I mean when you see these guys up close it's just mindboggling and that's a classic that's a top classic guy and then when you see a really good open guy then you realize how much of a size difference there really is but they are this one I mean that I mean Terrence obviously looks incredible he just competed the week before the uh the New York Pro and the the Pittsburgh and then Mark Mark I mean this was back in May he was in this condition. Look at it. >> Yeah. So condition is not going to be an issue for Mark Hector. >> No I think I think the condition could help him beat Quint to be honest. If Quint's not on then uh Mark could easily pl Yeah, I think easy place over Quint. If Quint's not bang on, which which I think he will be um or very close to it. Um I think um Mark could take him prey on things like condition. >> Yeah. I mean you never know. That's why we speculate. That's all we do is speculate. But uh it's fun because you know body these human bodies they they fluctuate. Guy can look amazing the day before or not so great the day before and things change so drastically in 24 hours at times or even less. >> Well, look at Samson. I mean I I couldn't decide. I didn't have him as a clear as as a winner at the prejudging at the Olympia last year, but then he came back to the finals and I was like he's got it. It's a rep. >> Okay. Well, here's another big dude, Emir Omaric from Germany. Look at that. That is proper conditioning. This is a week ago. Massive guy. Uh the legs look fantastic from the side. I I do remember from the front. They're not quite as impressive, but this was Texas. Here he is with uh Bruno and Kareth >> on stage. So, this was just a couple weeks. And he's another guy that I I give I'll tell you another not only do a lot of these European pros have the have the gumption I've been waiting to use that word for a while gumption to go to the US and compete but they will do multiple multiple shows throughout an entire season. Whereas a lot of the US bodybuilders they'll pop up once and that's it. They're done for the year. We we're seeing less and less of that. I'm glad to see people competing more. Emmer is a guy that will do spring shows, summer shows, fall shows. >> Um, I wasn't disappointed with what Emir brought to the last couple of shows he did, but I knew that he needed a couple more. I knew I knew it would take when I saw the first one, I thought, "Oh, it's going to take him probably one or two more shows to really show the imia that I'm used to seeing, you know, in some of these European shows where he absolutely nails it because he's very consistent with his conditioning." And um and I think he's uh I think he's a guy that um I think potentially I think he'll be better than he was at Texas anyway. Um so I think I tell you what, one thing we're not talking about here is this is the German team. Like I if beats all these other Germans that in itself is a win because you've got guys like Amir, you've got guys like Tim Bordon, another guy we're going to mention. But I mean I mean Ers is in a in like kind of two competitions here because he's going up against like well established really who've had you know um well doumented kind of good placings in in pro shows, open shows that have been around for a few years. So really even if he beats any of these German guys, I think that's going to be a huge feather in his cap because people like Amir and Tim, you know, these guys are absolutely no joke. So yeah. Oh, the the the German guys. The Germans are almost dominating this show already in terms of Yeah. >> the top tier guys that are in the lineup, which is odd. You know, Italy, it's in Italy. There are a good amount of Italian pros in it, but >> we don't have Prey. We don't have uh what's Prey Muzzy. They're the top two. The two Andreas are the top two open Italian pros. I'm really surprised neither one of them did it. >> Yeah. Look at Look at his calves. >> Yeah. Oh, he's he's a beast. I've I've stood next to him. He's he's about six foot tall. He's not a small guy. >> I remember when I went on stage at the big man weekend, the Angel Calder on one in 21. We because we did the commentary and we went on stage and did the video and he kind of um I was doing I was doing the uh the wrap-up for MD and then he photo kind of video bombed it and he came in and I remember just kind of being stood because I've been watching him from up on the balcony for like the whole day. >> Yeah. >> And then I didn't because he was only like 22 or 21 at the time. >> Yeah. He's only 26 now. He's still a kid. >> Yeah. And he was kind of like jumping in. He was making a few kind we kind of did like a little mini impromptu kind of talk with him in the middle of the wrap-up. >> And um because he was there literally holding his check and his trophy and everything and um he was uh I didn't realize how big he was. I mean he's just like I just I physically got off you know cuz cuz he's tall as well like you said and he's he's a really and that was at 21. He had that much density and size and and quality size and conditioning separation at that age. So um yeah I I I think um I think like I said it's it's his third show on the trot now. So, I expect him to be better than he was at the others because I just know I know how good he is. >> All right. Well, let's stay on the German theme while we're at it because this guy Tim Buddhistim and he corrected it's not Buddhashim, it's Buddhism. Uh, I didn't know what was going on with him. I didn't know if he was taking the whole year off or whatever because we haven't seen him all year and I remembered he was a guy that would would do several shows throughout a season and and always consistent, usually a top five guy. >> You you've seen him in loads of shows. remember I remember your Chicago Pro pictures. I think he was I think he was eighth there or something and >> Yeah. >> Yeah. these shows. I mean, he's done loads. I mean, you've seen him probably on stage more than I have. And he's a European. >> Yeah. He's done New York Pro a couple times. I I know that's first time. I know he's done Chicago >> Tampa, but I mean, this this is AI don't know if he looks bigger to me, but it's been so long since I've seen him. I'm not sure if I just forgot how good he is, how big, and because he had sort of leveled up over the past couple years and put on put on some more size. He's big. He's conditioned. Um he's um he's one of these guys that probably no one's talking about coming into this. There's him and one other guy that really not many well actually three guys in this show that I think cannot be underestimated because like I know that people are like talking about the more popular names like Quinn Quint and that's kind of all they're talking about. But to Tim is one of those three guys that I think needs to not be underestimated because when he gets on stage and he starts hitting those compulsories, if those other guys, those bigger names arguably are not on, they're going to get they're going to get their asses kicked mate because I'm telling you Tim is Tim like you've seen Tim in the flesh. I've seen in the flesh. I saw him when he turned pro in San Marino 2017. Um he was fourth behind Brandon Curry. Uh had was second. Uh Cedric Milan was first and it was like 30 in the lineup. It was a big lineup and he just turned pro the day before. he took fourth place and he was a lot smaller than he is now. Um, but he's he's one of the kind of the under the radar guys that even though he competes a lot, no one's really talking about him. So, uh, I kind of like that because if he comes in and he does really really well and gets like a top five, >> you know, possibly say cracks top three, I mean, that's not unachievable. Um, then it's h you kind of you kind of root for those guys because they're kind of like I said, they, you know, they get some love even if it's only from the judges. >> Yeah. I mean, structurally, he's not as gifted as someone like Quint because almost nobody is. >> Yeah. >> You know, he doesn't have that tiny waist like Quint, but it's it's that mature grainy hard muscle. So much dense muscle, and he he's every time I saw him, he was bang on in terms of condition. >> Yeah. I mean, I've seen him where he's done like Emir where he's done like four or five shows in a row and where he started he's kind of fantastic full big but then from the back you could see that his glutes, his hamstrings, his back could be crisper and then as the shows go along he just gets better and better and better. But that's what I like about these European guys. They're not afraid to compete like you said about air you know. I mean I know um where is air living now? Is he back in Germany or Brazil? Because he was in Brazil for a while. >> Oh jeez. >> I know. >> Yeah, he was back in fall. They were training because he was there. He had got an apartment by himself for a couple of months and he was out there training. That's when I interviewed him once. He was in a in a in a cafe in Brazil and um but uh but Tim's a cool guy as well. I've interviewed him and um it's funny because when he needed to understand certain words, he was using the the translate thing on his phone and he had a really bad cold so he was just constantly blowing his nose and checking the phone. So there's all these really awkward long pauses at the interview. But um but I saw do you know I saw him compete as a junior at the Europe back in 2011 in Madrid and he was I mean it was funny because when he walked out in the juniors I was sat with Flex Wheeler. I was covering it for Flex Wheeler with for MD. When he walked out I mean it just looked like a man amongst boys. I mean he's so he's he's been and he's if you look at his um even his amateur record. I mean he's he's really he's a really deadly competitor. Um and I like the fact he competes so much as well. So he's a badass. >> Yeah. Well I wish him well. I wish him well. I liked him. I've interviewed him. When I interviewed him, his English was pretty damn good. I mean, >> probably better than my German. >> But think about it. Z has got to go up against guys like this, established guys who've been pro for eight years, you know, they're placing next to, you know, like Mr. Olympias and stuff and they're in first call outs. It's like people are just assuming that is going to come in and just wipe the floor with all these other guys, you know. So, I I think don't underestimate people like Tim because uh you know, just because more popular doesn't mean he's better, you know. Even if said we don't know what's we don't know what he's going to bring yet. So >> exactly. I mean that that that's the only I'm not going to say that's the only I was going to I was going to follow the show anyway, but I'm I'm I'm sure myself and so many other people were just dying to see what ours looks like. >> Yeah, we're gonna I think I think we're going to get a couple of wrong Harris and wrong Thomas' on this one. >> Yeah. But thing is, isn't that fun though? Because the end of the day, if we're right about everything every single time, it just makes it predictable and boring, and I don't want it to be that. >> So here we have Matias Hullwick. another amazing German competitor and you were sat up front for this one doing the commentary in Prague. So you got a front row seat to see how good Matias is. I think you ended up fourth if I >> Yeah. Well well think about it. Fourth was um Martin Fitzwwater. Second was Bumstead. Third was Sean Clarita and fourth was Matias. I mean he was actually crying backstage because he was so happy because when that first call out he was you've never seen it was I've seen it before where someone's got in a first call out. not expected to be in a first call out and you're just buzzing off their energy because they're so they're like, "Oh my god, I'm in first call out with these guys, these caliber of guys." It's a real acknowledgement. And don't forget, a year before he was classic. >> Wow. No, I did not remember. I did not. >> Yeah. So maybe he was another guy that struggled to make classic, did the jump, and ended up getting fourth in his uh in his four first open show. So um I like him as well. Um he's a cool guy. He sometimes comments and likes on my comment and stuff on Instagram and everything, which always a winner, guys. But um yeah, he's really really good. And obviously fourth place in Prague, he's going to be his confidence is going to be high. He's going to put a lot into this into this prep. And also don't forget it's really technically only his first year in the open and he's already he's already secured a really good placing against very very good competition. So um and he's very and thing is because he's just fresh at the classic, he poses like a classic. Look, >> I was just going to say that. >> I can see you thinking it. >> Look at the poses. I mean, most open guys can't even hit some of these boats he's hitting. >> And thing is, we've got like Samson as a Mr. Olympia. And thing is, all these classic these cl open guys with classic lines is kind of all the rage right now. >> True. True. Yeah. So, Matias, yeah, I'm I'm expecting Yeah. I don't want to say first call. Who know? Like I said, I have nine guys. M. This is a tough tough show. If he could be in the first call out for this, if he could if he could make top five in this show, he's doing very very well. Yeah. Yeah. It's gonna be tough. >> Yeah. All right, let's keep it going. Uh, we mentioned Brazil. I'm always looking for some sort of transition. That makes sense. This is from This is William Martins from Brazil. He is a big big guy. This is his most recent update. I think he's a taller guy. I don't I don't think I've ever actually seen him compete in person. Uh, obviously a lot of muscle mass. Trying to see a full uh some like posing stuff on him. I think he's got I think he's got some of the best shots in the industry. The side chest and side tricep is like unbelievable. Like if you look at his lines, it's like you know when certain physiques come together in certain poses, you know, those side shots, he really really comes together. But um Iron, you're actually breaking my heart with who you haven't mentioned yet. >> Oh, I hope I get to him. Oh. Oh, Theo. It's because I can't >> hang on. London from Art. Let's give him the proper introduction. >> Oh, well, hold on. Let's let's let's let William finish his posing here. Fromage is cheese, isn't it? >> Yeah. Well, apparently I I I'm acknowledged as one being the one that gave him that nickname because I get um the thing is I've been getting regular updates from his dad for the last few weeks. >> You speak French, don't you, Jiles? >> Uh we >> we I mean, would you consider yourself fluent? >> No, not even slightly. >> Okay. I mean, that's like my Spanish. I can I can fake it for about five minutes and then it all falls apart. >> A few minutes. >> All right. So, yeah, we're talking about Theo Leier. You say you sort of roll the RS like Spanish, so that I can do. I can pronounce Spanish all day. Yeah, this was three days ago. Theo from France. Very consistent guy. I don't I don't recall him ever being out of the top five at a show. Do you? >> I was just about to say that. I was going to say, Ron, apart from the Olympia, can you tell me if he's ever been outside of the top five in any show? And this isn't the guy that just does one or two European shows a year. He's done Puerto Rico, he's done the New York Pro, he's done Chicago. I mean, he's done every single I think he's he's probably done almost every single Open Pro show over the years, you know, and this is a guy that would do five, six, what was he did nine shows or something in a year or so? It was something ridiculous. I remember put on the um on my global muscle, it was on the on the title. something like top five in last nine shows that he'd done. So I think that in itself because I've written about it in my column in the magazine. I said like you know I'm not sure that anyone has a track record quite that good you know for a kind of for for a guy at his level you know that's um and he has won he has won pro shows he's won Spain he's done Olympias. Um and thing is I I think I really started to appreciate Theo when when I saw him do that Puerto Rico pro and he was he was posing next to Akim >> Ake Williams and you would have thought that Ake would have completely dwarfed him and he didn't. That's when I was like, "Okay, Theo is actually because in videos when he's by himself, he looks big, but he doesn't look big." But but it's how at the end of the day, it's a sport of comparison. So when he stands on next next on stage to someone like an aim and he's holding his own with size and you know, he's got good aesthetics, he's got no injuries, he's got nothing missing, he always brings good condition, his posing is always good, he's always very polished, he's very polished competitor. It's just everything, the tan, the skin, everything. He looks um like I said, I think he's another guy like Tim that isn't talked about enough, but it doesn't really matter because when the judges see him, they'll place him accordingly. And um I would I would eat my formage if he didn't make the top five. >> Yeah, it's interesting that you say he looks better in comparisons next because most guys are the opposite. you see them on Instagram in these reels, uh, these posing updates looking fantastic, but when they they get up on stage next to a lot of times bigger bigger men, it's like, ah, well, he's not really as good as I thought he was. I mean, he is, but, not it's a sport of comparison. He's up there with 20 guys who uh, most of them are outsizing him. So >> thing is, yeah, I mean, you got guys like Quint who's off, on, off, on, off, off, on, you know, can come out looking good, but then he loses fullness or he gets it, he comes in fuller, but he loses condition. You Theo never gets it wrong. I mean, he's never had it wrong. He's never been off or watery or full or, you know, or blo he never messes up. So, whatever he does with his prep, he's very, I'd say he's probably one of the most consistent open pros there is. >> Yeah. >> Um, not just in Europe, but internationally because he's proven himself internationally. So, uh, I mean, it's not inconceivable that someone like Quinn could get beat by someone like Theo. I don't think it's I'm I'm going to put it out there. I don't think it's I don't think it's an impossibility at all. >> No, not at all. I mean, it's anyone who thinks that is they don't know Theo. And I mean, like I said, a lot of the American fans, they're I know he has competed here, but they're just not overly familiar. I mean, we're just >> They should. Oh, come on. They should be by now. Come on. He's been around for years. >> Maybe I'm not giving the American fans enough credit. Yeah. >> Yeah. I just I just think he's um it's the end of the day, what do what do we go by? We sometimes either go by where they place Olympia or the track record. And if you actually looked at his track record and all the shows that he's done, all the times that he's tested himself, he's never been off. And apart from the Olympia, to my to the best of my knowledge, he's never been out the top five. And that that is a serious competitor that someone like Quinn and Mark and all these other guys cannot underestimate. >> Well, let's give some love to the United Kingdom. We got Lewis the brick breed. back. So, this was uh top three temper pro. That was the year before. Yeah. He's he's come states side a few times to compete. This was a great look for him uh at the Texas show last year, right? Yeah. Uh again, another just dense, thick, grainy physique that that British work ethic shines through here. Um, yeah. >> Go ahead. >> Yeah, >> I was gonna say he's been he's been top three at uh at at one of the shows, I believe. Was he >> was he third at Texas, fourth? >> He's he was third, fourth, but he was like he was right up there, you know. He was really he was like next to Andrew Jacked and, you know, and and Jordan Hutchinson and stuff like that, but he was holding his own. I mean, he's he's a front he's thing is I mean, the fact that we're even talking about him kind of last in in a lineup like this shows you just how great the lineup is. Uh, and don't forget he was coming off that car accident, you know, because he broke his hand and everything. Um, not long after I saw him actually because I took Terrence to uh, Tilda and um, what's his name? The 212 guy. >> Dean White's gym down in um, down in the right on the south south of England. And um, and he he took the did the two-hour drive there and back to come up and support us and see Terrence. And um, and he stripped off actually after he trained and I was just my eyes were just out on stalks. He's I mean he is in the flesh. He's an absolute monster and he's always in condition. Um he's fierce this guy. He's a real fierce competitor and I think um like I said, you know, there's a guy that won't be off, but how many how how you know can we say the same for a lot of these other guys who are arguably bigger names or more popular or whatever you want to call it. So he's I think he's chose um chose well doing this show because he's uh he potentially can rub out a few big names there. >> Yeah. I mean, he he gives me a little bit of the Branch Warren vibe. >> Yeah. >> Just a little thick, monstrous, hardraining pitbull. >> Yeah. He's just he's just a he's just a workhorse this guy. I remember raving about him in 2011 when he got third in the heavyweights to the British finals. >> And I took a picture and he used it as his profile picture on on his social media for years. And I remember just saying, "God, this guy needs to keep going." He's only 23 at the time. Um, and I was like, and then he he took a few years off and didn't took like seven years off and had a couple of kids and stuff >> and um, yeah, and then came back, got his pro card, and he's just been, you know, he's just been excelling ever since. And I like Lewis as well. I actually messaged him today actually because, um, he's going to be at the the Gasp, the NPC Sweden show in a couple of weeks. And I said, um, and I said, look, I'm the lead host now for the, um, for the for the for the live stream commentary. I said, why don't you jump on jump on with me for a class? Because we did that with Branch. We did it with guysino once, you know. We basically just we either took a break or we did it with them. And I said, "Come on, mate. Jump on a class with me." I said, "Jump on the heavyweights or something or supers." I says, "And we can uh we can we can sort of moan about how we how we only like really really good British or European conditioning." I said, "We can uh we can we can [\h__\h] and moan for the guys that aren't conditioned." >> That's hilarious. Okay, we got one one more guy in the open um to mention. So, Lewis is not last. Let me find him here. Where's Mo? Okay. Yeah, Muhammad Nsour. Where is he from? He's in Germany, but I assuming he's from somewhere else. I'm just going to take a wild guess with that name. But, uh, I I know I've seen him before. I know I've seen him compete before. >> You have? >> Another guy that's uh condition I'm sure is going to be there's there's a few guys that I've seen that I know they've always been in condition every time I've seen him. Sometimes they get outmassed or outshaped or whatever the case may be, but this guy's very consistent. Um, >> he's he's had top threes. Oh, he has it. >> Yeah. Yeah. I I was like Italy or Dubai. It was one of these shows like third or he's had some thirds to fourths, you know. So, he's uh he's he's you know, he probably probably improved as well. So, he's going to be, you know, I just I I just you know what I mean excitement around Tampa, Dubai, you know, the shows where they're just like, oh my god, there's like six, seven, eight guys that really theoretically are good enough to win not just a pro show, but you know, this show and depends who's on and who's off. You know, it's nice to see such like deep lineups, you know, um when you see more than, you know, sort of 10 guys, but like say eight of them are uh you know, sort of or like, you know, 80% of them are real sort of top top, you know, top top competitors, not kind of like guys that make up the numbers, you know. Yeah, that's what we call just for the fans that might not know, we when we say like a lineup is deep, that means >> there's probably about 10 10 or more guys that are really really good. Whereas >> we should there are shows the winner's good, but after second and third place, the quality dramatically drops off. This is not going to be one of those shows. I I' I've seen pro shows in Europe where there's been 30 guys on stage and really maybe eight to 10, you know, are kind of really I mean some you think how do you even get a pro card? Do you know what I mean? It's just some guys you think did you even diet, you know? But I think I think this lineup I think it's going to be um I think it's a good show and it's nice to see actually how this show has grown because uh >> you know Barbara the the promoter she's um she's done a really good job of building the show actually. So, it's nice to see it getting support and um and obviously the timing of these shows. I think that's what it comes down to. A lot of these competitors, you know, sometimes and if they've had a good experience or they've heard competitors speak well about it, you know, they'll um you know, but thing is these it's the last couple of shows. So, it's going to be it's going to be competitive. >> Yeah. So, just want to give people the info. It's happening Sunday. Sunday in Milan. If you want to get the web the web, what do I call it? Live stream, webcast, whatever you want to call it. If you want to watch the show, go to www.ifbbproitaly.info. Uh, also IFBB Pro Italy is the Instagram. I'm sure there's links to all that stuff there. >> Ron, >> yes. >> I really hope they do a good live stream because this show has not had a good history for having a good quality live stream. So, I hope they've brought in like professionals rather than like an iPad on a on a tripod, you know, with one camera angle. I hope they really cuz thing is when you got this kind of quality you know and you want to keep this you want to keep building things you know um you know you want to you've got to implement these kinds of uh these kinds of uh things for the fans because imagine that imagine you know it was UK a few years ago Andrew Jack and all these superstars and they were doing live stream and it's like what a waste you know just just sort of the sake of there's so many live stream companies out there now doing this you know and all the promoters they should really communicate or if they see you know Prague or Romania doing good live streams or Sweden, they should say, "Look, you know, who do you use, you know?" So, um, because it's, uh, it's it's it's good for us fans to follow having proper live streams and rather than just, you know, on, you know, photos and videos from Gilo or these these other people, you know, >> sometimes they don't even occasionally they're they don't even have a live stream. >> That's what I mean. Yeah. >> Well, how can you not have a live stream? I It's not that I know it's a little extra expense, but it's not You could certainly make your money back with the with the pay-per-view buys at least. >> But promoters get bollocked. They get a really telling off if they don't do live streams, you know, >> rightfully so. >> It's just it's common place today, isn't it? People expect it. >> Let's change subjects to the next Olympia tour that was just announced with Big Bad Wolf, Dennis Wolf. >> Y, >> this was a little unexpected, I got to say. I'm very happily surprised that you put this tour together. How did it come to be? Uh well Chris suggested it and the guy to the he comes on the tour with me does he takes care of the merchandise and all that so all the t-shirts and you know stuff like that and it's plus it's nice to have somebody else on the tour and somebody else to rely on and you know have backup and everything and >> you know to travel with and um and he suggested because he suggested Lee and I was like you think and obviously those were wildly successful um and uh he said Dennis and I was like yeah I said you know what because the thing is like I said I'm many times I've done these tours I have spoken to these people. I've interviewed them. You know, I've gauged their professionalism, how polite they are, how what kind of just basically the general vibe. And Dennis was always one of those ones that I, you know, he's one of those ones instantly I could say, "Yeah, I could imagine touring for a week with him because he's he's a really cool guy. I've always liked him." And um and the bookings came in quite quickly actually. We're about um I think I'm about halfway there. We've got three countries on board already. >> Wow. >> Yeah. So, um, and I'm literally after we finish here filming here, I've got to go through the list of all the people that had bookings before and I'm going to reach out to them and say, you know, do you want him? Because I think, um, I think by the end of next week, we'll have the the tour locked in and ready to start promoting. But, um, Dennis deserves a tour though as well, don't you think? >> Oh, absolutely. He was, you know, he was a competing in a very very tough era with Phil Heath, uh, toward I think Jay was even still competing toward the end. uh Branch, Victor, Dexter. It was a it was a pantheon of guys he was part of. And you know, we were fortunate enough to see him. I was I was lucky enough to see most of his most or all of the shows he did in the US. And um yeah, just tremendously popular, big dude. What those shoulders were always phenomenal and you know, we always got along. He was a Slipnot fan, so I like that. >> Oh, was he? Oh, I didn't know that. I think he was because I remember you singing a slip a slip knot song at that Olympia that we didn't have the press passes for. >> That was five finger death punch. >> A five finger. He was sat right in front of us and he turned around. >> That's right. Yeah. >> But he's still in fantastic shape. He's built like an action hero now. >> He's in he's got in really good shape. He's obviously downsized, but he's kind of like Jay. He's in good condition. He's taking pictures with his top off and everything. and he's he's um and he's looking he's looking really good because he's got that outdoor gym, isn't he? Does all the personal training and stuff like that and uh he's got a supplement company and I mean looks good thing is like yes you think okay that looks like a much smaller version of him but in real life I mean the guy's over six foot tall he's still going to be a big guy >> you know um so and I think it's um yeah I'm looking forward to it actually it's uh he's a cool guy Dennis and um yeah just pulling the tour together now so um it's been quite easy actually. Is he bringing his new girl? >> No. >> Sometimes they demand to bring their partners with them. I know these people. >> I No, I I to be honest, I don't think I want to do that again. It's not It's nothing against them. It's just the logistics and the and the um I don't know. I just I just don't know whether I'll do that again. I just um >> it's another person you got to bring all over the place, too. So, >> yeah. Plus, you know, you got to add like, you know, get a bigger car and you got to add it takes a lot of it takes a lot of costings away as well, >> right? >> So, um but um yeah, we'll we'll have a good time. me him and Chris will just be like me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me me him him him him him him him him him him him him him him him him him him him him and Andrew Jack last November I mean that was just like three mates just driving around the country having fun you know it was uh training together and it was awesome so I can't wait I can't wait >> yeah he stays very very lean super lean >> that's why I say action hero he could jump in an action movie tomorrow and Netflix are you listening let's get this guy >> yeah he should know what he should I can imagine him in like a yeah like a film or something or some Netflix TV series or something yeah he's kind of got the he's kind of got like a Bond baddy look isn't he >> well he's got the that deep voice. He's got that Russian German because he speaks Russian and German fluently. He's born in uh >> he grew up as a young man in in uh Siberia and then they moved to moved to Germany when he was I think 13 or 14. >> So yeah, he could be either a German bad guy or a Russian bad guy. >> I I'm going to say something really silly here. Um somebody told me once that I competed against him. Uh what what >> somebody because I competed in the WPF European Championship from 2005 in Daton in Germany >> and um I'm sure one of the team one of the the team leaders or whatever the the Welsh Jimmy says he says you know Dennis was in the super because I was in the heavyweights and he was in the supers and I think he obviously won um but I never checked the year. I never checked the year because I don't remember seeing him there. I just remember being really depressed at how big everyone was >> because uh I was I was only a few kilos into the super. So I was a little bit little bit outsized and everyone was half my height. >> That story would have been so much cooler if you had beaten Dennis. >> Yeah. What in Monopoly? >> Exactly. No. So that congrats on putting that tour together. And I believe did have you rescheduled the Ronnie tour? >> Yes. And we're just waiting for Ronnie to release it. They said they're going to schedule because I sent the poster over with all the new dates on. We've given all the dates out and they said they're scheduling it in. So, probably going to be they'll just literally just send me a message saying it's up or I'll just see me I'll be collabed with it. >> But, um yeah, that's um that's all locked in now as well. So, um yeah, that was a lot of that was a weight off my mind because you know obviously the gyms were waiting they'd all paid and stuff like that. So, I was really stressing for a couple of weeks there just plus you're just waiting around waiting for it to be approved and and then all of course you're hoping that Ronny's going to be okay to do it. Um, but yeah, he's uh he's he's obviously a lot better now. So, um, yeah, by the time that the tour happens, he's going to be hopefully be 100%. >> All right, last thing I want to talk about because we haven't had a power hour together since this footage came uh online. >> So, Samson guest posed last weekend in >> Romania. Thank you. Thank you. People are going to slaughter me for forgetting that. And that was at exactly six weeks out from the Olympia. And you we've both obviously you followed him from day one of his as soon as he came on the national scene in the UK. I've never seen this kind of condition on Samson at 6 weeks out before. >> Hang on. Don't be fooled by more conditioned glutes and hamstrings, otherwise we fall into the Derek Lunford trap. He's Let's not get excited here. His condition is good, but it's not like it was when he was on stage at the Olympia last year in the finals. I think it's because we're seeing um he's probably been hammering the glutes and the hams more which makes us think um he's in better condition because we've never seen him like this before a show because thing is when has he ever guess post six weeks before a show anyway to my knowledge I don't think that's happened but I like the fact that he's going for condition because the end of the day it must drive him abs I can't imagine what he goes be goes through behind the scenes you know reading comments people just going on and on and on about condition it must drive him and Marlene are crazy. So, I really sympathize with him on that and I empathize. But, um, yeah, I mean, look thing is look at the condition of his legs now. I mean, his legs are separated. They're detailed. They're dry. >> Um, and thing is like when I first saw it, I actually said, "Oh, no." Cuz to me, he looked a lot smaller. But in fairness, I think it's bad lighting. It's a dodgy backdrop. And, uh, and also he's not going to be car depleting or carb loading six weeks before. He's just going to be coming in as he is. So, I actually when I looked at more footage and it was a bit closer, I thought, "Okay, this is he's serious. He really I mean, obviously he's serious. He's Mr. Olympia and he's not going to want to lose that title." Um, I'll be honest, I do have him I do have him retaining it this year. And I think this is a very very good sign to be in that condition six weeks out. Um, you know, because already he's getting the the cheekbones, which I don't think I've ever really I don't to my knowledge, I don't think I've ever really seen that on him. I've never really seen him with a drawn in face, you know. Um I mean in fact he probably looks like the condition he was on the Thursday. Remember at the press conference the Olympia last year and we all thought he's fourth place. He's not going to make it. And then two days later he just just his physique just it just all came together, you know, and he won and and rightfully so. So what do you think, Rob? Yeah, you know, I people were saying he's small, he's he's stringy, he's going to be uh scarecrow on stage, but you know, I I tend to think and you know, I don't I don't think him and Marina have shared their strategy, but it looks to me like he's pulling really hard on the prep now. I think he's on I think he's on someone said his his breakfast is just two eggs, nothing else. Two whole eggs. Well, when I stayed at his house, I mean, I remember Milos only gave him 3X because Marina made me breakfast as well and I ate more than him and I went and my tubby was my stomach was still rumbling and I thought I just felt so sorry for him because I've got a video on my phone where he's like pretending like he was like he was it was like he was making the most of every morsel. So, I think he's one of these guys that has to really really pull down hard on the food. I think he really does suffer to get in condition. He's probably a guy that not builds muscle easily, but you know, he's it's it's it's easier for him to build muscle than to get really dry conditions. So, I imagine he right now he is digging so deep. So, and I really respect that because if he's looking this good at six weeks out, you know, he's um I think he's going to I think he's going to cruise in nice and steadily and then I think he'll just start to fill out like he always does. But um I think he'll be lighter um which I think we all want to see from because Yarn Classic I'm I know I'm going to get hate for this. His waist was a little bit wider. and the stomach was starting to distend again, which he didn't have at the Olympia. So, I think um I think he's uh because the waist looks nice and narrow. Um I would expect him to be not bursting full at this point. Like you said, he's pushing hard for condition, but I think by the time he comes into the show, he's going to look absolutely sensational. Sorry, I interrupt you there, Ron. >> What do you think? What you think? >> That's exactly. You know, I I always defer to you because you've you've followed Samson much more closely. you you saw him competing back at the amateur level before he turned pro and uh you know we've seen this guy grow and improve over the years >> and condition I've never been neither one of us has we're conditioned snobs we've never been 100% satisfied with Samson's condition and I'm optimistic that this could be the year this could be the show where we finally go that's it Samson that's what we wanted to see this whole time >> I I do I just hope he doesn't I just hope he flatten him out. Um, the thing is they're going to be paying such close attention to his physique. I think maybe he's trying to pull early so he can be ready early, >> right? >> Because when you're ready early, Dorian used to say this, you know, you can you can manipulate your food and also if you if you're absolutely depleted and and ready and all this all the fat and you know, the water's off, you can then kind of like eat up into the show a little bit and monitor the condition very very slightly. Um, so to get ready like because I I don't think I've ever I even though we've not seen him six weeks out on stage, you know, I don't I'm I'm guessing from what my not my my experience tells me that um that he he hasn't been in this condition at six weeks out. So it means he's pulling hard now like you said and then he'll just try and probably cruise and then probably just cruise up into the show. >> Yeah. I mean I'm I'm really really hopeful. You know, he's a fan it's a fantastic physique. He's Mr. Olympia. People criticize everyone's physique, so no one's perfect, but that is the one thing, the one factor that's been missing is that that really impressive conditioning. And I I I I feel sorry if he brings that and stays full. I just don't see anybody beating it. It's >> Yeah. >> Yeah. No, I I I think um I think they they they'll be they'll be planning this down to the the tea um because they've got full control. They don't have to wait, you know, for updates. Malina can look at him every single day. You know, it's they got their own gym. There's no distractions. You know, they got this house in the countryside. Then everything's quiet. You know, Quint's going to be off soon, so he's going, you know, any attention on him is going to be fully back onto Samson. So, um, and I applaud him as well for guest posing that far out. Sorry, this that close. Sorry. >> Um, but also, what about Wesley going open? >> Oh, yeah. Yeah, he did. He did say very interesting. Isn't did he did he did he actually say it or did he just sort of hint at it? I I didn't watch the whole video, but I just I just kind of responded like instantly to, "Oh my god, you got to do it. You got to do it." Because I think I mean, I've I've seen him, you know, with what I know about Westy's physique, I think he'd surprise himself, and I think he'd surprise a lot of people if he went open, especially if he had a full year to prep as an open. I think he'd be absolutely sensational. >> Well, I mean, we didn't think he's he just has no more room to grow, obviously. >> Yeah. Well, thing is I I keep referring back to that guest posing he did two weeks out from the Olympia last year at the German and obviously he wasn't he was above his weight cap then because he still had two weeks to play with and he looked amazing and then when I saw the videos of him backstage at the Olympia I was like oh no what happened he just he went stringy so I think it's like I've seen and I've seen his legs up close because he trained his legs three times in that one week we did that tour last last May >> and I'm telling you I'm telling you like I thought uh Wesley prep. And thing is, don't forget, he he competes and preps as a as a classic all year round. But if you prep as an open guy, you do things differently with food, with with your gear, with everything, with your training. I don't believe his training will be different, but he's going to be looking to gain mass. And I think his body like I think it's really ready to grow. Um, and I think he could because he's a big dude, man. And I'm telling you, I think he could hold a lot more size. So even if he just did one year as an open or one season as an open and then in early in the year and then went back to classic if it really didn't work out or he's you know his sponsors or whatever said look we'd rather we'd rather you be a big fish in a little pond than you know than a minnow in the ocean you know >> potentially but he might go into a show fully grown and absolutely just be like holy [\h__\h] because you see him when he guest pose next to Samson. No, I think well I I remember it. It's been a that was quite a while ago, wasn't it? >> And that was him as a classic and he held and he obviously wasn't in condition in stage condition, but like he didn't look like a twig next to Samson, who is Mr. Olympia, you know, three and he's probably Samson was probably 320, 330. He didn't look tiny. Yeah, he didn't look tiny next to Samson. >> Yeah, this was the Pittsburgh. Yeah, there you go. >> There you go. There you go. I mean, to be honest, you wouldn't guess that one's AI mean, if I said to you one classic, one open. I mean, like when you see Terrence Ruffing next to Mark Hector in that video you showed you earlier, it does look like a classic guy next to an open. >> Yeah. >> But this that looks like that looks like a like a Mr. Olympia next to a very very good open. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, >> that's what I think. >> He'd have zero restrictions on the on the weight and the size. So, yeah. Oh, there we go. Look at that. >> You know, look at that. >> Look at that. >> I mean, that I mean, can you believe that? I mean, that's >> I mean, that is not that's, you know, that's pretty impressive. >> That's Mr. Olympia he's next to. >> Yeah, exactly. You know, it's like I know they're at different stages and one's just done a show and well so had um Samson. It wasn't long after wasn't that long after the Arnold. So it's but it goes to show you that um you know thing is with Wesley it all comes off his legs when he he wakes the weight cap anyway and it goes comes off his chest as well because I've seen him with his chest looking really big and full and and you've seen those videos of him in the gym and his his shoulders and fibers are flickering. >> Yeah. And then you see him when he's like on stage at the Arnold of the Olympian and you're like h it's still impressive. I mean, it's still good enough to win the Arnold Classic and the R UK, but you're like, oh, it's not it's not it's not the best version, you know? It's like Flex Lewis, four weeks out, 226. It's not we're not seeing the best version of him on stage. And I think guys like Ers and Wesley, you know, really really going for it now in the open. You know, if if Wesley is going to go open, you know, I think we all I think at the end of the day as fans, you know, I know they have to compete tactically because they have weight caps, but to see them bring their best physique, I think is um it's something that we need to see as fans because we want to see them reach their physical potential. >> Yeah. He mentioned in a a post I just saw that he had surgery a couple weeks ago. >> Do you do you know what what happened or what it was? hernia. >> Oh, that's nothing. Okay, no worries. It's not like a shoulder replacement or a heart. >> So, Wesley, yeah, I'd be very another guy a lot of people have been waiting a long time to see what could this guy look like with no weight cap. >> So, maybe we'll see that next spring. >> Yeah, >> he could he could be like a 280 guy on stage. I mean, he's a he's he's taller than me. I'm six foot. He's like at least a couple inches taller than me. And he's he's got he's just a big man. He's just a really big guy and I think it must hurt him. Must probably maybe not as much as it hurt others, you know, losing what 20 pounds or whatever like he claims, you know, to to to make classic. But I bet he really I bet those last few weeks are not fun for him when he's having to compete. And the thing is he's been doing that the last couple of times and he hasn't been getting the results he wants. So maybe maybe and he's still what early 30s. I mean, he must think, god, I just need to do it once. I just need to do it so I don't have to worry about and be paranoid about the scale and >> you know like waking up and having in in a cold sweat nights thinking about having dreams about not making weight and stuff you know. >> I bet they do though. I bet they do. I can imagine the pressure it is on these guys mind. I bet it is. I bet it's quite depressing actually. And thing is and the stress and the anxiety and you've got all this expectation from the fans, the sponsors. I mean can you imagine if someone like Chris Bumstead went to the Olympia and didn't make weight? What would happen then? We we spoke about this didn't we? I said, "Look, if they don't make weight, what would happen? Say if last year Chris Bumstead had been three pounds over and they said, "That's it. The the weigh in shut." What would happen then? Would there be no Chris Bumpstead on stage? >> No. I mean, at a at a different show, at any other show aside from the Arnold Olympia, >> they could just go into open as we saw with Fabian Mayer did that when he missed the weight. But at the Olympia, you can't. No, you have to qualify. So, he'd be, as we say in America, [\h__\h] out of luck. he would just wouldn't be able to compete. >> Can you Can you imagine, right, something weird happened to Chris Bumpster's body, a bit of cortisol hits his body, retains a bit of water, >> pulls it from the thin air from the air or something because he's completely dehydrated and drank water for a day. Could you imagine if he'd have done that and they, you know, and they said, "Sorry, you know, you know, you've come to the end of the weigh in, it's shut now, we can't make exceptions." Could you imagine if there'd be no Chris Bumpdale on stage at Olympia? Could you imagine? >> Conspiracy theorists will say they let him in anyway. They would just fudge it and say, "Yeah, he made it." But >> well, yeah. >> I I can't imagine the stress of being, say, three weeks out, two weeks out from the uh from your show as a classic guy, your glutes are in, your face is all drawn, and you step on the scale and you're still 10 or 12 pounds over the limit. You're like, >> what have I got left to lose? >> I mean, to be honest, I think at that point, you know, when people say people sometimes they say it's healthier for them to go open, say for now, he's saying, well, it's healthier for me to go open. And the fans are like, how what how can that more gear, more this? Because in their mind, it's all about gear and body weight and hard stress on the heart. >> But if you actually look at what has to go through to get to classic if you know, like I said, what he's saying is is bang on. You know, I'm sure he's I'm sure he's telling the truth. >> But can you imagine like, you know, that like, okay, so two so two weeks out and you're shredded, dry, bone dry, and you've still got 15 pounds to lose. You're telling me that's healthy to get down because you know what we'll have to do to get those 15 pounds off? You could probably eat next to nothing. >> Yeah. >> Fast for a week and you'd still probably hold a certain amount of body weight. You're going to have to take really kind of like well hard diuretics which as you know you know can pull all the electrolytes out the body the the you know the potassium which can affect the heart. You know I suppose in that respect it is actually healthy for forge to come into a show like this as an open. It's it's a much better idea and for healthwise. I've spoken, I'm not going to name names, but I've spoken to classic pros who told me that there were times when they had to go the last 48 hours before weigh-ins with no food, no water, nothing. Nothing going into their body, not a bit of a crumb of food, not a drop of fluid. I can't imagine even functioning two days with no food, no two hours, mate. >> A survival story or some being stuck in a like a hang hanging upside down in an airplane wreck in the Alps or something, you know? no food and water. But anyway, >> the thing is the thing is like with with fasting like you know normal people fast they might only meet two or three meals a day. So some people could do a week fast or two week fast or whatever. When you're a bodybuilder and you're and you've been prepping for say 12 16 weeks I remember I remember I I sometimes wouldn't even need to look at my watch or my phone to look at the time because my body would go from not hungry to >> not just hungry but like like really like your body's almost crashing. Yeah. Like and that's six times a day when you're prepping because your body know your body is is saying right you've got to give me what you gave me yesterday. I'm expecting this food. >> So to do that when you're on top of no food is bad enough but no fluid I mean that is that's very very dangerous. >> Yeah. I mean especially when you're eating just to backtrack when you're eating super clean and super low carb. If you're having tilapia and asparagus as your six meals a day, which some people that's what they do, >> you're you're starving. Like 40 minutes later, you're ready to eat again, but you have to wait another, you know, to wait till it's been two hours. >> Well, I mean, well, Ashley C Ashley Kwasa when she was on the when she came over on that the tour with us, she did Spain and Romania and she did that the tour in between. Literally every single meal she had was chicken asparagus. That's all she had. That's all she had for those couple of weeks. >> Well, I believe it. I believe it. >> Breakfast. Gross. Poor girl. No, she's not poor girl. She's got like 35 pro wins, right? >> It's nearly 60 now. >> Is it nearly 60? >> Yeah. >> Geez. Okay. I'm way be Wait. Bikini people, go ahead and ro in the comments. Go for it. >> I think it's like 56 or 57. I'm sure it is. Am I right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like 50. She's She's over 50. I think she I've got 56 in my head. I might be wrong. Maybe 53. I don't know. I'm just guessing. But it's over 50. >> Do I have to find out now? Ash, I just don't want to because people are gonna, you know, say, "You idiots, you don't follow. You don't follow." It's Ash K. Ashley K. Fit. I'm just want She's got 962 followers. Uh, Miss McCain times three. She's won the Olympia three times. She does not have it in her bio, so sorry, Ashley. >> Come on, Ashley. >> You didn't give us the You didn't give us the answer in your Instagram. >> Get sick probably get sick of updating it every week. >> That's true. That's true. All right. Well, that is going to wrap it up. We've been going for over an hour. So guys, if you want to check out the show on Sunday in Milan, pay-per-view, uh, info is going to be on ifbbroititaly.info, not.com. So, make sure you get it right. And if you want to follow Giles and get all the info on the upcoming Allstar Olympia All-Star tour with Dennis Wolf, those dates will be announced fairly soon. But if you follow Giles, you'll know, you'll know exactly. and the Ronnie tour when that's up and running again. You're going to get all that info on J's Instagram and you can follow me just for shits and giggles. I'm Rod Harris Muscle. So that's it. Tiger, thank you so much for doing this all over again. Uh this is your forte, your wheelhouse, these European shows, and you will be in Sweden in two weeks. >> Yeah, I'm doing the I'm the live uh sorry, the lead live stream host because Ashan's can't be there to to to live stream. >> So he's um Yeah. So they've they've had a meeting this morning just to go through all the script and mention, you know, because you got to go through the they're very they're very organized. They like to mention the sponsors and they got a script and a so you do it in your own words and stuff like keep all the sponsors happy and everyone and keep everyone mentioned and and kind of acknowledged. So it's just pretty straightforward stuff. But um it ain't my first rodeo. >> Yeah. No, you've done uh do you think you've done like 50 comment live stream commentaries by now? >> Not that many. Not many. >> Feels like a lot. But they've all been very good shows. I mean high level shows. Romania, Prague, >> Italy, Spain, all over the place. >> Sweden. Um I I just like going to the different countries. I love it. I really really enjoy it. And the thing is like some of these days like some of the amateur shows like 12 hour 10 12 hour days you're talking, >> you know, and it's um I kind of I know what to expect though. So the first couple of times when it was hard it was I mean that one in Spain we went to Alio's show and you know there was one point it was a 2021 because Ashley was with us because Ashley was sat because she was competing and I remember I had to take a break from I think it was one of the classes and I had to lie down on the floor because I was like I can't it was so hot in there the air con wasn't working properly and I was you know I was really keing over >> but I know what to expect. I'm a pro. >> All right well guys that's going to do it. So drop some comments below. Give us your top five, your top three, your winner, whatever it is you want to talk about. The uh pro show in Italy happening Sunday. If you want to comment on Samson's condition, anything you want to comment on, comments are good for my YouTube channel. So, please, even if you want to say Charles's head is too big and Ron, he's a moral Ron can't even pronounce name. He needs to go back to go back to college and learn uh learn some proper pronunciation. So, whatever you want to say, we're all good for it. That's it. Thanks for watching Power Hour. We will see you right here