Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour, starring the dynamic duo of Tiger and Ronster. And now joining me from all the way across the pond, as we say in the United Kingdom, Giles, Tiger, Thomas. What's up, Giles? We're talking about Japan Pro today. It's one of the last shows. There's only two more open shows this year. Um, this one is happening on a Monday. Can you believe that? A Monday. What's up with these these crazy Japanese people? Yes, it's true. It's true. I I checked the website several times to confirm this. So, it is not over the weekend. It's Monday, which, you know, maybe that's part of the weekend in Japan. I don't know. Guys, in the comments, you could let me know if that's a thing over there. Um, but I was surprised when I saw the lineup. We got some really good names doing this show. Um, you want to start with the who I see as the favorite to win? Sure. >> Um, hang on. Yeah, to be honest, Ron, um, oh, interesting. Uh, before we get started, um, isn't it isn't it interesting now that we got these shows popping up that really are unexpected because like Poland, like Poland has turned out to be, I mean, I mean, there's been so many good shows, it's difficult to kind of uh pick out some of the the best best, but like Poland was a really really exciting lineup and a show that I kind of didn't expect. And now we've got this Japan. I mean, I kind of it wasn't even on my radar, mate, this show. I was thinking about Romania, Prague, and and all the others. And now we've got all these new and also over this side of the um the Atlantic as well. So, it's really exciting to see these new shows and uh and having good lineups. I mean, how many is in this lineup, mate? >> Uh uh the total geez, let me see if I can get a count for you. Uh it looks I'm going to estimate it looks to be about 25 guys in the open. Wow. A lot of them are from China, Korea, Japan, but I'm surprised we also have Australia, USA, two from the UK, United Arab Arab Emirates, uh, Australia again, Russia, Iran, Thailand, France, Poland, Spain, India, actually I think Iran again, I think I Czech Republic, it might be closer to 30 guys. I didn't I didn't do a count on it, but I am surprised the lineup because I remember, >> you know, sometimes I can be that that guy who's like just so dismissive like ah who's going to go to Japan and do the Japan pro? It's going to be like nobody in that show that I would even know. But it it turns out there's some really good people doing the show, some big names. Uh and it's I'm I'm going to check it out where before I had very little interest in it. But um the thing is like I mean we we've always kind of acknowledged that America, Canada, whatever that side of the the At the At the At the At the At the At the At the At the At the At the Atlantic is very much uh dominating bodybuilding with the terms of quality, quantity, you know, that's like everyone else follows suit. But now you think about how some of these European shows and and further a field uh the kind of line like Dubai and all these different shows like now we've got um we've got strong pro lineups especially in the open like all over the world now. So, um because I mean we've had we've had I want to say there's a couple of shows where we've had what six or seven in the open. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> And now, you know, we're kind of coming back to those um like the kind of ' 90s numbers when there was only the Iron Man, the Arnold, you know, Houston, you know, then there was there would be a break and then there'd be some like the champions and um Chicago and all these other shows. But now we've kind of got not only have we got all over the world, but also throughout the year we've got decent I mean actually very very decent lineups in terms of quality and quantity. >> And [snorts] I'm here for >> I mean the this is the the last show of the year and it's almost the very the last show is uh Big Man Pro in Spain. That's November 30th. It's almost the end of the whole year of the Tiger Mug. So but yeah, let's get into it because this was a surprise doing the open now. He's done open before. He's won. He won the Legion Pro as an Open. We're talking about former 212 Olympia champion Sean Clarita, the Giant Killer. Um I I didn't expect him to be competing still. This is I think we're six weeks post Olympia at this point. It's been a it's six or seven weeks. Um and I know you've been messaging him. Do Do you know what what made him pick this show in this this late in the season? >> Uh I have no idea. in literally I've actually literally sent him a text maybe an hour or so ago expecting a response. Um because like the Japan show itself, it kind of wasn't on my radar. I wasn't really thinking about it. It wasn't sort of something that was at the front of my mind. Um so I've not I've not even asked him because I know the thing is with um with Shan, he kind of he does these kind of unpredictable things. He just he kind of stays quiet. I mean that's him as a bodybuilder really, isn't it? He's someone who just kind of gets to work, goes to, you know, stays quiet um and then just makes these decisions. I mean I I mean I don't think I can't imagine this being a sort of last minute decision because you know after the Olympia you're either done or you're not because after the Olympia you usually you know um and most of them usually announce what they're doing but he's obviously kept this this quiet because uh I wasn't expecting to see him still be competing and I I mean Sean actually really brings a lot of excitement because he is the true you know the example of why the 212 was brought in but he kind of turns that on its head because then he goes and does these open shows and think about it right I know we had Josie Raymond and like Flex Lewis in 2011, you know, experimenting with well 202 and 212 shows, but Sean Clarida was the first one to really when the 212 was really properly established because it took a few years to kind of find its feet, but Sean was the first one to really dip his toes outside uh when he the Legion was it 21 the Legion fought? >> Yeah, 21. >> So it was 21. the fact that he was he was one of the first to, you know, sort of uh, you know, dip his toes outside of the 212 and be successful and the fact that he's not like a guy that sort of his natural best weight is at 215, 220 and he has to really suck it like kind of like Flex Lewis was. Flex Lewis's best was like 225. His best physique, but unfortunately, you know, he he wasn't he felt like he wasn't big enough and heavy enough to do one in the open. So, he kind of just used to suck it down and do 212. But with Shawn, like he's like, you know, he's he's like a legit 180 guy. So, the fact that he also whilst doing well as a 212 um and then stepped into the open and has done well. I mean, remember when he did the uh the 23 Arnold and he got that call out next to Ramy who was looking back to how Ramy, you know, Ramy is like, you know, he's the ultimate giant, you know, to slay and there's like um Clarita like really holding his own against him. So, one of the reasons I mean I did that big post yesterday about Sean. You know, it took me about three hours to do this post. >> Wow. Nobody knows. >> Because I kept [laughter] I I kept going through the pictures because I wanted to because I've got photos on my phone going back to 2017. And I've got like history going back with Sean, you know, as long as that. But I wanted to take something that, you know, um that represented a time where I've got a personal connection to that athlete, whether it be an article, an interview, you know, when I've gone to his apartment in Vegas at the on the weekend of the Olympia with Hector. That's in there. You know, we did that sort of because we had a bit me and Hector had a bit of time to kill because we flew in early. So, we decided to go around and we went Brandon Curry, went to his hotel, then we got in the the SUV and then went to uh tracked Sean down because I was I I had the number. So, I was just texting and he said, "Yeah, come over now." So, we did an interview. So, stuff like that. So, anyway, I found all these videos and photos going over like eight years and then I went off, I did something and for some reason I came back and the whole thing had gone. >> Then I had then I had to type the post and then it was too long. So, I had to keep editing it down, copy and pasting and editing it down. So literally I think I think I spent three hours on this bloody post. So um so yeah. So uh but um yeah, Sean's Sean's always been one of my favorites and I think he's got a real I mean to me uh remember the article I wrote in MD which I also referenced in the post. Go check it out. Um I said about how there's more than one reason why he's been likened to like basically he's referenced as like a 212 version of Ronnie Coleman. not just with the style of his physique, but also the way that he literally started at the bottom and uh just worked his way up every single year. I mean, it's like his his career is just, you know, every single year he would go away uh take the critique, make the improvements, come and literally every single year he'd get bigger and better, bigger and better, and and and his placings would just go up and up and up and up and uh and he's done all these open shows as a way to really test himself. And to be honest, I think um my level of respect for Sha as an athlete, let alone as a person, is is one of the reasons why he's he's one of my all-time favorite pros, not just 212s. >> Yeah. I mean, this is a guy that when he turned pro, he was told that night, "Your career is over. You're done. Don't even bother." So, he he believed in himself all those years when no one else did. Uh he's he's an underdog now trying to get his Olympia title back from the genetic god that is known as Keon. Uh but man, he still works. He he's the the working man's bodybuilder. He's like that Branch Warren, Dorian Yates, just blood and guts, heavy heavy weight, covered up, you know? You have to admire someone like that that just puts that kind of effort out on a day-to-day basis. >> He's one of those guys like Ronnie and Dorian that I know Ronn used to take a bit of time off after Olympus, but he's one of those guys as well. If you look at because that I don't really like training content on on on sort of social media and stuff. I find it really boring and repetitive. But Sean is the one that I can watch again. I can watch it every single day and I can watch it all year round because he's someone that he's hitting the free weights, the you know the hard heavy exercises and he's someone that like cuz like like I I remember the days when we'd all like psych ourselves up for a big set and you go in the gyms now and everyone's just down on their phones and you know they're just you know they're texting and they're they're checking Instagram. are actually talking on the phone. I've seen one guy doing leg extensions, one arm shoulder presses on the phone. And then you get someone like Sean who's so refreshing because he is so old school um because he's hitting it hard. I mean, if you noticed in his gym, even when he's training because it's his gym, it's his own private gym. He's never got any music. He's he's usually training alone. Um he's just just him and his bloody tripod with his with camera and stuff. And uh I just love the fact he's just such a just a such a he's a he's kind of like either like like the guys in the 80s and 90s. They're just hitting it hard. It's all about the training. Uh and they they they sort of um they're hitting it hard all year round. I just I love that that kind of work ethic and that grit and that determination. You know, when have you ever heard him complain or [\h__\h] or moan or, you know, do anything? Um it's just uh he's he's so refreshing. Sean, I just wish we had more like him to be honest, mate. >> And I've never seen one salty post. if he didn't win a contest either. >> No crying. There's no crying involved. >> I want to move on because there's a lot there's some good guys. >> What did Ronny say? Why complain? >> Why complain? Don't >> remember what Ronnie said that he is. Why complain? Just, you know, Yeah. Just go away. F go for the judges, the the media, find out what you need to improve on and just come back and come back and come back. I think is with with Sean, he's not just proved like actual doubters wrong. He's even proved me wrong. somebody who has a lot of belief in him. Like at the Olympia this year, I did not see him coming in like really and really challenging Keon because I think at the pre-judging I mean I I actually had Shawn winning the pre-judging but the finals obviously I think Keon you know just pulled ahead enough but I think we expected it to be quite a big difference between first and second but that was that was a close one I think. Um and I like I said like I said even as a huge fan of Sean I didn't expect it. Yeah, it was it was closer than the scorecards indicate, which is often the case. A lot of times somebody will have a perfect score on the on the result sheet, but those of us with with eyes know it was a lot closer than a perfect score would indicate it was just a clean sweep, a domination. Sean held his own, especially in the judging. I I thought it was neck and neck between those two during the judging. >> 100%, mate. 100%. Um, and the fact that we I mean, how many years ago did we were a lot of people saying that Sean's maxed his frame out and every year he kind of he manages to put on, you know, more and more and more thickness and density. And thing is, he's not lost his um not lost his shape. He's not lost anything. He just kind of he kind of gets better and better as he goes on. Uh, and things with Sean, he's definitely he's he's another one that from personal experience, he's someone that actually is more impressive in the flesh because I remember was it must be the 22 Olympia when he came out by himself. I remember actually soon as he walked off stage looking down at the photos and videos as I was checking them and I remember feeling disappointed because I was thinking that's not what I just saw. I mean, yes, in the photos and videos he looks phenomenal, but when you actually look through your actual eyes, um, it's even more impressive. So, um, yeah, Sean Sean is amazing. And, uh, so he's your favorite coming to win this one, is it? >> Yes, he is. But he's not the only one. It doesn't mean it's a luck. This youngster from Spain, uh, Juan Juan, God, I'm never going to get it right because people keep telling me I'm saying his name wrong, no matter how I say it. So, Jan, Fredell's, I believe this is his fifth show of the season. Fifth or sixth. Uh, he's been hitting all these shows. has been second, third, fourth, fifth place, but very very consistent. He does seem to be getting sharper. Uh this is this is a diamond in the rough. This guy, this youngster, I think he's 20 27 or 28 years old. Uh if you know, this was back at the what show was this? Was this Prague? Oh, he's hit so many muscle fest. This is Romania. >> Um so yeah, I mean he needs a little more back. >> Romania. You can see on the backdrop there. Come on. [laughter] I Well, I had to move it up on the screen, but uh I I think he could be the one, especially if he's tightened up, which he's had time. He gets sharper and sharper as these shows go on. >> I could see him possibly getting his first pro win here. >> Karita versus Predell. Now, now we're really sort of breaking it down. I didn't I think that's that's exciting, mate, because you've really got me thinking. I mean, obviously Shawn from the back is going to completely completely take him out from the back shots. I mean, that's not even up for discussion. I mean, cuz I'm like I said, I saw um I saw uh how do you say it, Joe? Joan Juan. >> Just say just say it one, I guess. >> Okay. Mr. Predell, Mr. Predell. Um like I uh in Prague, I mean it was he really really he really he really really impressed me. But um as soon as he turns to the back. Yeah. That's the one thing kind of like um you know everything else is popping. We can clear anyone with eyes and any knowledge of the um of bodybuilding can see that these are the the future superstars. I mean they're kind of stars in their own right now. But these are like the actual like these are going to be the top six Olympia guys in a few years you know if not in the next year or two. So, these are the ones to watch because in 5 years time they're still going to be early 30s and they're going to be the ones um you know sort of uh taking all those checks and first places. But um yeah, I think um I I think it's going to be interesting actually because yeah, Podell's versus um versus Clarita. That's going to be interesting one. So So I think um I think I think Sean Oh god. Yeah, now you're thinking uh I think from the back I think Clarita is going to he's not going to have any trouble. Um but thing is with um things with Shawn, he's he never because he's so far under the 212 weight limit, he's not someone that you think, oh, is he going to bring a completely different package because he hasn't got the weight restriction because you know he's going to be in shape and you know that he's not going to try and do something drastic and try and you know come in 10 pound 15 pound heavier because he doesn't need to because he can't because he's pretty much maxed out as he is a 212 which is great which means we always get to see the best version of him. Yeah. >> So, um, yeah, it's going to be a flip of a coin this one, mate. Um, but I think if I was to, if I was pressed, I think that Clarita I think Karita will beat him, mate. >> I mean, yeah, he he wins the back shots and if you're talking about muscle detail and condition and muscle quality, all that. Of course, Clarita has, you know, Sean's, I think, 44 years old now. He's got a baby face, but he's he's got a lot of years of hard, heavy training. He's got that >> now, I believe. Well, okay. Let's say for I know he's over 40. >> No, he's >> Yeah, he's over. I think about 42. I mean, it's only a year or two, but you know, they get very sensitive about their ages. You know, when they >> I know us when us elderly gentlemen get past 35, we get very sensitive about our age. Maybe like women. >> Oh, you're not even you're still in your 40s, child. You're still a young chap. But >> 49. >> There's your uh there's your comment right there. Looking real good. It's telling him you vetoers are the mega stars of the future, which I totally agree. We're looking at someone. He's not in his final form yet. He's gonna get a lot better than this. We're just seeing the early stages of Juan Pardell's right now. And um I I'm anxious to see what he's going to look like in a year or two or three years. I think he's going to be phenomenal. >> Thing is, Ron, I mean, we're making out like is the way that people are talking about him and it's like, who's this guy? He's come from nowhere. Like he did Empro last year, mate. I did not even I don't remember him >> because then it was all because all focus went on uh Bonak and uh Kriso um Beu obviously because Beru was second like so we forget that actually Predella has actually been around for a couple of years but now he's kind of made that leap you know because think of the guys in their 20s you're not you're not expecting anything drastic from them because you know that if they come back they're just going to get slightly better slightly better but he's taken a really big leap and improvement in the last year because he's has like I said he has been around but He's been like a second, maybe an even third call out. I remember it was only a couple of years ago at a show I was doing commentary at. Um where Blitzy, stop it. It's not a cat. Um he was um he was basically sort of touted as oh this Instagram, sorry, this YouTube star, you know, the ones that they they they you know, they compete as well. Some of them literally just um I'm trying to think of an example. What was that guy? That tall guy, >> Eric J. >> Yeah, that guy. Yeah, you know, they sort of um let's go. Stop it. My cat's annoying me. distracting. Bugger off. Um so um and it's like let's see how this big uh social media translates to the stage and how well he does and you got his pro card and no one really knows about him and you know because like they're bigger superstar on on on YouTube and social media than they are as a body. Let's see how he stacks up. And he kind of he actually looked okay, but I remember him getting a lot of [\h__\h] and a lot of criticism. >> Um but now he's really starting to sort of come into his own now. And um like I said, I mean I said it there in that post. I think the him veto and hers guys like that in their 20s who are already this good already coming in as potential winners for any pro show um shows you just how and like I said they're probably not even anywhere near hitting their final form. So just imagine I mean I could I mean um Fouad said it you know he said he said he could see this guy being I don't disagree with you but this is the kind of guy we could see as a Mr. Olympia in five years. But also, one thing I want to uh bring up, there was a lot of comments. I know you get a lot of the the the YouTubers and all that stuff. They get a lot of hate and critique from people that mostly don't know what they're talking about, but you see people saying he's very unbalanced. >> Yes. >> I mean, he's got left. I I don't I've not I mean, I need to probably maybe give it another look and look at it close, but Ron, I don't see it, mate. What's your take? >> Um, so here's what they're talking about. Like, look at this double bicep. Uh, the the arm on the left, which is his right arm. The bicep is definitely uh fuller. The the other one looks like it might have torn it or something. It's a little shorter. >> The tricep is fuller, but is that just the the angle of how he's standing? Obviously, that's a side shot. I don't see an imbalance in the legs. They were saying one leg's much bigger. >> No, it's not like Hadties, is it? >> No. Um and you know, here's another the front lad. I don't see any I don't the difference between the arms. I don't see it really in that shot. You're not going to see it there. It It's negligible to me. It's not It's not a glaring problem at all to me. >> I feel like there's a bit of um bit of resentment there, a bit of um it was like um somebody was I was going back and forth with a Brazilian supposed fan of bodybuilder and he was ripping into horse saying he's never going to win Olympia because he obviously now got horse MD going back to uh going back to open. >> Yeah. >> And I was going back and forth with this guy to a point where I just thought, what am I arguing with this guy for? clearly just out to just rip this guy apart. But he was saying that um like if he's never going to win the Olympia, what's the point? So basically what I'm saying is, you know, the guys with the social media followings who are bigger than their fame as a bodybuilder, success bodybuilder, they tend to get really ripped apart by just people out there who are just um you know, they're just like, you know, they're just they're just they're not they're not bodybuilding fans. I don't think you can even call them that. >> Well, people are jealous of other people's success and you know, maybe horse probably never will win Mr. Olympia. Okay. What if he makes tons and tons of money and has millions [laughter] of fans and is, you know, has a has a long fruitful career in bodybuilding and in content and, you know, what does it matter? Like you said, only 19 men have won the Mr. Olympia. >> Yeah. [laughter] >> So, okay, that that means Shawn Ray does didn't have a great career. Rich Gaspari, Lee Labrada, Flex Wheeler, Kevin Levon. Come on. >> Do you ever get sick of like some of the dumb comments you read? Cuz like sometimes I'll I kind of get reeled into it and I'll kind of I'll I'll sort of I'll speak to someone as if they're like they know what they're talking about. And then sometimes you think not only do you not you're saying with conviction and real sort of passion that you you're making a really ridiculous comment and you've got nothing to back it up with other than you know the fact I've I've kind of just exposed you here and it's like okay so let's take like Marcelo guys like Jean Pradell like you know they're making a fantastic living doing what they love to do. You know they probably got a nice car they go to the gym. They've got a lot of, you know, their success. They've got, you know, getting up and, you know, I mean, we, you and me are basically failed bodybuilders. I mean, we are, I mean, really, let's look at, I mean, we we, you know, we we looked at the magazines of Shawn Ray, Kevin Ron, and Dorian and Ronnie and we kind of wanted to be like them. We wanted to be sort of that's that was kind of what our dream when we were like teenagers and stuff. And yeah, we managed to compete a few times and do okay. We managed to find our own role and our own way of contributing and being involved in the industry, which has really served us well. I mean, you know, 30 years plus for both of us. >> Yeah. >> Um but um like I just think sometimes, you know, it's uh like guys like this who are like the top not even they're more than the top 1%. It's like they're probably 0.01% that are making a fantastic living. It's like if you don't win the Olympia, um then you're a complete failure. I mean, it's just that that kind of mentality I just think is just it needs to be called out and it's just completely ridiculous. So stop it. >> So to answer your question, do I ever get sick of reading stupid comments? Of course I do. Come on. [laughter] >> Sometimes nauseated. >> Hey, Rod. Ron, I was so amped up the other week, right? I actually started to reply to a comment that was made by me. I was I put it on Facebook and I said, "Guys, I think I need to calm down a bit because I was getting so wound up by some of the this was back of this was after the Charlie Kirk thing and like you know the whole everything was like in social media was intense. The TV was intense and I actually started to I was actually triggered by a comment I'd made about something that I saw on a post that came up randomly on my feed. I just I just thought I think that's where I need to really step back and take a breath now because like that's how that's how sort of wound up you can get sometimes, you know, and the thing is you can't let it show either. So, you have to be all kind of cool and casual about it. So, I just thought it was really funny and that's why I felt like I needed to post about it because it was like, are we at that point now where we're bloody arguing with ourselves? >> Well, let's move on. Let's move on. We got more guys on the show from your neck of the woods, as we say, the shed. James Holings Head. Uh, I wish James had more great posing footage of himself, but he doesn't. So, a lot of this stuff is older, but he's been in shape pretty much all year. He's done a couple shows now. Um, what's he I think the best he's done this season was a fifth so far, >> but he's plugging along. Um, yeah, and he's he's with another new coach. And oh, this is one day. So, this is the latest update from Shed. Yeah, classic Shed. He looks looks like he's got a little more fullness than the last time I saw him. Look at >> his shoulders. >> Yeah. I mean, he's his side shots are just spectacular. >> I know. I remember um I remember I couldn't take my eyes off him when I saw him at the LGK last year and uh cuz I was sat there with Ronnie and um we're watching it and I just couldn't take my eyes off his shoulders from the side like you know like some like we we all want that nice cap delt so it makes us looks wide across the the clavicles but when he turned to the side it looks like there is they're as wide as they are like it's like four he's really got like 4D shoulders like when he did the rear of a bicep like his delts his front delt belts were up by his ears. Like the amount of size and depth and density and development in his shoulders. I mean it's it's just I mean there look I mean it's just you got to be honest that's not I mean I've seen it in the flesh and I just like it looks like he's got four heads to his delts. They're so thick. It's like his legs. I mean his legs are just from the side those you know you can see you can see why he squats as much as he does you know every single week. So, I was chatting to James uh two days ago because he's still over in I believe he's still over in um in um Oslo training at Harold's gym, which is a gym. This is like that's the old school bodybuilding gym, the one that um you know, everyone trains. I think Tommy Tolson used to train there because I went to Tommy Tolson supplement shop, which is just over the road when I went in 2009. I was judging it was like other pro show for this other random federation and I was over there like a couple of years running. Samuel's dad did it. He was the one who won it. >> And um yeah, so he's over there cuz his his partner um Yanuka, is it girlfriend Yaneka? His wife >> sounds right to me. >> Yeah. Yeah. She's um she's Norwegian, so I think he's been over there. And of course, they had the baby. So I'm guessing the reason they went there was to have support from the family with the new baby. Um and so then he's got a gym, he can train. It's kind of like a distraction-free, you know, full focus. He's got this contract so he can he can live remotely wherever wherever, you know. So it um and um yeah I was chatting to him because I was doing the a will tour with Andrew Jack which I'm going to be announcing officially in the next few days and um I spoke to Andrew and I said look Andrew I said on the tour do you want to we because this is going to be a big one mate we're going to have to have a day or a couple of half day breaks. I said, "Do you wanna are you interested in depending on the countries, do you want to do any collabs?" Uh, collab because like Ronnie likes to do them. We did with Nathan Dash. Andrew Jack did one with Nathan Dasher last year. Uh, we did the Tommy Fury one with Ronnie, you know, that boxer. Um, we kind It's a nice way to break up the tour. They get some nice content and uh, and it's content from all over the world then. And Andrew said, "Yeah, I'd love to do a collab video with uh, Sassan and James." >> Oh, wow. Okay. >> So, yeah. So, I've got to get So, I said to James, "Can you are you back in the UK yet?" Said, "Because in um in March, April," I says, "I'm going to be doing this with Andrew." I said, "Do you want to can you find a gym? Let us know. I'll let you know the tour schedule and then you let us know for the half day either side uh when we're in the area and we can get this done and hopefully we can make this work because I think him, Sassan, and James, I mean, imagine that as a training session." That's that's a video I want to watch. >> Yeah. You know, I want to back up and say it's Shawn versus Joan, but I I think James is also has to be in consideration for the win. >> He's won he's won a few shows. He's he's damn good when he's on >> top five Arnold. He's been obviously 14th at the Olympia. I mean, he's won he's won more than a handful of pro shows over the years. He's had a very very good pro career. Um and thing is what were the show? He did the British show and then was it Poland he did? >> I think those Yeah, it sounds right. You're better than me. So, for the British one, I mean, he he didn't look good. I mean, his arms looked small, his legs looked like he'd lost a lot of size. Um, and then like um like Samson did at Prague, it showed you actually that it was just a kind of um you know, the size wasn't really lost. It just he just it was obviously some some um issues with pre uh with peaking or whatever like that. Because at the second show, he looked I know he was still only well, he was top five still, but he did look a lot more like the James we know and love. Like the fullness was back, the density is back. So, I'm hoping that that continues and we see um James kind of like back to his because you don't want to we never want to see that new season happening and then the first couple of shows it's like oh [\h__\h] this is not this is maybe the down downward turn of your career now. So I like to see it when a couple of shows later like say to be honest like Sean Karita did at the um the Prague last year because at the Olympia last year I think he was lucky to get second because he Matt Chance whatever it was all going horribly wrong there like like Sean Karita said to me backstage after I've got it on the video and he said that was a a [\h__\h] show you know obviously regards to that prep >> and then it shows you what Sabson did between the Olympia and Prague. It shows you what Clarita did between the Olympia and Prague last year. you know, you can you can really claw it back and you can really um you know, sort of uh I remember seeing Shawn Tunia gain 14 pounds because it was lost muscle from a from a bad prep. I remember he got fifth in the 2011 British Grand Prix and I was really like, "Oh god, he's gone backwards. He looks smaller than when he turned pro." And then a few weeks later um of just uh working with a new coach and basically filling filling them back out, which is basically what like Samson and and Karita did, he managed to win Toronto 14 pounds heavier. >> Wow. >> 14 pounds heavier. He obviously because everything was the muscle was back, everything looked fuller and harder and um but it just shows you like you know what can be done actually because like I said I didn't I didn't think Samson could regain that much size and muscle back in two weeks but he did. He did. I mean it was like it still wasn't like 2024 Olympia Samson, but it was bloody close. So, I'm really So, the my point is I really hope that James continues that momentum of what he built at the second show because if he looks better than Poland, then uh yeah, I think Joan and um Joan and Sean Karita are going to be I think they're going to really have a shed on their hands. >> Shedload [snorts] of trouble. Shed load of trouble. >> Um tonight on the Meithead podcast, I know two videos in one day. Jen used to tell me bad idea, but it is what it is. Um we're gonna be talking I got Chris Tuttle and Justin Compton. We're going to be talking about coach hopping. Um, coach hopping is it's a it's a silly name for guys, athletes going from coach to coach. And this is a list somebody compiled for James. >> Oh, wow. >> But it's it's does that look accurate to you? Has he worked with all >> I didn't I didn't know he'd worked with Evan and Nathan? Oh, uh, Nathan. Yeah. Chris. Yeah. The wizard. >> I didn't know he'd worked with that many coaches. Thing I mean thing is I mean Wendy turned pro in 2017, so that's over eight years. >> Yeah. Yeah, >> but even even still, Ron, that [laughter] that's a lot of bloody coaches. My god, James. >> Yeah, baby. We'll I'll talk about tonight, so I'm not going to belver the point here. But you know what? I I'm I'm really liking this look. Um, looks like this this coach, Zack, is doing a great job with him. And um, >> he's a nice guy. He's a cool guy. >> He's definitely in the contention to win this. But let's keep going because we got more great athletes. We've got all the way from the United States of America, the greatest what was once the greatest nation in the world. [laughter] >> Still is in some ways. We got the beef stew. >> Steuart Southerntherland. >> Yeah. So, uh Stew popped up earlier in the season. Didn't do too well. >> Didn't didn't make uh didn't make first call out in Did he compete once or twice? But he's back. That's an old show. So, this is current. Yes. Sorry to interrupt that first photo. What? Can you just clarify what New York Pro that was from the first? >> Um, so let's see if there's a way to figure that out. 78 weeks ago. So this was 20 Oh, >> 2024, >> I think. >> Yeah, >> that's that's He looks good there. He looks really good there. >> Yeah, I was at that one. That was there with Christian. That's where we were covering. He was He was my uh my coverage buddy. But [snorts] uh yeah, he look when he's on when he's when he's full and shredded and everything, Stu has a very very good physique. >> He's really good. I mean, I thing is unfortunately, you know, the only good is your last show and stuff. I mean, I don't I think people who don't have like photographic memories like me, you know, um I think um I think that's that's something that is unfortunate. But that thing is that's how most people's minds work. you know, if they if they'll remember your last Most people don't have enough memory storage in their brains to be able to remember that, you know, he was top three New York pro, he was, you know, he was like a top three, top five guy. So when they drop down, you know, to bottom end, second caller, that's how that's, I mean, that's really how you are sort of judged really. I mean, if you're eighth in Olympia, you're judged number eight in the world. If you come if you don't place the next year, of course, in you know, statistically, you are then not as good as they were. So um it's like Samson, you know, he's one minute he's he's Mr. Olympia and the next minute he's like four or five in the world. So um it's it's whether you remember him as a you know as a as a as a contest winner or how they placed in their last contest which could have been you like Clarita you know the Olympia you know you think oh they're on the slide now but Stu I really really hope I really hope we see the Stew that we had the first year you know that kind of level of um because he wasn't he wasn't as good. I mean there's no there's no sort of working around it. And thing is that could have been a bad prep. He might have had an injury. He might have been using shooting too much. So like because I I when people like that and they hit the ground running with a really sort of strong first season, you know, you kind of want to see them keep moving up and up and up. So when they start to slip, um I'm trying to think of another example. It's um it's it's disappointing. But um I like Stu. I think he's good. I think he's got good symmetry. He's got good balance. And um I don't want to I certainly don't want to write him off after one, you know, relatively, you know, okay season because I think because he didn't he move he moved locations part because his career was kind of taking off. I interviewed him a couple years ago. >> Yeah. >> And everything was kind of happening for him and life was you know kind of it was just things were just happening. He was making it as a pro and he was getting some you know his first year was excellent for him. So, I really hope that he I really hope that we see the stew of not the stew of old, but um back to his best because uh when he's when he's up there, he's he's a front runner in every single show he does. [snorts] >> I remember I don't know if it was 22 or 23 was it was him and Tonio Burton battling for the win at the New York. >> It was close. It was very close. >> Yeah. Yeah. Antonio's like well top 10 Olympia guy is in he legit. >> Yeah. Antonio's been top 10th Olympia. He's been eighth I think twice now. He's no joke. >> Tony is another one that kind of doesn't really he pops up, does well, disappears, but does he just need to do more media or put himself out there or is his social media a bit like is he because he's someone that really isn't He's not someone we talk about all year round, but he's someone that when it matters, he pops up, he does really well, and then that's it. I kind of kind of I I feel like he just slips out of people's minds. I'm just wondering why that is. [snorts] >> I you know, in general, we just we have we're overstimulated now. We have so many people that we all follow. >> It's it's easy to forget about somebody if they don't put out content all the time. >> You know, I it shouldn't have any bearing on, you know, obviously the judges don't care >> uh you know, how many followers you have or how many videos you posted this week or Tik Tok story or whatever they're called. I don't know. Tik Tok. >> Do Do you have Tik Tok? >> I I downloaded it once and I got rid of it within a couple days. I'm like, this is just >> Yeah. I just I feel like it's another time life mind drain because um it's like because I was speaking to Lee Lee Priest about this because he's just got it now and I said look for you mate I said someone that you know you're now you're not competing anymore you're now a personality things like I mean I don't really have any feelings on Twitter I don't know whether there's any real even any benefit for pros to even do it even though like the legends and unless it's unless you've got the thing is it's not something like Twitter you can't really have someone do it for you >> because it has to be your spontaneous thoughts that you know you post do do and that's how it is. But um Tik Tok I mean I was talking to Lee about like the the you know the benefits of you know being active on there because you know these someone like Lee could make a probably make a really really good uh revenue stream from it because of the way you know but then again to do it all yourself I think you need like Ronny's TikTok is all handled you know by him for sorry for him. Um, like that's why was like I said I always wonder about like say Ronny's fame like when we're at airports we've been in obscure European airports and we could be 5 am and you get six we've had 60 year old women like look like coming up to him going Ronnie call me here buddy and I'm like how I'm like I she said I said excuse me do you speak English how do you know who he is and she went tick tock tick tock tick tock and like thing is like that's that's um you know you can make an unbelievable living just from you know I mean Ronnie could do it just from having somebody cutting up all old stuff and you know, forget about all the new stuff that he's up to and his personality and what he says and thinks nowadays. >> It's like um you know, so so someone like um you know, someone like yourself, I mean, maybe there's there's benefits to it, but uh >> it's always because because there's so many different platforms out there, you just think which one do I go for? I mean, I just do Instagram, Facebook anyway, >> but look at look at Steu's midsection there. Looks good, doesn't it? >> Yeah. I mean, he's he could be another one battling up there. I I think this is the he's looks better here than he did at the Texas and Tampa Pro shows earlier in the season. >> The up and thigh looks good. That's what I shot for. I'm glad that he's that kept on instead of just, you know, h hang [clears throat] it up and wait till next year because there are all these shows spread out throughout the year now and they give people a chance for redemption. Like what if he comes into this looking amazing and either wins or you know top f I think very very good chance of top three top five >> then people will suddenly >> top three top three unless unless he's unless he's made some significant improvements. Like there's nothing more exciting than when remember when Gustavo Badell remember like 2002 he was like was he like 22nd at the Olympia comes back two years later and then two years on the top 204 gets third place. I mean who saw that coming you know when he's like NASA when he made those big improvements from 94 to 95 and uh Milos would claim that's down to him. Um, no, but no, because they used to train together and you know, like things like Ronny with Chad Nichols, he'll all openly say, "Yeah, what you Ronnie, sorry, Chad, you know, bumped up my food. He bumped everything. He changed everything, switched everything up." Sometimes when you start doing things differently, different things happen. So, um, someone like a Stew is one of those guys that I secretly am rooting that would make some kind of significant improvements because his structure, his overall shape and density and also things like his personality and what he brings to the industry because he is a colorful character and he's a nice guy. I found him very very deeply interesting guy to speak to very and also he's very honest and he's very funny. So guys like that are the ones that kind of, you know, we we're sort of, like I said, well, secretly or whatever you want to call it. They're the ones that we're kind of rooting for to kind of jump up and and and start start winning shows left, right, and center. So yeah, more astute, please. >> And he had that cool modified AR-15 assault rifle, too. I love that, >> mate. I hate I'm I'm British. I hate guns, mate. >> I know. It's okay. It's an American thing. I don't >> I don't like all that [\h__\h] I don't like all that. So, don't get me into a conversation on guns because um it'll it'll it'll blow up into a massive argument. >> All right, let's go back to the UK then. Mark. So, Mark, I I didn't know Mark was gonna keep competing this season, but he's he's up. >> Nor did I. Nor did I. >> Here he is again. I mean, that's almost every name on that list. I'm like, "Oh, wow. Okay. I had no idea." So, this is uh Patrick posted this Patrick Tour, his latest update from four days ago. >> So, this is right before leaving for Japan. Uh yeah, he's he's damn good. Someone did notice that uh he's still having trouble with his lat spread mainly, and I think that's a shoulder mobility because he's had, and I can sympathize, he's had shoulder surgeries. He's come back, he's managed to build all the mass back. Uh and he's got a very good overall physique for sure. Well, >> as you know, mate, I'm a huge Mark fan, and he's one guy that I actually thought would be um like Andrew, like I said, Andrew was with Samson. Like, he's I felt like he would be nipping at Samson's heels by now because I felt like he was he was one of those guys that had the the potential to go to that level. But the thing is, he's now working with Patrick Tur. For me, that gets me very excited because straight away, even at these these kind of rubbishy quality pictures, you can see that there's more going on with the conditioning. Look at the glutes, the hams, the back separation. I've never seen that on Mark before. Um, but that those photos you posted before, that's not a good most muscular shot to do with the angle, the way the pose was hit. That wasn't I don't get excited about that. He looks a little bit um he looks very very flat in these pictures, but he does look sharp. Um, and I do trust Patrick Tur to know what the hell he's doing because he is one of the best coaches in the world. Um, I mean he's uh his I mean his track record is just it's it speaks for itself. But um I'm really excited to see what him I I'm surprised actually they decided to do a show so so quickly after working together. I thought maybe he would have shut it down to work on doing an offseason together, but Mark clearly wanted I mean I'd have to ask Mark to see what his reasoning was and Patrick. I'll message them both after this actually and say what because if I if I do it in time I'll jump on the live and I'll explain. >> Um but um yeah I was I yeah I'd be curious to see what um you know even in this short space of time what they can do working together because I'm I'm a huge Mark fan and I like the guy um and that's relevant but um he's someone that um I feel I feel like the next year or two if it really works well between him and Patrick I think that's his best chance of success. Um, and I'm so glad that he's It looks like he's got the shoulder sorted because >> say the rear latch spread doesn't look as unbalanced as it did just a few months ago. It's they seem to have fixed it up quite a bit. >> Is it really double bicep he struggles with? Because like I said, when the um when I took Terrence Ruff into that um to his old coach Cuba thing, that meetup thing, it was part of the tour. um he was um he couldn't he wasn't hitting certain poses uh because he he lent over and said to Cuba because Cuba said get up there and you know with with um with uh with with Terrence and he he kind of went over and I was like and I said to Lauren I said I bet you that's something to do with his shoulder and it was because um I think he must have said to him look I can do the compulsory but there's a couple of shots that are going to be it's not it's not worth me even trying to hit them because it's probably he probably does it when he's on stage because he has to when he's competing because He has to he can't miss out poses. But um he's um I just Yeah, I just I really really I'm excited to see what what these two working together will will produce. Um but um yeah, I'm surprised he's kept on going actually. >> Yeah, I can tell you from from experience when your shoulder is [\h__\h] You can't do a front latch spread. You can't do a rear latch spread. You can't do a front double bicep. You can't do a rear double bicep. You probably can't even do an abdominal thigh. So >> wow. Really? You can hit like two poses. That's about it. So, >> well, literally, Rod, literally right now, my shoulder is hurting. Literally just leaning on here like this. That's why I keep doing this all the time. I mean, now my shoulder is a lot better. >> Um, also, I've just got um another batch of BPC and TB-500. >> Ah, there you go. >> I've got 10 10 of each. Um, I'm going to mix them up tonight and start stabbing them into myself tonight because I've um my shoulder is um overhead pressing, heavy over press is out. Uh my chest is uh I mean I've never been strong on chest anyway. I can get by. >> But um I'll be interested to see if just not for just general but general prevention and see if there's any any improvement in my shoulder which is I can deal with this. It's not painful. But uh be interesting to see if that that helps a little bit more. But um yeah, I I'll like I said by the time you watch this guys on the live um I'll be on the on the comments below. I should have some information because I'll message both Patrick and Mark. >> [snorts] >> Okay. No, I thought you were gonna say your shoulder would be all fixed by the time this goes live. [laughter] >> All right, let's move on from UK all the way to Come on. Load load for me there. >> Okay. Okay, here we go. We're going to uh China for Shuingan. Who what is his name on the >> No, I mean the score sheets have a different name. >> Leangyang. >> Leang. L I A N G Yen. And I don't know if they use a different uh [snorts] you know they the middle name is first. I don't I don't even want to pretend that I know what the hell I'm talking about. But uh this guy's very good. You've seen him you saw him actually turn pro and make his pro debut the next day a couple years ago. >> 22. 22. >> So so thick, so dense. You he looks like he's about three feet tall. I'm sure he's not. He's probably taller than that. >> Look at the calves. >> Wow. [laughter] He's got more muscle in my calves than I've got in my entire lower body. Like I mean I mean what was when was the when was the China pro? When was this mate? >> Uh so China pro was like three months ago at this point I believe. >> When did he place where did he place here mate? Do you know? >> I don't. So that was 20 weeks ago. >> He's like a Chinese flex Lewis, isn't he? >> Yeah. I mean he was he was top five, wasn't he? >> He's just I mean when he he's just phenomenal. I mean because I [laughter] s I saw him um he won the uh won the heavyweights under 100 kilo and he was apparently bang on 100 kilos. So he was just he was just into the heavyweights and what is he like 5'4 5'5 he won the amateur because I was there because I usually I fly in and I'll just catch because I'll get to the hotel I'm like oh let's just go over and I'll say to Lauren let's go over and catch the end of the amateurs and just say hi and you know pick up our pick up our passes our lanyards you know and um and I just caught the end because everyone was like have you seen this new heavyweight? you've seen the Chinese guy. He's incredible. And um he just he just look at the legs. But he just blew my socks off. And then they were like because there was there was a there was a rumor of whether he was going to do open or or 212 because that radishes who ended up winning the 212 back at the hotel. He said, "Jars, uh told you the story before." He said, "Jars, that uh that Chinese guy," he says, "He's g you don't know if he's going to do the open or 212 deal." And I put my hand on his shoulder and I said, "Ranislav, I said, "There's no way that he's going to drop eight pounds overnight." I said, "You're safe." I said because it's um I think he's going to do open and he was and he went oh that's good that's good and he was like few because he ended up taking fifth in the uh in the open I mean from turning pro and it was a good lineup I mean it was incredible that that uh that I mean the Romania show always is an incredible lineup but uh mate you got to see this guy in the flesh he's phenomenal and um yeah and he's some of the photographs like the studio shoots you just think my god is this like this like that just looks that reminds me of some of the 90s like Lee Priest type, you know, David Paul photo shoots where you're just you're just eyes pop out on stalks, but um so thick. And it's funny because he was he was so polite because I asked him for an interview and he responded and usually if they're not interested, they'll just ignore you. And he he said a really polite response saying he says, "No, I'm very sorry. This is not possible. Thank you. >> I interviewed him." >> Okay, at least at least you replied. I I was able to interview him uh because he was briefly with Kevin Levrone Signatur Kevin Kevin Levrone supplement company. >> That's right. That's right. >> And he had a translator. So, you know, obviously with a translator, anything's possible, but hardworking, humble guy. Uh I wish him the best. Those legs, those calves, just insane. You think these are AI, you think this isn't even a real picture, but then you see the stage photos and you realize, oh, he actually does look like that. That's real. Do do you I mean if you were I mean I can't imagine because I mean he was he was when he turned pro he was 100 kilos that's 220 pounds. If you were advising him would you say if he's getting like fifth sixth seventh eighth in open shows would you say like Ronny Raquel or Hitittard who's just teetering on the 220 225 mark in in their best shape on stage or Flex Lewis 225 at his best 226. Would you say maybe suck it down to 212 for a season just to see how you do? Because I can't imagine eight pound off him, he'd still be so so big and thick. I mean, I can't imagine him even ever going flat. Even if he even if he cut down to 212. What do you think, mate? >> I would say why not try a show, not maybe not a whole season as a 212, but try a couple shows. See what they see like the condition would be insane. Obviously, it would have to be >> cuz remember when Ronnie Raquel, Ronny Raquel was getting like sixth place at the Olympia, a couple of six. He hit a Tarda. He was getting top regular top 10s as a 220 225 guy. I mean, I'm guessing 225. So, um, how would um how would he do as a as a as a 212? I'm just wondering because um it can't it wouldn't hurt, would it? It wouldn't hurt. >> I think there would be a benefit. So, I would like to see it. [laughter] I mean, like I said, so maybe if he's a little flat, who's he's so thick, what what difference would it even make? >> That's my point. Yeah, I agree. That's what I'm saying. >> Condition would be even better than what we're seeing here. I bet. >> Yeah. I mean, I I wonder what because I know he was obviously he was 220. Um, and thing is his condition wasn't as good as it is now. He's pro. So, I'm wondering if he's a range if he's if he's no higher than say 225. >> Yeah. Um, then I'm wondering if it maybe just try and suck it down because you wouldn't even you could you could prep for your end shows as an open, but you could maybe try even after an open show after you've done a couple of open shows maybe because because going back to my point of Ronnie Relan hit it harder. Those were guys that um you know were doing well as opens but they decided to jump into the 212 and the 202 and they of course they ended up winning like lots and lots of shows and then instead of being top 10 at the Olympia they're like top five top three you know. So I'm just wondering just wondering uh if uh if it's if it's something worth considering or whether he's 230 sucked right down as an open and it's just not an option. >> Size [snorts] of the arms. I can't really see that but it's there. Imagine his food bill. >> Oh god. Anyway, >> he's a beast, isn't he? Imagine what he squats. >> Oh, I'm sure he's uh on leg day. I'm sure he's uh very very well accomplished. Let's move on to Florian Pon. He's from France, correct? Help me out. >> Yep. Yep. Yep. >> Yeah. Come on, Ryan. If you didn't know that was a French name, where you been? So, this was uh two days ago. It's black and white like the Dor old Dorian videos. Very good guy. very good competitor. >> The legs. >> I don't know if I've ever seen him in person. Has he ever have I seen him? I know you have. >> Do you remember when he um cuz he won in Portugal didn't then he got fourth I think in the Portugal bro. I've got 2018 in my head and then he and because he looked fantastic. I think he was absolutely amazing. He got fourth. Fourth. I'm sure he beat Samson and he beat was it Valier? No, Valier won that one, I think. Okay. >> That was the one that um uh uh Hadi won and Vouard was second. Nicely was second um right before he switched over permanently to the open. Um but um Florian is because Florian tried over and jumped over into classic and I have no idea how he made it that with those legs, the amount of muscle he carried in his legs. I have no idea how he made it down to classic because the kid is so thick. >> Yeah. >> Um but um he he reminds me of Dennis Wolf with better calves. [laughter] >> I mean that most Yeah. I mean that that most muscular reminds me very much of Dennis Wolf. The traps, the delts, the chest. >> But um he's someone that really because he needs to really needs to bring the backup. I mean, I just hope to see that he's like it's like like Ramy was those years where you just he was getting bigger, but it was the same strengths and weaknesses and he wasn't addressing the weaknesses and trying to bring everything into balance. Like sometimes bodybuilders think it's just about becoming bigger and bigger and bigger. Sometimes it's not about increasing the scale, it's about increasing the the symmetry, you know, it's about fixing those weak points to bring everything to balance and then if you by all means if you want to get bigger then figure that out. But um I I think FY is one of these guys I don't really know why he's placed I always feel like he maybe is feel I feel like he should be doing better than he is because I think he's really good. Um and he's got no glaring weaknesses. So, um, he's someone another guy like Stu who I'm waiting I'm hoping and waiting for that for that jump up in his career that that, you know, to to say, "Okay, I finally, you know, I've got a new coach. I'm doing something. I'm doing this, this, and this differently, and I'm uh and I'm ready to move up because his career is kind of like ticking along. He's been open, then he's been classic, and now he's gone back to open like horse, you know, he's kind of switching back and forth." But I hope he's one of those guys that um you know is is kind of uh like literally a new Dennis Wolf and you know and achieving the same kind of success as a Dennis Wolf because this kid is good and he's uh I want to see him move up now. >> All right, we're ready. We're ready. >> Uh I didn't know who he was but you looked at the list and I'll give him a follow with that. Art Paknuk from Mother Russia >> and this was a week ago. Big boy. Big boy. Uh, if that was a week ago, the condition is not thrilling me in that particular photo. >> No, it is not. >> No, I hope that was So, this was three weeks ago. It actually looks a little better there. Uh, that must have been uh competition day at some show, I'm guessing. >> Yeah, I saw um I saw at uh I'm not sure if I saw him turn pro. The memor is a bit hazy, but he's he did the name did jump out at me because I remember him there was Romania a few years ago round about probably would have been 21 or 22 and um he did really I think he won the supers and then he competed in the pros and I think he made top 10 or something but he he was one of those guys that kind of jumped out as like oh this you know nice delts nice legs um but it's nice to see them you know a couple of years later coming back so I'm I'm curious to see what improvements he's because um I I thought he was really really good and um I mean he was uh he was a very very strong amateur and you know deserved to win his pro card. So it' be interesting to see if he's um if he's made any improvements because like I said he was he was part of he was pretty good. >> Good luck comrade. Uh >> big Russian squatting 800 pound there. >> Is he? Yeah he is. >> Hang on. Bloody hell. I'm joking. Hang. How many plates? >> Uh it looks like seven >> six seven I think it's seven. So that would be Is that a Smith machine? Because then it doesn't count. >> I um I think anything um because how often I'll be honest now. I mean, don't get me started on the whole phone thing and how people train nowadays and cables and cuffs doing laterals and all that bollocks. Um it's like when I'm I'm training and stuff because I still train pretty hard, you know? I'm like I'm psyching myself. I'm not like banging my head against the wall or going crazy, but it's very internalized. But like sometimes people look at me, they'll give me a side eye in the gym and experienced trainers. You've got muscle and they'll look at me like, "What is he doing?" I'm like, "It's called training, mate. I'm not fanning around on my phone." See, anyway, you've already got me caught on a bloody I'm going off on a tangent already. But like, how often how often do you >> How often do you see now um anyone squatting anything over two plates? I mean, I just it's such a rarity. So when you see someone like this, >> you know, like I like if anyone if anyone in the gym I ever see anyone, you know, squatting anything over three plates, I'll stop and I'll watch because I it gets me fired up because I love to see it and I love to see proper deep reps and, you know, like I I could watch James Holland squat all day because that guy is doing seven plates right down and it's week in week out, you know, and he's not screaming the place down and you know, it's like there's no chalk and all this bollocks. is just getting under the weight, banging it out. Um, I just I love to see I love to see and not Smith machine, not um not pendulum squat, not hack squat. I like to see good oldfashioned back squat. When was the last time you saw it, Ron? [snorts] >> Well, I can I'm lucky enough at the the gym I go to, Basher Athletic Club in Brainree, Massachusetts, we probably have between 10 and 20 guys who routinely squat five plates or more for rep. >> Wow. Awesome. Yeah, we have some very very strong people at that gym. I mean, I it kind of makes me sad because I I look and said, "Man, I used to do that. There's no way I could I couldn't even get that off the rack now without something popping or tearing." But it is very inspirational. Absolutely. >> I'm um I'm nearly back to three plates because thing is I mean I've got a way I remember Josie Raymond were on um I think we're on this year ago or something and he said Charles he said you're the kind of similar age because I'm 49. I've been training since I was 13 and he said have you got any injuries or [\h__\h] I said, "Well, a bit of a shoulder at the time." A bit of the shoulder at the time. And I said, "It's getting better, I think." And he says, "What about your hips, your knees?" I said, "Ela." Said, "No, no problems. I've had obviously over the years I've had issues, but I've had no tears or you nothing snap." And uh and um but he was talking about um Yeah. Yeah. So, um so my point is like there's the three plate squat for me, I don't want to go any heavier than that. I want to be able to do that every week. >> Yeah. >> Six to eight nice deep reps. Um and um and because there's a girl at my gym, she's 18 now. >> Oh boy. >> She was but she's she's she's she in her first competitive season she broke four world records and three European records. >> Wow. >> So she's 17 and she bet she's 90 kilos. She's she dead she deadlifts I think four or five plates. I think four and a half five plates. >> Um she works at my gym. She's lovely. Liv and um and it's uh it's depressing that a 17-year-old girl squats more than me. Yeah, it happens though. >> Even if she's a world champion, it still grates on me, mate. >> All right. Now, this is a this is a story. I I I I'm not going to dwell on this, but uh our good friend Matt from Muscle Discord, he tried to break what he thought was a big scandal, and I don't see it as a scandal that Tyler Manion, who is the vice president of both the NPC and the IPB ProLeague, the grandson of the founder of both, Jim Manion. Well, Jim didn't found the IFBB, but you know what I'm saying. Anyway, long story short, um he's dating uh this this young woman who uh is a pro in what is she a pro in? Bobby is a pro in >> wellness. >> Is it wellness? Okay. So, >> she's good. She's very good. >> Okay. So, that's his new girlfriend. And uh you know that I guess he shouldn't be allowed to date people that that are pros, but she is not an active competitor. He was with another bikini pro, a very top bikini pro for a couple years, Aila, and she stopped competing because yes, it would be a total conflict of interest for this guy who is a head judge at many many pro shows. He's a vice president of the organization. Uh for him to be dating an active competitor. Uh yeah, I could see that would be a a massive conflict of interest and I would frown upon that. But >> I don't >> even if they were still competing. >> No, fine. I've got no issue with that. whatsoever. >> What if integ? >> No, no, no. Integrity of a judge. Okay. So, um, if fair enough, if she's on stage and he's in the judging panel, then yeah, I can see a conflict of interest because I've seen it where I think it was a Naba show years ago and there was a gym owner, very well-known gym owner and used to have a lot. I mean, it was a it was like a a farm for producing like, you know, Muscle Works and Sav like all like sometimes five of the six top heavyweights at the the British Championships would all be his guys from that particular one gym. And um this guy, he he had two lads in his in this in this actual class. And he stood up and he said, "Guys," he made it quite clear so everyone could hear. He said, "Guys, I have a conflict of interest here because two of my two three of my lads actually um are in this in this lineup. There's 10 lads." He said, "Three of these." And they were good as well. I think they were like they were probably uh three of the top five. >> He says, "I'm going to remove myself from this because I feel see it as a conflict of interest." But um the only instance if you're disagreeing, aren't you? No, no. I believe if he's recusing himself, if if he would do that, that's of course I have no problem. I would just have a problem with somebody judging their significant other, uh, whatever you want to call it, partner. >> That's that's I mean, I don't think anyone would would put up with that. But I think if he's if she's still competing and she wants to compete and he's not judging physically there and then I've got absolutely no issue because thing is Ron like I mean I can think I was just thinking then actually as soon as you said this I'm thinking my last six girlfriends going back to 2000 over the last 25 years my last six ladies. >> Yeah. >> I think I've met all through bodybuilding shows. >> Where else are you going to meet? You know what I mean? >> Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Hang on. Na show. Yeah. My mom was a judge. Uh I wasn't competing. I was just a media guy. >> Then I was the the the girl on the poster that I was No, I was a girl at a promotions girl at a show. I started dating her and then the girl after she saw her on the post and she competed and then I met her. Then you know another one's Rosie was a competitor. I bumped into her at a show. She was uh Lauren. I met her at the Brandon Curry uh Olympia Allstar Tour. So you be if that's what your life is 24/7, 365 days a year. Yeah. You're not going to singles bars on the weekends because you're bloody flying here, there, and everywhere. You know, where are you supposed to where are you supposed to and you can't if you find you find somebody attractive and you you you meet someone, you can't stop that from happening. I just think that's that's just not how the world works, man. >> I [snorts] mean, he that is Tyler's whole life. I mean, he's been >> he's been going to these shows since he was like uh I think in middle school, >> but he's on the road every weekend. He put >> You guys work hard, mate. These guys work hard. I [snorts] mean, those are judging is those are long long hours. Those guy those guys and girls who do the judging, they're at those tables for hours on end. You know, even you commentating, it's it's the same same amount of hours. It's like 12 hour, 14 hour days. Um yeah, where are you going to meet where when do you even have time to meet anyone that's outside the industry that you're putting in god knows 60 80 hours a week of your life into um in person? So yeah, I don't I don't see a problem with it. I if the only time I the only instance I would say that's not right is if he was judging someone on stage who was his current girlfriend. Yeah. Then then I I could have an issue. But it's it's not a it's not a scandal. And I just found it amusing that so many people latched on to it and said, "Yeah, yeah." Because people I I people are always looking for something scandalous that they can that they can complain about and commiserate about. And that was what they wanted. your life your life would have to be pretty sad and pathetic if that's what you need to focus on because um and like the thing is like I mean I've I've been next to Tyler and I mean I've watched him because usually the the live stream table's usually right next to the judges and I was in Spain last year doing the impro I think I said to Lauren or AJ I went like that I went look at him watch him and he was like that and I was like I said does that guy ever blink because his his level his level of concentration the way he looked at that table you know sometimes you see judges like leaning back on chairs and you know and kind of just you know see sometimes you seem a little bit distracted and you know I'm not saying that's the you know but I was watching him and I watched him and I kept checking over to see if like and he just like and you're talking like 8 10 hours and then they have to deal with all the the feedback and everything else and I was thinking I said I think I said to I think I said to Lawrence I couldn't do I couldn't judge I couldn't do that you know so um I've got absolutely zero issue with it good luck to him and um they make a lovely couple and uh and I hope it um I hope um I wish the best for So >> yeah, the last thing the last thing I want to mention is I appreciate the fact that he does these breakdowns of the shows, you know, usually Monday after. >> Yeah. Tells you why people place where they did. Gives gives such detailed critique like he needs to lift his elbow up a little bit in this side chest or flare move his foot in a little bit on uh the ab and thigh. Very very detailed analysis and breakdown that he does not have to do. In the old days, if you didn't like a placing, oh well, tough titty tough. Yeah. >> There was no explanation. They didn't feel they owed it to uh the fans or the media people or anything. And Tyler goes out of his way to make these very long, detailed videos explaining it, which again, he doesn't have to do that. He's not getting extra getting paid any extra to do that or anything like that. So, good on him, >> Ron. Honestly, um because I've actually it's funny because these people like talk about these like, have you actually watched one all the way through? Um, I mean, I remember, um, I because I I don't watch all of them. I watch them very very occasionally because I kind of, um, and usually I just watch it. I usually find myself agreeing with pretty much everything anyway. Sometimes I don't. Um, but I do think they provide, they're very valuable because I think to be honest, it's like [laughter] I said about the, you know, they've been judging all day long and then they get loads of people coming up asking for feedback. I think this is to counteract that because like the end of the day, like they probably just want to go to the bathroom, they want to get some food, they want to get some sleep. you know, they might be dealing with jet lag from the the week before when they were in this country and then that country. It's like I think this is a good job to to counteract that. But I think it's a fantastic idea. Um, and I think it's very very helpful because you know like the whole the whole incident the other week. I mean that is about my constant feedback for the athletes and the amateurs seem to really appreciate it and the pros most of the pros do actually on the whole I know we have those occasional you know disgruntled competitor who's happy with not happy with what you said a year ago whatever I find that um on the whole proper critique from you know with positive constructive critique um is definitely definitely appreciated. I mean, how could it not be? Because you're you're giving you're giving reasons why, you know, it's like like say um Nick could be how did Derek beat me in this pose? How did at least now Tyler is actually going out and saying, "Well, this is what I think. This is what, you know, he's an experienced qualified judge. He's the one, these are the guys making the decisions and at least he's telling them why. he's not fobbing them off or you know sort of like well because otherwise competitors could get fourth place at the show look back and think hang on a minute like um you know what am I how what am I how do I get first how do I come back next year and improve am I just >> am I just not cut out for this at least now you can tell someone so they can actually take it and run with it and also one little final thing >> is um somebody was talking about overall criticism and and I and I to pop and I kept seeing this this word pop up and it's like this is why competitors don't you know they don't appreciate the criticism and I said no I said there's a very very big difference between criticism and critique they're two if you actually look up the meanings of the word the two things are very very different and critique is what I give because it means um it's it's about how they could be better so um I think this these things like that Tyler does it helps it helps all of us it helps the media helps the competitors it helps the shows and it helps these it allows the standard to improve because at least then you know they're not just uh flying blindly. It means then actually they know why they placed where they are um why so and so placed ahead of so and so and you know the detail that they break it down to is so valuable for the industry and it helps everything to grow. >> Yeah. Like you said say somebody gets third call out and all their friends say you were robbed it was politics. it's because you don't have the right sponsor or your social media following and you can fall into that trap and go, "Yeah, yeah, I'm a victim." But when you hear a good honest critique that's detailed and genuine the way Tyler and someone else or you know, even even the critiques that you make, it's constructive critic. So, I guess critique is closer to constructive criticism. Criticism is really just pointing out pointing out the flaws, the bad things. >> That's just that's tearing that's punching down. Yeah, >> that's punching down. That's someone like that's like me. So that's like me going on on a commentary or and saying this guy sucks. >> Yeah. Which, >> you know, I mean, I love Shawn Ray, but sometimes his some of his like was brutal. I mean, he was brutal. And in fact, I think it got to the point where he was so it was almost dismissive, you know, because I was thinking, come on, Sean, you've got more knowledge than that. You can give a bit more. You can give a bit more than that because what these people, you know, your words do have a lot of clout. They have a lot of meaning. And you can you can either make somebody or break someone because sometimes that's all they've got to go on, >> right? >> You know, uh I mean, like I said, when I do the amateur shows, I'll be checking my phone in between classes and I'll check my DMs and stuff and there's people uh video record video grabbing screen grabbing or whatever the the video content and they're going, you know, and they're getting all the expert well experts whatever the panel the panel's kind of thoughts and feelings as as it is recorded live and they're like they say like this is so valuable. I now know what I can work on and or what category I'm supposed to be in because a lot of amateurs, they'll might do two or three categories in the same show. Yeah. >> You know, they might and they don't know how their new version of their physique is going to fit, you know, because sometimes physiques change. They get bigger and better and whatever. And >> you know, they can they can head naturally in a certain direction. I mean, for the women, I mean, how do you even decide what category you want to do? I mean, it's uh like Missy now going from figure Olympia, sorry, fitness Olympia to figure, you know, it's a completely different arena. I mean, it's a bit different for the guys because they can go 212 open like like Sean Karita can. He can jump back and forth and uh like he's he can he can do that, but I mean, he knows that he's a legit 212, but also a good open competitor. So, um yeah, it's um I think it's um it's important to give critique because otherwise what do they have to go on? I mean, otherwise it's purely the coach just telling them, you know, this is this is this is this is what you're this is this is how good you are. This is what you're meant for. This is what we need to improve on. Um because unfortunately, a lot of um you know, especially with social media because you can block people. So, anyone giving constructive critique, you know, potentially in amongst all the [\h__\h] talkers >> can um it can uh yeah, you know what, you know what it is, man. But um it's uh I think it's important. I think Tyler doing these videos is very good. [snorts] >> And that's where we'll end it. So, uh, again, Japan Pro happening next Monday over in Japan. I don't know if there's going to be a stream or not, but if you go to IFBBRO.com, there's links there to the Japan Pro website, and you can uh you can check that out. Uh, and that's it. Next time we'll talk about some tours that you've got. Uh, oh, go ahead. >> Couple of things. Something I wanted to bring up at the start and the end of this episode, but we went straight into the Japan Pro, is Ron, give me two of your silliest habits. silliest habits. >> Two that just don't make any sense. >> Uh putting all my getting my gym outfit ready for the next day the night before and laying it out. [laughter] >> Dear, >> why do I why do I need to do that? I mean, I can >> I tell you what, I'll give you two off the top of my head, two very very like that make no sense that probably makes people think, yeah, J is a bit of a weirdo. And I'll tell you what, next episode, let's um let's come up with some others that we kind of discover through the week when we're just living our daily lives because uh I think and also in the comments as well, guys, we want to hear your silly comments. Uh silly uh silly habits. My one I've got one, you know, I did globe muscle. >> Yeah. >> I had a habit of um mouthwashing before every interview because I was I was paranoid like the fact that somebody's on a screen. >> Yeah. Like I always mouthwash before I do interviews and even when it's online. >> That makes no sense. But yeah. Um and also another one is um when I'm Lee Priest pointed this out and he was like shaking his head. He's like, "Are you mental?" He's, you know, when in hotels because I like my double espressos in the morning, I'll go to the machine and I'll put like four even six shots of espresso in a cup and then I'll get another cup and I'll put a black coffee in their Americano. So anyway, I put them on the table and I and I have them both on the table next to each other. So Lee says he's like like the third or fourth day we're kind of having breakfast. He's like, "Jos, can I can I just do something quickly?" [laughter] He said, "I've just had I've just I've been watching you for the last few days." He says, "I'm just going to do something." He picks the coffee up and pours it into the other one. He's like, and I was like, "Oh yeah." [laughter] It's like he's like, "Jiles, I've been watching you and like trying to I've been thinking about it, talking to my wife about it at night when I'm ringing home trying to figure out like why do you do this?" And I said, "I have no idea." >> I mean, I could Janet could probably think of a million mine. One more I just thought of is if if I have a plate of food with protein and carbs on the same plate, I eat all the protein first, then I eat the carbs. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's standard practice. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's the proper meats um approach. You I said to Lauren because I was watching her the other the other day and I says, "Why are you making your carbs first?" I said, "Oh, >> I mean, are you supposed to be Do you want to do you want to make gains? It's always protein first, then everything else second. Come on." >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. And I have to have my shake right after I train. Right after. >> Uh like some people say, "Can I go home?" No, you can't go home. Has to be It's in It's got to be in my locker and I get If I don't drink it right away, I feel like I'm I wasted the workout and I lose all my gains. Uh that's just >> So So come on, guys. We want to hear in the comments. We want to hear your silliest habit that makes no sense but that something regardless and even though you might be fully conscious of it because like I didn't I used to do the the mouthwash thing just completely like as a complete with a complete sense of normaly and no and then sometimes when you sit there and you're in the kitchen or something and you're making food and you think why do I do that like >> why you know so >> I bet if I asked Janet she could come up with like a thousand or 2,000 like stupid she'll she wouldn't say silly she'd just say they're stupid habits. >> Exactly. You got to ask the partners and they'll be like, "Well, let me let me get a [laughter] list. >> How long do we have?" So, all right. Well, let's wrap it up. Giles, thank you so much. Appreciate that. So, Japan Pro coming up, guys, and then there's only one more open show for 2025 happening in Aleante, Spain. >> Oh, Anakante. Oh, Big Man. Big man. >> Big man's the last one, but we're almost at the very end of the season, guys. So, [snorts] exciting stuff. And that's it. Thank you, Giles, for taking the time as always. And we will see you guys tonight at 7 PM live on the MED podcast. And >> how's it going? How's it going? >> Oh, it's going well. Tonight we have Chris Tuttle and Justin Compton. [sighs] >> Justin, man. >> Co- chopping. Co-op. >> Sorry, Ron, but Justin Splitsy is back on the table again. She wants food. Um, Blitzy, come say hi. Come on. Um Um Justin Compton, man, there was a guy that I'm really gutted he retired. I know he did for for whatever reasons, you know, for health reasons and stuff, but I remember seeing him when he took eighth at the 2016 Olympia and man, that guy that guy has some crazy potential. Some of the photo shoots that Peranell did in muscular development back then, I mean, he was he was something special. So, the thing is he's still quite young. So, maybe maybe you can talk him into coming back one day. >> I'll probably talk him into it today. Yeah, definitely. [laughter] >> Yeah. >> Shouldn't take much. So, yeah. So, that's tonight, guys. Live at 7 p.m. on this channel. Um, and that's it, man. Thanks for watching Power Hour with Tiger and Ronster and we will see you next time.