Okay, we're rolling. Hey, uh Jason, tell me about the early videos. Was that the real you or what was that? Oh, it was not the real me. I had a bad terrible producer back in the day and I regretted our horrible videos. When I got rid of him back in 2009, in mid 2009 when I made the radio station, he left me and it was the best thing for my life as I got to Andrew became a new producer. workout videos and all the videos of me being making me earn more respect. I was disrespected early on because I had the corporate then he came back this year and he ried me hacked my account information and I called out a lot of English regret calling out but uh I'm sorry you know okay if you need something oh no I'm sorry we're just sitting here cuz it looks cool okay um Jason you've you've also had challenges as far as uh life in general, bodybuilding specifically. What is tell me about the dyslexia and what kind of challenges that's presented? Uh it's really hard dyslexia. It's like uh LFr had speech problems earlier on and some hearing problems and I've been going through a lot of therapy to get better. I have some uh challenges with uh spelling, a lot of spelling. I twist my letters a little backwards. It's part of dyslexia and when I read sometimes I, you know, have to read over and over, retain it. And um the same will go with my math. It's like people with dyslexia. They flip their letters and numbers back. That's what you got to realize that sometimes I have I have challenges and I have my own problems. But you know what? It's not going to stop me from becoming a pro bodybu time 500 times harder. And I did become a personal trainer and I did it on my own pretty much. I sat I had to study for over a year because of my challenges, but I didn't let it stop me. I said, "You know what? I'm not going to let this this control my life." I should, you know, my opinion is I deserve more respect because I'm all inspiring like Luke Frigno was. I may be a smaller guy, not as big as him, but in terms of challenges, I'm going through a lot of challenges he went through when he was my age that I'm dealing with right now. And if you could understand it, you would live in my situation. Because when Lou Frigno, if you watch Pumping Iron in 77 when that movie came out, it was a big flop almost and it became a great hit. And Lou Fragno, if you see his videos, he started getting to go through a lot of therapy, had hearing problems. I have my own problems with dyslexia. I know a lot of actors who've been very successful with that problem. Like Tom Cruz, for instance, he struggles. Every time I read an article, there him and his wife are struggling because of his problems. And you know, it's just not fair for you to tear my dreams so far and not let me do what I need to do to prove my point that yes, I really want this. This is what I want from this. Okay, stop starting.