Hey everybody, welcome to the channel. Very, very special guest today. Four time Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler is joining me. Thank you, Jay. We're going to talk about this year's Olympia, focusing mainly on open, touching on 212 and classic. Uh, and of course, no predictions because we don't know what's going to happen, but we do want to talk about some of these guys. Uh, Jay, first of all, uh, an incumbent champion used to have an advantage in years past. That does not seem to be the case anymore. We've seen the title change hands seven times in the last eight years. So, yeah, I guess I guess the judging, they don't they don't seem to care whether you're the reigning champ or not anymore. >> It's funny. I was just gonna say six, Ron. So you are a better um you're better at this at the history I guess a little bit. So I try to think back because you know I was the 11th and you know Phil became the 12th and kind of lost count from there because it seemed to switch right after that. >> You know he was there for seven years. But um yeah, I mean there's so much talent out there and and what's unique about the landscape of bodybuilding now is in the open division. I mean in classic there's just the bodies are just so um the the fine details is so it it's very small um to what what who could be the champion I guess. So you know we we throw out names you know left and right between you know we have you know we have what we have four Mr. Olympia four Mr. Olympias competing is it? >> So we have Hottie, Hottie, Derek Samson, and Brandon Curry, right? >> So you have you have to give the respect to that. I mean the title of being the best in the world. And you have like three of those guys that are literally one, two, three. Uh, and we can't discredit Brandon either because he was fourth. I mean, not too long ago. I know last year wasn't his best showing, but >> he still has the ability because he has that muscle density. But you also have a lot of newcomers, including who today got announced, Beirus, right? Uh >> which is it's going to change everything, right? Um it's going to change everything to uh to what it is. So I mean, man, sorry. >> I don't know how shut this off. >> It's okay. People like to call Jay Cutler. I understand. I I don't know why the phone's actually r this thing's ringing, you know. >> Yeah, no worries. So, uh obviously right here, Samson Doubt is the reigning champion. He's still the favorite in my book. Um he still has to me the best overall physique. That package of structure, mass, shape, condition, pretty damn good. I I think we're going to see the best condition we've ever seen from this year based on the fact that he lost to Derek Lunsford at the Arnold way back six months ago. Basically, a little over six months ago, basically just because Derek outcond conditioned him. Um I don't know if you talked to Samson, but it seems to me like he's on track to be leaner than ever before. When we talk about physiques on Olympia stage and the best balance and proportions, I mean, I think we both agree he probably has the best physique in the current crop of professional bodybuilding right now with the structure and the size proportions. He just he doesn't have that striking conditioning which you know it's like he wins the Olympia last year but there's the like kind of like but he could have been you know he needs to be better to continue to retain that and I I think you know I fell into that a little bit where I don't know if I was ever 100% on the stage. There were certain times in my career I felt I was better than other times and some of my victories I, you know, were were more dominant. But he he has the ability to come in, you know, and win this show pretty handed because of his structure. But the problem is is is he going to sacrifice too much size and too much wow factor? Especially when you have a Nick Walker who is tremendous right now and it looks like Hottie's coming in a little bigger and rounder and you just don't want to sacrifice that roundness, what gives you that pop for that crazy conditioning. So, you know, it's one of those those it's kind of like a it's a catch 22 on what what you need to bring in order to, you know, to to be the best of on that lineup. And I think that's really what that's the question mark is is he going to still have that wow factor if he brings the conditioning down a little further? Yeah, I mean that's what a lot of fans were saying when he did this this guest posing I think was eight weeks out and um that's typically how he would look say four or five weeks out in the past which led a lot of speculation. My my theory was he was going to get into the best shape possible ever early and then fill out for the show. And he's not doing any full body physique updates on his Instagram or YouTube. So, it's still speculation, but it looks to me like he is getting a little fuller as these last these last couple weeks go by. You know, we don't we don't know what him and Marina's game plan is. >> Yeah. And and you know what? It doesn't matter until they hit that stage on Friday night. >> Yeah. Very true. Very true. Uh so yeah, you mentioned Nick and we we've talked about Derek. So this earlier in the year was the the inaugural Pittsburgh Pro. Uh it came down to a one-point decision in a like a sudden death sudden death match type of pose down that that Big Steve had them do. A lot of people had Nick Walker winning and this was a guy that had missed two Olympians in a row. A lot of people were calling him Nicker and just saying he's done. He's never gonna amount to anything. And I think losing this show in such a controversial way in the eyes of the many many of the fans, I think this raised his stock and he got a lot of new support and followers out there for sure. I mean, we've seen the updates. He's not afraid to show that online. But listen, Derek's on a Derek leading to the show is probably in the best position to win it in my opinion because he's already won, you know, he won the Arnold, he won the Pittsburgh, uh he still has the Mr. Olympia title in his back pocket. I mean, he did lose it to Samson, but uh and he was third, right? He'd lost to Hottie also, right? But, um, Nick hasn't, you know, he hasn't seen the stage for two years. He's working with, you know, Kyle Wilks, great coach. Um, you know, he definitely streamlined his physique to really put to rest those hey, his shape. And you know, if he can really hold his midsection and and show improvement there, uh, and with the size he has, the only thing that both these guys have to be careful of is their height toweight ratio is limited. So, meaning they have to be careful how much size they put on. And this is where Samson can dominate and Andrew Jack can dominate uh because they have a lot of frame to fill out where these guys they have to be careful how big they get because then the shape gets a little off. But Derek right now still has better shape than Nick Walker. But we've seen Derek's legs disappear as he gets in tremendous condition. You know, that's one thing he has to be careful of. So I imagine, you know, working with Chris Aceto, who's one of the best in the business, I'm sure his game plan is to keep him big and full until the last four weeks, which is, you know, we're coming down to the wire now. So people online are saying Derek's condition doesn't look I know what Chris's game plan is. And you know, we may be very surprised how Derek Lungsford look looks when he hits that stage because if he has the big legs with that crazy back and the proportions he has, he's a big problem for this lineup. Huge problem. >> Agreed. I mean, he's beaten he's beaten all these guys before. >> He has and he has lately. So, you know, the talk and I know, listen, I I've sit back as a as a spectator about Pittsburgh and I've listened to Nick's sides and I've listened, but you know, that literally came down to like a hair decision, even though Nick thinks I clearly won it. You know, it's still bodybuilding and and you know, people have their opinions. I talked to people that were there and they had Derek winning, some had Nick. So it just it went in Derek's favor and it wasn't Derek's best. So if Derek comes and you got to think about that it was not his best. He was definitely downsized in the leg area. He wasn't like he was at the Arnold. So take that into account. You know he can rebound back. He can show up at the Olympia and he can dominate once again and and all these guys are looking to do what what I did in '09 and to lose the title and come back and win it. So, uh, that's where he's dangerous. He's still shapely. He's got the best back, double bicep, lats in the business, crazy, you know, cords in the hamstrings. He's got he's got that Phil Heath type look from behind, >> which you know as well as I do, watching bodybuilding for as many years as we have. Sometimes that's enough. >> Yeah. So looking at Nick here, I mean you you the comparison I know that I know your physiques aren't that similar really when you look at to to people that really have an eye for the physiques, but people say if you know if Jay Cutler could win the Olympia four times, he didn't have the greatest shape. Nick Walker doesn't have the greatest shape, but it's just ungodly amounts of mass. He does get in really good condition, too. And uh yeah, he gave you some props when they asked him, "Who's the one bodybuilder you wish you could have been you could be compared to from the past?" He said Jay Cutler without even hesitating. Um, yeah. Do you think Go ahead. But he does have he does have a little wider waist than than you ever had. Uh, I just don't know how much of a factor that's going to be if the rest of him is freaky enough. >> I don't know if he was wider or if his shoulders aren't as wide as mine were. >> You know, I had that crazy shoulder width, you know, the broad shoulders. But we are comparable in that sense where, you know, no one ever looks at that and says that's that's a pretty physique. I mean, maybe at some point in my career when I was lighter, I I definitely I always talked about how I got bigger than I would have liked to. And I told, you know, I spoke to Nick recently and I just said, "Nick, you can win this thing." You know, his confidence is an all-time high because he knows leading in conditioning is not really a factor. His back shots, you know, have improved tremendously. Back double is one of the best in the show. He's got the the legs now from behind. You know, he he always is against the quads from the front. That's where the judges are going to be looking the most to really to show okay how has he improved to offset the midsection and really like he can really control that core. So I know breathing has a lot to do with it but his front double bicep his side poses are tremendous. Uh, and like I said, the conditions there definitely needs a little more separation, especially in the quads. But if he puts it all together, I mean, he could be knocking right at the door with a, you know, second place or even winning this thing pretty handedly. And I think a lot of the guys realize that. And he's definitely going to be a crowd favorite. And no matter what, I mean, you know, he's had he's always proved everyone wrong. And that's the whole point of his career. I think I did kind of the same thing. So, I think that's where the comparisons come into play a little bit. >> Yeah. I mean, nobody nobody in your early years as a pro, I don't think anyone said, "This guy's a future Mr. Olympia." But sure enough, you know, you just kept getting better and better. And just like Nick, Nick came on the scene a few years ago. He wasn't like this. This is he's coming into his own as a pro these past this I guess he missed because he missed those shows. He's got a lot to prove, a lot to make up for. So, yeah, interesting to see how he does. Uh Chupan got his visa and uh great great news. He's another guy. He's an Olympia champ. Uh and he's beaten all these guys before. Yeah. Literally, except for a couple guys who are in their first Olympia, but Heidi Chupon, I I see him as low as as fourth or fifth in some people's predictions. Some people have him higher than that. But uh we're not we're not asking you where he's going to place, but you know, he's Do you feel he's still deadly enough to potentially get that title back? Uh he's deadly enough. The question is is you know what he's going to look like standing next to these other guys. You know if he added size in certain areas. You know when he lost the title it came down to you know being tight enough in the back poses. Um you know he does have round body parts. Um he his presentation is always solid. His confidence is great. He's got here early enough. I mean, you remember a couple times he didn't get here early enough to really to make that impact. He was still retaining a little water, but his, you know, that razor conditioning. >> Yeah. >> That's where in the midsection, I mean, he's got the crazy ab wall and, you know, that's where he can, you know, everyone goes to that midsection, which a lot of guys don't have, but his back definitely needs to be better um to really get the judges eyes than it ever has been. So, that's where the question is going to be, you know, the conditioning from the backside versus the front. You know, it's it's the same thing that I ran into the years I competed. You know, I was always tight, super tight from the front, but lack some things from the back and uh as long as that matches, you know, he's right there knocking at the door. Also, >> do you think it's to his advantage that he hasn't been he hasn't competed since the last year's Olympia where the other guys we're talking about, Nick, Nick, Derek, and Simpson, they all did spring shows this year. You know, somebody some guys seem to be able to do multiple shows a year and it doesn't impact them at all. other guys. It definitely does. We we saw over the years guys who always looked great at the spring shows and you know like Flex Wheeler the fall the Olympia wasn't quite as quite as good as the spring shows. Um what do what do you do you think it is an advantage for hottie that he's fresh? >> Um not necessarily. He was second last year, right? I mean he competed in all the early shows. I mean did >> he did UK, he did, you know, he won Arnolds. I mean, he kind of did what Derek did in a sense, you know, and still ended up in second place. And, you know, there were people that thought he could have won last year. So, I mean, I think, you know, with him because of his height toweight ratio, I don't think like taking time off, you know, it's not like he's going to come back a ton bigger. He's already got the formula. He's won it before. His conditioning is the formula with the balance. And as long as his body, you know, I don't know like how long he's been bodybuilding or, you know, remember he's came from the 212. So, you know, as long as he doesn't push his body past the limit and keep, you know, his small waist in that front double, it's kind of key. It's the first pose and, you know, as long as his legs are around, I mean, maybe maybe the time off did do him well. But, you know, he's a big superstar where he comes from. I mean, I don't know if anyone is more recognized in their region than than uh than he is. I mean, he you see the the crowds that that come to him when he lands back, no matter how he does, even second place last year. Uh he's a superstar. So, I mean, he has a lot to prove. These guys are workh horses over there. Um bodybuilding appreciates those guys. So, he has a whole country behind him and I'm sure he's there to make to prove a point. >> Yeah. I mean, when you won the Olympia, I never saw like 100,000 people at the airport waiting for you. And they you don't have a he has a statue in his hometown. >> It's amazing. I I I'm so proud of that guy. And >> you know that's what that's what bodybuilding you know that's why I said if the bodybuilding ever traveled again if the Mr. Olympia ever started traveling >> like can you imagine the you know you know Ron you've traveled to these international places like bodybuilding so respected. I mean look at Germany and I mean Samson's from the UK. I mean, but I mean, not that we'd probably have an Olympia in Iran, but gosh, the bodybuilding arena in Iran is like some of the best bodybuilding fans and athletes on the planet, if not the best. So, I I hear there's there's a bunch of hotties out there that have tremendous physiques and just don't get the chance to compete >> in the visibility of what we see. So, my my hat goes off to I have a lot of Iranian people that support me and I hear I get messages every day. I'm tagged in a lot of hottie hottie um posts and whatnot and you know it just my respect goes out to that guy no matter what. I mean he's he's fighting for this title for sure. >> Absolutely. So Martin needs to be talked about because he was fourth place last year and a lot of people thought he could have beaten Derek Lensford last year. He was that good. Um we've seen updates. He looks about the same. He he's another one who competed earlier in the season. Don't know if that's going to have any any impact at all on him, but he still does have this tremendous package, that round bubbly muscle that you don't see that often. Tremendous legs, just a great shape and structure. Uh his updates, he's not giving away too much. Of course, most of the guys aren't, but I I think we still have to talk about him as a top five guy potentially. >> I spoke to him last week. I I think he I said he was the dark horse last year. you know, we put him on the podcast like a week out. He's the guy. You know, this guy, I know people aren't talking about him. He was fourth last year. I watched him from the front row and like he I mean, honestly, he could have won Ron in my opinion. I mean, >> I just I think he's that good. Remember that he's a kid. I mean, he's like 27 or 28 years old, and he's got that, you know, what the muscle looks like at that age. So, he's not even close to what his potential is right now. And he's got the confidence. He's got the stage presence now. And I I I think disrespectfully people are counting him out of the conversation of the top five, six. But I think he's, you know, he's going to be another surprise this year. And don't be surprised if he moves up from position last year and beats some of the guys we've already talked about here. >> Yeah, I mean it is crazy that people aren't don't have him in their top five. Like I I don't see him in very many people. I see him I see him down like six and seven in a lot of people's predictions, but he could certainly be higher than that. Uh we just mentioned Andrew and that's another another guy that you know when he came on the scene a lot of us were saying this guy could be Mr. Olympia and he's been top five a couple times now. Uh, I just I want to see him put it together with the condition from the back, a little more hamstrings, but 6 foot2, 285, 290 pounds with crazy crazy full round muscle bellies and little joints. Uh, we haven't he he's another guy doesn't give up doesn't give away much with the updates either, but you probably have seen pictures of him, I'm guessing. >> Um, listen, he's the guy. I mean, when we talk about Samson, we talk about structure, proportions, we talk about the detail. This guy has the tie-ins. He has everything that you can imagine um working for him. But you mentioned that conditioning from the back. I know there's been some criticism, his legs big enough from the front, which is which is crazy to me because his proportions are wild. But because of his height and he put these other guys next to him that are, you know, 56 to 5'8 to 510 to six feet, that's where like he looks amazing on his own, but when you start breaking it down and comparing him, you know, he just had to fill in a couple of those holes and I think, you know, he's still coming into his own. I feel like he's still really fresh with bodybuilding. But yes, if he nails better conditioning, can display it better, meaning confidence, um, aggressiveness without being arrogant. Uh, that's the one thing that I definitely I could give Andrew as like you have to be a little more aggressive and want it a little more >> because he has the tools >> to change the game. And that's where like we're excited to watch him because he's just everything about him is just wow, right? Every pose. I mean, the arms, the bicep peaks, the back double, and you know, the crazy legs. I mean, he he he's kind of like I I want to compare him a little bit, Ronnie Coleman, you know, a little bit. You know, he's got he's just got crazy detailed tie-ins like for the size he is. And, you know, I know he was what what is he fifth last year? >> Yeah, he's been I think he's been fifth twice. No. >> Yeah. So, like it's all going to come down to like what he brings and what the other guys look like. I mean, he's got these shorter guys beating him, but he's just got to he's got to nail the condition a little harder. And I don't know if that's I mean, that work is done as of now anyway. I mean, everyone's coming to Vegas here in another if not a few days if they're not already here. >> Yeah. >> Uh, so big question mark with him. I mean, he he would if they stand him next to Samson, if they do a twoman call out, you know, that that's what the crowd wants to see. They want to see like the two big dudes, you know, just like they want to see Derek um >> and uh and like um Martin, you know, all like that's a three-man call out, right? So, >> you know, there's there's certain call outs that we all want to see, Ron. You know, it's like we put together, you know, some of the experts should or I call us experts, some of >> what I don't know what we are. you know what media people uh >> let's let's get a one of our call outs out there you know instead of like it's hard when you got six or seven I mean I don't know first call out it's like seven I think usually or six whatever that it allows you know Steve's really good at that right but >> man remember when it's me and Ronnie like it was the top two and >> the place would go crazy you know and uh they just they usually do three now right they do the top three and very rarely do they just do the okay, you know, Jay Cutler, Ronnie Coleman in the middle and that's it. So, I I kind of missed those days a little bit to be honest. >> I mean, since you and since you and uh Ronnie, the only other ones that were that exciting were Phil and Kai. >> Yes, that's what I was gonna say. Did Yeah. the twoman call. And I mean, we probably had them before. I I don't Listen, I'm not a judge. I'm not I'm not good at this stuff. I mean, I I I sit up there and I can like I just said, I said Martin in my eyes, you know, I wouldn't have been upset if he would have won the show, but not to discredit any other guys, but like I'm just not I'm not I don't have the eyes to really as many shows as I've watched, I I just it's hard to really pick out because I f I favor some of the guys because I love the underdogs and I love the guys that climb from I want to see a guy go from eighth to sec battling second and controversially should win or Ronnie Coleman that went from ninth to first. I miss those days. Can that happen? That's the big question. You and I are sitting here talking about the contenders. >> But we're disre disrespectfully leaving out, >> you know, like first Olympia German guy, you know what I mean? All that stuff. So >> that that's that's a good person to talk to talk about because you know the Urs fans, they're obviously the Germans are great fans. Germans, Iranians, and Brazilians, I think, are the top three fans in the in the in the industry. But Urs, uh, moving up to open for the first time, I didn't think he was going to look anything like this. I didn't think he was going to be in any kind of condition at 260 when I heard that's what he was going to weigh. Uh, I thought maybe top three if he's lucky. He won two shows in a row. Of course, he wasn't standing next to any top 10 Olympia guys at those shows, but still, it's a great physique. My only concern as far as him being in the top potentially top six is I don't think his back is quite ready yet for top six, but give him another offseason. But do you think you think he could potentially potentially get there now? Is his back >> um I wouldn't I wouldn't say so. He's he's going to be he doesn't he lacks the density to really be compared with the top guys. Listen, I'm very close to Ers. Uh I think he's I think potentially he can be one of these top guys we're having a conversation about in a year or two. >> Uh but he's just remember he started prepping for classic in this prep. So for him to make the change up and then go to open and yes he might weigh 260 or whatever but remember he's tall. So, we talk about Andrew, you know, looking like filling in those gaps next to those shorter, stockier guys. That's where it's going to cause havoc in in where we're going to place him uh in that top lineup. You know, there's still I mean, put him next to Rubio, for example, or >> I mean, if Rubio's in any kind of condition, I know conditioning is phenomenal, but like you said, the back needs a little more work. uh he's going to get one of the loud loudest ovations of the whole weekend because he's just got it. He's got the it factor like we talk about, you know, Bumstead having its is like the next coming um of what the future is and he's tremendous in all aspects and he's a he's a social media crossover. Uh he's very very um likable. He's he you can have a sit and have a conversation with him. He communicates with a lot of the people. We're all rooting for him. >> Yeah. >> But I I think in that top six, it's, you know, especially with Bet Ruse now announced that just that just changed the whole game, Ron, you know, >> like this kid is this kid is so dangerous for that top six. And listen, he might be on the outside of that top six. I don't know if he's going to push the top three or four. You might disagree or agree with me, but you know, you've got a guy that has crazy upper body. We know his legs have needed a little work, but you have you have guys that we talk about the legs between Andrew Jack, Nick Walker, Derek Lunford that don't don't show up every time with huge legs. That's where, okay, it comes down to what these guys look like. I mean, Samson and Hottie, like, you know, they got to have pretty round big legs. Yeah. >> But this guy's conditioning is is A+. Uh, can you imagine the guy gets a visa, >> you know, I don't how many days out from the show and and here's another guy in a country that, you know, is probably the biggest bodybuilding sport in the planet, um, fan base. Uh, it's crazy. I mean, he is going to uh you're showing pictures that, you know, from he's going to be improved from all these. So, >> yeah, >> I'm happy for him, man. You know, we all pushed for him to get here. You know, I helped with a letter to get him here. >> So, there's a lot there's a lot coming from Bet Ruse and I hope this is the beginning of the era. >> Yeah. Well, I didn't know you helped out, but great job because we >> a lot of people helped out, but like we were all like we all pushed for him to get here and uh I'm so so I just text Milos this morning and congratulated him because his heart and soul was in this thing, you know. >> Yeah, absolutely. So, you just mentioned Zilla, Rubel Mascara from Colombia. Um I'm I'm not a huge fan, Mr. Zeke. I'll be honest, and I get a lot of flack for that only because the waist uh from the front just just It doesn't sit right with me in the the quad separation, but I have to admit this guy is a freak. He's got so much muscle per square inch, just massive. Uh structurally, you could see the clavicles are they're not like what yours were or what some of the top guys were, but I I think he has enough freak factor to be a potential sixth or seventh place guy. Obviously, that remains to be seen. >> Yeah, I don't know if he's I don't know if we're talking about him in the top. I don't think he's there yet, but you definitely can't count this guy out. I mean, there there's just so many people, Ron. I mean, >> yeah, >> he's he's a complete freak. I just mentioned him, you know, next to because I mean, you're talking about the guy with the biggest legs in the show and that's that's Ruby, right? But, you know, you have Jordan also who I feel like he's going to compare well with like even Rean Grimes and these people. I just don't know. Listen, we're talking about a top there's only 10 spots like just top 10. But like this guy won two two shows. He's his first Olympia, right? Yeah. Uh he has conditioning, you know, he's shapely like Rean is. And uh >> I'm excited to see his debut, what he's going to look like. Um you know, we all know first time my first time at Olympia was 15 out of 16, you know. >> Yeah. >> Ronnie was last, you know. >> I think Brandon Curry was last, you know. So, uh, I mean, I'm leaving out so many people and I I just the lineup is just so deep. Like I talked about like we can just go name after name after name of like, wow, who's But but I like this guy. I like what he looks like. I like what he represents. And I I think uh I think for future I think he can be very dangerous and get improved the back a little bit. But the conditioning's there and you know, you know, size and conditioning at the Olympia, they like big dudes, you know. >> Absolutely. Uh, you mentioned Rean. So, Rean's a guy I remember you had him on on your Cutler Cast podcast and you really stressed to him the mindset of becoming Mr. Olympia that you really have to have that strong belief that you will be Mr. Olympia and I could see him really absorbing it and taking it all in as you were saying it. I I did see a change in his demeanor on stage and everything this year. He does seem more confident. uh physique I I still think has a couple areas that that need to come up to ever get to that level of being Mr. Olympia, but he's been top 10 before. Uh I I think he's another one I have like 15 guys in my top 10 right now. He's one >> uh I can tell you that Regan's at his best. Uh he's at his best this far out from the contest. I know that doesn't matter, so don't don't come at me with everyone looks great by themselves X days out. >> Yeah. Uh he's, you know, he had a child. It's changed his whole outlook on everything. Uh he's working his ass off. He's taking it very serious. He is doing exactly what I told him I would lock him in a house to make sure he didn't fall off track. And he's doing exactly that on his own. >> Yeah. >> So, he's matured. He's figured it out. He's worked through a couple small minor injuries he had and he's really putting it together right now. So, I'm I'm excited to see his debut. I mean, from the back, Ron, he's >> Oh, yeah. >> Wow. He's his best, you know? >> I mean, the back the back shots, he's got one of the freakiest backs in the sport. >> Yeah. I mean, and he's got the hamstring like the cords and all that stuff. It's pretty impressive. But like his light his legs need to be a little little rounder from the front, you know? still he's still got got to put some more density in there. But he's he's a work in progress. I think next year you're going to see big things from Rean. I just think just like Ers and uh you know he he he's hopefully going to have a good showing here and uh you know but dude we still have William Bonick, we have >> you know you have Sauce, you have all these guys like Bonik. How can you leave Bonick or Brandon Curry out of the conversation? Like these are guys like for us not to include them in the top 10. >> Yeah. I mean, they're going to be they're going to be. >> Yeah. So, I mean, we we've seen Bonik, if he's not the bodybuilder of the year, you know, he's there's there's a few people we have in question with that. And I mean, you've seen his performance and for him to still be pushing the odds like this, so much respect goes out to him. I mean, uh, >> he's still winning shows >> still still run. So that's why, you know, we started this conversation and I stress this. The competition is so clo it's like you cannot predict this. If someone can predict the top 10, this has to be the hardest prediction of the top 10 ever. I I I don't I I don't see how anyone could do it, you know. And then you have like um uh Tonio Burton, you know, you have him who's who's really good. Uh, you know, we didn't see him compete a bunch of times this year. You know, he he I think he won overseas, didn't he? Or >> did he win? He was I can't even remember. It's been >> And then and then like look at look at this physique. I mean, he they compare him to like a like a Dexter Jackson kind of like I hate to be like he Dexter's one of the greatest ever, but uh I mean, he's got that kind of shape, but then you have like someone like Brett Wilin, bro, who >> who like qualified the year prior, so no one's talking about his showing. And I know like he's still a work in progress coming up from Classic, but >> like he's a monster. I mean, you see his updates and you see him training with with Martin. I mean, that's a lot of muscle right there. >> Yeah. You know, it's it's I that's the one thing about guys qualifying early that I think is kind of a it's kind of a downside. Doesn't matter at the in the end on stage, but the fans I kind of forget about the guys that qualify at the post Olympia shows right after the Olympia because it's been so damn long since we've seen them. >> Yeah. Who did I leave out, Ron? Who Who else on this list that >> Okay, you said you had 15 guys in your top 10. Who else? I got I got one more that's in the top 10. Where is he? Good. Ah, good vito. >> If there you go. I I this kid I mean Chris Aceto compares a lot lot of poses to what I what I do. You know, he definitely needs, you know, his legs are crazy conditioning and, you know, some more pecfulness, you know, posing, but man, what a front double bicep, right? >> Yeah. I mean, he's again a work in progress. He's another young guy. I think he's only 27. Uh, you know, the back was a was kind of a a lagging area. It seems to be getting better. And just the overall shape and structure, you can't you got to have that to start with. That's got to be the foundation. He has that. >> I listen, I don't know much about him because I haven't really seen him, you know, he was injured in well, he was supposed to do Pittsburgh and he was injured with that lat injury, but I mean, look at this. How can you discredit this? I mean, it's funny because I talk to Chris pretty often, but our conversations tend to be about life and real estate and business. You know, it's not about I don't ever ask them how is so and so looking because just just like anyone that's experienced in this business, you can look the best ever two weeks out. And you know what? Fine-tuning those last couple days, Ron, it's all about the icing on the cake, right? >> Yeah. So, I just want to touch real briefly on uh the two other divisions. Uh I guess we'll start with uh Keon. Keon freaked everyone out a couple months ago when he did this guest posing because we saw new size, new roundness, and fullness because he came up from he turned pro. I think he was still natural when he was a natural pro at like 22 or 20. He's still only I think he's he's not even 30 yet. I want to say he's like 28 now. Um people say this is the greatest physique in the world in terms of structure, in terms of shape, all the things that you have to have in place. You can't you can't improve on your shape, your structure. That's god-given. And he's just done the work. And with this new coach, Patrick Tour, not new now, but seems like he's taken everything next level. And he's already said he's going to do the Prague as an open bodybuilder after the Olympia. Um, you know, a lot of people think if he wants to stay a 212 guy, he can hold on to that title for many years the way Flex Lewis did. >> Yeah, we had him on the podcast. He expressed that he wants to set the standard in the 212 and he's not thinking about open. Now, he announced Prague recently, which that wasn't even a discussion when we when we were speaking to him. He never talked about doing an open show. I I don't think he plans on moving out. I know people are talking about if you know Sean Shawn Ray said this is the next Mr. Olympia >> when he decides, but uh he's not there yet. He's not mentally positioned to say I'm going and I'm leaving the division. Now, could that change after this year's contest? Maybe. Uh, could he be in the top five of this year's Mr. Olympia? Absolutely. Uh, would he beat some of these guys that we just had a discussion about that I said how dangerous they are? Absolutely. >> Um, if if anyone's if anyone's locked into eat, sleep, train, become the best in the world, this kid's got the formula figured out because he is he is a machine. He just works and works and works and eats and trains and repeats. That's all he's doing at this point. He's popping in. He's training at the best gyms in Vegas. I've seen him migrate from one to the next to the next. And there is no fear of him stepping on that stage and and being called the number one winner. Uh he he's he's put it in his mind. He's got the mindset. He's got the drive. He's got the vision. and uh you know he's coming to win. >> So the only one I think that stands a really legitimate chance of beating him it would have to be I I honestly I hate to say it but Kon would have to probably be a little bit off for Shawn to get him again. But you know Shawn was the champion. Uh he's hoping to do in the 212 what you did in the open losing the title and getting it back. Uh we know how hard he works hard trains. Again he doesn't do updates. He stays in these fully sweat suit all the way up until the the last minute. But uh I know this this guy works his butt off. He's got he's got a kid. He's motivated as hell. And I don't know. I wish I like Sean a lot. >> No question. Uh the only obstacle he's fighting is father time >> because he's not Keon Pearson's age. You know, we all know how difficult that can become, especially when you're battling a kid that's, you know, that young and, you know, he's just pouring on size and proportions and everything else where Sean overwhelmed everyone with the proportions, but now you have a guy that's has crazier proportions, you know, >> and that's like you like you said, you know, he Kon would have to slip up in order for him probably to overcome that at this point. And that's no disrespect to Sean. It's just what he's up against, you know. >> Yeah. No, he's damn good. All right. So, those are I won't go too deep into the 212. It's a great division. >> Yeah. There's a kid from there's a kid from Turkey, though that's coming that's supposed to be tremendous. Also, he's 24 or 25. He's really, really good. That kid. >> Let's take a look. That's Nihhat. >> Yeah. >> Nihhat Kaya. And he I mean that kid we've seen pictures of him. I guess he won Dubai, but >> yeah, >> I'm really excited to see his debut here, especially with his age and >> look at that >> what he's bringing. I mean, he he's he's he's solid, this guy. >> I mean, this is 22 years old and he's already significantly bigger and better than he was the year before, as you would imagine, someone at that age. So, I think Keon, like you said, Keon's probably going to have a lock on that 212 title for a while, but this is probably just like when when you were taking second to Ronnie all those years, we're like, this Jay's obviously going to be the next Mr. Olympia. >> I think this this kid's next in line for the 212, >> personally. >> Yeah. >> All right, let's go real quickly to uh >> the classic division. Yeah, classic. So Mike Somerfeld uh he was second to Bumpstead and we know Bumpstead is moving on and doing other things with his life now. So we're going to have a new champion in the classic division and Mike seems to be the most logical logical successor. There's obviously some guys who are going to threaten him but I don't know Mike you've had did you have was he on your podcast too? >> Yeah he was and his confidence is skyhigh. He he looks unbelievable right now. I think you saw Milos even posted that he got to watch him pose in the gym and you know we kind of stay in touch some but uh you know when you talk about people talk about how does he make weight and and you know his crazy back like the lower lats tie in the legs are crazy I mean he he's got a lot of he's got a lot of wow poses to him and yes he he won the Arnold um he was second to Chris last year, which was the strongest run really anyone's given Chris from >> what I'm told or opinions. I I sit back and I kind of listen to what I have opinion, but then I listen to what everyone else thinks, too. And I I kind of just look in the middle. But, you know, I still think Bumstead had, you know, he just has the crazy proportions. But this kid's he's got it. He's got the he's got the goods. Young guy. Um he's got the formula figured out with Neil Hill, good coach behind his corner and uh you know definitely in the driver's seat for this contest, but not I mean not a slam dunk. I mean you got a lot no slouches. There's a lot of good guys in this division. >> Well, I mean someone a lot of people talk about is Roman Dino. Uh Ramon has been knocking on the door of this title for a while now. He's Arnold Classic Champ. He has all the tools. There's another guy Chris has been working with, I think, from the beginning of his pro career. Uh, and you know, this is this is another guy that that could do it. You know, Mike's, as great as Mike is, Ramon is, Ramon's no slouch either. I just, you know, being I have to be uber critical of these guys. That's that's that's my job. But I'd like to see a little more back thickness, but in terms of structure, flow, just the aesthetics, the arms, the shoulders, he's it's a tremendous package this kid brings. >> This is his opportunity. I mean, when you have a champion retire, that's almost the unbeatable, this is where everyone needs to step up and be at their all-time best. So, I know if I was him taking the whole year to to for preparation and I think he qualified last year, right? Uh he he just because he didn't he fell last year, right? He was not >> I think he was fourth last year. >> Yeah. So he he needs to be at his all-time best and if he can do that, he sets himself up for the consideration. And that all comes down to mindset, which I know Mike has, I know Keon has, I know Derek and Samson and Hottie and Nick Walker and like we talk about mindsets and divisions. And if you notice, I talked about that a lot on on this conversation is like the mind almost is more important than the physique. Um, going to the gym every day and training. Everyone thinks it's about going to the gym and killing it every day, but you have to have that visualization. But he's al Terren Ruffin is a monster in this division. >> He's improved. He's got proportions. When you mention classic, >> yeah, >> Russen is is the landscape of classic. Uh posing, he's been right there. He means second to Chris couple times. One one time, I don't know. >> Twice, three years in a row. Yeah. >> So, is he the air parent? Is he the one? I mean, it's the thing if you talk about when people make the argument like what is classic because no one there's no there's no definitive answer. It's kind of open to interpretation. He's not a massive guy. He did take the year off and put some more size on. But if you put him next to Somerfield, Somerfield's a much more, I don't know, bodybuilderesque. He's got a lot more thickness to him. But this is just a beautiful physique that Terrence has. And as good a poser as Somerfeld is, Ruffin is just like on another level from just about everybody. He's fantastic. >> So, we'll see. >> Yeah. I mean, the list goes on and on. There's so many other there's some there's a couple foreign guys and I mean there's there's I mean, you got Logan Franklin. I mean, you got all these guys. I hate just talking about >> I know >> a few that we we that are popular because there are some some hidden guys in this that >> that are going to scare the top five. Um >> Yeah. I mean, I I expect Logan, of course, top five is, you know, nothing set in stone, but I'd be very, very shocked if he's any lower than third or fourth. He's never been there. He's never been there before, but he pushed Somerfeld really hard at the Arnold. >> He did, but he's never really got that formula at the Olympia figured out. So, we we've seen the transition of him and what he's bringing. A lot of excitement. So, I'm happy. I would be happy to see him definitely move up and show a better placing, but like I said, there's a lot of other guys that the classic is like seven, eight deep from that can win this thing, you know. >> Yeah. I just want to mention this guy because the condition he's only he'S-23 years old now. He was only 22 last year when he took sixth in his first Olympia. Jose Manuel Munoz from Spain. >> Insane. >> Look at that. >> Absolutely. Absolutely insane. He's like um who was the Turkish guy from our era that Hamdulla whatever >> Kulu. Hamdula Kulu. Yeah. >> Wow bro. Remember remember remember that >> Glutezilla Lonnie called him. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean it's it's going to be a again we're only talking about a certain amount of guys and every year there's people people on the list that I wasn't even worried about or thinking about and they just they end up being superstars after the show. >> Yeah. And listen, Ron, I I know we didn't discuss this, but men's physique also, man, we have some there are some killers in that. I mean, you got Brandon Hendrickson, you got Ali, Ryan Terry's out to prove his point. Um, you know, Aaron Banks, uh, you see Buendia just won his kind of comeback thing. I mean, that's an exciting division this year. >> Yeah. >> Uh, I'm actually looking forward to seeing that. I know men's physique doesn't get sometime the credibility, but if it wasn't for men's, men's physique is the most popular division around the planet. I mean, you travel to some of these foreign places, especially internationally, it's all men's physique. So, as much as these guys, you know, lack the credibility when you get down to the Mr. Olympia, you know, if it wasn't for that division, you know, I have to give a lot of credit to those guys that are constantly traveling and competing internationally. I mean, saw Brandon Hendrickson just go over to I think he went to China and competed or >> Oh, >> you just a couple weeks ago. So, uh, and Ali's been, you know, he's been staying over in Bali. Ali's here now. You know, we we get to have a conversation with him and he's convinced he's going to win it. >> Yeah. >> You know, I know Ryan Terry's on his way over here now to Vegas. Um, and he looks his best of all time and he's a, you know, remember he was battling at the back end of the field a little bit for a few years and now he's going for title number three. >> Wow. >> Um, so I'm, you know, I'm excited to see every division. I mean, you know, it's it's going to be a great great contest for sure. >> So, where can the fans find you Olympia weekend? >> I'll be floating. I'll be floating. So, >> you know, if you see me, say hello. Make sure you don't uh don't be shy. you know, you know, I'm always around Ron. I mean >> I mean, do you have a are you are you making appearances at any specific? >> I'm not I'm not I don't have anything scheduled necessarily at the expo. So, >> okay. >> Um, you know, I'll be floating, you know, whether I run into people at the gym or out and about, you know, that's usually where, uh, where I see the most. I mean, I'll be collabing with some of these guys as they come in and, you know, we have some good podcasts lined up with some interviews and trying to get some new faces on there. you know, we that we've had the great opportunity interview a lot of great people and we we just even had Dana White on, you know, a few weeks ago, which was a little outside our realm, but, you know, it still had to do with fitness because he follows the Mr. Olympia. He's a fan. He used to go, you know. >> Yeah. >> But, but as we build up every year and we we kind of finished this is like the Super Bowl of of bodybuilding, you know, the Olympia. Uh I don't know if it's ever been as uh as open as it it's been the last couple years with our possible I mean even like now with Chris walking away you know you have the classic which is kind of open for you know a new champion to come in and and uh to have you know four Mr. Olympias battling and still considered you know some of your top top 10 guys you know that's that's pretty tremendous. I don't know if we'll have that, you know, is it going to keep changing hands? That's a big question mark. You've witnessed it the same guy winning. It's kind of exciting though, isn't it, Ron? To see a new champion every couple years. Didn't it get a little stagnant when the same guy won all the time? Even though even if you're a fan of that guy, it's >> Giles has said Giles has said no matter how great a champion is, how much the fans love him, after about three wins, people are like, eh, they're ready for something else. like Lee Haney after a while as much everyone loved Lee but after a while everyone's like how about somebody new when Ronnie was winning how about somebody new after a while um you know you you didn't hold on the title long enough for people to start saying damn it we we're sick of Jay but you know we saw we saw that with Phil it's it's just the nature of the beast is people you know you love underdogs I love underdogs somebody's the champ it's like okay great they just keep winning and winning and winning I'd rather I want to see the guy who's Like you said, someone coming from I think what did you go from eighth to second that year or and Ronnie went from ninth to first. I mean that's exciting. That's exciting. So if Nick Walker who hasn't even been he's only done one Olympia and that was three years ago if he could come back and win the Olympia. My god, that place would go ballistic. >> I think he did I think he did two. I think he got third and fourth, right? >> Oh yeah, you're right. I'm sorry. So he did 212 Orlando, I think. Um yeah, man. Uh, I can't imagine though. I'm trying to think who could leapfrog from uh like back at the top 10 right now to winning this thing. And that's the crazy part. And and those years that that I leaprogged and la and Ronnie leaprogged, I mean, we never were in consideration to be that guy. I mean, there was always someone that was like the air apparent to who's going to win it, right? So, but I think Nick is a he's a biggest I mean, if you look online, would you say that Nick is the most spoken about >> open guy right now? >> 100%. He is. Absolutely. Yeah. In fact, every time I do a video, even if it's if it's a live video, even if the video's got nothing to do with the Olympia or Nick Walker, people say Nick Walker, Mr. Olympia 2025 in the comments like over and over again. They love this guy, you know? He's a he's he's a bodybuilder's bodybuilder. He lives, eats, breathes, sleeps, and shits bodybuilding this guy. He's just He is bodybuilding. So, I'd be happy for him. I'd be happy for anybody that wins. You know, this is why we don't do predictions because there might be somebody who we're not even thinking about. They could be like somebody we're thinking is going to be like 10th or 11th or something. And who knows? Until the until that lineup comes out next Friday night, we'll we'll have no inkling as to what they're going to look like. >> Yeah. And I don't have like if people ask me like who my like who do you want to win? Like I wear I wear the hat of like I want to see I want to see Martin get his chance. I want to see Nick Walker do the impossible. I want to see Samson repeat because I know what it's like to to win it once. You're like damn can I win it again? And then I want to see Hottie who, you know, who's trying to get it like I want to see him be able to win it back just like Derek. Like I want Derek to like he lost it last year and what if he came back and won it this year? I mean and repeat basically what I did. >> Yeah. >> Uh which is huge. And obviously have the titles, you know, the Pittsburgh and the the Arnold Classic. Like we've only seen a few guys win the Arnold and then come and win the Mr. Olympia. It's only been I mean Dexter did it and uh I think Brandon Curry might have done it. >> Ronnie did it. >> Uh yeah. Yeah, that was a year that I almost won. So, uh, very few. And Ronnie, you know, Ronnie, who's who's, uh, who's, you know, the most mature and probably the most experienced of them all, is like, I'll never do that again. You know what I mean? So now, now it's like, you know, I heard Guiles, what did he say on your podcast? You know, I didn't suggest Derek do that show, but >> Guiles, it was 500 grand. >> Yeah, that's good. Good night. Nice payday for one day. I mean, one, if you could compete in a show right now and get 500, >> it's lifechanging. I mean, I want a hundred at that show and, you know, Hummers and whatever else, but >> yeah, >> that is life-changing money. And this year's Olympia, what's up for grabs? 6. Is it 600 or? >> We don't know. Last year, the check flipped around and we found out it was 600. I predict this year it's going to flip around and say 750. That's my prediction. >> Arnold's going to 750. So, I mean, can you imagine, you know, that lineup for next year? But let's get through the Olympia first. Uh, >> yeah, >> it's it's another uh weekend. It's a week away, like a little over a week, but you know, I'll be seeing uh all these guys rolling into town and uh you know, we're excited to see it. You know, you've been doing great reporting on you know, keeping up with this. I know uh you know, I'm glad that you didn't put me on the spot to ask me who I think is going to win. I I wouldn't know anyway. I just, >> you know, >> there's no way. You know what any I always say predictions are just it's just speculation. We're just having fun. Who knows? You never know. You know, >> it's funny because Samson's in the best position to win because he's Mr. Olympia, but Derek also has a great shot. And we don't know what Hottie really looks like other than the gym photos and Hanie's gym. The question is, is Hanie training is Hanie training hottie? You know, >> of course he is. Of course he is. >> Yeah. I don't think I there was never a doubt in my mind that he stopped coaching him. He just stopped publicly coaching people, but I don't think he ever stopped coaching hottie chupan. I don't think >> a lot of these top guys have a hell of a set of eyes on them, which is really important at this stage. >> Uh, you know, to really dial them in correctly, but uh it's always good that we can connect this time of year. >> Um, congratulations on all the success. You've been very persistent with everything and, uh, you know, it's uh, it's good. Hopefully I'll see you soon, you know. Yeah, I I'll probably see you at your show coming up in Boston. The uh New England Championships coming up. >> Did you win? I always ask you this every year. How many times you win the New England? >> Zero. I was second. >> Oh, you didn't win the New England. >> I was second in the heavyweight twice. I never won that show. Had AI loved it though. I I had a lot of fun and uh Yeah, good stuff. Well, Jay, thank you so much for taking the time. Uh always great talking to you and appreciate the fact that you you never forget your roots. You come back to Boston twice a year to promote shows and you know you're still this great ambassador. I consider you the greatest ambassador our sports had in this generation. Absolutely. >> Still love it, Ron. Like you do, man. I hope you're getting back into training. I know you had some surgeries and >> I never stopped. Yeah. New shoulder. >> How's it feel? >> Feels great. I I haven't been able to put my arm up like this in 10 years. >> You know what's crazy? When I tore the bicep, they tied it through my shoulder. It was the upper. So, I had a trouble. I had to really go through therapy to get that that extension, you know, that was kind of it was just little. It just was tight, you know? Right. >> But you got to stay with that, you know? Hopefully you get hopefully we'll get you back on stage, man. Come on now. >> Maybe over 60 like John Hansen. We'll see. >> Yeah, dude. You looked incredible. So, that's true, man. >> Thank you so much. Uh we'll see you soon. Hopefully, we can do a follow-up at some point. >> All right, everybody. Thanks for watching. This has been the Olympia preview with fourtime Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler.