What's up everybody? Welcome to the Ryan Line Report. Great guest today. Most pros never win one show in their career. This guy already has two pro wins. He's headed to the Olympia. Please welcome from Texas, Jordan Hutchinson. How are you, Jordan? >> Thank you, Ron. I'm doing great, man. It's uh finally set in what just happened these last two weeks. So, I'm really I'm really enjoying it. >> Yeah. I mean, I I I can't say it was a total surprise. I followed the updates and my buddy Giles Thomas over in the UK, he had you picked as the favorite for Texas, which that's the show we we all knew you were doing and then once you put your name on the once your name popped up on the Tampa list kind of unexpectedly said, uh oh, well, you know, this is this is going to be a battle with him and Quint, which it turned out to be. But, uh, man, like I said, most pros, believe it or not, for you guys at home, they never win a single pro show in their entire career. They never get to the Olympia. 29 years old, you're you're already got two wins. Um, I want to start with an origin story. I like every superhero's origin story because I don't know. How did you get into bodybuilding? How did you become a bodybuilder, Jordan? >> It's a funny story. So, um, I played basketball my whole life from the age of four. I loved it. And then um you know I grew earlier in middle school and I was one of the taller guys. Y >> and then by like 14 everybody passed me >> and uh you know I loved playing like the big the big uh positions like power forward or whatever. And >> you know I I ended up having to play like the smaller positions and realized okay I'm 5'10. I don't really have a future in this. I'd have to be really really good to go play college ball or whatever. So, I jumped in and played one year of football my junior year. And during that time, I hated weight training. Like, I did P90X at home. Um, I did tons of athletic stuff. I had like a 40-inch vertical. I could dunk two hands. >> Wow. Um, I was very, very athletic, but I played football and I just had no talent as far as like understanding the game and being able to play it well, but I had just raw athletic tal ability. >> Yeah. >> Um, and the football team really was talking me into getting into the YMCA and lifting weights, which I always was just there playing basketball. I just hated it. >> And I I remember even looking at one of my soccer buddies binging 135 for 10 reps. I'm like, I'll never be able to do that. Like, I was a skinny guy. I had decent sized legs, never trained them, but I was skinny. >> And then I just started touching the weights and I started learning and I was like, "Okay, this isn't so bad. I don't hate this." And then next thing you know, I gained 30 pounds of muscle out of nowhere, >> staying lean, you know, eating whatever I wanted. McDonald's pre-workout meal, you know, just like the typical 17-year-old, uh, eat and grow, get a burrito post post-workout. And so, I kept gaining size, gaining size. And then, uh, maybe a year and a half into it, I'd gained so much muscle for my for my frame. Um, people at the gym were at the YMCA of all places were like, "You really should compete." And I was like, man, I can't imagine doing that. You know, I'd watched at that point I'd watched videos of Branch Warren, Johnny Jackson, Jay Cutler, you know, Ronnie, Dorian, like I was all into that, the training aspect, and I absolutely fell in love with training. Um, but and I got really strong, but that, you know, like I don't know if I really want to step on stage in like a man bikini and pose and put a tan on. It's just kind of weird. Yeah, >> but I kept having people tell me like, "You have something here." >> And so 2015, I did my first show. It's a Carolina Supernatural down in Spart, South Carolina. And uh coached obviously coached myself and had no idea what I was doing. Was doing like four zero carb days in a row, then an allout cheat day every fifth day, thinking I was a good refeed idea. And I got in decent shape. Um, I was on stage like probably 180 or something like that. And um, it it was as soon as I did the the show, like prior to the show, I was like, I don't think this is for me. I hate this. I hate the way I feel. I'm tired. I don't love the gym anymore. And as soon as I got on stage and did it, I was absolutely hooked to the process. And it just took off from there. >> So, that was kind of my origin. >> So, what uh which bodybuilders inspired you? You mentioned Branch and Johnny and you ended up moving close to them, but were there any guys you sort of looked up to in your early years? >> Uh, I mean it it really was Dorian Yates. It always was Dorian. It's all, you know, the way he trained, his mentality, you know, he wasn't the guy that was super genetically gifted but relied on his hard work. Like over the years of me training, I've always said this to people that um genetics will only, you know, once I was into bodybuilding, I always said genetics will be the only limiting thing for me. It will never be me being outworked or outdisiplined. Um you know, I've always been very focused on my craft and learning how to train harder, learning how to apply myself better. And uh I loved that mentality from Dorian. So he was he's always been my favorite and I've always loved the mass guys. So it's funny because for most of my time bodybuilding I've always been a shape guy and every single bit of feedback has always been you need more size, you need more size. Great shape but you need more size. And so it's really cool now because finally, you know, I've kind of come into my own where I have the majority of the size needed. There's still detail work to be done. my back needs more. But um it's just a long game, man. It's been 12 years of hard training. I've never taken any extended period off. It's just I I love training. And so, you know, it was Dorian. It it was Branch Warren. I I remember, you know, being 18 years old wearing my the only gas tank that I could afford and uh watching Branch and Johnny train on YouTube prior to my workout to pump me up, you know? >> Yep. So, it's just always been a love for training and the guys that train really, really hard. >> Yeah. I'm trying to find You had a post God because you post a lot. I'm trying to find one that showed a 2018 to 2024 progression, I think it was. So, that wasn't even your first show. That was three years in a competing. >> Yeah, that would be way back probably. I don't know where that would have been. >> But I just I'm trying to give people out there hope, you know? >> Yeah. because you and Palasios both are two guys that were a few years ago you didn't look like this. You were muscular, but you didn't look like this. >> Well, 2018 I was still an amateur and I can show you a picture here on the computer what I looked like back then. I was >> Oh, here we go. Here we go. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Wow. So, what'd you weigh? What'd you weigh there in 2018? >> I was about 195. Um, and I, believe it or not, had lost 60 lbs in 16 weeks in that show prep because my hamstrings and my glutes would just would not come in. And I think I was just burying myself, over fatigued, you know, nothing against the coach that I had, but I think I was over dieted, over cardio, like but between eating zero carbs, 1,600 calories, and doing, you know, 45 minutes of interval, like hit interval stairs twice a day. Um, I was just beating myself up training six days a week, but nobody could tell me otherwise because I wasn't going to quit. So looking back I was like, "Wow, that was a disaster of a prep." But um you know, it was the first time I got really truly peeled. >> Yeah. >> Was 2018. And then after that, I took a whole three years off and the very next show was my regional show prior to winning USA overall. So >> Wow. >> I went from 2018, I was just determined because I wanted to go compete at the national level. Um but I knew I wasn't ready. So, I just um put in the work. I got a little chubby in those three years of that offseason, but uh then I got with Chris Tuttle in 2020, and it really took off once that happened. >> Yeah. I was going to say, you've been with you've been with Tuttle a very long time, >> going on six years next year. Yeah. >> Yeah. So, I I've known I've known Chris a long time, too. And, you know, I'm I'm He's one of the smartest guys in the business. >> He is. >> Um he's a registered dietician. He's he's got that going on aside from being a great prep coach. What What do you like about his approach? Uh, you know, just the way he handles handles you as a client versus maybe a coach that you had before before Chris. >> Well, I mean, first off, Chris is family at this point. He has been for years. I would do anything for him. He'd do anything for me. It's so much more than a client coach relationship now. I mean, we're He's the best thing that ever happened to me for bodybuilding. him and my wife as far as her support and him coaching me. But um you know he's very data oriented. He doesn't just dogmatically do things because it's the thing everybody does. You know whether it's supplements, whether it's nutrition. Um you know like this prep for instance, early on in the prep, all my buddies were like, "Bro, why are you eating such low carbs already?" Like my diet was really low to start with, but we get ready really early and everybody generally sees that, comments on it where they're like, "Man, why are you so lean so far out?" >> But then we feed into the show. We get gather tons of data. We get to run plenty of mock carbup days. Um, he's just very much following the data, following where the body is leading, not this is what I've done before with other guys. This is what other people do generally. So, we're going to do it, too. It's It's really always how is the body responding to each thing? Add one thing in at a time. Remove one thing at a time. And um he's just he's a genius, man. And um I actually, believe it or not, had to beg him to start with me because he had such a uh he's always got a weight list. And he refuses, that's another thing about Chris. He refuses to take on a workload that he can't handle. >> Huh. If Chris took on everybody that requested him, the dude would be like I mean he's I know he makes good good a good living for himself 100% but like it would be absolutely ridiculous but he doesn't just take everyone on. >> So you know when I reached out to him I had been with a prior coach who was a top level coach and I totally respect the guy. I won't name who it was, but at the time I just wasn't getting the attention I needed from him. And um I don't think he saw my potential. And Chris really kind of saw some decent potential from me in the uh early stages, but I think once we really started rolling, he was like, "Wow, this kid's got something special." H >> so um you know six seven months after we let's see no a year and a half after we started it was January 2020 then a year and a half later we won the USA overall and uh >> I I say to everybody you know we went from the start to the finish like he took me everywhere that I've come to at this point um and I'll finish my career with Chris. So >> that's a bold statement, but you know, I've I've known a few people who did that. They stayed with one coach who was meticulous, who cared about them, who was also a friend, you know, like Flex Lewis and Neil Hill comes to mind, >> right? >> Ronnie and Chad. There's there's been a few of those. And the success stories, it it it paid off in dividends for those who did it to because you see so many people just flipping coaches constantly. >> I know. I know. uh after one show where they didn't win, they're like, "Oh, let me try this guy. Let me try that guy." And >> yeah, I think it's a problem with looking internally, man. It's like, you know, sometimes it is sometimes it is a problem with the communication or the approach and maybe the coach isn't listening to their feedback, but like more often than not, there's usually a problem with the client that's like, "You guys got to work long enough to get on the same page and figure out what works. You got to give them a chance." And if you keep copying, like no coach is going to have a chance to really figure your body out. So, >> no, I agree. I mean, I think it it takes any even the best coach, it's going to take them a little while to learn the body. >> For sure. >> At least a couple preps to really nail it. So, >> absolutely. >> This is what I really want to show. This This is what fascinates me because you had a good year last year. Um, you got you put yourself on the map last year. Uh, it was great progression. Three shows in a row. It was I I think I got the order right. Chicago was first, you were fifth. >> Yeah. >> Tampa was next, you were third, and then Texas was last, and you moved up to second, but it was second place to Andrew Jacked. >> Yeah. A top five Olympian. >> Yeah. I knew I was fighting for second unless he came in like offseason guest posing shape. >> Yeah. I mean, there there that's that's one guy. There's there's no shame in losing to somebody like that, right? >> But look at the progression, guys, on here. This is on your Instagram from 2020. you it both both shows are Texas so the lighting's really good you don't have to worry about that >> right >> um yeah wow so it was 10 to 12 10 or 12 pounds you know it's it's hard to be exact which I know to a lot of people out there they I can gain 10 you're not going to gain 10 12 pounds of lean muscle tissue guys it's it's a lot of fat and water that you gain that you think this is 12 pounds of actual lean stage weight that Jordan put on uh and the thing that amazes me is you didn't have the smooth full year offseason like people probably assume you did. >> Yeah. I almost didn't compete at all this year. >> Yeah. I know you've gone into it on I think I'm like your fourth podcast this week, but >> I'm happy to go into it, man. Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, you I I'll I'll start it off. You you elected for gyno surgery, something that had presented as early as 12 years old with you, which it was barely noticeable. You figured you'd take care of it. Uh and that's where, you know, it should have been a pretty easy quick recovery. But what happened? Your doctor told you to it was okay to start training right away. >> Yeah. So, and no no disrespect at all to him, he was the most he was the most amazing he could have been for me. Like the guy texted me while I was neurotically freaking out about not being able to be in the gym and what was happening. He was texting me every day. So, this doctor, I couldn't recommend him enough >> to other people. And if if anybody wants a good doctor that's in Staten Island, just DM me. We'll talk about him. Um, but the surgery went amazingly well to the extent that 5 days post surgery he's like he's like, "Man, we have no hematoma, no seroma, like everything's perfect. Everything's gone. Like it's it's already wrapping to the skin, like skin wrapping to the muscle. Everything's great." >> Yeah. >> Um, he's like, "Honestly, you can go and train anything but chest. Just don't do like any pull downs or anything that stretches the chest." So, of course, I I said to him, I'm like, "Look, if you tell me I can go train, I'm going tomorrow." Like, it it I'm trusting you here. But the problem is it's no fault of his own, it's um I I think when you are at a certain size where I'm sure I'm the biggest he's never worked on a pro, so I probably had the most muscle mass of anybody he'd ever worked on. And at that point, you know, a guy my size, if I go and train my legs, I'm getting a full body flush of blood. >> Like blood's going everywhere. The the chest is going to get pumped just indirectly from me moving, you know? So, the more I researched after the complications, the more I realized that any kind of movement, even if it's not directly that muscle, can really cause fluid to go into a dead space. >> And so that's what what happened. And so then I had, you know, 30 cc's of fluid fill up in the left side, which is where they pulled more from. >> Yeah. right side had a little bit, but yeah, I mean it was it what what should have been two, three week recovery turned into like five, six weeks and then having to tiptoe back into training and still deal with the repercussions of it and try to it was all the way into the first stages of jumping into Texas Pro prep >> 15 weeks out that it still wasn't right. And luckily I got with a local surgeon that was able to fix the scar tissue that resulted from the uh the uh seroma that happened. So I I re I swear I I could pass any course on gynos surgery and recovery at this point because of all the research I did. >> But uh it turned out perfect. Everything's good. Now now everybody jokes about how like I have striations through the nipple when I pose. So I mean it turned out great. But yeah, man. I I had that surgery which already had to be extended due to travel with uh GASP and then olymp I went to the Olympia with GASP and uh so that got pushed off and then I got pneumonia at the end of December into January that was like five weeks six weeks of like couldn't breathe well and my lungs sounded terrible for two months. >> Jeez. >> So, you know, we get all the way to like March. It was around Easter. It was a week before Easter and I'm talking to my wife and I'm like, I just don't know that I I it's even this year. I just feel like I'm I need to take the year off because there's just no way I made enough progress with how this offseason went. >> And you just can't tell until you strip the fat off. And I I really improve in prep, too. So, um, but she looked at me and she's like, "We're right here 30 minutes from the venue. >> It would be good for you to see where you're at. you'd be dumb not to do Texas Pro. >> And so I was like, that's all I need to hear from my wife. If she said I'd be dumb not to do something, then I'm not gonna be a dummy. So jumped into Texas Pro prep and everything went as good as the prep could possibly have gone. >> Yeah. I mean, when we we saw these pictures, this was this was before Tampa, right? >> Yep. Yeah. I think that was like five. Uh, no, that may have been right. That was between Tampa and Texas, actually. I mean, you looked pretty much like that >> leading into Tampa anyway. I mean, when we saw the the pictures, we're like, I don't know who's beating that. I mean, you got mass, you got grainy condition that you don't see that condition very. You mentioned Branch and Dorian, which is ironic because that's the type of skin texture and and just detail, that grainy hard look that we don't see a lot of anymore. Well, I think it is because of me emulating their not maybe not exactly how they train. Like Branch was more ballistic training than I am. >> Yeah. >> But I adopt things I've I've adopted things from him as far as intensity. I've adopted things from Dorian. I remember back when I was in my 20s, uh, I got a couple comments from, you know, trainers in my old school hardcore gym I went to, like saying, "I haven't seen someone train like you since the guys in the '9s, you know." So, like I >> I just have tried to adopt that style of training. And I think that that's what makes that hard strided muscle where it's maybe taken me longer to grow than someone like Rubiel or one of these other guys that just they blow up really quick. >> I think when you have a slow progression and you're training really really intensely, um it creates that look like through my chest where I have the separated strided muscle and my glutes. Um, so I'm I'm proud of that because it it's something that takes patience and just working year after year for it. But um to even be compared to Branch or Dorian is an honor for me. >> I mean to even even a little bit facially you kind of remind me of Branch and >> yeah it's funny how many comments I get of that. I told I tell I tell Bran Branch has become like a mentor of mine and it's awesome to be involved with him. Um, and even before the show, it was funny because my wife works with Gasp, so >> she's in the office showing Branch my updates. He's like asking her for, "Oh, what's Jordan looking like, you know?" >> Yeah. >> And, uh, he's been very encouraging. And he already said before the show, he's like, "Jordan's with winning Tampa or Texas or both." >> And so that was all the encouragement I needed, you know. >> So, let me go back to the before and afters because, uh, I want I want to get this out of the way. I wanted you to address because as soon as someone says I put on 12 pounds of muscle, they automatic automatically assume he doubled his gear. It's always trend. >> And that's what's hilarious is if is that's the lowest thing I use, >> dude. So yeah, please address that because people are going to assume, well, he just tripled his peed dosages and that that's why he gained all this weight. >> Yeah. I mean, and people don't believe me when I get this DM all the time, and it's like, "Look, man, I improved my training IQ. I was absolutely obsessive all offseason about getting in bed at 10:30. >> I I went to bed at the same time. I woke up at the same time. I did my fasted walk at the same time. I got my meals in at the same time. Trained at the same time. I did the same workouts every week and improved um on my numbers steadily, progressively. If something stopped working or started causing overuse injuries, then I switched the exercise out. You know, it's like there's no magic thing to it. >> Yeah. And on top of that, anybody that knows Chris Tuttle knows he's one of the most conservative coaches in the industry to the extent that my buddies, some of them make fun of me about the bikini doses that I take of certain things in prep. Um, you know, it's just uh I'm big on health. If if I can't do this for a long time, what am I doing it for? >> Yeah. Um, whether I was an amateur competing for a plastic trophy, whether I was an amateur competing to get the card and then just be done once I get a pro card, or whether I'm trying to kill it on the Olympia stage, there's no reason to abuse my body. So, a healthy body is a body that recovers well, processes things well. Um, you don't have complications where you you have other obstacles and other things to have to deal with. So people always wanted to make assumptions that that's what it is because they don't know how to dig hard enough but also manage their recovery and be rigid enough with their scheduling. Um I can't explain how important it is to make sure like your digestion, your sleep, all those things are on point. And that's what Chris and I focus on training IQ and recovery. All you have to do is make sure you're recovering and improving and the muscle's going to be put on. But um you know, not to say I'm not on you know, it's it's it's what's required, but minimal minimal effective dose. That's what it that's what it comes down to. >> Yeah. I mean, when I see the doses that people think the pros are on and they post this, they're lying. This is what they really use. I used to sit there and argue and I I don't waste my time anymore, but I said I used to say, ' Do you realize if someone was doing all that, they would be in liver failure or kidney failure or both within within a few months? >> Yeah. >> Just no way. Nobody could tolerate that. They would be they would be so unhealthy. They'd be dropping. >> And I'm not willing to do that. It's funny when I started with Chris early on, I was close to 270 >> and I remember the first blood work I sent him. He's like, I don't believe this is your blood work. This is insane. like because it looked so good and I've always maintained that. So like I'm not willing to give that up. Um and my body I feel like shows it because a lot of people I get the comment from a lot of people they're like your body just looks clean like your skin looks clean. You you have a clean physique like it doesn't look it doesn't have that kind of look. It's like so and I which I appreciate and uh I I appreciate that from Chris because he's always kept me level-headed and he'll say the same. He appreciates me because I don't go and get opinions from others where they say, "Oh, come on, bro. Like that's not going to get you to where you want to go." >> And I'm like, I believe it will. And I, you know, you do your thing, I'll do mine. You can run your DNP and prep if you want. Like I'm going to steer far clear from that. >> Yeah. Um, so it's just uh it's it's not to say I'm trying to sit here and be high and mighty that I'm not pushing what other guys are. >> Um, it's it's not a it's not a, you know, a claim of mine, but it's just a it's just the fact of the matter is I'd rather be healthy and sleep well and prioritize my health. >> So, we're looking at you and your training partner, Justin Wyatt. You know, how important is it to have a a great training partner? Because you know, even Dor, you mentioned Dorian. Dorian had uh that Leroy guy screaming in his ear, the drill instructor. Uh Branch had Johnny. Uh the Franco and I mean there's been there have been some great instances of guys who really pushed each other to be their best. How long you been training with with Justin? Because he looks like a big big sucker himself. >> Yeah, Justin has been incredible, man. And I have a couple other guys I've trained with in the last year. I trained a lot with Brandon Barrow for a real good bit of time. Um, and then, uh, Elias McCall is another pro around here that I train with. But Justin, we've trained on and off because he's from Arkansas. Um, we trained on and off every time he visited. When he visited, he would stay in my guest room and we'd go train every day, whether it was me and him or me, him, and Brandon Barrow. And we always had a good time. And then, um, Justin moved here. And uh at this point, time has flown so fast. I don't even remember how long he's been. Maybe at least 3 months, maybe four months. Um but he just trains so hard, man. >> But within reason and he trains smart. And so he's somebody that's he's really a genius when it comes to putting a plan together, what what needs to happen, how volumewise. Um I'm good at that, too. And Chris doesn't necessarily run my training. We kind of agree on things together. >> Yeah. >> And um there's certain things Chris will schedule in for me, like specific things for core control and stuff, but me and Justin run our own training and my goal has been a a better back cuz Justin has a freakish back. >> Um striated in his lats from the top down to his hip. Just crazy. And since I started training with him, which has been during my prep with that he moved, my back has improved immensely. So, um I can't imagine what an offseason with him is going to do. But it's been really cool, man, because we have really great chemistry together. Um you know, if he's having a bad day in prep, then I pick him up. If I'm having a bad day, he picks me up. and we just we really do a good job of um keeping each other's mindset right and not to mention it's in and outside in and outside the gym that our our friendship has really deepened. So we got to do Texas Pro together and uh prep for that together and it's been truly special. Um I've never had someone push me as hard as him. I will say that. And so, uh, we've just been running it hard and just going to keep getting better. >> Yeah. I want to I want to point out because I know on another podcast you said Justin didn't always have a great back. So, that's someone who actually built it versus, you know, maybe he just was going to have a great back anyway. >> Yeah. You always hear like if you want to get big arms and delts, like you probably shouldn't ask Phil Heath because he could do anything and that they would grow. Not that he didn't work hard. >> Yeah. But yeah, Justin has built an incredible back and um so the the tips and cues he gives me. I I I like to be coachable. I'm not one of these guys that's like and him and I have talked about this. You can't be one of these guys that's like, well, I'm placing higher than you. I'm, you know, I'm like I I probably know more than you. There's so many egos in bodybuilding. And it's um if you think you know everything, you've lost because you're going to lose the information and the benefits you can get from other people that may be better, more knowledgeable about a certain area that could help your physique. And clearly I have a very dense physique everywhere, but my back is lagging a little bit. So, he's helped me a ton with just like adjusting small parts of my form when I'm doing a pull down, when I'm doing a row, and uh it's really helped me with that connection and and picking certain exercises that are really going to bring up those points that I need to bring up at this point. And not just going for a heavy dumbbell row, a heavy barbell row, heavy wide grip pull down, you know, like we've got to be very specific with our exercise selection. So, it's been really good. Yeah, it's paid off. I mean, in those before and after picks, your back has definitely come up. It's it's a work of it's a work in progress. You know, you're 29 years old. You've only been a pro a couple years. Uh, you know, your full potential is still a couple years away. You're not you're not you're not as good as you're going to be. You're going to be much better than what we're seeing right now. I know this, >> right? >> Following the sport as long as I have. Um, yeah. Uh, what was my next question? Sorry. Yeah, I'm all over the place with >> No, you're good. But I did want to say it's funny that uh you said you mentioned Branch and Johnny kind of that camaraderie. I can't tell you the amount of comments too that me and uh me and Justin get on our YouTube videos. There's a ton of training of me and Justin on the gas channel, >> Muscle and Fitness, my YouTube channel if you guys want to watch. Um but everybody's like this is like the new Branch and Johnny training together, you know? So that's meant a lot too. Now I know what I want to ask. So Tampa Pro, you jumped in because you were in great shape and it just it made sense. You're already you're already there. Um but some people were upset because they felt Quinton was uh that was supposed to be Quinton show. They want to see Quinton at the Olympia. I'm of the opinion that you know the Olympia is supposed to be the elite of the elite. If you can't beat someone at the show leading up to the Olympia, you're not going to beat them in the Olympia anyway. So why do you necessarily deserve? And then you got heat for doing the Texas Pro, which was your plan all along, and saying, "Well, he's already got his Olympia qualification. Why doesn't he let someone else get it? >> Why wouldn't I do it in my backyard?" >> I I mean, you said 30 20 30 minutes from your from your house. >> 30. Yeah. >> Yeah. But, uh, yeah, but tell me tell me the thought process that went into jumping into Tampa because, you know, it's not like it was a m you're going over to Europe or anything, but still it was an extra a whole extra traveling situation you had to put yourself in. >> Well, yeah. So, I mean, last year we did Chicago, Tampa, Texas. I got better every show. >> Tampa last year, I felt I spilled over a little bit. Um, was very blasting full, but just like I was even sweating a little bit on stage at finals, like tan bleeding off some. So, and then Texas was my best look of last year. So, I got better every show. And I remember last year Tyler Manion after Texas was like, "Dude, if you brought this look to Tampa, you probably could have won last weekend." >> So, you know, it's data. It's like, it's nothing for me to fly down to Tampa. >> I'm not flying overseas. Texas was the last US qualifier show, so I'm only giving myself one shot, >> right? >> I'd already committed to BattleUp Productions, Freddy Nu, Sheila, they're incredible. and they had already been posting about me and I'd already signed the contract. Like, what am I gonna say? Oh, well, I got my Olympia qualifications, so I'm going to pay the thousand dollars to get on my contract so I can give someone else a chance, you know? Like, that's not bodybuilding. If you listen to like the '9s guys, Milo, all these people, like, >> this is our job. This is how I put food on my family's table, >> right? So, like I'm here to compete and yes, we're here like we're what did Reagan did a couple didn't he do another show after he qualified? So, like just because he didn't win, >> you know, doesn't mean like like I could have lost at Texas if I didn't come in as good as I did. Like Joe and Quinton looked amazing. Even John Jwitt looked awesome. But we were we're collecting data for one thing. This is my job to be a bodybuilder. And it's also my job to establish myself as someone that belongs here. I don't want to ever hear, "Oh, that was a fluke that he won that show." Or, you know, all the comments online. Like, for one thing, a guy like me, it's really hard to translate that stride and muscle that the judges see from the judges panel into the live feeds. for AI know for a fact I didn't look the same on the live feeds from Tampa. Yeah. >> As I do in person. And you know, there's another guy that I'm Hunter Labrada. I talked to him about this the other day. He's the same way. >> And I saw that at Texas Pro, my pro debut in 2023. When I saw him in person on stage from the I was on the sideline, >> I was like, "This guy looks way different in person. >> That muscle is just hard and grainy and separated, you So sometimes it just doesn't translate to the live and then the internet goes on a rampage and they want to speak their mind. So which I'm fine with because it doesn't bother me and I have the utmost respect for Quint. We we really like each other. Um we both have had nice things to say about each other. We had a great time competing against each other on stage and I respect all these guys but at the same time I'm here to win. I'm here to establish myself. So, you know, my goal was always Texas. So, I was finishing that goal, too, you know. >> Yeah. So, you >> very very proud, by the way, of my boy Joe. I've known him for a while now and and very proud of his improvements. >> I was going to say, Joe, you know, I knew you were I knew you were coming. I know you were good. I did not see Joe coming at all. At all. I feel stupid. Like, how could I have missed? >> I did. I knew he was coming, man. And if you had been in the a fly on the wall in the conversations I was having prior to both shows, I was telling Justin, I was like, "Bro, honestly, I'm kind of worried about Joe more than anybody else." I said that prior to the show. I don't know if I've told Joe that personally, but I knew I knew what he looked like in person because I'd been with him in person before and I saw the improvements he made. I was like, "This guy's going to be very dangerous." >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Like I said, he's to move up to to beat Quinton was, you know, Quinton's no slouch. He's got that beautiful shape and structure, but >> incredible physique. >> You and you and Joe. I mean, I'm I'm That's why I'm torn. Who's the most improved bodybuilder pro of the year? Is it you or is it Joe? I don't know. You both look so much better because I don't even I saw the Cali Pro last year, the the stream. I don't even remember Joe. He made zero impression on me last year. >> Yeah, he was like 15th 13th or 15th. >> Yeah, 15th. I got no idea, but here we are. >> Yeah. So impressive, man. Um, and you know, I talked to him the other day at the Gasp uh event the day after the show, and uh we talked about his quad improvements, and he just really changed his training style to help keep his waist tighter while building that quad sweep. And again, it's like once you get to a certain level of muscle, you have to sometimes change your approach. Instead of just doing those heavy uh Smith or barbell squats, you know, just training like we did when we started out, it has to evolve. And I think he really did a great job of adapting and evolving. >> Yeah. But then you you you managed to get better for Texas because you'd already been prepping how long for 16 weeks or 20 weeks or something? It was about 15 weeks. Uh for probably 14 weeks total to Tampa. We just I got in shape really fast, man. Like I said, the food was pretty low pretty early on and then um we were able to feed up for a long time. I was ready like five, four or five weeks out. Almost stage ready. >> Yeah. I mean, you know, so and you're in shape now in the Olympia. What are we nine weeks out? >> Uh inside almost eight. It'll be eight this weekend. >> Yeah. because we're we're talking on a Thursday. Tomorrow's so tomorrow's eight weeks. Wow. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So, geez, that's coming right up. >> Pretty excited, man. >> Yeah. I was gonna say, what was your first Well, I got to get this Samson thing off. What was your What was your first Olympia that you either attended or saw? I'm just curious. >> Um, probably, man, you remember when Generation Iron came out? >> What was that 2014 or something like that? >> 13 or 14. It was one of those years >> that was the first time I was really watching bodybuilding. You know, I was a big fan of Ben Pakolski. Um, obviously like >> Phil Heath was put in a bad light in that in that Generation Iron movie. Yes. >> Where I came to have way more appreciation for Phil Heath later on in bodybuilding. Now he's one one of my favorite physiques ever. Um, not that he wasn't then, it's just they painted him poorly in that. But regardless, around that time was when I really started watching bodybuilding. >> But what's funny is I've never been at the Olympia live in person before. So, >> wow. >> My first time's going to be from the other perspective looking at the crowd. >> That's awesome. I mean, >> yeah. Yeah. >> You know, that obviously it's a legendary stage and you're up there. There's some some amazing guys you're going to share the stage with. Um, you know, I think top 10 is in your in your capabilities. >> That's the goal, man. That's the goal. I mean, and I think if anybody comes in off with the way me and Crest Peak, um, you know, the door can be left open for me in in a lot of in a lot of places higher up, but top 10 is definitely my my goal. >> Yeah. I mean, I hear people saying top five, I'm like, come on, guys. This >> So, there's something swirling around and you know how people will only read headlines? >> Yes. and they won't even read the whole headline. They'll read the heading >> and then underneath. So there was Jay Cutler came out and said >> if Jordan can improve his back and continue to improve at the rate he's improving, >> I could see in the next couple of years he could be a top four threat. >> Yes, >> that's reasonable, >> right? >> But then the headline says Jay Cutler says Jordan's a top four threat. And then it says in 2026, but nobody reads that or watches a video and then I got blasted for it. So >> yeah, nobody drives me nuts that you could put something even in in the caption in the first line, they don't read it and they're asking questions that were answered in that caption. But >> yeah. Yeah. Nobody read 2026. It was right there. It's pretty big lettering, but then they're in the in the comments like, "Are you serious? Do you know this guy? This guy, this guy's going to be there." It's like, you know, just just read the context. But either way, like hearing Jay Cutler say that just enough that he believes in what he's seeing as far as my progress and what I present to the stage, man, he's one of my my all-time heroes. Like, he's in my top four favorite bodybuilders of all time. So, maybe top three. I love Jay, so that meant a lot. >> Yeah. I mean, I agree with him. You look at progression. So, you look at what you've done from year to year and the progression has been very steady. The back's getting better, the the triceps, which I think you need more of the they're getting better. It's just it's just a matter of time. And, you know, if if you could make steady improvements, which I'm certain you will, >> I totally agree with Jay. But here's a question. So, you're eight weeks out now and you're shredded to the bone, what do you and Chris do? Do you sort of relax on the diet for a couple weeks before you hit it hard again? You bump up the calories and then take them down because how do you maintain that peak for another eight weeks? >> Yeah. And you It's not sustainable. You can't. So like you know we we um are basically trying to rest up this week. So 75% training like not really pushing it super intense, not going super heavy. Obviously my joints are dry and everything there. There's a bit of a water rebound post show um from drying out and everything and and I've had a decent bit of food. Chris just wanted me to spend time with my wife, reconnect with my wife, reconnect with my friends, you know, gasp had a a uh little mini celebration at the office yesterday. Brought in donuts and stuff and I didn't go crazy, you know, like I'm reasonable. I never binge. I never am unreasonable with food. But regardless, my body rebounds pretty bad, so I have to be very careful with how much I consume. But, um, it's, uh, you know, it's been really nice to have some extra time with my wife. We're going to go out for uh, brunch this weekend again. And then it's probably as of next week, I'm sure we'll lock it in and cut the meals out. But calories this week are moderate to allow for some food cortisol drop, just get some normaly. And I'm not going to add fat in a week. I'm too lean. My body's ripping through calories so fast. It's uh we basically are going to increase the food, increase the baseline diet after this week, probably come up to like the high 260s, just drive for training performance as much as possible, and then pull back down as needed. But it just depends on my body's response because truly I grow I can grow and be very efficient with recovery while being super lean >> where some guys tend to get too fatigued and kind of fall apart and I think they push too much cardio, go way too low on the carbs. They don't refeed the body enough whenever it seems to be needing a refeed. And we're not talking a cheat meal refeed. We're talking like just increase your rice, increase your fats and stuff that's already on your diet, you know, take a day off cardio, whatever. Me and Chris know how to manage that really well. >> So, being super lean is honestly very sustainable for me. >> Wow. So, what's the maximum amount of cardio that that you were doing for this prep? >> 25 minutes. >> Wow. >> Five days a week. But we are big on steps. So, I take my I have a an Apple Watch and I take this off when I'm on my cardio. So, none of the cardio that I do and I push it hard to like 130 140 heart rate. >> Okay? >> And I take it off so it doesn't count any steps there, but I wear it the rest of the day. And then we'll have a daily step goal. So, like my steps are generally around 10,000 steps, which may not be crazy for some people, but when you're like 260 to 280, that burns a lot of calories. But it's a low fatiguing way to burn calories. And people want to make fun of doing step counts and like, oh, I'd rather do hard cardio, but it's a low fatigue way to burn calories. And ultimately, that's all we're doing is putting ourselves in enough of a deficit to burn body fat. So, that's that's just how Chris does things. It's very matterof fact. It's very logical and just how the body is responding. And we I I don't really feel like I fatigued much at all this prep. I felt great. >> Wow. >> I was setting PRs on pressing movements and leg movements like five weeks out. >> So, yeah, it's just we do things differently. And I think that a lot of people have a weird approach of just killing themselves in prep when you can start burning fat really really early >> and get ahead of things so that you're not having to rush at the end and then your training falls apart. >> Yeah. I mean I always say people the the best way to get in shape is to just never get out of shape. So if these >> And then the other aspect too though I will say is how hard me and Justin train. I've never trained that high volume and that intensely in a prep before. >> So, I think that's the other aspect. Like Martin Fitzswwater, he doesn't do much cardio at all in prep, and this was the first time I understood why. >> So, >> makes sense. >> I think that helps a lot. >> Well, I'm super excited that you're in the Olympia. You know, we've had a lot of the same cast of characters up there. It's always good to see new faces, fresh blood, because that's the nature of the sport. guys eventually retire and young young talent comes in, takes their place, and that's you, Jordan. And uh going in with not not one but two wins, you know, but the point system, I kind of wish they bring that back, but I like I like the fact that people have to go in with a win now, too. It's like they didn't get second and third place like over and over again. They actually won a show or two like you're you're doing it. So, right. Right. >> No dispute that did he really earn his does he really deserve to be on that Olympia stage? And again, had you won one show, people would say, "Well, who was in that show, probably a weak lineup, and you know, he's gonna get his ass kicked at the Olympia." But two shows in a row, and the last two US shows, they were packed. Those are some sick lineups. You know, those those are no joke. So, >> 26 guys at Texas, >> dude, we haven't seen I can't remember the last time we saw an open lineup like that. It's been a while. >> It was a late night. >> That's right. We're all like, "Damn it, they're still going." >> Yeah. I was like, "Damn it, all the restaurants are closing." >> That's right. That's right. It's not Vegas. It's not 24-hour town. >> No. >> So, man, I'm I I'm very happy for your success. >> Thank you. >> I appreciate you doing this. Like I said, this is like your fourth or fifth podcast this week. So, thank you for the taking the time. And um >> Thank you, man. I'm happy to do it. >> Follow him there. And the link uh is on his Instagram bio to his YouTube channel. A lot of great content there. So, check him out. So, Jordan, thank you so much. Appreciate the interview. And >> I appreciate you, man. Thank you for having me on. >> Check him out in 8 weeks on the Mr. Olympia stage.