Okay, so I'm making this video purely out of laziness because I've gotten I don't know how many texts, emails, and messages on Facebook over the past 24 hours. What do you think about Kai Green being out of the Olympia, not doing the Olympia? Um, first of all, here's what I think is uh uh I'm speaking right now on a Tuesday afternoon. Press conference is until tomorrow night. Um, I think Kai's going to end up in the Olympia. That's personally my belief. Uh, why why would he be in the Olympia when he says he's not going to? Uh, right now he seems to be having some issues with the contract. He doesn't want to sign the contract. He wanted to negotiate some terms. It's really not clear what those are. Although, there's a rumor going around that sounds pretty plausible that he was asking for uh free booth space at the Olympia Expo for his new supplement company as part of his agreement to compete in the Olympia, which I don't think uh anyone's ever been granted something like that. But uh if that's the case, good luck, Kai. But uh as far as him not signed the contract, which is this is why he's not he's saying he's not being allowed to compete. Had he signed the contract, and if he signs the contract, he will be allowed to compete. It's just a matter of him not signing the contract, which as an athlete, a pro bodybuilder in the IPB, you need to sign a contract before you compete in event. That's standard policy and procedure. So, there have been cases in the past where someone signed the contract at the very last minute. Uh, you want to go way back, 1980, Arnold Schwarzinger's comeback in Sydney, Australia for his seventh Mr. Olympia win. Nobody knew he was competing. Uh, maybe a couple officials knew. I don't know. At the last minute, he showed up backstage uh at the competitors meeting before everything was going on. And back in those days, it was all done, you know, on the last day. It wasn't days ahead of time like we do it now. And, uh, he was allowed to compete. early 2000s, Kevin Levrone showed up at the competitors meeting, hadn't signed a contract yet to compete. He ended up signing the contract competing. So, I do believe the IPB will let him compete uh if an agreement is reached, which I think it will be. Uh it's in everyone's best interest for Kai to compete. Kai's as well. Kai has millions of fans around the world. He only does this one show a year in the United States. He'll probably do a couple of the Grand Prix shows afterward, but you know, a lot of his fans want to see him compete in the Mr. Olympia. That's they look forward to it all year. I don't think he's going to let them down. He's been training. Obviously, been seeing photos of him. He's in great shape. He's ready to compete. It's just a matter of him being cool with the contract. uh remains to be seen what the terms that he's having difficulties with on the contract are, but I do believe things will be resolved at the last minute and you will see Kai Green on stage Friday night at the judging. So all you Kai fans who are all worried and panic that Kai's not in the show, I wouldn't worry about it too much. All right, that's what I think. Bye-bye.