 Okay, so, I'm making this video purely out of laziness, because I've gotten, I don't know how many texts, emails and messages on Facebook, over the past 24 hours. What do you think about Kai Greene being out of the Olympia and not doing the Olympia? First of all, here's what I think is, I'm speaking right now on a Tuesday afternoon, press conferences until tomorrow night. I think Kai Greene is going to be out of the Olympia. Kai is going to end up in the Olympia. That's personally my belief. Why, why would he be in the Olympia when he says he's not going to? Right now he seems to be having some issues with the contract. He doesn't want to sign the contract. He wants to negotiate some terms. It's really not clear what those are, although there's a rumor going around that sounds pretty plausible that he was asking for a free booth space at the Olympia Expo for his new supplement company as part of the Olympia Expo. of his agreement to compete in Olympia, which I don't think anyone's ever been granted something like that, but if that's the case, good luck, Kai. But as far as him not signing the contract, which is, this is why he's not, he's saying he's not being allowed to compete had he signed the contract, and if he signs the contract, he will be allowed to compete. It's just a matter of him not signing the contract, which as an athlete, a pro bodybuilder in the IPB, you need to sign a contract before you compete in the event. That's standard policy and procedure. So there have been cases in the past where someone signed the contract at the very last minute. You want to go way back 1980. Arnold Schwarzenegger's comeback in Sydney, Australia for his seventh Mr. Olympia win. Nobody knew he was competing. Maybe a couple officials knew. I don't know. At the last minute, he showed up backstage at the competitors meeting before everything was going on. He was allowed to compete. Pre shows afterward. But, you know, a lot of his fans want to see him compete in the Mr. Olympia. That's they look forward to it all year. I don't think he's going to let them down. He's been training. I've been seeing photos of him. He's in great shape. He's ready to compete. It's just a matter of him being cool with the contract. It remains to be seen what the terms that he's having difficulties with on the contract are. But I do believe things will be resolved at the last minute and you will see Kai Green on stage Friday night at the judging. So all you Kai fans who are all worried and panicked that Kai's not in the show. I wouldn't worry about it too much. All right. That's what I think. Bye bye.