Hey everybody, welcome to Ron Line Report. Excellent guest today. He is a 212 Olympia champion, a 212 Arnold Classic champion and a Mast's Mr. Olympia. Please welcome all the way from Libya where he's visiting some family, Kamal Elgardney. How are you Kamal? Hey Rowan, what's up? I'm good. Thank you, man. >> Great. Have I been saying your name correctly? Is it Gar Gargany or Garnney? >> No, Gargany. The first >> Gargan. Okay. G was silent. [laughter] So, okay. Uh man, uh I I have to start by asking about Andrew Jack because >> Andrew to me had not improved in a very long time. I kept seeing basically the same Andrew over and over again. But then when he comes out at this last Olympia, it was a whole new Andrew. what everybody remarked on, everybody was just stunned. And it turns out really the only thing that he did differently this year was he trained with you for I guess it was five weeks out there in Florida. Um, so I want to know how did that happen? How did he end up training with you? Um to be honest this is like you know uh you know his coach is Chris Aceo and I've been with working with Chris Ace like Chris is not just my coach's like friend and a family part and everything and you're always wondering what's what's happening. [snorts] Um so we talk about uh about Andrew what's going to happen why he's not changing. He said he said he said to me he's he normally he got the file for all the athletes after the show the shows he throws them away >> but he keeps Andrew's file because he said every year it's different I don't know what we didn't maybe I did this wrong he goes backward to the files if this is right if this is wrong if this is that and then realize it's from the training so the training it's he found out the training is not the way it should be even Andrew he told Chris, he said, "I think I need to change the way of my training. So, do you know anyone that he can push me on training and Chris told him, I have three people that I trust. Kamal, Jose, and I forgot the other name." And whatever you choose, and I he told him, we'll speak to these guys. Whatever choose one, and then we I will talk. So, he said Chris Andrew came back. He said, "I will choose Kamal." I mean, I know Andrew. we've competed together at Dallas. Uh and then I saw him in Dubai a few times and so we know each other. We not we're not like talk as a friends or whatever, but we know each other. We talk as a normal like you know. >> Um so he said yeah because he was Dallas at the um what do you call it the um show. Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> And so he said yeah and I said to him okay yeah if he wants to come let him come and then we will um No problem. I mean, I've got the time, so we'll do it. So, he flew to um Tampa. He said, "Which gym?" Because I train in my 40. Which gym? I said, "Train in my 40." So, he's got an apartment. It's near the the gym. And then we start training. So, when he came, I didn't tell him like do this, do that, um whatever. I said, "How do you like to train?" Because he's got muscle. He trains. He knows how to train. >> Yeah. But it just he's not training hard enough. So he will say for example today we're doing back. What do you like to do? Do it. I said okay this exercise you want to do let me do them my way. So we twisting them. We doing a drop set super set whatever like it's a very very hard intense training. So when I saw him withan we start posing every day after training we pose like three four rounds five rounds posing every day for six weeks. So when I saw him the first time I said oh man you are behind we're going to train very very hard. >> So we pushed very hard on training and then every day every day me and Chris after training we speak we he calls me we talk about the training how did it go? what's uh uh did he train fast did he train slow so I tell him exactly how is the training so that he can give him the diet for next day so if he gives him like you know more carbs less carb more train more cardio less cardio if we trained very hard and he that day he trained very hard so he's going to give him less cardio and to be honest and Chris told me and even Andrew he he could ask him this this prep is the is the easiest way not from training, but from cardio is less cardio, less like low less low carbs and less on drugs, less on fat burners. People they think, "Oh, we pushed hard. It's the he said this year of the Olympia is the lowest everything. It's the easiest and everything and he's beaten eaten more than normal." So that's why people sometimes they don't know, oh, he pushed more, he did more. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. If you train hard, you have the right nutrition, I think you will get to this. And this is the only thing he changed the training and he clicked with the training. At the beginning, it was hard for him a little bit the first week or 10 days and then man, he clicked and he said more. And he said like more. Let's give me more. It's like and we like Yeah. Because he saw the change. He was very excited. He can see his his his physique is like popping. The muscles like this, the tense, the hardness, the lines. And the good things with him, he's in new. He's got only five years he's been training, he's been competing, so he's still fresh. He never pu his physique. So I think he will be even better better for the future shows. >> Yeah, we're looking at some of the back training that you put him through. And that's where I saw the biggest improvement was the back thickness and density. His back was good, but it wasn't great. It's getting toward great now. I mean, he's standing next to guys like Lunsford who have just incredible back thickness and density and he was holding his own. Um, did you change anything about like just the the squeezing because something must have changed with his back training? >> Yes, the squeezing and the uh the reps like as higher reps as well as you see in this training as this video like I'm squeezing. But the first like we do 15 reps. We don't do less than 15 reps in every single exercise not less. So we do 10 squeezing and five like you know releasing and pumping and then sometimes we do drop set and the last training the last um the last of the uh what they call it the working set the heavy ones we do them a drop set. It depends how he feels. Sometimes like we do one drop one straight one drop two straight one drop and sometimes we go even we do like four working sets. So uh we had to do it that way. It's not every phys is not everybody has to do that way but the way he wore he was and his physique because he was behind. So we had to push that way. So for example if you see the difference between uh the Olympia and Romania the training is completely different. Completely different. So what we train just a normal is less um because we had to crush it at the Olympia because he was behind so we had to do that way. >> Yeah. But at the at the T at the Romania is a different way of training. So I treat the training it depends on the physique how it looks in front of me and how that's is how it goes. Some some coaches they do like copy paste. We do everything. No no I haven't changed nothing of his training. Whatever exercise that he likes we does it but I do it my way. >> Yeah. It looks like we're looking at some training that was in done in Romania. So you you trained with him in Florida for five weeks and then I I guess Dubai and Romania you also trained with him. >> Yes. Yes. Romania. So we flew together. We stayed together in the same apartment. So I was with him 24/7. Uh in the morning six o'clock in the morning we go do cardio. Uh we do some glutes, hamstring and you know the details. And then the evening we go again we do the weights. So um yeah I was there with him and he loved the camp. Um, and Andrew, he needs somebody to push him. That's it. That's the only thing. Somebody there with him to push him. He's very strong. He can lift any weight that you tell him. He He doesn't pack up. He doesn't feel tired. And he just wants more. >> Yeah. [clears throat] I saw a video years ago of him doing a row with a 300 pound dumbbell. That solid gold one somewhere. Is that Dubai? >> Yeah. In in in Dubai. Yeah. Venus gym. Yes. Um, so I guess everyone's wanting to know, we saw these great improvements in Andrew and it's the training was the only difference and it's you that was there training him. So, how can we get Andrew to I don't know. He's not going to move to Florida, I'm I'm sure. But do you guys have any plans for him to come back out and and stay with you maybe leading up to the Arnold or after the Arnold? >> Um, yes. to be honest, we we sat at the me Chris and him um at Romania and we talked about everything the way what's going to happen from now on and yes and um um Andrew he said to me Kamal I don't know about you but I would love to have you more uh with me like you know even longer time so what imagine if we had a longer time together what's the improvement I said it's okay we can do it so for the Arnold I think Um he's going to be more I think probably eight weeks before the Arnold. He's going to come to Tampa, Florida and then we're going to train together and we make it. Um yeah, we make it we start. But the thing is we are together now. So even if I'm not there, I'll be telling him and I'll show him like the way I want him to train. So when he comes, he's ready for the changes. So but the good thing is he doesn't say like, "Oh yeah, I'm this, I am that." No, he listens and he wants to learn and he wants to improve. I mean, I've been doing this for 30 years. I competed like almost I don't know. And I know exactly what I do, exactly how I treat with him. Even mentally, you know, it's not just like physically, it's mentally as well. You need to know how to deal with him when he seem like a little bit tired, a little bit, you know, what to say, when to say it, and how to say it. Some people like, you know, they push too much. They think, "Oh, yeah, let me shoot." No, no, no, no, no, no. I don't want to even at the beginning to be honest even when we start training I don't want to be in scene said I don't want to be like in scene I don't want to be filming through the the the mirrors and show look at me and no no no no I know exactly what I'm doing and I know I've been doing this and I'm helping Andrew because he's a nice guy and he's a clever he's an engineer like electric engineer he's not that guy of I will tell you something about Andrew you know when I went to Dubai we trained the first night and then I said what time you going to be trained tomorrow he Kamal tomorrow maybe a little bit late. I said why? He said I'm flying tonight to Africa. He's got a team there. They working for him. So he said I want to take a flight for 5 hours. Check my job and come back. We train again. [laughter] He flew to Uganda. Uganda. He flew from Dubai to Uganda. He went there for three, four, five hours. He got the plane again. He came back to Dubai and he trained. I've never ever ever even myself like two weeks out, three weeks, four weeks out, I would never travel nowhere. But he's still because he's loyal. He's got team. He went there to make sure everything is going right with his job and his business because he's electric engineer electric engineer electric. So he went there, he makes sure everything is fine. He has to go. He came back, we trained that day, we trained four days and then we flew together to uh to Romania. So I mean Andrew is not that lazy. He he does work. He looks after his business. He looks after his physiques. And he does it all. >> Wow. I mean, I knew I knew he was an electrical engineer, but I assumed he would calm down on that and not do so much work leading up to a show. Maybe like take the last month off or six weeks off or something like that. But apparently not. [laughter] >> Normally, normally that's what I do. Even like before training sometime when he come to Tampa, he said, "Oh, come on. just give me 15 minutes. I need to just send some emails. He's following his emails. He following because he's got a team. They working for him. So, he has to reply if they needed anything or something is going wrong. So, he didn't stop or told them, "No, just carry on." No, no, no. He was following all the way. All the way. I think if he could do a backstage, maybe he would be having his phone and sending [laughter] some emails to his like, you know, workers. So, last last question about Andrew is uh did did you have him in third place at the Olympia? If if you were judging it, where would you have had him? >> Well, to be honest, I mean, we thought I I myself I thought he could have won. Nobody will argue if he won it. >> Um but like you know, between him and Derek like first and second, I think >> yeah, it was like it was he should I think he could have uh I don't know. I mean because the improvement he did it's unbelievable and he looks because you know um Derek and Harry they short okay their size is not the same we talking here they open uh open bodybuilding so I think it will suit Andrew more for that for that class. >> Yeah. >> You know what I mean? Oh, I mean, you know, I'm AI'm not a tall guy, but I I when I've seen Andrew compete, I'm always just overwhelmed at when you see a guy who's 6'2 with that kind of development, it's it's mindboggling. It's it's so different from a guy who's 5'4, 55, 5'6. It's it's it's like an almost another species. So, I I get the appeal of Andrew. Nobody He's got a very unique look to him. You know, they say all these guys now look alike. The old the old-timers like to say that. Nobody looks like Andrew. That's a Nobody in this world looks like Andrew Jack. It's a one of a kind. >> Exactly. Because Yeah. He's like, you know, even though they say like these big guys, they can't get in condition. He did get uncondition. So, we haven't seen this for a long time. I think I think if he adds a little bit more size and we talked about that and he's going to be like hard to beat, very very hard to beat. >> Is it true that he didn't do any cardio for the in between the Olympia and Romania? He did very little the last week or 10 days. I remember like I said, "Come on, we do card." He said, "No." Chris told me, "No." So, he's not cardio. We just go to the gym. We focus on the glutes and we focus on like do abs and calves and details more little like glutes and hamstring and whatever. I I want him to keep like to be tight and that's it. No cardio. Yes. Very less cardio. Very very less cardio. And more like, you know, he's been eating uh high high like you know, high carbs. He never dropped his carbs and less less of the fat burner stuff. >> Yeah, that's crazy because people would say, "Well, he must have used a lot more drugs this year than ever before." That's what people would >> that's that's that's why I really pissed off from that when they saying that it's not because we there you don't say things like if you're not there, don't say it. Don't don't don't push like this and people they listen to you, they think, "No, it's not drugs. It's not a drugs at all." And you can see his physique. It's not a drug physique. You can tell he's polished. He's like popping. He's it's it's it's clean. The skin and everything. He's We know we know what's the drug physique look like. >> Yeah. I mean >> Yeah. To be honest, he did he did very well. Even like if you notice his posing as well. He's like improved a lot his side shot which is nice. Did Did you Is that Is that part of part partly you're you're doing? Because his side shots were not getting any better and then all of a sudden they were better >> to be honest. Yes. We've been working a lot with the with the posing. But the thing is he went to Petsburg to be honest. He went to Beatsburg and pose in front of Tyler and Mr. Jim Manion. They really like Tyler helped him. He told him that's the way uh he helped him. That's the way you do it. And then we've been practicing the way they've told him to do it. So they they helped him. Even like Steve Weinberg when he went to New York they trying to tell him this is even the most muscular is different than before. So they've told him you do it that way and it is right because they they see what they like and they know what's all about and we just kept to make it 100% the way they want because we are practicing every day posing every day. Every day. >> Yeah. Cool. All right. It's enough Andrew Jack talk. Appreciate you uh bearing with me through all of that. So, here's some footage of uh when you won the Arnold back in 2018. And I always tell this funny story. The night before they did the that meet and greet thing. I don't know what it's called. Arnold, whatever it's called. It's where you can interview people and stuff. And Giles said, "Oh, my mate Kamal's in this. He's, you know, he's been world champion these amount of times. He's he's great." And I was like, "Uh, I never heard of the guy. I don't want to." And you end up winning the whole show. And I was like, "Geez, Giles. I I I don't know how I know who this guy was. Of course, the whole world, you know, because it took you all those years to get your pro card in the IFBB because of all the issues you went through that that we've talked about in the past. But, um, the thing is I I wonder, are you done competing? Because you competed two years ago, you became the Masters Olympia champion. It was the first time they'd brought the Masters Olympia show back in over 10 years, I think it was. Um, and we were kind of expecting you. Giles thought maybe you were going to do it this year, 2025 in Tokyo, because we're He looking He's looking at your Instagram. He's like, "Kamal's getting big again. He's getting lean. I think Kamal's in prep." But then we didn't see you at the Olympia. So, were you even thinking about competing at the Masters this year or No? >> Well, to be honest, I would love to because I to be honest, I feel healthy. I look good. I look better. Even now Chris when he saw me when we were in Romania so we were together wow what I mean come on you have to compete you have to compete this year next year like to 2026 I said I would love to I would love to I'm still like feeling great I'm still like nothing is being my physique still the same I look better I look fresh um yeah I didn't I'm not done yet I'm not done yet maybe I've got one more year I haven't like um retired yet maybe 2026 I will do one or two three shows whatever and then uh I think probably I will give up. I don't know man but I feel like I could do it again. I I didn't do the Masters Olympia this year because of like you know it's in Tokyo and then the end of the day we spend money. The thing is I'm busy as well. I've got family. I've got four kids. So to fly all the way we pay our own expenses and then you know the price is like 20k. It's it's it's not fair. Well, it's not fair, man. I mean, at least at least should be 100k. It's the Masters Olympia. It's the open. I mean, we should be an example for all these youngsters to show them that's the healthy way. We still I mean, I'm going to be 54 actually this November the 20th. Okay. Yeah, I'll be 54 and then I'll say, "Yeah, because I've done it the right way." So, I would love to show all these youngster, hey, whatever you're doing, it's wrong. >> Don't abuse it. don't push, don't do this. It should be like, you know, it should be do it the right way. And I don't feel like we actually disvalued this valvalued. You know what I mean? So that's why I said if they're going to increase the price money and if they're going to look after us much better, I will do it again. >> Because I remember you had told Giles you were going to be retired by a certain age, if it was 50 or 52. >> But probably I will do one more show. >> Okay, good. Yeah. Yeah, I mean that the Masters the the I I wonder what could be done to make the Masters bigger and more prestigious than it is. And I I think the key lies in bigger names like you being in the show because, you know, it's no it's it's no disrespect to Dorian Haywood or Phil Clayhar. Those guys look great, but they're they weren't, you know, I mean, big names. I mean, this is a show that used to have Dexter Jackson. If you go back further, it had like Robbie Robinson, Dennis James, Boyer Co. Lou Farerigno, Vince Taylor won it five times. Uh, and I guess it's it's which comes first, chicken or the egg. You can't have big prize money without big names. And you can't have the big names without big prize money. You know what I mean? To to entice guys like you because you're not going to go over there for $20,000. Did I lose you there? Oh, I lost you there for a second. Kamal, can you hear me? >> Yeah, I can hear you. Yeah. >> Yeah. So, I was saying we need bigger prize money to get guys like you, the big the what I consider the big names, but you know, they're they're not going to have the prize money, the sponsors and everything without the big names in the show. So, I don't know. I don't know what the solution is to to get that show elevated to the status that it should be. It's an Olympia event and like you said, let's I want to see guys who are still looking, you know, Giles thinks it should be only uh only over 50. He thinks over 40 is too young. Um I I disagree. I'd like to see some of the active pros who are over 40. I know it's like Andrew is going to be 40 in a couple weeks, I think. Right. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> He's not going to go over there for $20,000 and pay all his own money. >> No, he's not. Nobody will go. I mean, even even why why they make it far in Tokyo? Just keep it in Europe. Keep it like do it in America. Do it like in Europe. It's fine. But you make it like Tokyo. The the the price I mean the ticket p the ticket like just for economy. You need at least $2,000. But you're going to fly like business class. It's going to I mean that's it. You're going to plus your accommodation because you're going to fly at least a week before the show. It doesn't make sense. And then we heard the promoters like they didn't pay >> they didn't pay the the price. I mean, come on, man. This is the Olympia brand. You don't give any promoter like to to ruin your brand. It shouldn't be like that way. It shouldn't. >> I mean, that that confused me because I was always under the impression, and I don't know if you have any experience in the area promoting, but I thought they had to have the prize money set aside in some sort of escrow account like weeks or months before the show, so it was guaranteed so something like that could not happen. But maybe I'm wrong. I don't know. >> Yeah, it should be. It should be that way. It should. I mean, you don't have to be like even a promoters of the company, they kept the world, whatever. Like, it can't be. It can't be. It has to be I mean, it's 20 grand. Come on, man. It's 20 grand. We don't like it. And even 20 grand, you couldn't pay it. That's not fair. I mean, it's it's it's not fair. That's why I were really disappointed. They should like, you know, uh I mean, come on. We we one of we we we the top of the game. So it's the Olympia. It's >> Yeah. I mean would you >> That's why that's Yeah. >> So if you come back uh would it be at the Masters or would you come back at something else? Because I mean you've done very well in open shows your fourth at that time. >> I would love to do Tampa again to be honest because it's my hometown. I would love to do it again. And yeah from there we'll see. I might I might I mean to be honest next year I might do something like it close maybe just um May June and then I'll see from there. So um because you know we got the Ramadan in um uh February so I I have to be like you know be fasting whatever. So anything after Ramadan give me like three months and then we go from there. So, if Ramadan's in February, does that mean you were doing your prep for the Arnold Classic uh years ago where you couldn't eat all day long? >> Yes. Yes. >> Wow. [laughter] So, >> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've competed before like when I was fasting actually like I in the the amateur days I know I'm going to win the show. So, I was like fasting I don't have to really break the fast because I have to make it again. So, I just went to the the prejudging in the morning. I'm fasting, but at night I could eat. So, I did load up a little bit and I still won the show. So, >> Wow. Yeah. Because I mean, I remember talking to Big Ramy about this a few years ago. He said during Ramadan, he would he would basically sleep all day and stay up all night. >> Is that is that is that like cheating or can you do that? Is that okay? >> No, I mean you can do it. As long as you wake up to do your prayer and everything, it's fine. You can do it. But like Yeah. Um we we change day to night. Yeah. We we swap the day. we wake up I mean especially when you have kids and family so for me I have to wake up and take the kids to school and you know bring them back and whatever it's a little bit harder but the thing is after 10 days the Ramadan passes it just your physique switches and comes back to normal and >> it'll be like I think I feel much better to be honest. >> Yeah. What a but what a challenge because food is I consider the nutrition the most important part of everything and you know not going fasting and being hungry and everything. I can't even imagine being in prep and having to endure that. But you know you've done it you've done it many times I guess. So >> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We've done a lot but yeah it's it's good. It's never been a problem but yeah it's um I'd love like I said I'd love to do it again at least one more year. Even my kids come on dad. They want me to be back on stage. Yeah. >> Because how old were they? They saw you. I I met your kids in uh Tampa and that was what three years ago now. >> Three years ago. Yes. >> Yeah. So they were all they were all very small still from what I remember. >> Yeah. My oldest My oldest now is 21 and then I've got a second one tw. My daughter is 14 and the little one is 10. So >> they weren't that little then. I think I was just thinking about the little kid. >> Oh, the little one. Yeah, the little one is Yeah. my daughter as well. So, >> yeah. I mean, and would would you come back as a 212 or would you do open again? >> Probably I'll do both. I'll do 212 and do the open. Yeah, I just Yeah, whatever. I mean, I will do I'll do both. I'll just maybe do 212 just any pro show and then I'll do open and then we'll see how it goes and >> we'll probably finish up. Yeah, for the Olympia. Maybe I'll finish up on the Olympia as well. Did you uh did you get any heavier or fuller when you were doing like Tampa and you were doing open when you you know you almost beat? >> Yeah, I was I was heavier. Yeah, I was like um I think 220. I was 220. 219 220. >> Yeah. I mean that that that makes me want to ask you about uh Keon because Keon just did uh he did his debut as an O as an open in Prague and I thought he looked pretty good but you know people were expecting him to a lot of people were expecting him to win. You know you know what it's like going from 212 to open. Did you think it was going to be a challenge for him to stand next to Gez had to stand next to guys like Samson uh Priso guys who had 60 70 80 pounds of body weight on him. I thought he held his own, but you know, fourth place people a lot of a lot of people assumed he was going to be able to win. >> To be honest, we we thought that because you so many people like the 212 um they they actually um day one, but I will say it now. I mean uh Keon his muscle, the look of his muscle is not ready yet to be beaten to beat them big guys. For example, Shan Lorita, if you if you compare Shan Lorita muscle and Keon's muscle is completely different. The dense, the hardness. So that it makes you win. >> You know what I mean? >> Yeah. Yeah. Muscle maturity. I mean, that's >> that's that's maybe that's the only why he didn't win because he looked a little bit smaller. Muscle maturity. Exactly. That's what he needed. >> Yeah. I mean, that's I always considered that one of your strongest points was the muscle maturity and detail. We call it old man muscle. I don't know if you know that phrase, but >> Yes, >> I'm older than you. >> Yeah, exactly right. >> 100%. >> It's a it's a rare quality because we see a lot of these young guys pack on muscle very quickly, but it doesn't have that density and detail. when you look at like a Clarita, that's why I thought Clarita had a chance to beat Keon at this Olympia because he has that. >> Exactly. Exactly. So that's what that's the difference between the muscle between him. I mean, if if if like Keon, he's got that and he competed against these guys, he could have won. Why makes what's what's makes Hadi to jump into the open? Why? Because he's got that look of the muscle >> and he won. Adi is 212. I mean, I don't think he's over like 220. I don't think 220, 222, 225 maximum. He's never he's never that heavier than that. But the way his the muscle mature and the hardness in his in his muscle, that's what makes him special. >> Yeah. I mean, do you think it's it's comes down to the training? >> He need to um watch out because we saw the stomach. Yeah, it was it's starting to it's starting to pop out a little bit in between poses when he's not really paying attention. >> Um but >> yes. Yes. And that's we we I mean yeah he's he has to he has to watch that. So, do you think it comes down to a difference in training? Because these guys that we're all talking about, Clarita, uh, Hottie Chupan, you you train super heavy, super intense, a lot of free weights, and you know, these, like I said, these guys, they have the size, but it's it doesn't have the same look. Do you think training has a big influence on the the quality of the muscle, the detail? >> Big time. 100%. And that's approved with Andrew. It's 100%. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's it's you can't make everybody train. Everybody can't train with you, unfortunately. But, uh, I'm so happy that Andrew did. >> Keon Keon Keon trained with me once and he couldn't finish up the training. >> Okay. Well, there you go. I don't want to say he doesn't train. I'm sure he trains hard. Everybody trains hard, but there's a difference. There are levels to this. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. To get that kind of muscle and build on the muscle. I'm sure they train hard. Of course. >> Of course they do. Yeah. I just think there's there's another extra level of training hard that a lot of guys just never crack. It's not their fault. They just don't know that that that's possible, you know? >> Exactly. Exactly. Yes. >> Like I remember I thought I trained very very hard and then Dorian Yates put me through a leg workout. I'm like, man, I didn't really train as hard as I thought I did. That's training hard. >> Exactly. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> And I don't want to say these Americans don't train hard. I don't want to put my own pe throw my own country under the bus. But we do see it uh in Europeans more Middle Eastern that the hard training it just seems the work ethic seems different in these other countries. I don't know why Americans sometimes we can be a little lazy. I don't know why. Maybe we got things too easy over here. I guess [laughter] you know you live you live here now. You know the difference. [snorts] >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. Definitely. Yes. >> So that is very encouraging Kamal to hear that you're not done. Uh I like I said I I follow you on Instagram. Like this guy looks like he could get back on stage anytime he wants. Why would he keep stay so big and and keep this great physique if he's never going to show it to us again on a stage? So I'm very happy to hear that we are going to see it. You promise us one more time >> at least. Inshallah at least. [laughter] >> I mean you're too good to retire yet, you know. I mean >> not yet. Not yet. when I see physiques start to fade like h this guy's gota it's it's the body's just not responding it's I see [snorts] him going downhill and you didn't do that you were competing the last time I saw you you were in your 50s and you're looking you know I don't see any loose skin I don't see their gut coming out I don't see atrophy in any body parts I mean you look as as you look as good then to me as you had I had to go back because like I said I wasn't aware of you has known about you for years we had Yeah. >> I had to go back and look at old footage from, you know, 10, 20 years ago to see. You've been competing a long time. >> Long. My first show was 94. >> 94. Wow. Okay. That's Let's do the math. That's 31 years ago, guys, for those keeping score at home. So, >> that's it. >> Wow. So, man, I I also I appreciate you doing this interview all the way. I know you're you're you don't get back to Libya that often these days. So, taking time out for me like this, I really appreciate it, Kamal. No, I don't know. I'm in my gym. I'm in my gym at the moment. Actually, can you see my trophies? All my trophies behind my back. >> Yeah. How many >> How many gyms do you own? >> Hopefully. Hopefully after I finish them because I've got two under construction going to be four. >> Wow. Wow. You are they all in uh are they all in Libya or they spread out around the world? >> Yeah, they all in they all in Libya. The one in England I've sold them actually. I've sold the one in England like about two three months ago. I've sold that one and hopefully hopefully hopefully my plan to do my own in Tampa. >> Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Can never have >> my do my private it's gonna be a private gym to just to be like you know have the clients whatever >> wants to train I'll bring him there. >> Yeah. But I remember seeing footage of you I think it was after you won the Arnold in 2018 or after I think it was after you won the Olympia. Uh was that 2018 or 19? >> 19. The Olympia. Yes. You went back to Libya and it was the whole street. There had to be a hundred thousand people there for you. It was like >> Yeah. Yeah. That's Yeah, it is. Yeah, it is. The bodybuilding here in Libya is so big. The fans of bodybuilding, it's very very huge. And of course, like for me winning the Olympia, uh it's a big deal. It's a big deal for all the whole like you know it's not just here but the only Samir Bernut he won the Olympia 1983 and then me to win the Olympia and I was 212. Uh so it's like it's been a time for um for the Arab or whatever to win the Olympia again. So it was a big especially here in Libya like man crazy. >> Yeah. And the same thing when Rammy went back to Egypt after winning the Olympia like a hero's welcome you know. I mean, >> oh, big time. Big time. Big time. >> Meanwhile, Derek Lunford wins and he goes back home and I don't think anybody even notices. You know, Americans, they don't they don't care. But whatever. As long as you guys get a great fan base there and very passionate fans in a lot of different nations around the world. So, I'm happy to see that. >> Oh, great. I mean, this the fan of bodybuilding is growing and getting bigger and bigger. So, um it's good to have it international as well and spreading out and yeah, it's um it's great. It's getting bigger and bigger. So, hopefully we'll keep going like that way. >> Cool. Well, thank you, Kamal. Appreciate the interview and uh best of luck with the new gyms and uh can't wait to see you on stage again. Even if I have to wait a year or a year and a half or however long it's going to be, I'll wait for you. I'll wait. Good things are worth waiting for. >> Thank you so much. No, it's not going to be a year. I'm going to be like months hopefully. So, because we out at the end of the 2025, but yeah, looking about May, June maybe. >> We'll see. >> Okay. Well, we got Pittsburgh coming up in May. I think that could be it. >> You never know. >> I'd love to see you on the Pittsburgh stage. That would be awesome. So, >> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> So, thank you very much, Kamal. And guys, thanks for watching Ron Line Report with this fantastic athlete, Kamal Elgardney. And we'll see you next time. And thanks.