Hey everybody, welcome to the Ron Line Report sponsored by Euro Muscle. It's a little early. It's just turned June. It's a little early to call rookie of the year, but I have a feeling this gentleman right here might end up being the rookie of open men's bodybuilding for 2025. Please welcome Kennedy on Yan Woo. What's up, Kennedy? Hey, how you doing, Ron? I thought you were gonna do a Tim Wilin and and do the aka Colossus Ken along with it. Are you ready to rumble? No, no, no. But, uh, man, I'm so impressed by what I saw at New York Pro where you just missed the top five. Tough lineup and again impressed at this Legion Sports Fest over the last weekend. Uh, you were fifth and I I honestly could have had you as high as third. And I'm I'm not just saying that because we're we're talking right now. I was saying that during my coverage of the show and everything. Um and I was surprised when I saw the score sheet that it was, you know, straight first, straight second, straight thirds. It didn't seem like any any deviations in that top five. Nobody changed from finals to judging or anything like that. But uh I want to get this out of the way because you just you just leaked it to me before we started recording. Uh when I was doing this I said Ananu I wonder I wonder if he's of Nigerian descent because we're seeing so many amazing guys either from Nigeria or of you know it was Quinton Samson Andrew Jack Blessing and um yeah did so you know this is a fairly recent phenomenon in bodybuilding but how long you know when did you know that Nigerians were special as far as as far as bodybuilding genetics? you know, um to be quite honest with you, Ron, and thanks for having me, by the way, um on here. I really appreciate it. Uh to be honest with you, uh with the Nigerian bodybuilding, right, it's before Samson and Andrew kind of came on the scene, it was always Sylvio Samuel and Victor Richards that were kind of known as the main Nigerians, right? But uh if you look behind the scenes, I think just like West African genetics in in general when it comes to that side, that side of the world seems to be very primed for bodybuilding. You know, Ganaian, Bonak, uh is a Ganaian, you know, um Nigerians, Nigerians first, I feel like, infiltrated into the UFC. that was where they first started to go because what I think is happening especially with Nigerians and maybe a lot of people don't know this I was I was born and raised here but a lot of people don't know this but like Nigerian culture is very very heavily uh it's heavily strayed towards academia you know so a lot of Nigerians don't really pursue sports as the end goal you know because it's kind of seen as from a percentage standpoint realistically how many how many people are really going to make a superstars in a sport versus if you go get a regular job, right? So you see that a lot of Nigerians are they push their kids towards you know school like that's why you see a lot of Nigerian there's a joke amongst Nigerians if you're not an engineer you're not a doctor you're not a lawyer or or one of those you're a failure automatically you're a failure in life you know but what we've seen over the last few years and I think with social media and uh just the internet and globalization in general is that there's exposure. Nigerians are starting to get exposed, you know, to actually how lucrative sports can be. And you know, there's a lot of guys, I think, who was it that said this, King Kamali was talking about it like in Iran, right? A lot of guys walking around that have like a six-pack or whatever. It's the same in Nigeria, like these guys are not, they don't eat the same like we do here, but they have phenomenal physiques. They just don't have the opportunity, you know, to do like what we do. So, I think that some people uh that have been able to leverage that like Andrew, right? If you look at Andrew before he even started like competitive bodybuilding, he already looked like he looked like he had already won shows, you know? So, they're starting to actually get into the sports arena. And I I bet you because I I think Bonak has a show now in Ghana. I think with more people exposing bodybuilding to that side of the world, you're gonna start seeing a lot more like heavy talent from from that region of the world because I mean that's what happened with the Middle East and Brazil. You know, look at Brazil right now. Brazil is a powerhouse. It wasn't like that, you know, 15 years ago, 15 20 years ago. It was only um Eduardo Korea was the only Brazilian that I remember that was like actively competing and look at it right now, you know. Um, so I think I think with time and with the MPC IFBB like bringing this to that side of the world, you're gonna start seeing a lot of guys that are are a lot better than me and Samson and Andrew. But I'd say I' I'd say this, if there's one thing, you know, people people don't forget this show with Legion. We had a running joke, me and uh Toby. So Toby is uh he won the North Americans uh 2024, I won 2023. And he's Nigerian as well. Blessing is Nigerian as well. Oh, Toby. It's I could not pronounce I was murdering his name. Yeah. Yeah. So the short form is Toby. That's the best way to say it. Toby. Thank you. Yeah. So we we had a running joke that this show is to establish who's the number three Nigerian, you know, in bodybuilding right now. So I think I'm number three, man. I think after Samson and Andrew, I'm the number three Nigerian right now on the seed. So, I got to make it to number one. Get his get fight to get his third spot back. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think I've seated him right there, you know. So, um yeah, I'm we're showing some of the Legion stuff. This is just a copy of a copy basically, but still I hope it comes through. You can see the Yeah. Yeah, I can see it. Structure, the size, the the shape. Yeah. I mean, you're you're not missing much. The only the only critique I had on you that's that's, you know, you're a work in progress and you're going to get better and better and better. A little more lower lats and you're going to be kicking all these people's asses. A little more condition, but geez, what a what a hell of what a This wasn't your debut. New York Pro was your pro debut, correct? Yeah. Yeah. New York Pro was a debut two weeks ago. But, uh, wow. So, uh, I know nothing about how you got in. First, I I got to get this out of the way, too. You know, we mentioned engineers. Andrew Jack is an engineer. And you're also an engineer, cyber security engineer. So, you're basically like a big computer nerd. A very big computer nerd. I am. I am. As you can see, I actually went all out for this setup just for this interview. You know, usually you just have like a a little bit of webcam on your computer. I'm like, "No, let me let me get some let like I like tech. I'm a real like tech nerd, you know. It's something bodybuilding and tech has always been things that I'm I'm heavily interested in, you know. So, um, yeah, I I basically went to school for, you know, it uh got into cyber security a couple years ago and, you know, I've pretty much been doing it ever since. Uh, it's some it's a passion of mine, uh, to be honest with you. It's something that I really love outside of this. And I think that with bodybuilding, maybe I have a different perspective than a lot of people, but now that I've started to get to the upper echelons of bodybuilding, I I've I didn't see this a lot when I was in my amateur career, but you know, the do or die where it's like this is it. Like I live this, there's nothing else in my life but this. I I I don't uh I don't subscribe to that. I think I think people should be a little bit more multiaceted. And for me, it gives me the ability to appreciate bodybuilding, you know, like like online when I see like just how negative online can be sometimes with bodybuilding and how people perceive things, it's like damn, like we're really just lifting weights, you know, and presenting a physique on stage, like why are people so uptight about this, you know? It shouldn't be something that should elicit any kind of like negative. It's a privilege to be able to do this. And that's kind of at least for me from my perspective now being just a a nineto-ive guy who happens to, you know, compete, you know, from time to time. It's a privilege to be able to even, you know, step on stage and to be able to say, I'm going to go work out, have a body that I actually like, you know, that I can present and, you know, maybe in the future make some good money out of it. You know, I think it's I think it's a privilege and it's a wonderful thing. There's not many people in the world that can do that. And sometimes I think we forget that as pros, you know, when people look at us as pros, like there not many people that are doing this in this world. And it's such a privilege to be in that position. So, I don't take it for granted. Uh, I'll be honest with you because I'm I'm I'm in both worlds right now. I'm walking the line of both worlds and I understand what it means to be like a regular civilian and what it means to be like, you know, an open pro competitive bodybuilder. So, yeah. Oh, kind of like Blade is a daywalker. He's half half vampire, half human. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. So, uh, tell me the story of how you became a bodybuilder. Uh, it's it's not too different from a lot of people, you know, um, in, you know, back in high school, I was I was a lot I was short. I'm still short, but I was short and small. What's short for you? I'm curious because we got some short guys in bodybuilding. Uh, I think like 57 5'6, 5'7 is considered short, you know, in bodybuilding, right? Well, because No, I mean, you got two 12s are like five foot, so I get what you're saying. You weren't the tallest guy. Let's leave it at that. Yeah, I'm not the tallest guy, right? So, um, in high school, I was I was as a teenager, right? Like the first thing that you you just want to be taken a little bit more seriously, right? You want to you want to have some kind of self-confidence. And that was kind of what steered me to it originally. You know, I wanted to lift weights to just be bigger, just to have more confidence in myself, you know, for people to take me seriously, you know, as you can tell. I'm I'm a little chatty. I've always been like that my whole life. I've been like that my whole life, you know. So, when you're a scrawny guy, you're a little chatty. It's a very different response you get, trust me. Um and uh you know eventually when I actually joined the gym I actually saw a bodybuilder for the first time and that was I had never seen a bodybuilder in in my life. Uh you know Michael Yensen he was like a local bodybuilder at the time and uh I just couldn't believe a body could look like that. You know, now in hindsight, he was he was nothing really special, but like and that's why I say sometimes when you talk about open pro Bible, what what a privilege it is, you forget that like a to a regular person, you look like an alien, completely out of this world. Because I remember that first time when I saw him, he was getting ready for a show and I was like, damn. Like as a teenager, I was like, if I could look like that, all my problems are solved. you know, that's the solution to all my problems right there. So, so I asked him um you know, how do you get big? Like like every other dumb person asked a bodybuilder, right? How do you get big arms? How do you get big? And he was actually nice to me, you know, he actually, you know, because I was I was an athlete at the time as a student, you know, I did track 200 meters. And uh he asked me like, you know, uh am I working out? like what do I do? And I I told him and he basically gave me a plan and I followed it and uh pretty much I watched Pump and Iron. He actually showed me Pump and Iron. He said, "Go watch this movie." And Pump and Iron was my first introduction into actually bodybuilding. So from the very beginning, I kind of understood like the competitive side of bodybuilding, making sure you have a balanced physique, right? So I was I was a guy that like I was training from the very beginning with the intention that my physique should look like something that is more balanced like towards what they were trying to what Arnold was trying to preach in pumping iron you know and that was kind of how I fell into it you know and and to be honest I never stopped after that and then I competed um I did a natural show back up when did you because obviously you I call genetic freak and that's not a bad thing it's a you have these gifted genetics like I everybody in the open pro bodybuilding. That's in that first or second call out. When did you know how far into the training at that gym were you when you started to develop at a faster rate or you had a different look to your body? Because the people like you I I can spot them from like a mile away. Even when they're in their early stage, they go, "Watch this guy. He's going to be something." When did you know? It was quick. It was very quick, Rod. Um I started training. I was like maybe 100 165 pounds. Okay. you know, when I started training, like I said, I was athletic. Um, and within three months, I kid you not, within three three to four months, I was like 175 to 180. I had abs, I had narrow chest, you know, my at the time, you know, now from what I see online, they're like, "Oh, his biceps suck." But at the time, my arms were like my biggest, you know, they were my biggest body part. You know, I had that kind of like Donkey Kong looking physique. Um, and uh, yeah, I developed really quickly. Like if you saw me after three months, you would have probably thought I would be lifting for like two, three years. Wow. To be quite honest with you, like, and I can send you pictures after if you want um, to see what that looked like. And then I I just never stopped, you know. And, um, I did a natural show after that, like two two to three years after, and uh, I won I won the show. Uh, I took the overall for for novice. And then actually for the open I actually beat the guy who was it was like a backend show in some place in Brooklyn in New York. Um I can send I have everything. I have the there's an animal documentary that we just did. It's also in there. So if people want to see all the stuff we're talking about just go to animal packs page. There's everything is documented. I sent all the pictures. There's evidence of everything there. and uh you know pretty much I came second to the guy but because they could they couldn't give it to me. He was a guy that was already he was established there as a natural so it's like all right whatever. So after that I and we talked about the Nigerian uh culture thing you know I wanted to just get my degree you know focus on that because I didn't think that bodybuilding I didn't think like I had been following bodybuilding for a couple of years after I had met that guy in high school. So, I've been following the sport competitively, but I just never thought that I could look like that. You know what I mean? Like, you see a guy like Ronnie Coleman and you look at yourself and you're like, I'm never going to get there. It's it's just too the the the ceiling is way too high and I'm way too deep at the bottom. So, I'll be honest, Ron, I kind of gave up on it. I just I was just a gym bro. You know, I was just a gym bro after that competition. um you know I you know graduated college and started working and there was one thing that changed that which was I know this is going on YouTube so I don't want to skew your your SEOs your uh search engine optimizations here but uh the cword right the pandemic happened oh oh I thought you were talking about the c word that women hate but no no no no oh Man, you just you just screwed your numbers on YouTube, didn't you? Just right now with that word. No idea that would happen. But the pandemic happened and you know, here on the East Coast, things shut down. It was the first time in my life that I hadn't been to a gym in six months. And I'm I'm kind of I don't know how you are, Ron. I'm kind of like an all or nothing guy. if I can't do if I can't train to the limit the way I I like to train, I'm just not going to do it at all. So, I just stopped, you know, I I just stopped training and I lost sight of myself and I realized I looked at myself in the mirror and I said, "Man, what a waste of what a waste of a human being. What a waste of everything you've done up to this point." You know, because I had a good physique. Even I when I was working, I had a great physique and I told myself that when things open back up, I'm going to actually try this bodybuilding thing. Like, let's just see where it goes. Let's just take it all the way and see where it goes. And pretty much that was it. And I competed in Delaware, the Del Marva in 2021. That was my first show, NPC show. Yeah. and I took the overall um at that show for bodybuilding and I went to nationals after that uh nationals in Florida in 22. Yeah, I I didn't do as great there in nationals. It was my first one. There was a higher level, right? I was the biggest guy in the heavyweights. I came in at about two think about two 221. Yeah, 221 at that show. Um you know, at the time I wasn't sure. I had never been to a national show. I didn't know what people were going to look like. I didn't know. So, I was like, I'm just going to come in as big as I can because I felt like I was going to be small. Well, turns out I was the biggest guy. I was the biggest heavyweight when I got there. But I just wasn't as tight as I needed to be, you know. So, uh I didn't make the first call outs. And then that was the first time I after that show, the guy who came third, uh, Sid, he was like the most peeled guy in the show. And for me, I'm always I'm I'm very I like to learn. If I don't know something, I'm not going to I'm not going to act like I do, right? So, I had I went up to sin and I asked him, I said, you know, who who do you work with? Like, you know, cuz he was conditioned. He was peeled. And he told me, you know, I'd speak I'd spoken to Sullean Suleos. Uh he was the one who had introduced me, done the introduction to Sid. Yeah. And he had told me he worked with Andrew Andrew Vu. And I I uh after that, Sid introduced me to Andrew Vu. And you know, I was like, "Ah, we're going to take a break." And he's he's like, "No, you have everything right now. Like we're going to prep you for North Americans." So we took a month, you know, we took a month to eat up a little bit and then we started to prep with North Americans and I turned pro. So prior to working with Andrew, were you doing it all on your own? I had worked with a local guy uh here uh in New Jersey. So he he had actually was the one that had prepped me for the Delaware Delaware State uh show and then he had prepped me for nationals. The only unfortunate thing, and you know, we we've gone through it now, but the only unfortunate thing, he was a competitor himself. Wow. Um, so he actually competed in that show with me. Like in my in my class. Oh, no. You know, so it was like there's a conflict of interest. There's a conflict of interest here. Like, and it wasn't, and I'm not saying this as a as a way to like uh negative way against him. He has his own goals, too. You know what I mean? Uh so it was just like for me there's a conflict of interest so I just have to I have to find something that works you know and just across the board I knew that I needed like another level. Uh just there was just a different level that I knew when I saw myself at nationals 22 and I saw the other guys I knew there was something I was missing you know there was just there was just a level that I I had just not achieved yet and I needed the answers to that. And uh yeah, so Sid introduced me to Andrew and then we prepped for North Americans and that was it. I turned pro and here we are. Uh you know, uh 18 months later, we did a full off seasonason because we knew that now that I was a pro, I turned pro at 217. I wasn't going to be big enough, you know, to hang with with hang with open pros at 217. I wasn't going to be I couldn't go down to 212. You know, I had suffered to get to that weight to begin with. So, it wasn't going to my physique wasn't going to look good as a 212 either. So, I needed to put on more size, right? So, uh instead of jumping into the pro ranks, we took we took about 18 months uh to put on the size that we could. So, I went from that 217 to 285 in my offseason. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. I just I I blew up. I I just blew up. Uh and um yeah, so once we got there, he said, "Okay, now it's time. Let's uh let's prep. Let's see. Let's see what we when we when we trim off this fat. Let's see what we've got under there." And uh the result is the New York and uh and Legion. Here we are. Here we are today. Yeah. This is uh this is one of your pinned pictures on your Instagram account. And it looks like just somebody morphed your picture here. You know, doesn't it look like just somebody photoshopped and made made the guy on the left way bigger? And that's but that's this is uh that's 45 pounds of tissue right there. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. This condition is very very I'd say the condition is identical left to right because that was to the 230 was around nationals time. Me and my girlfriend took a vacation after that after after that you know. So I was around the 230s and then this one was uh pretty much this was it this year or last year? I I forget but this was recent recently you know when we just started started to come down. So yeah it was uh there was a lot of tissue added you know there's a lot if you look at the one in the center too that's my North Americans look that's crazy versus versus New York you can see that you know there was just a lot of a lot of size that we we just put on in general. So, I've talked to other other guys in that situation and you they were they the offseason is is much harder for them because I don't know are you a are you somebody with a naturally big appetite or did you really have to force the food to put all that size on? So, that's a So, so here's the problem. This this is this is where it's interesting with me. I never needed much food to begin with. Huh. Um I really suffered you know that 217 for North Americans. I was eating just I was eating like a bikini competitor. Yeah. Uh I wasn't eating a lot and we needed to work on one of the things is we needed to work on my metabolism. Like I needed to be able to just eat more you know. So even now at 285 when I got to 285 as a as a you know during that offseason I was still eating just like a little under 4,000. Wow. You know which wasn't that which isn't that much for a for an open pro bodybuilder. Uh, so I've never really had a problem with eating to put on size. Uh, where I've had problems is getting is is the diet, man. Like I really have to suffer to get the diet, you know, to to get it down. So, you know, I'm not and I make fun of Steu about this. I'm I'm not I'm not a guy that can walk in the woods and just start getting shredded just by taking day walks. You got to put me on AI got to suffer. I got to I got to go on a stair master and do like intervals, you know, um and you know, have days with low carbs just to get just to get that weight off. So, you know, everyone has their gifts and everyone has their curses. I think my my gift is I can put on I can put on the tissue very very quickly with very minimal amount of food. And I think that's what's allowed me to keep my waist a little bit tighter because I don't have to force feed that much, you know, um compared to other guys. But then when it comes to the diet, uh, I I really got to suffer, man. Uh, Ron, I I I really got to suffer. I did, this wasn't as bad as North Americans. I did, uh, 50 minutes on the stairmaster. It was kind of intervals. Yep. So, speed intervals of, you know, two minutes, two minutes on of of uh low low interval speed, one minute of high. So, a high would be like level 11, and then a low would be like uh level six or level seven. Dude, 11 is almost running up that thing. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so it uh I I had to do a lot of those. But this time, I would say I ate more than I've ever eaten in a prep, so it's improving. My my appetite and my my appetite's improving a lot. Yeah. Look at your biceps. They really suck. Look at that. That's what I've been told, man. That's what I've been told. And you I mean obviously your quads are a standout. If do you attribute any of that to the track? Did they did they grow really fast when you started training? So here's the thing like I've never I've always been very balanced as a physique. So I never really considered my quads to be like a strong point. It's only recently that that that's become like a thing where people are like your quads are like uh a strong point on your physique. May maybe it's the stairmaster that's causing it, you know, but from doing all those intervals, but it's always never it was always just like standard. Like I always had like very good triceps. Uh my triceps was always a standout body part. Like if you see they kind of shoot out of my arms. Yeah. Um it was always a standout body part. And then my chest was also a standout body part. But everything has always been kind of balanced. You know, it's just recently that the quads I noticed that when I come down in weight, my just because I guess because of the diet and you know, just coming down in size. Yeah. I guess I lose a little bit of that upper body because I'll I'll show you one on Instagram uh on there that you can see when I was coming down first. You'll see that my quads were not even a uh a very strong point. It was just balanced. Uh so go down. Go down a little bit there. Uh just just a little bit more. Just a little bit. Yeah. Just one more. Right there. That video on the left. Right on the left. Yeah. So you see when I was actually coming down, my quads are not really a strong point there. Right here. Right here. They look pretty damn great to me. Yeah. But do you think they're overpowering my upper body though? No. No. You look more balanced. You know, I think that's that's why you're doing so well is because you have a very balanced physique. You know, nothing really nothing really stands out. I mean, I only point out the quads because there were a couple guys in in that even in the Legion, you know, Blessing needs more quads. That guy from Brazil, Bruno, he needs more quads. I'm I'm one of those quads are very I don't know why I fixate on quads so much. Probably because that when I competed, that was like my best body part. When I see guys with substandard quads, I'm like, h but then when I see guys with awesome quads, I'm like, yes, awesome. Finally. But but Ron, do you see what I'm saying though? Like maybe I'm being overcritical of myself where you see from the upper shelf, like my upper shelf here compared to even like on show day is still a lot bigger. Like it's still a lot denser than it seems like I lost a little bit of that density on top compared to like actual show day. like which is why people may be saying there may be a little bit I may be a little bit more lower body dominant which is which is not really the case. You kind of see that you suspect it might have been from the the stepmill or the stairs but usually what happens with that is guys lose their legs like we were always wondering with like Derek Derek Lunser like why does he this the second time we've seen him lose lose a lot of his leg fullness. did it at the 20 the 24 Olympia and it happened to him again at uh at Pittsburgh and we were all speculating because he never came out and told anybody why this is why my legs are down. But I've seen I've seen guys, you know, just local guys dieting and prepping and stuff that they their legs kind of go away from too much cardio. But, you know, you might be one of those guys that can do all kinds of cardio and the legs never go anywhere. Yeah. It's strange, right? Because I know like Keon, for example, does stair master, right? his his quads are his quads are kind of a standout at this point compared to even when he started his his career. So, it's kind of weird like it's kind of weird like that. I feel like some people it benefits them, some people it kind of doesn't, you know? Yeah. Um, so yeah. Okay. But you can see it here, right? You can see like there's a pure balance between the upper like that. If you see this most muscular versus the actual show day, you will see that I maybe I'm just being overly critical of myself. I feel like I may have lost a little bit of density up top. Oh, compared to this now that now that I'm looking at this and we just saw the pictures. Yeah, your upper body was a little flatter than this. It was a little smaller than what I'm looking at here. And your legs didn't seem to have changed at all. They got leaner. They got more condition. But yeah, I mean you and Andrew will figure it out. This is, you know, you've only had these Was that your third prep? Because you North did you do North American with him? Yeah, this is our second prep. I mean, it's because it's two shows in one, right? So, this is just our second prep. So, we'll definitely figure it out. We'll figure it out. He's very good. Yeah, you're in good hands. He's one of those guys, you know, there's he's one of the guys that his name doesn't come up as often for whatever reason. I because I don't think he seeks the limelight. Doesn't do a lot of interviews. He's not big on social media, but behind the scenes I I've known a lot of people that work with him and consistently they get in great shape. So, and and Ron, as an athlete, to be honest, I kind of like that sometimes. Um, you know, this being my first pro uh my my first pro, you know, pro season, I the pressure was very very different from from before. And if you have, and I'm not knocking any coaches to do this, you know, but sometimes like if a coach is, you know, kind of giving updates about an athlete out there in the open, sometimes it could put a little bit more pressure on the athlete themselves as well. Yeah. Uh so it's kind of sometimes it's kind of nice where the coach is kind of on the back end. And I know Aceto is very is like that too. Even if he's in the limelight, he doesn't really speak about the athletes a lot. It's kind of he gives ambiguous ambiguous updates unless you really push them, right? Uh, and there's a reason I understand there's a reason why he does that, you know, because you don't want to, it's also a mental game, right? You don't want to add more pressure to, you know, the athletes themselves as they're doing. They're trying to just bring their best, you know, because I know like, like I said, I'm not knocking anyone, but like I know like Milos and Samson when they were working together, I know like I was hearing Samson's updates every single day, you know, and uh I don't know what how that impacted him, but sometimes it could be it could be detrimental to the athlete, you know, in the long run. Well, I mean, I think it puts a lot of a lot of pressure on them in the sense that people are going to be hyperritical and you you know, if you read if you're in the comments section of your posts, you're going to run into it. No matter how good you look, even if you're Mr. Olympia, you're going to have a thousand comments saying you suck and this body part sucks. You should give it up, you should retire. You know, there's there's a lot of good good stuff out there that you're going to hear and there's a lot of really negative. Uh I if if I were in your position, I wouldn't even like read the comments the last four weeks before a show. Yeah. Yeah. I I've I I think I think there's been a lot of bodybuilders that have paved the way for for for my generation to know what and what not to do. Um you know, with social media, I think I think like Phil Heath, for example, you know, he was the first Mr. Olympia that had to deal with it. And you know, I think everyone learned from that template. Like there's certain ways to handle certain things. Like you could be loved today. Yeah. Today, you know, in Reno, I was overlooked and prejudging. I came back. I'm I'm I'm the I'm the media's darling right now. And tomorrow I could be the villain. You know, I could maybe show up not not the way people wanted me to and it's over. You know, it's over. So, you just uh you stick with your team. you know, the people that have have been there from the beginning that kind of know what's going on behind the scenes. Those are the people you confide in. Yeah. Um I think that's very important to get your validation from your team and the people around you versus getting it from, you know, uh social media. It's just a tool at the end of the day. It's just a tool that you leverage. That's that's the way I see it. The the fans in our sport, I'm sure it's it's not that different from other sports, but they will turn on you in a second with one bad showing. If you place poorly or show up out of shape, you suck. think, you know, I'm unfollowing you. You you blah blah blah. You'll get all kinds of negative. But then you can come back a week or two later. Look at Patrick Moore. Two weeks ago, everyone was saying, "Prick Moore sucks. He should give it up. He should retire. He's done. Shows up looking fantastic at this Legion show." All of a sudden, everyone loves him again. Oh, you're the greatest. What a great job. But it's the same people that were saying he sucked two weeks ago. So, yeah. Look at Nick Walk. Look at Nick Walker pre- Pittsburgh. Oh, same even. Yeah, before Pittsburgh. Yeah. Now it's like, oh, Nick is gonna win the Olympia, you know? It's like Yeah. It's it's uh it's it's that's just how that's just how the cookie crumbles, unfortunately, with the sport. But as athletes, again, we also have to understand that, you know, so you can't take it too personal when someone criticizes you or critiques you. You can't take it too personal, you know, because it's just the lay of the land. Just that's just how it goes, you know, like uh this is my first pro season, you know, Ron, and like the predictions were coming out. I've never experienced it before. And you know, I've seen in the past where some people get mad like, you know, they don't have me as they don't have me in top three. They don't have me slated to win. Like, what the hell? Like, you know, there were some that put me like someone from home put me in eighth. I think someone was like, "Oh, he's all hype." Y but it's like it's part of the sport like if if people don't make the predictions no one's going to talk about the show it doesn't generate any kind of you know conversation and generating the conversation is the most important thing so I just me personally I think it's all good for the sport the both the good and the bad of the drama is what brings people and stares them into you know into this whirlpool of chaos that that we all like to uh live and operate in you know it's funny mention the predictions because I do those with a like I did one for this show. Uh I did one on my channel with uh Matt from Muscle Discord and I did one on his channel a couple days before that with him and Phil Clayar and we had you up there but we talked about the fact we had you in like top five. It's crazy you didn't make that first call out. That's when I was watching the stream. That's where I was really scratching my head is why isn't Ken in the first call out? But whatever you they they found you. They overlooked you for a second but they found you. Um but we have like nothing to talk about. That's that's and that's what I mean. And you know with with the call out the call out thing too. Uh you know these things happen at shows but you know with that one it was it was kind of like I'll be honest I was a little bit bummed you know that that happened because I had flown all the way to Reno from Jersey. You know this is my first show where I'd ever prepped alone. Not prepped alone but like done it gone there alone. You know no family, no friends. There was no one there. It was just me. And when that happened to prejudging, I was like, damn, did I really just do all this to to come here to, you know, play second call outs. Like, I think I'm good enough to be in the first call outs, you know? I really think I'm good enough to be in the first call outs, but I got to say sometimes this is where the internet uh the internet can be very powerful because online there was a massive outcry. You know, I I I don't think that if this was in, you know, the 90s or early 2000s, if this wasn't streamed and it was in a vacuum, I'm not sure the outcome would have changed that much, you know, if it hadn't been streamed all the way online, you know. So, um I'm glad it at least allowed the judges to take a second look and they saw that indeed, you know, we did we did overlook him, you know, in the morning. So, let's give him a shot here. and and thankfully I was able to fight my way to fifth. I I think I could have fought to third. I would have liked to have been compared honestly to Bruno. Um at least Bruno and Patrick. I never got a chance to to compare to them. I only got a chance to compare to uh Florian and uh Blessing. Yeah. I never really got a chance to stand next to because you know Bruno's a little bit more narrow so I could have exposed him there. The legs. You have you have him on the legs all day. Yeah. Yeah. Great. And when I say this, I don't mean it in any negative way. He's a great athlete. He's a great guy. I like really great guy. I love Bruno. He was really nice. But like I just never got a chance to stand next to them for people to see and actually say, "Okay, well, why don't we consider him for a second or third spot?" I was never given that option. So, but you know, the overall it was still a net positive experience, you know, coming out of that show. I have I have no complaints. Chris Mines, the promoter. Yep. He did a phenomenal job. I' I've never been at a show where as an athlete. I was I felt like a superstar, you know, just being at that show. He really puts on a serious production there in Legion. So, if you're an athlete, definitely uh definitely consider doing Legion. It's a really really good show. Really, really good show. I had a blast. So, Oh, I've been I've been to it a couple times. And I I tell everyone if it fits your your time frame for the year, do that show because Chris and his team, they they look out for the athletes. They put on a really quality produ production. Everything's top-notch. This is Appalon Gym. I've been there. Yeah. Yeah. New Jersey. Edison. Yeah. Yeah. This That's my That's my home gym. It's literally like 10 minutes from my house. Yeah. Is it still owned by the uh the Russian gentleman? Uh by Rob? Yeah. It's stolen by Rob. Okay. Couldn't remember his name. Yeah. Dor because I went there for a Dorian Yates seminar one time and a and a Gaspari some Rich Gaspari did one too. Good gym. Really old hardcore old school stuff there. Oh yeah. Yeah. It's old school, you know. Atmosphere is everything. Like the the the Tik Tok kids, you know. The lighting in there is not that great. So they don't like that gym. So no one goes there, you know. So it's perfect for me. It's a perfect layer for for me to get the job done, you know. So yeah, it's old school. Uh, you know, sometimes in the winters the heat's not that great, you know, so you got to be bundled up. But hey, man, that's that's the grit that makes it work, you know. So that's great. My gim, it's freezing in the winter and it's boiling hot in the summer. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. That's exactly how it is, you know. Well, tell me, obviously New York Pro was like, you know, couple hours drive for you. Made sense. But what was it like stepping on stage after waiting close to two years because you turned was when was North American? September of 23. Yeah, around September 23. Yeah. It had been a long time since you've been on stage, but what was it like to get back up there and now you're with, you know, Nick Walker and the other guys? Yeah. I mean, it was quite a drastic jump, you know. Um, I I wasn't really uh I didn't really feel the impact of it till the week before New York where I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] I got to stand next to Kriso, you know, like, you know, but um once you get there, you know, as an athlete and uh you know, I do posing practice and you know, practice rounds and mandatories and all that, it's kind of becomes like the fire drill now kind of becomes like the real life situation, Right. So, uh, I got there and it just felt like any other show, you know? It felt like any other show. Uh, one thing I do is when I get to a show, I put on my headphones. I try to I try to stay as mentally calm as possible. So, if you're backstage and you see me, I'm always with my headphones on like like you know, I just don't want to hear anything but my own thoughts and my own son. I want to be in my own. So, it's it it allows me to keep calm usually. And uh yeah, I mean it was it just it flew. I feel like New York really flew because the bodybuilding, you know, New York is kind of split into two. The way they do the prejudging, there's like two prejudgings. Yep. So, the bodybuilding section, we got there and like in 15 minutes we were we were out there, you know, it was it was really really quick. Um so, it took a while for it to all soak in. Uh pretty much it didn't soak into like finals, you know, where I was like, "Oh, okay. We're actually uh we're actually top six in New York." Like this is crazy, you know? This is crazy. And you were were you happy with six or would you you know, obviously you wanted to win, but that was a that was a hell of a debut because that's that's a tough show. It's not it's not a that's not a second tier show. No. Uh New York, you know, uh there was a battle between me and Sass. You know, uh the scorecards didn't show it, but fifth and sixth was in contention between me and Sass, but to be quite honest with you, uh you know, Sass, he's a hell of an athlete. I'm he's not only an athlete, I'm a fan of Sauce. You know, I watched him in 20 2017 when he competed at New York uh against Sergio and came second. Yeah. you know, so for me, uh, I think sixth was the best I was gonna get, you know, at that show. Uh, realistically, like especially for a guy like Sauce to me who I think he should be on the Olympia stage. He's ready to be on that level. Oh, yeah. You know what I mean? So, uh, sixth place for me felt like uh it was an honor just to be amongst amongst that caliber because clearly it seemed like there were two tiers. The way they judged that show, there were two tiers. They judged all the way to six and they judged from six down. So for me it felt like okay I'm amongst the first tier of the bodybuilders here and that was enough for me. That was all I needed to I just needed to know as a new pro where do I stand in this in this uh operational ladder so to speak right and for me that that was enough. So six six was good. I'll take six. Yeah. Not not to talk too much about sus because we're talking about you, but I feel so bad for that guy with three second places in a row or not in a row. He had another showing, but still in the point system era, which was we just we just did away with that not long ago. He'd already probably have his Olympia qualification. He'd have enough points to go because second in Detroit, second in FIBO was second in Cal, right? And here's the thing, Ron. This is the story of his career. It's not just like it's it's not just like it's this season. I feel so terrible because I'm such a fan of his physique. Like I feel like that is a physique that should be celebrated more on stage. You know, it's very clean. It's very aesthetic. Uh you know, he's got he's got mass and size with like that kind of like shrink wrap like plastic look with conditioning. And for some reason, he just keeps running into these roadblocks at the end where he can't just get the official, you know, the official deal. And and it hurts me because I I'm a fan of him and that's a physique that I like for bodybuilding. That's a physique that I think should represent bodybuilding. You know what I mean? So, it hurts me some to see that he hasn't been able to clench that final piece. I would love to see him do it. Um, sometimes it's maybe it's just I call it strategic bodybuilding. Maybe you just got to pick a a a more strategic show. Maybe go to China, man. Instead of going to Toronto, maybe you should go to China. [\h__\h] it. Just just go to just take it at that Chinese that show in China, you know, and go to the Olympia. You mention some people get really mad if somebody does something like that. But you know what? You have to you have to be strategic because if you're taking second to to Nick guys like Nick Walker or Andrew Jack, these are like top five Olympians. You know what are you thinking? You got to find a show where there's no top five Olympians competing and you can get to the Olympians. I think SAS is a legit top 10 Olympian. He is. He is. If he doesn't get to the Olympia this year, that's going to be that's going to be a shame. That's what I mean. And he has every right in my opinion. Like people get mad, but that's someone that has every right to go pick whatever show he wants because think about it from a competitor competitor's perspective as well, Ron. Like he's been competing since Detroit. So if he continues to extend the season, there's going to be a point where his even if he makes it to the Olympia, that prep is going to be compromised because you've just been going for way too long. Yeah. You know, it's just not going to be your best showing. So for me, it's kind of like at that point, you got to make that critical decision. Do we do we pull the plug now and say we wait and pick an earlier show next year or we pick we really have to strategically pick a show because I love Sauce, but if Rean's doing Toronto, you know, Rean already beat him in New York and beat him in in Cali, it's kind of like, man, just go to China, man. Just just just just take the ticket, go to China, get your get your get your qualification. Like I know it's not about winning sometimes, but for a guy who has proven himself, I think Sas has proven himself well and well beyond anyone else this season. Go to All right. You heard? Go to China. Go to China, Sauce. Go to China. Get that qualification, bro. Very happy to have him over there anyway. Yeah. They'll treat him like a king. You know, they'll even pay they'll even pay to bring him over there. You know, that's a big that's a big superstar. A couple other things you we talked before we started recording about imposttor syndrome is a fairly common thing like the late Kurt Cobain felt he wasn't really what pe as good as people thought he was. You didn't know you were as good as you were. I mean you're finally starting to realize I think now but for a while you you really had a lot of self-doubt about how far your potential was. Correct. Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Elaborate please. I mean, so you know, when you start bodybuilding, right, it's kind of like you're this small. Like I said, you can't relate to the Ronnies. You can't relate to the flex wheelers. It's just a ceiling that is just way too high and way too unattainable. So, you don't see that for yourself. Then you know for me myself when I got to nationals um I had come sixth at that national show but uh you know I wasn't in I wasn't tight enough in condition but the physique was there um at that show and people had told me there that you know if you come in tighter you'd win this but so at the same time it's kind of like yeah okay I'm a national level competitor I can win this show but even if I turn pro. Am I would I would I actually be a good pro? There's there's there's there's levels to this, right, Ron? Like, you've been following bodybuilding forever. You know, you've been in this industry forever. There's different levels of pros. If people don't know this, it is true. There's tiers of pros. You have the Olympia pros. The pro winners, they go to any show. They can win a pro show and go to the Olympia. Then you've got the second tier where, you know, they can win a show here or there, you know, depending on who's in the lineup. you know, they can they can kind of expose who's in the lineup and go to the Olympia and maybe they can place, you know, outside of the top 10. Bottom of the top 10 is is the best they could get. And then there are guys who are just never going to win a pro show. Let's be honest, you're just not going to win a pro show. And um my biggest fear, Ron, that kept me up at night was I was going to be a tier three bodybuilder. Wow. You know, I had I had won North Americans. I had done all this, sacrificed all this to this point, and then I'm just going to go to a show and just be on the sideline watching the first call outs every single show. Wow. That that that that's a nightmare scenario that I have that has kept me up at night. I'll be honest. So, can nobody told you after North American how good your potential was? is I can see when people turn pro, even if they still need more size or condition or whatever, I can I look at all the all the shows where people turn pro and I'm not going to name any names, but there's guys who have turned pro at some very weak weak proqualifiers or they did it as masters. And immediately I looked at them and said he ain't going to do [\h__\h] as a pro. And I've almost never been proven wrong. I you know, I don't I don't say it gleefully. I don't wish them a horrible pro career, but I said they just don't. The structure is all they have a wide hips, narrow this. I could see it's but I could see someone if when you turn pro I remember the picture I go if this guy fills out gets better condition and fills out he's going to be very very good. So I'm surprised nobody nobody told you that. I mean that's the problem right? People tell you but people told me my whole life. People told me before I even started competing in bodybuilding. People thought I was a competitive bodybuilder before I ever competed in bodybuilding. So when you've heard that your whole life, that you're this but mentally here it hasn't translated. One more person telling you that you're good is not going to change it. Does that kind of make sense? No, it does. You know, it wasn't a situation where okay, people had actually told me for the first time. I'm like, whoa. It's like people have been telling me this the whole time, but it's like for me myself, I couldn't see it, you know? Um, and that's something that I I struggled with. Like even Legion, uh, this show, like the New York Pro, I was amongst Olympia level competitors, like top 10 Olympians. So, it wasn't that crazy, you know, the size. But in Legion, you know, I I I realized for the first time that I actually have big enough size, you know, I was like, I didn't think I was going to be one of the bigger guys, but you go up there and you realize like I looked at the stream, I looked at the analysis, post analysis after, and I'm like, "Oh, wow. I'm actually uh I actually have size, you know?" Yeah. I And I don't know if it's I feel like this happens to a lot of bodybuilders. I I guess it's part of the bigexia. You could say maybe I have a a little bit of a disorder of the big ereexia because I just don't feel like sometimes I just haven't felt like I'm good enough. Like I I look at myself and I see a guy like, you know, Andrew Jack, he came on the scene, you know, wins his first pro show, goes straight to the Olympia. It's like, well, that's not my story, you know? So, so do I have it? But then you forget that Andrew is a unicorn. He's an exception. Yeah. But then the fear the fear is that okay if he's the exception to the rule and I am just I am just a standard bodybuilder. What does the projection for a standard bodybuilder look like? Does that kind of make sense? Yeah. You know it's but it's it's funny because I was going to tell you, you know, I get DMs and and people talk to me all the time that are I could see they just don't have the potential, but they're convinced that they're going to be Mr. Olympia. They don't see it and they have people around them blowing up their egos. You know, guys at their gym or their family, people that have no eye for it. And it's it's ironic to me that most of the guys I run into that don't think they're that good or have great potential are the guys like you that actually have the best potential and they doubt themselves. And you know, I they they don't even take me seriously sometimes. I'll be I've been at local shows when the guy wins the show and I said, "Well, you're really good. You should keep going." And they're like, "You think?" They they just don't see it. They don't understand. Um, it's it's just a it's it's across the board. Like I said, this happens to actors, musicians. There there's incredible. You know what? You know, you know what I think it is? You know, it's like a it's like the knowledge stream, right? With the Gaussian curve. The more you know, the more you realize, the less you know, right? With knowledge. The the the people that don't know anything always think they know the most, right? But the people that realize that the domain of whatever knowledge tree that they're trying to seek, they realize that it's so deep that they know nothing, but they're experts in the field, right? I think it's something along those lines. I really feel like it it has to be something along those lines because people like me, I feel like too, you win a pro show. I mean I mean now I I've I've I've gotten that validation after after Legion in New York. Yeah. It will come in es and flows, but I've gotten that validation. But people like me, you need like one of those critical like you win a pro show or you have an outstanding performance at a show to actually believe like people telling you is not going to be enough because you know what the ceiling looks like. You know, you've seen you know people say, "Oh, I want to be Chris Bumpstead." You don't under if you if you don't follow or understand bodybuilding, you don't realize how almost impossible that statement you made sounds. just the insertions, the structure, the the you know how he's put together. You you don't just wake up and become a Chris Bumstead. No matter how you train, no matter no matter what drugs you take, and it's if you don't have the knowledge to understand that, you're always going to think you can attain it when real realistically you can never. So that's where I think that's what I think is uh happens to people like me. Fair enough. So, uh, competitions, you've did your you've done your first two pro shows. I didn't see your name on the list for Toronto. So, I'm assuming, are you done for the season or what's the plan? So, Ron Harris, there's this uh magical thing called uh PTO. It's called a paid time off, you know, that uh us regular people have to abide by, you know. Um, I've I've used a lot of time, uh, PTO to compete at New York and compete at Legion. And, you know, whatever little time I had left, it was going to be used to to compete at the Olympia if I made it. Oh. But, you know, as of right now, uh, realistically, I even if I was I I don't know if I could even make it to the Olympia. Like, if I went to Toronto, you know, Rean's competing at Toronto. Yeah. I don't think I'm gonna be I don't think I would beat Rean at this point. He's He's on a very good trajectory. Not beating Rean yet. I could see it happening in the near future, but right now, no, they they love Rean. Yeah, he's on a very good trajectory. So So to me, it's kind of a you know, I'm I'm on borrowed time here. I I don't I don't have the luxury to just fly to these places. I don't have the financial backings either to fly to these places. Everything is coming out of my my pocket, you know, animal. Thank God they've they've alleviated some of my bodybuilding financial burdens, but you know, I don't know how some of these guys do it, but it's all out of pocket, you know, because when people say, "Oh, he should just go to this show and go to this show." It's an expense that is coming out of someone's pocket. And if you're not slated to even make any money at that show, yeah, it's very hard to convince someone to just say, "Oh, let me just go pump another three grand, get a flight and all this, and I'm just going to go there and show up, you know." Um, so for me, I it just it doesn't make any sense at this point. So, I think we're going to have to shut it down, at least for now. Um, I'm also planning, like I told you before, I'm planning to move pretty soon. So, I have other life things that I'm trying to take care of right now that I've put on the back burner since prep uh that I need to take care of. And, uh, once that's done, we'll see. But, I don't I don't think I want to go into a deep offseason. Not yet. Um, I think the improvements we need to make right now, we could be we could be pretty moderate with, you know, the off seasonason. So, we'll see. Maybe if we're we're within striking distance, we can maybe pick a a later show for the earlier qualification for next year. But, uh, the way things are standing with the way things are going this year with the shows left, I don't I don't think it makes sense. Strategically, it doesn't make sense because even if I was to jump in, uh, my Olympia prep itself would still be compromised just based on how long I spent to just prep for the I I prepped for 20 weeks. Wow. You know, just to get to New York because I I came from a deep offseason, you know, um, so there there's just no point when you look at it when you look at the data, you look at the numbers, there's just no point uh, realistically uh, at this point. So, we got to shut it down. Did you get any feedback from the judges as to what they want to see in the future from you? Uh yeah. Yeah. So I got I got some feedback. So obviously, you know, getting a little bit more tighter is always is always you could always come in a little bit more conditioned. That was one. Uh two, my my back uh double my back double probably needs to improve. Yeah. You know, uh I got an interesting one from Tamer though. He said, he said that uh he said that I po I pose I pose uh too fluid for my physique. He said what he wants me to pose more like a hottie than I pose a little too flowy, you know, like I have a powerful physique. Yeah. So I got to pose with more conviction on the physique. So we'll practice it. I I'll see I mean see what it looks like. Take a few comparisons with the two. But uh we'll we'll see where it goes. Yeah. Is he talking about like the the fin the routine that's not even judged or or the mandatory the the judging just the judging right? So he says like you know when you do like a front double for example right you do a front double uh a lot of people will be like you know they hit the front I'm just like you know I hit it gracefully put a smile he's like I need he says he wants more conviction. I'm a little too uh too graceful. My physique doesn't match the uh the the flow I guess. So I don't know. We'll see. Poss like a big brute, like a Hulk, I guess. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Posing like a swan versus a versus a brute, you know. So, last thing I talk about is the move because you're moving from the Garden State all the way to what I think is becoming the new mecca for bodybuilding Dallas, Texas area. I mean, think about all the guys that have you mentioned a few that have moved. I know Sean Clarita got a got a place out there. He's been out there a couple years now. Beef Stew is there. Uh Brett Wilkins, Martin Fitzwwater, who's Jordan? Jordan Janowitz. Jordan Janowitz is also there, but Jordan Hutchinson's also there, too. Hutchinson. And who's Justin? Yeah. Uh Justin. Yeah, you mentioned a Justin. There's so many all these young names. But anyway, I guess it's not important. The important thing is what what are the compelling reasons you think you and all these other bodybuilders are moving to Dallas? Uh two reasons. Uh, one, you know, first the the uh the training equipment, right? So, you've been to Apollen. Uh, I'm not training in the best. It's a great gym, but it's my competitors are training in way better facilities than I am right now. They have a training edge over me. I need to get to a better a better gym where I can I can have access to a lot more equipment, a lot more things to to try different angles and things like that. So, for me, that that's one one reason. There's a lot of good gyms in Texas. The weather is also very conducive to bodybuilding. Uh prepping in the prepping in the winter is very very difficult as a bodybuilder. When you're on the east coast, you barely get and you work, you barely get any sunlight. There were weeks where I saw no sunlight, you know, for weeks just because I work. Um so that could be very difficult. Um, and also just let's let's face it, cost of living like cost of living for bodybuilders, we eat a lot. We have a lot of expenditures that takes place. You want to go to an area where the cost of living is just a little bit better. You know, you can't be a bodybuilder living in Miami. You're you're going to you're going to it's it's just not the that's the that's not the best place for you, bro. Like even Boston, I'm sorry, but Boston is not the best place for a bodybuilder, you know? bad weather, very overpriced. The gyms are, unless it's unless it's Joseé Raymond's gym down there, there's not a lot of great gyms, you know. I've been to Bosa for a lot of uh work conferences and stuff. So, it's like, man, this is a difficult place to live as a bodybuilder, you know? Um, so you you got to go where it's conducive. And then community, right? Community is also very important. Um, I think Texas has a very, very big bodybuilding community, which means, you know, for a lot of bodybuilders, more business opportunity, more, you know, more networking to to get things done. And even training partners, you know, simple as training partners or, you know, let's face it, some bodybuilders, too. Like, this is a very isolated type of sport. It's very hard to socialize and meet people. You're in the gym all the time. Uh so just having people around that understand what you what you do and you know live the same lifestyle that you do is very important to some people especially people like in my generation you know. So um yeah I think those are kind of some of the bullet points if I can think of it off the top of my head that's kind of making people kind of gravitate there. How much of this do you think has to do with gas because they moved their their headquarters there a few years ago. They built that destination, Dallas, the big gym and everything. And that's why I think that's why Martin went out there. That's why Brett went out there. And you're still you're a gas athlete as well, aren't you? I'm a gas athlete. Yeah, I'm a gas athlete. Did that have any anything to to do with you? Absolutely. I mean I mean the the gym there is is the creme dela creme, you know. He he's and MJ the owner of GAS has been able to bring so many bodybuilders together. So he's created this huge network, you know, uh over there which has made people want to be part of that community, you know what I mean? Like so, you know, for me here in Jersey, I'm it's I'm kind of alone. It's just me and my girlfriend, you know? We we we're kind of we're kind of isolated from everything. There's not really a lot of the bodybuilding community on the East Coast is not what it used to be. It's not like when Bev Francis, when Max Charles, you know, uh, uh, Max Charles, uh, you know, Juan Morell, all these guys, Victor Marter, Dez, Dar Roa, these guys were here. It's all gone, you know. It's not like that anymore on the East Coast. So, uh, that community, you know, for bodybuilders, it's, especially younger bodybuilders that are coming up in the ranks, it's very important, you know, it's very important. So MJ's been able to create that kind of uh that that kind of solace, that kind of place for for us to thrive. And I think that's what's attracting a lot of people uh as well. H housing prices is what's attracting me. But you know, before we start recording, I I did an interview with Clarita shortly after we moved there, and I couldn't believe the house he got for the money he paid for it. because, you know, I think Massachusetts and New Jersey are pretty comparable as far as how overpriced the real estate is. And I was like, really? You got it was like a fourbedroom house, two full baths, beautiful inground pool, and it's like it was less than what it's no better. Well, what I paid for my house here in like 2001, which is not that, trust me, it's not that cool brand new big house with a with a massive backyard. So, yeah, I I can totally understand. And I I see Dallas only getting more and more of a reputation as like that new mecca because we don't have a LA hasn't been the mecca for about at least 30 years now. No, a a lot of the people from LA have moved to Vegas because of the same thing, right? Cost of living is just so expensive. Uh for me, you know, Andrew is also in Dallas, so I'm closer to my coach, which makes which makes more sense. But with the housing thing, you know, when I when I'm trying to get something done, I I overress research it. Let me ask you, let me let me ask you a curious question. What do you think is the average age for a firsttime homeowner in New Jersey? What do you think the statistics for that is? First time homeowner, I'm going to say 35. No, it's 43 years old. Oh gosh. 43 for a first time homeowner in New Jersey. That's the stats today. Wow. It's like come on, man. You know, like things have changed. I mean, I bought You know, I feel bad for your gener You're exactly the same age as my daughter, and I don't want to I don't want to say I pity your generation, but man, we we screwed you over with the with the economy. You really did. You could be You could have been a single f you could have been a a a single home income working at 7-Eleven in the 60s and you could still provide for two kids, have a house, have a car, and still send your kid to college working at 7-Eleven. Ben, you don't want to hear this, but my I'm because I'm but I'm my dad was a male carrier. There were seven kids in my family. My mother didn't work. We had a house. We always had plenty of food. We, you know, we weren't we weren't well off or anything, but we we think all those people lived off a mail carrier salary and the house was bought and paid for. The cars were paid for in cash. 70s. So, yeah. That's what some of you would say, oh, millennials in our generation were lazy. We're like, are you guys kidding? Are you kidding me? Do Do you see what's happening out here? And that and your father that house is now worth 500 times what it was. Fun, but it would have been a house that size now would be worth it was a big house. It'd be worth probably close to a million dollars because we had like an acre of land. We had five bedrooms, two bathrooms. You know, it was it was a little a little run down. It needed work that we never But yeah, your generation I would never call Gen Z. Are you you're gen Are you Gen Z? No, you're a millennial. Millennial, I think. Yeah, millennial. I think the oldest Gen Z is like 26 right now or something like that. But uh yeah, you guys are not lazy. It's just things are so much more expensive now. It's ridiculous. And that's how that's how wealth is that's how wealth is is is accumulated. It starts with property. If you don't have property, you have nothing. I don't care how much you make. You make a million dollars. If you don't have a house, you don't have any assets to your name, you are poor. my friend, you know, so if you don't have if you don't have an asset, you have nothing. So, and our generation, we have nothing, which is unfortunate. It's it's so sad. My my daughter my daughter and her husband, he's he's 31. She's 30. They're both 31. They're in Miami. Uh they're in a neighborhood called Winwood. What do you think they pay for rent on a two-bedroom apartment? Uh in Miami, I'd say 3,400. 5,000. So Jesus, it's a nice apartment, but still that's disgusting to me. That is just absolutely disgusting. That's as a mortgage. That should be like a as like a five bedroomedroom house. Yes. All right. Well, we've we've really gotten off track. No, but this is this is these are the topics that I like though. You know what I mean? This is this is this is like all day, but at the end of the day, everyone everyone watching this, you got to live somewhere. Either you're living at home with mom and dad or you're or you're renting Crock, Ron, Ron, Hey, man, if I had won Legion or, you know, come top three in New York, I could have had a down payment. You know, I could have I could my life could have changed. So, bodybuilding, man, you got to change my life. You gota got to let me win a pro show so I could, you know, get a down payment on a house, you know. I'm just trying to survive out here. Arnold the Olympic because they're finally starting to pay the bodybuilders. I know. I know. I know. I got to make I got to get an invite to the Arnold come top five or something. I think what 50 is like 70 70 grand or something like that. So 750 is first. I bet second's still like 400 or something. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, hey, even third place is good enough for me at this point. Put in your I you know, they invite a certain they invite all the top Olympians of course, but everyone else is they apply and they'll let you know. So by all means apply to try to get try to get to that show. Get that money, get that bag, as you kids say. Yeah. All right, man. Well, that's uh we've been we've been yapping for a while, man. Uh again, amazing rookie season so far. Even if we don't see you the rest of the season, I'm still going to be very much keeping an eye on you and looking out for anything any plans you have. I'm watching uh your progress because it's only up from here. Um, man. And I I'm happy to see good talent coming up all the time because a lot of these guys I'm not I don't want to generalize, but I don't see a ton of guys turning pro that I'm like, "Wow, this guy's going to be a really good pro." So, when somebody somebody finally jumps into a show and proves himself the way you've done these past couple shows, it's encouraging. I will I want to see the sport grow and flourish and I always want to see awesome new talent because, you know, we're getting older guys have to step away and they have to be replaced. we got to bring in some fresh new blood. That's really good. And you know, you young guys, you're you're you're fulfilling that role very well. You're part of that that crew. So, I appreciate that. I appreciate that. You know, with American bodybuilding, you know, a lot of people the the old say like, you know, we're we're already good bodybuilders now. There's there's so much good talent, you know, with especially American young bodybuilding now. You know, people don't realize it, but there's a bottleneck right now to get to the Olympia. you know that that old guard uh you know body compete a lot a lot older than they used to. Yeah. So there is a bottleneck for a lot of our guys like you know within our generation to to get to that Olympia. Like think about it for for American bodybuilders, new generation American bodybuilders. I think Tonio and Justin are the only ones that have made it to the Olympia, you know, since the outside of the unicorns, you know. Um Quinton hasn't made it. Carlos Thomas hasn't made it, you know, Stu hasn't made it. There's a lot of us out there. It's just there is a bottleneck to get to the Olympia. Um, and the old guard, uh, people are competing a lot longer. Yeah. And people are getting better as they get older because the the the the training has changed, the knowledge that's out there is more available, you know, uh, people are doing things a lot safer so they can extend their careers. So, these are factors that people are not considering when they say these things. You know, you got to look at the whole the whole picture. Uh, which I think I think it's it's still good. You know, I want to see guys like Samson and, you know, uh, all of them extend their careers as much as they can, but there is young talent that's trying to make it there. And I hope, at least for me, I hope I can make it there, you know, next season. I'm going to try real hard. Um, and, you know, maybe I hope I don't have to go to China, but we'll see. We'll see. Just throw this out because you mentioned pumping iron. Pumping iron in that movie, Arnold retired at the end of that movie. He did come back, but he was 20 27 or 28 years old and he retired and Lou Fargno in that movie was 23 or 24 and he retired. He didn't announce it, but he didn't come back till 1992. Back then there was like no money in the sport. There was no reason for anyone past the age of like 27 or 28 to keep doing it because there it was a dead end. You know, what are you going to do? So, it's I'm glad to see more money in the sport. I'm glad to see guys like yourself, the younger guys still coming up the ranks. And I I actually do like to see the older guys holding on and still able to make money and be relevant in their late 30s into their 40s because that was that was impossible years ago. That was you're you're done. You're 40. That's what I mean. Absolutely. Like I I'm a huge William Bonak fan and to to compete against him at the New York actually stood next to him in a comparison. And I was like, "This is a dream come true, you know, to actually be." And I told him, I was like, "I'm a fan of you." Like to actually be be right next to him, the comparisons, and I have pictures with him, you know, that I'm going to have for the rest of my life. It it's amazing. This is someone that's in their it's in their 40s and his physique is still standing the test of time, you know. I think it's it's an amazing thing. Uh, you know, Samson is and Andrew in their late 30s, almost 40, and their physiques look like they're in their late 20s. Yeah, you know, this is this is not something that this isn't a phenomena that's this is a very recent thing. People are their careers are extending further and further. Camala Argari is doing the Masters Olympia. He doesn't look like he he doesn't even look like he took he took a year off. He looks the same. You know, it's like, you know, it's an amazing thing. People don't realize uh that, you know, the sport has changed. It's changed a lot, but it's changed for the better as well. you know, it's changed for the better. And and just like you, I'm I'm a fan first before a competitor. And it to me, it's just amazing to see like where the sport is going and how much it's actually growing. Like uh I I I'm just I'm just really excited like, you know, the way the the IFBB has kind of brought everything together. Even with Tyler Manion and doing the judging feedback, how judging is so open now and they're actually communicating like what they want, you know, with the judging feedback. I mean, things have changed. It's it's uh it's amazing. Like I'm I'm I'm I'm all for it. I think I think they're doing a great job. And with the way things are going, I I mean, Bitcoin is never going to be mainstream, but I'm telling you, like when it comes to like niche cultures, we're probably going to be we're if not already, we're one of the biggest, you know, that's just going to it's just going to keep happening, you know. Yeah. One final thing about the judging is the judging now is so much more fair uh and unbiased as if if you've been following the sport early like I was back in the late 80s and even into the 90s and beyond, there was a lot of politics. Sponsors had a lot to do with who placed where. It was a lot of it was a lot of [\h__\h] happening, let me tell you. And I I don't see that happening. I have not seen more than a couple shows where I was like, "Oh my god, how could they possibly do that?" I think the judge has been doing a fantastic job these last few years. And Tyler, they would never, you just had to suck it up. Oh, you you didn't place where you wanted, too bad. But Tyler goes on YouTube and Instagram the Monday after these big shows, breaks it down pose for pose. You know, that was a they never would have done that years ago. Never. It would have been like, you don't like it? Screw you. We're not going to explain ourselves. It's an amazing thing. And listen, as an athlete, it gives you direction of like how things are supposed to go, you know, because there there Yeah, we say there's a rule book. Maybe it's somewhere in the archives of NPC News Online, but no one's reading that [\h__\h] Let's be real, you know? So, you it actually shows you what you're supposed to do. Okay, side tricep. I got to hit it conventional first before I do a transition. That was something that no one ever knew, right? Till Tyler said, "This is the way it's supposed to go." Right? So there there just little things like that that you don't even think about or how you're still judged even when you're standing there because some people think it's when you're you're just being judged in the mandatories uh when you're actually on stage but you're being judged every time you're on that stage. Right? So these are things that compet as competitors you don't really know till someone actually states it as a fact. someone with a position of authority states it as a fact and you can then plan accordingly and and train for that competition accordingly to what they want which I think is really really powerful. So Tyler's doing an awesome job and I I think that you know the league is in it's in good hands. It's in good hands. I think he's your age. I think he's 31 or is he even younger? Yeah, he has to be around Yeah, around my age or or younger. But he's he's yeah he's the vision for what he's doing is uh it's taking the sport into it's modernizing the sport. That's how I like to say it. It's moderniz 100%. I'm glad he's the one that you know obviously it's a family business. He's his manion. But I am glad to see someone younger taking the reigns. someone of this new generation that they can like you said modernize it and keep up with the times because if there was like you know the magazine business that I was in there's no magazine business because it was all it was all old guys running it and we didn't really understand what we were supposed to do to keep up with all the changes in culture and social media and that's why we're gone. That's why there's no more magazines. So yeah, it's in good hands and um yeah, just to wrap it up, man, uh I I I'm very much a fan. I'm gonna be following you. And guys, follow Ken on his Instagram. It's Colossus_Ken. And the Instagram is the same, ColossusKen. I'm sorry, the YouTube. And there's a lot of good content on there. I've already I've checked a few of the videos, skimmed through them. So, appreciate it. Yeah. Appreciate it. It's a fast growing channel because you're putting out some really good content. I appreciate it. Yeah, I'll put I'll have one. You know, I just got back from Vegas like uh yesterday night, so I'll probably have something about, you know, a wrap-up of Legion, my thoughts on there. I've noticed with YouTube as well, too, like, you know, people see the the workouts and stuff, but people just want to see the regular things, like your thoughts. What are your thoughts? You know, they want to see you having a coffee or whatever. It's it's more than just the workouts. So, I'm trying to diversify that content a little bit. So, so guys, if you watch that, I should have a video coming out, you know, about just my thoughts on the pro season so far. So, if you have any questions on that, please, or you something you want to see, feel free to reach out to me on Instagram. Just send me a message and I'll I'll, you know, make sure I try to include that in the content as well. Right on. All right. Well, that'll wrap it up. Uh, thanks for taking the time and congratulations on this rookie season so far. If it's if it's done, if it keeps going, even better. But if it's done, it's already been you've already made a hell of a statement, made a name for yourself. People know who you are now. they're going to be looking out for you and following you and watching you every day. So, that's a that's about all you can ask for in this sport is to to be one of the top guys that everyone knows who you are. Absolutely. And and before we go, Ron, it would be it would be very very uh rude of me not to uh thank the people that have actually helped me out here. So, I'd like to thank, you know, some of my sponsors that's has brought me up to this point. Animal Pack, of course, my main sponsor. Uh without them financially, guys, I got to be honest with you guys, financially, I couldn't do this without Animal. So, thank you to them. Um, gasp, of course. They keep me clothed, uh, keep me looking nice. Our guy, Carlo Filipony, he's been giving me that chicken. He's been giving me that chicken from Chicken Pound. I got to tell you, it's cut some cost for my food. So, Carlo Filipony from Chicken Pound. Uh, I want to thank you as well for for, you know, helping me out this prep. And then, uh, Elevate, uh, with the rice, the cream of rice, uh, they're doing a great job over there as well. So, I want to thank those sponsors. And of course my team, you know, my coach Andrew Vu, you've changed my life. Um, you know, taking a guy who had no confidence in this sport to where I am now is kind of impressive. It's you you've absolutely changed my life and I'm thankful. Sid Ry, my my big brother, he's the one who introduced me and he's still part of the team. He helps me with my posing, all my fundamentals. And of course, my girlfriend Morgan, she's been my number one support system. I couldn't really uh I couldn't have gotten this to this point without her. So, uh, I want to thank everyone and, uh, Ron, thank you for having me on this interview. Uh, this I think this was great. I think we we just like bonded like real quick and just started just just chatting. So, it was pretty cool. So, thank you so much. I feel like I've known you for 10 years now. It's great. I know, right? We we could keep going. We could keep going. All right, cool. Well, wishing you the best as as the year goes on and congrats on everything. And that's it, guys. Follow on those platforms. Thanks for watching Ron Nine Report with this man Kennedy on Yan Woo. Did I say the last name right? Anyanu, you got it perfectly. You got it perfectly. Thank you. Finally. Finally. And that's it. We'll see you guys next time.