Hey everybody, welcome to the Ron L report. Today's guest, one of my favorite people in this entire industry, uncrowned Mr. Olympia with four runner-ups, IFBB Hall of Famer, just got the lifetime achievement award at the Tampa Pro. Please welcome the one and only Kevin Leon. What's up, Kevin? >> How you doing, Ron? Good to be back. >> Yeah, you were you were all over the place. Uh what what are some of the countries that you've been to in the last uh last couple months? Usbakistan, Netherlands, uh Georgia, uh let's see, um uh everywhere like Pakistan, Netherlands, Georgia, uh I got um Kosovo coming up, Bulgaria's coming up, um Syria's coming up. Wow. After that, we have uh uh let's see here. Um Poland, of course. Uh I've been in like I got about 20 24 uh countries I'm hitting this year. Uh we did the winter tour already. Uh we're halfway through the summer tour and uh we have the spring spring summer fall tour coming up. >> Yeah. >> So, >> yeah, we'll talk about the company later on because that's a that's a whole story in itself. Uh, I want to I want to start off with this though because this is great. I mean, lifetime achievement award that that's an amazing thing to for anyone to have and especially I've seen some of these given out postumously. So, it's a good thing that they recognize you while you're still young and healthy and vibrant. >> Um, but yeah, let's take a look at that. Some pictures from that. >> So, you were able to bring your son up on stage. It was everything everything was cool there. So, yeah, there's Yeah, Gabe. Is Gabe taller than you now? Yeah, he's a little taller than I am. >> Yeah. How old is Gabe now? >> Uh Gabe just turned 19 years old. >> Wow. Still a teenager. Geez. So that was you with Dan Solomon, Tyler Manion, Tim Gardner, and his wife there. I can't remember her name. I'm so sorry. Uh yeah, good times. And I I I've heard parts of the speech, but friends of mine who were there, they said it was a really one of one of the greatest acceptance speeches they've ever had. Just very moving. What were some of the some of the things that you touched on? Do you remember? um as I was standing on stage and it's one of those things that you can't prepare for something like that. Even though you might have something in mind or a speech that you might write up, I didn't want to set up there and read anything because this is an industry that is pretty much my life. My entire whole adult life, you know, since I was 22, 23 years old, I've been a bodybuilder. And that stage is uh huge. 90% of my life has been spent on that stage. as I'm sitting there and looking at the video that they were uh running of me and everything. Uh it's just method, you know, where where I was, how I felt uh the beginning to all the way through the middle all the way to the end. You know, I started off just a kid in Maryland, United States and Maryland and uh expectations to of course uh be on the Mr. the Olympia stage once I found out a little bit about the bodybuilding sport and and and all the greats that came before me. So, I touched on um the inspiration then the experience of uh doing something that had never been done before for the state of Maryland being a Mr. Maryland and within the same 20 24 uh months uh making it to second place on the Mr. Olympia stage. Uh you know um what that was like the experience of meeting uh the athletes, the pros before me, the ones that I was standing on stage with uh being the Mr. Maryland going into the junior nationals, having that experience uh at a huge show like that and placing second and then going to uh the nationals which was 4 months 4 months later I believe. and uh Jim Manion spoke uh pretty much uh his words in my heart, you know, it was like uh cuz my father died when I was 10. I haven't been really mentored or by anyone or or what to do or how to whatever it was, but he he put his hands on my shoulders backstage at the juniors and he said, "I believe in you, son. I believe in you. You know, >> well, >> come to the nationals." And I knew who he was. And those words from somebody at that level, it was just a turning point in my life. So those his words uh it pierced my soul to be honest with you, Ron. And um I just wanted to do everything within my power within reach uh to go to the nationals and I trusted what he said. So I trained uh faithfully. Yeah, I dieted faithfully and um gave everything, poured 100% into it and I walked out on the nationals 4 months later and I won and my whole life just took off. So, uh talked about the Maryland the beginning, talked about uh my life in the middle, talked about competing on Olympia stage, uh wins and losses and what it meant and finding and paving your way through life. you know, no matter where you place in this sport, you know, uh as long as you believe and you never quit and never give up on yourself, it's always a greater purpose, right? And um I touched on that. kind of touched on where I'm now with all the fans uh uh globally around the world and how the sport has opened up tremendous doors for me around the world going on so many European tours and uh competing in seven shows within a matter of two weeks and continuously for 14 years straight. So, um it's just uh there was a whole lot just this method in my brain that I could pull from and uh taking it from the heart and soul, you know. So, giving everybody uh their just due, the ones that were there for me, um every show I've won, every show I've lost, uh from beginning to end, from Ben Weider, Joe Weider, uh Jim Mayan, uh all the athletes that came before me and all the ones that pushed me when I was on stage and uh what I have to contribute and give back to the world now, you know. So, um it was an honor to be there and to be uh be uh one of the guys to accept this award. I'm glad that the industry and Jim Manion and Tyler and uh Tim Gardner and Dan Sullivan and and Rob Wilkins and what Ben and Joe have have done for us, you know. Um Joe Joe always said and I remember this clearly like it was yesterday. If you're in shape just go do the shows. Don't don't don't um look at it as a business. It's a business, you know. worry about worry about uh being that business guy, you know, and uh I've always conducted myself off the stage professionally and I talked about that the importance of showing up on time, the importance of the responsibility of uh being an IFBB pro. What does that mean? Uh from posing to perfection. When you're an IFBB pro, that means you're perfectionist. So perfecting your craft each and every year uh for the years that I competed on that stage. Uh just elaborated on all that. >> Yeah. I mean what a what a well-deserved award because even if you never won a Mr. Olympia there there's people like you and I I put Flex Willer in this category as well. So many people you ask who's your favorite bodybuilder? A lot of them will say Flex Willer. A lot of them will say Kevin Leon more than they'll say some other guys who've won the Mr. Olympia multiple times. you know, you've inspired millions and millions of people and you I think with social media and YouTube and everything, you're able to still you're you're inspiring people that weren't even born for like maybe 10 years after you turn pro or 20 years after you turn pro. I mean, you know, it's the story. You know, I I stand there and I I see the generations and a lot of kids are saying, you know, I know you because of my father and uh these kids are 12, 13, 14, 15, 20, 21, 24. Cuz I always ask, how do you know me? >> Yeah. >> And uh you know, and and it's it's amazing how the sport's grown. I look out at the crowd um and it's just such a younger crowd uh standing there and they inspire me as well as me inspiring them because of the stories. We share a lot of stories together you know and one thing Ron is like I always say when you think your life is falling apart it's falling into place. Um my father died I was 10 years old. First funeral I ever went to. He died in two weeks. He used to take me to school every day. One day I woke up and I had to walk to the bus stop and I never saw my father again till two weeks later. He was in the casket and I was in sixth grade. I was 10 years old. Ended up failing school that year. Didn't want to do my school work or nothing and I failed, you know, because I didn't have a father. I was so, you know, depressed, I guess we call it nowadays, >> right? But it was one of those things that just drew me into a shell. And um I kind of never got over it. But I found the place of solitude. I didn't want to be around people. I went to the gym. I did push-ups, sit-ups, and I started developing, you know, this outer shell, which was my muscles and challenging myself and challenging myself in that way and finding confidence and finding serenity and the place where I could go that I could develop something that no one could take away from me only if I so I was in full control of what was going on with me, right? And I needed that. I didn't want to be in a position to where you love something and then you have no control over it and it's gone. So bodybuilding gave me full control. That gym is where I found myself in the platform uh to believe in whatever I believe I can achieve. So that started developing around 12, 13, 14, 15. Got into martial then my mom mom she died >> and uh I just took it to another whole level. >> So when you think your life is falling apart, it's falling into place. And I say that because if I look at my life back then I only had 10 pieces to the puzzle of an average lifespan that's 70ome years, right? >> So you get 70ome pieces. But back then I had 10. I didn't know what was going on. Um I just fell in love with bodybuilding and it God was putting me on the path and I didn't even know what the path was. That gym, that gym where I poured everything into, that's where the Maryland muscle machine was created. That's where Kevin Levrone that you know the bodybuilder came from. Had my parents had never died from cancer the world would never know who I am because I would have never got into uh working out you know. >> So and I say that because it's like and maybe my dad had that conversation with God or something. We were six kids. Maybe God said hey you know not going to make sense to you younger boy. But I guarantee you um when I take you out of here, he's going to change and be in change a lot of people's lives and be uh pouring into uh kids globally around the world. Millions and millions. Hey, is it okay if I take you? Because >> me as a father, I I do everything for my son. You know, my my goal is for my son to be greater than me. If God said, "Hey, Kev, I'm gonna take you out here." But I can guarantee that Gabriel's going to be greater than you and do greater things. I would say, "Okay, as long as he does greater things." So maybe my had that conversation with God. I don't know. But I found my purpose through the sport of bodybuilding. It's given me everything in life. Belief, hope, never quit, never give up. Bad times don't last forever because they don't. no matter what you're going through, you can overcome, you know, and um the sport has given me that through Ben and Joe Weider's vision. And um bodybuilding again, it's something that no matter what you're going through, win or lose, you can always go back to the gym and have a second chance at it, right? Um you can create a different posing routine. you can create a different training uh regimen and you can always have a second or third chance to uh walk on stage and do better. So, I fell in love with it, man. And uh I'm just thankful to have this award and have the fans I have globally around the world right now. Um and going out and traveling 20ome different countries a year for the last 11 years for my with my brand and everything. And um I couldn't have dreamed of this happening when I was 10, >> but it all makes sense to me now, you know. >> Yeah. So, I I on the thumbnail for this, uh, I'm calling it Make Bodybuilding Great Again because I think a lot of us older guys who've been around for very long time since the 80s and the 90s, we fall into this trap of nostalgia where our era was the greatest, the modern era is terrible, but that doesn't serve any purpose. That doesn't that doesn't change anything, that doesn't make anything better. So, what I want to do is have a conversation with you about some ideas we can maybe maybe throw around to improve the sport, uplift the the athletes, make the sport better. So, this is this is one that you know they say too many pro cards. My my generation, your generation, we're the same generation. I'm only a few years younger than you. It was very very difficult to get a pro card in your day when you started out. Um, NPC nationals had five weight classes, five men won. And only a few years before that, when it was guys like Lee Haney and Bob Paris winning the nationals, they had and Rich Kaspari, they had to go to the world amateur championships. Even winning the overall nationals didn't give you a pro card in the beginning, but in your era, you got a pro card for your class win at the at the nationals. You won the overall. Uh, North American, only the overall winner got a pro card. at the USA. Again, only the overall winner got a pro card. We only had two divisions, men's bodybuilding and women's bodybuilding. We have 10 or 11 divisions now. Um, and they give away between like 70 and 90 pro cards per show at these big big shows. Um, is that is that something we want to continue or do we want to cut back on that? Do you think it dilutes the quality of the pro card, the the the the prestige of a pro card? Um, I think about the industry at a whole, you know, uh, we had maybe 60 people, maybe 100. At the nationals, it was 200 and some total. >> Yeah. >> Think about think about if the uh, industry has grown or not, you know. um it's a business right so >> first and foremost um the sport has become very very mainstream >> with so many categories you can say so many categories but every category that's been added has been also taken us in a mainstream direction it's not just hardcore bodybuilding anymore it's just fitness It's wellness, it's men's physique, it's everything, >> you know. Uh what's negative to say about that, >> you know? Um so from my perspective, I get out and I really see what's going on in Spain, Italy, Germany, France, Holland, Czech Republic, Prague, uh Hungary, uh Netherlands, Poland. Every single year I go out and I ask these kids, "How do you know about me? >> What do you They're not hardcore bodybuilders. They're Tik Tockers. They're Instagrammers. They're YouTubers. That's the mainstream audience that we've tapped into, right? >> Yeah. >> So, this is not a primitive thing anymore. The sport has grown and it has taken off. We have so many more millions and millions of fans and people involved in the sport. I mean, we have to make room for them. Unfortunately, it's gotten that big now to where you have to give out more pro cards. Now, far as anything being watered down, um, what part of it is watered down? I don't understand what what part of it is watered down, you know? Um, this is not the '9s. It's not 2001 anymore. It's 2000 going on on 26, right? >> People have to also accept change and realize that the sport has grown. The sport hasn't gone backwards. if the audiences were in a negative uh if we didn't have as many categories and then what would what would would we what would they be saying then it would so people are always going to complain about something right I mean I started off with four supplements uh 11 years ago I have 1,200 supplements right now >> wow >> I we were only in 10 countries guess what we had four four we I mean, yeah, we're only in 10. We're only in 100 countries right now. >> Wow. >> So, you know, you got to think about things evolve and things grow. Um, I wouldn't necessarily focus on the negative >> or even care about where the pro cards go, me personally, where they go or who has them. I would focus on who's winning the show, how many people are coming to the show, do we have a great representative for the Mr. Olympia. Um, what is the Mr. Olympia duties? How is this Mr. Olympia guy treating the fans? Is he as a respectable human being or whatever? I think people just getting caught up in nonsense that don't really make a whole lot of sense. You know, that's my opinion. >> Yeah, >> I try to stay out of it. Um, I do hear things about it, but if I was running the business, which it is a business, >> um, not a whole lot of that I would really change to be honest with you, you know. Um, >> a lot of, uh, people just don't like change. They don't like to see change. Um, >> true, true. >> That's just my opinion because I I I we have a lot of people that work for us and marketing's changing. supplement industries are coming out with newer, more raw materials. You have to constantly change with the times that are evolving towards the future. >> So, you want to give out what? One pro card show. >> You know, I I have >> Tell me that, you know, one one pro card a show. How is that going to help the sport? >> You're right. You know what? >> How many people going to come to the show? >> It's honestly, it's an elitist attitude. And I've been very I've been guilty of it. I confess myself. >> Yeah. But listen, look at it like this. If you give out 10 pro cards at a show, listen, put it this way, >> and this is what I'm going to say. >> The year that I won the Nationals, the Nationals was the most prestigious amateur show that you could do to turn pro, everyone knew that whoever won the Nationals is going to stand a great chance of going to the United Champions and win, right? >> Yeah. >> They had the North Americans. They had so many other pro shows of North Americans. They had uh name me a few other shows back then that people could turn pro. >> Well, there was only in the United States you could only turn pro. USA nationals, USA nationals and North Americans. We had that was it. You had three shows. >> USA, the nationals or North Americans. Okay. So, Shiri had said, "All right. Well, what's the point of them having the the uh the uh uh the um North Americans >> because nobody ever they get they get the pro cards at the North American. But you name me one North American that one of North Americans that placed in the top five of the Olympia. >> Paul Dlette. Yeah. But uh you know like you're you're totally right. I mean >> so what I'm saying is the cream the cream is always going to rise to the top. >> You know that's all I'm saying. Point blank period right there. >> Give out three 400 pro cards. The cream is going to still rise to the top. Wherever the cream is, the judges still have to sit there and pick out whoever walks on that stage. Whether it's we gave out 2,000 pro cards or whoever, somebody still got to qualify to get to that stage. And the cream of the crop should be on the stage. So, who cares how many pro cards they give out? Let's focus on the quality of athletes that are being uh that are winning shows and that are at that higher level of a Mr. Olympia or whatever. Let's focus on what's going on on the stage and pick the cream of the crop out who's on the stage, right? >> That's what I that that would be that's my mindset. >> Give out a thousand pro cards. I don't care. As long as I got one, that means uh 999 people. Okay. They must not be nowhere near as where I'm at because they're just giving them out everywhere. Okay, cool. That's good with me as a competitor. >> Who cares? >> I wouldn't care. Like you said, it's a business and I think if the sport hadn't added divisions and started giving out more pro cards, I don't think we'd have a sport right now. I think it would have been unsustainable financially. It would have gone bankrupt years ago. >> Put it this way, hardcore bodybuilding could not carry this industry. >> It was a time and place for that and it's over. Yeah. >> Not saying it's over over, >> but the world the industry is a lot more mainstream now. Isn't that a good thing? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> It's a good thing. >> You know, Tyler's in there. You know, he's he I have young people working in my corporation. There's a reason why they're there. They think different. They they are more in tune with what's going on and everything. Um, so I I don't have anything against it, man. You know, like I said, the cream of the crop is going to rise to the top anyway. Uh, there's only one Mr. Olympia, whether it's 5,000 competitors, 15, or 20,000 competitors. Only one person can win the Olympia. We just got more people to choose from. >> Absolutely. All right. So, that leads me to our next question. What is your definition or how would you explain what does it mean to be a pro? because you know you were one of the top professionals for many many years. There was a certain way you carried yourself, a certain way you lived your life every day. Uh if you could explain if you could explain what it means to be a pro, what would you say? >> It means that you've per perfected your craft. Mhm. >> That's what it means to me that you have perfected your craft. Meaning that when you get a pro card, you are at a pro. There's no weaknesses. You have complete excellent balance. You have complete symmetry. Um, you know how to pose. You know what's best poses for your body. Uh, nobody knows your body better than you because you are a pro. You You're not learning how to swing the golf club. You're not learning how to do a three-point or slam dunk. You need to Okay, now we're going into a different era here. It's like, you know, yeah, you need to perfect your craft. Um, that's what a pro for me means. You've already perfected every single thing. and there are no weaknesses. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And you know, I don't want to get off on a tangent, but you did all this without a coach, which is some people would find that incomprehensible. How did you know what you needed to do as you prep for a show? You know, how do you pick the right shows? I mean, every every choice that had to be made was made by you. Whereas now, we do have guys who rely on someone who acts almost like a manager. Some people >> it's it's the uh athlete needs to do the research on the history of the sport and respect the history of the sport. And if you if you uh start looking at the the mentors, the guys that did it before you, the history of the sport, how can you jump in the middle of anything and expect to master your craft and be great if you haven't studied the greats that came along before you? I would study the greats that came along before me. Uh, from a Frank Zayn to a Serge Olivier to the personality of an Arnold Schwarzenegger to how he posed to Lou Farero to Lee Labrada, how he posed to Ritz Gaspar uh how how he was. There was a lot of characters and everybody had their own signature character to who they are, you know. Uh um and leading all the way up in the history and spending time with Joe Weider and reading in in you know literature and how you know how these guys trained um their personalities and then coming up knowing what worked best for you from going into the gym and training, figuring out what worked best in your diet and comparing yourself to the guys and I have to say comparing comparing yourself to all the guys that came along before you and then feeling as though, okay, when you're ready, when you're ready, now it's time to walk on stage and present the complete full package, not the half package, you know, not being up there with no calves, right? not being up up there with when you still gotta bring up your hamstrings and you still gotta, you know, uh bring up your quads or try to get the flare on your quads and all of these things back then. Um, I think we were more in uh invested in the history of the sport and uh wanting to um just be perfect and have no weaknesses on stage because the guys you were competing against, they didn't have any weaknesses, >> you know. Um I mean, look at the lineups. It was it was insane. Yeah, you know, and everybody just did everything different, right? You had your own way of doing everything. Um, we didn't have social media to There was never no online prejudging for social media, so you didn't know what anybody looked like. Uh, you were just tucked away, not on a telephone, and you were in the gym eating, sleeping, and training like a military guy. and you had to wait and wait and wait for 6 months, 7 months, a year to present that package and everybody always came back new and improved, man. It was incredible. >> Yeah, it was a hell of an era. So, that leads me into the next topic is you were you were one of the last pros. Your generation was I think I guess you were the last generation to be able to be mentored by the late great Joe Weider. Um, you know, you were a Weer athlete. you knew him personally. You went to his office in Woodland Hills many times. Uh he counseledled you, talked business with you. Um you know, you had an opportunity that these guys now they they never had they never had any of anything like that. I mean, how privileged do you feel that you and and that last generation, Ronnie, Jay, and and the other guys got to be close to the man who who made modern bodybuilding, basically. >> Yeah. I think it uh it helped us tremendously. uh because we had a mentor and we respected Joe and Ben Weider so much. And like I tell my son, I tell my son, um what I've built, it took me a lifetime. Respect the name because that name has done us well as a family. Uh, and the Weer name has done us well as IFBB pro bodybuilders. Joe and Van Weider um, they loved this sport. They poured into us. We went to, as athletes, we went to Woodland Hills two, sometimes three times a year as athletes. We would have a big board meeting. All the athletes would come. he would set us down uh and tell us what he expected of the industry and what direction he wanted this industry to go in the following years to come. Um us contracted athletes, we were held to uh uh six to eight guest poses every year. Um pretty much showing up somewhat in shape. Um we had to go do photo shoots. uh two weeks prior to uh the shows and then we had to stay after the shows and do photo shoots um for the magazines and then backstage were doing photo shoots. He was there at the majority of the photo shoots. Um scorecards whether we're overseas competing in whatever country the scorecards will get facts back to the weer office and uh if you did well and the Mr. Olympia placed in the top five and you go over there, you're not placed in the top five and you're falling down. Joe would call and he would want an explanation. What's going on? You know, are you on your diet? And then if you're doing well, you would uh you'd get a raise based on your performance. If you weren't performing well and doing what was expected of you, you could lose your contract. That taught me structure. It taught me how to lock in, right? M >> and uh the growth was tremendous and being underneath an umbrella like that uh when you're sitting there and you're training and you're doing every your reps and you're getting on stage. Joe was sitting down in the front row with him and his wife and uh it was amazing man you know it was the structure you know people need structure in life that's why I say you can't raise a child without without two parents you a child can't raise himself he needs a father to mold and instill in him Joeita was like the father of of bodybuilding we called him the father of bodybuilding um today. Um I think that's probably what's missing and uh that's the struggle with uh with our athletes today I believe. Um you know so it's a little more difficult for them to find their way what to do off of that stage as a great ambassador to where we we we were we had instructions right. Um, and then we were picked and we were chosen and we were looked after and we were cultivated and molded and expectations came of us, right? And we had to do the articles for the magazines, Peter Mcoff and show up for uh the photo shoots year and year and year year in and year out. So, we were held accountable. Um, that was the nuts and bolts of the structure of uh the federation. Uh, thank God we had uh the NPC cuz that was a the theater um organization. Without no NPC, the IFBB wouldn't even exist. So, >> just incredible memories and great moments, man. You know, this is a great, beautiful sport, and I don't like to see us guys uh arguing, bickering, uh at each other, uh the negativity. Let's let's focus on the the beauty of this sport. And as a retired former professional uh bodybuilder, I just want to help install and instill in this industry what I know, things that I've learned to help the industry grow, to help the athletes uh find their path and find their purpose. So that's all I can do with the life that I've God has given me in this industry is to look at the positive side of it and say, you know what, we need help here and dive in that area where we need help or where you think we need help and do something about it. >> Yeah. So, uh, another thing that you did this summer, you toured toured all over the world, but you had when was your birthday? Back in was it last month? >> My birthday I was in Georgia. Yeah, >> in Georgia. Okay. Georgia. Georgia, not USA. Georgia over in what used to be the Soviet Union. Let's clarify. >> Uh, yeah, you got into fantastic shape. I mean, >> yes. >> I don't know the body fat percentage, but it's like contest condition there. You got into um how >> not too far not too far away from it. I I checked my body fat uh three times a week. >> So, what uh what what what did you do for this? Did you do the same like type of cardio you did back in the day? the the official >> the same thing, Ron. Every sing Well, that's all I know how to do, right? Uh low your carbs, get up, do fasted cardio, 45 minutes is target heart rate zone for burning fat. Uh I would go on a fast sometimes uh 24-hour fast on weekends, um from Friday to Sunday, uh just to see what my body was doing. Um, it was a little hard to get it kickstarted, but you know, um, I'm happy with extremely happy with where I'm at right now. Um, and how I how I feel, most importantly, how I feel cuz I had went and got blood work done and um, my levels were whacked out. uh because I I I had stopped working out and I was so uh consumed with traveling around the world and work and everything that I lost I wasn't putting focus into me. I was taking my son to his football, sitting around. I was coaching the kids, not eating right, not training, um not doing anything to pour into myself and feeling like crap. So I went to LifeMed and got my blood work done. these guys. My panels came back and I just saw a lot of red on that um >> blood work. >> That scared me, >> you know, >> and I thought, "Wow, some things need to change." And I knew exactly what needed to change because I knew exactly what I was doing, you know, >> and uh no excuses. And I always say age is just a number because I changed my diet. I I went on a fast. I did everything that uh they laid out. We laid out a plan and also took a genetic test and everything. Uh that kind of helped me adjust a lot of things in my diet that I got from both sides of my mother and my father, which was a fatty liver. And I had no idea I inherited a fatty liver. >> Wow. >> So immediately I dropped my carbs down. And at one time I was a borderline diabetic. Right. That went away. >> Um Yeah. Um doctor had me on u statins, you know, because my cholesterol was up and my calcium was I was like, "What in the world is going on here?" I was eating pizza. Gabriel was eating chicken fillet every month. I mean, every morning I'm driving him to school. I was eating stuff from 711, right? And not exercise caught up to me, man. >> So I locked in, man. And it's been 7 months, 6 and 1/2 months now. Locked in, man. And uh my body fat, Ron, it was up to 21%. >> Which is not really bad for a regular person, but that's probably the highest body fat you ever had. >> That was terrible. Um it was terrible, you know. And uh now we're at six right now. >> Wow. Do you plan to do you plan to keep that body fat or is that is that something gain? >> Well, really right now I'm like probably too shredded for an average human being. Um, but for me I still think, oh man, I'm not in shape. But I got to remember I'm not walking on a stage and it's in my brain that to an average human being this is just overkill right now. Seriously, seratus is out on both sides. Everything is ridiculous. Right. >> Yeah. Um, I don't know how to pace myself. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> I just know all or nothing, right? So, I find myself now I want to kick into doing cardio twice a day, 45 minutes of fasted cardio twice a day. And I'm like, man, I ah, come on. I got to wind it back. So, I don't know how to wind it back and set it down because when I'm always 100% right, >> setting on a goal. Oh, we got this to do blah blah blah blah blah. And then if I'm not 100% then I'll just completely turn it off, right? So I can't do that now. I have to stay maintain maintain the balance. So I feel great, man. And Life Made Institute has certainly helped me uh do that. >> Yeah. >> Happy because my my son, he's going to University of Maryland. That's cool. >> Oh wow. Yeah. Is he starting that? Is he that must be starting soon? Like the football camp. >> So proud of him, man. I took him to uh lifetime achievement thing in Tampa. um uh the the show down there. It's his first show um he's ever been to. >> Really? >> Yeah. >> Huh. >> So I said, "See, Gabriel, this is how it's going to be when you uh when you get out there and start doing your thing. You got to have patience with people. You have to, you know, somebody want to take a picture, you got to do it. And uh you got to be healthy." And I'm I'm just in a good place right now, man. And and and you know, I love this water. That's m Mountain Valley water. >> Yep. >> Spring water and bottled water. And I've learned that, too. The best water is is is in the bottle. You know, I used to always drink water out of plastic. >> I started drinking it out of the glass bottles. I'm here in America. >> Um we don't really have glass bottles that much. We got all plastic, but I've really switched a lot of things up and it's it's um it slowed my aging process up to be honest with you. >> I mean, they talk about microlastics and how horrible they are for us. >> They say we have an ounce of it. >> Uh NAD uh fusions uh once a week. I get my uh vitamins uh you know in my veins uh once a week. Also have my my own supplement line. I use all of my stuff. But there's so many extra things that I do um to help to help with uh the aging to help as you get older, you know, you have to change a lot of things around and and start doing things different. So >> So your your most recent blood work, I'm assuming everything was green, right? Yeah, >> perfect. Perfect. Gabe Gabe looks I don't want to say a clone, but go the resemblance is just astonishing. >> It's like he came out of >> he can bench press uh 315, man. >> Yeah. I mean, he's he's built like an athlete. He's he's >> um Did he ever I football? He's he's done he's done so well in football. Does does he have any plans like after football, even if he goes to the NFL or something? Would he ever want to pursue bodybuilding? Does he have any interest in it? >> You know, I as I was speaking on stage at the the Tampa Pro, I don't try to force anything. What I do is support him and let him develop into what he wants to be. And uh if he asks me for advice, I'll give him advice. If he comes to me say, "Dad, I want to train." I'll I'll Hey, okay. This is what I suggest and how you do it. But I want him to uh be the man that he wants to be. Um if he wants to compete on the stage, the stage is there for him. Uh God only knows, right, what direction he'll go. right now he's uh he's focused on track because uh our family member um Sydney, you know, she's gold medalist in the Olympics. >> Oh, wow. >> Yeah. >> What sport? >> Oh, uh track and fields. You can Google Sydney Mlacklin Levrone. She's uh >> Wow. Huh. >> She's got like uh four gold gold medals. Uh >> Wow. Okay. I mean, >> broke uh six world records. You know, she's the fastest in the world at the 400 hurdles. >> You know, the I I wish I had it queued up. I don't. But you you had that famous instance where you challenged was it Maurice Green? >> No, that was Dwayne Chambers. >> Dwayne Chambers. That's right. You challenged him to a to a a foot a race. >> Was it the 100 meter? The 50 meter? It was 100 meter. >> It was a 70 70 meter. 60 m. 60 m. >> Just to show your athleticism, you were like 240 pounds at the time. >> Yeah. >> You were you were huge bodybuilder and you you sprinted against this guy who was I I know he's been to the Olympics. I don't know if he ever if he meddled or not, Dwayne Chambers, but he was one of the the best sprinters in the world. And the first I think about the first half you were neck and neck with him. He he got past you after that, but you were right there, which is crazy. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean that whole industry as well as our industry, you know, uh there's a technique to it. I didn't know the technique. I didn't know anything. >> Yeah. I just knew that. >> You didn't pray for that at all, right? >> Huh? No. No. I I It was the first time I've been in blocks and everything, but I got spanked pretty bad. I was like, whoa, these guys are super fast. Um so I have a whole new perspective and respect for that. each and every sport. As you're a professional athlete, >> technique for him >> is everything, you know. Um, my son's a sprinter, you know. >> He does track as well. I didn't know that. >> Yeah, he's going to University of Maryland uh on a track scholarship. >> Oh, I thought I assumed it was football. >> He's uh he's both, man. And uh pretty amazing watching him train and take his approach to his training and everything. So, >> yeah. >> So, yeah. Good. Good on him, man. I mean, that's proud proud pop for sure. Uh, I want to talk about this. You just finished up an amazing tour. Uh, I don't how many countries you just went to? Like, five or six, eight, I don't know how many. You're all over the place. I mean, every time I checked your Instagram, it looked like you were in a different part of the world and you went to Mexico. Uh, you went over to Eastern Europe. Um, it it's crazy that like I said, a lot of these people weren't even born when you were in when you were winning shows and and taking second olive all those years, but the crowds that came out for you. It's just enormous crowds. I mean, you I'm sure you're used to it by now, but like look at this. It's like a concert, like a rock concert or something. >> It keeps growing and growing and growing and growing. Uh, and that's the that's the outreach that our sport has become, you know, that's very very mainstream. That's Tik Tok, that's Instagram, that's, you know, that's social media, >> you know, that's not the magazine days anymore. So if you use your platform to market yourself, you can do some amazing things and change lives and inspire people and have have a message not only here where you know in America but globally around the world. And um not everybody can do it. You know I I have a lot of sleepless nights. Um, I've spent a lot of time, missed a lot of my son's football games. Um, you know, for the last four years of him being in high school, missed a lot of games. Uh, spent a lot of time in the air, a lot of time in hotels alone. Um, but it's well worth it at the end of the day. Greater sacrifice, greater the reward. And like I said, it's not for everybody. uh leaving leaving home, you know, going out on the road for months at a time. Uh you have to prepare yourself for that. You you have to prepare yourself for the weather, for the conditions. Um to just stand there eight or nine hours uh and greet everybody with a smile on your face. Sometimes my back hurt, it's uh excruciating, but you know uh you have to prepare for it. And again, bodybuilding has allowed me to to to learn how to do this through all the tours that we would do seven shows every year after the Olympia going on European tours. So for me, this is like a cakewalk right now. You know, I'm not dieted down for a competition. So we when I fly into a country, I'm there for about 3 days onto the next onto the next onto the next. And I have amazing team out in front of me. Uh amazing team in the office. Um my marketing people, my uh my uh my manager who sets up all of my uh Anna who does all of my uh events. Uh she's the uh promoter of the events and everything. She handles all the bookings, all the arrangements, all of the setting up before I come. So, there's people out ahead of me waiting for me to show up and uh so on and so forth. So, when I get there, everything is already set up. So, it's a huge it's a huge uh operation and a lot of people that's working for me that allows me to go out and stand there to look successful, but they're the ones that are doing all the hard work for me. So, it's a team. It's a team effort and I have to uh give them credit because it's not just Kevin. People see Kevin Levrone when he's there, but my team at FA allows me to to be able to go at that pace nonstop year in and year out because it's so well organized uh machine, you know. So the last thing I want to touch on because this is something that you did very well and I think you did it consciously. It was not an accident when you were competing all those years and traveling the world. You were setting up your life and your career after bodybuilding. And you've had a tremendous career long after competition where a lot of guys don't a lot of guys they don't have a plan. they don't have anything else going on and once bodybuilding once they stop competing they're sort of just lost. >> Um so if you could talk to the guys who are competing now the current pros what advice would you give them as to how they can set themselves up so maybe 10 20 30 years after the the stage is gone they're still having a great career in the industry and still still relevant like you are. >> Well you never know where somebody's going to end up in life. So you have to first of all treat all your fans with respect. Um treat all the promoters with respect. Uh when you go to do events um respect the guys that are promoting that that show and that events. And I say that because some of the people who were IFBBB judges uh 25 years ago, you know, they are they are uh distributors now, you know, um distributing products into their countries, right? They've evolved as well into the business side of things. Those contacts, you never know where somebody will end up. So, respect everybody who you meet. You never know uh where they will end up or where you're going to end up that to where that could benefit you both. Um never complain about your placement on stage uh because that's not going to help at all. I never complain about any of my places. Uh and don't take it personal. If you are in shape, all the IFBB guys, do your photo shoots, do your guest posings, market yourself while you're in shape. Uh, make as most money as you can. This is a business. Conduct yourself as a professional. Don't waste your time uh on negativity and uh be the best ambassador that you can be uh on that stage. uh master your craft. Uh respect that gym and it'll pay you back big time. Uh like it like like like like it has me and not only me, so many other guys. Uh I would never imagine that you know have a company doing business in over a 100 countries around the world >> and the enormous amount of uh lives that we've we've impact but it all came from just me competing in one show and that was winning the Mr. Maryland. I had no idea that this would happen but I look at it as a business. Don't complain about your place. Respect the judges. They have a hard job to do. I never won the Mr. Olympia. Uh I just received a lifetime achievement award um years and years and years and years after I retired. Um never won a Mr. Olympia, but I'd rather have the life I have right right now than have a Mr. Olympia title and not have what I have right now far as the business opportunities that in which I've created. And if I had have won the Mr. Olympia 1992 when I my first Mr. Olympia or 94 or whatever, I would I would have stopped cuz that was just my goal. >> Wow. >> Was to be Mr. Olympia. But God had a greater plan. And it wasn't about me winning the M Olympian. It's not about not about first place. just about where you finish finish finishing. So, um my advice to those guys is to be never quit, never give up. You might say bad times, but they don't last forever. You're going to learn, you're going to grow, have respect, and what you put in to it is what it'll give back to you. >> I stand I stand at expos. stand 9 hours, sometimes 10 hours. Right now, I get there on time, get there at 10:00. I don't leave until 6, you know. >> Yeah. I mean, >> but you know what? these these people. Something you told me a couple years ago really resonated is you you have people come up to you at these shows that met you at a at an appearance 30 year 20 30 years ago and they're bringing you they're bringing their their kids who are now like sometimes teenagers or young adults to meet you. So, it's that legacy that you you touched those lives all those years ago and now those people still remember you and they want their kids to to have the experience of meeting you and be in your presence. I mean, that's that's just got to be so humbling. >> It is, man. You know, sometimes you wonder, man, am I crazy for standing here? My back hurts. My feet hurt. You got to remember, I'm standing in a 4x4 spot >> and the line is wrapped around the building down the hall out. It's like thousands of people. Every person comes with the story. Your ears, your whole thing. You have to take it in and you have to respond one after another after another, you know. >> Yeah. >> And each story is different. I'll give you an example and I want the people to know this and this is why I do what I do. I was there at this show. I was about nine hours on my feet, back hurting, didn't eat anything. This kid kept looking at me the whole time. The only break I would go is to go to the bathroom. He kept looking and looking like, "What does he want?" And I saw him. He waited until the very very last person left and he came up to me. I said, "What's going on, man?" He says, "Can I talk to you?" I said, "You want to take a picture?" Mm- He didn't want to take a picture. Said he drove and he waited all year to see me. And uh the story that he told me blew me away. Um he said he was molested from his older brother since he was seven. I said, "How old are you?" He said, "I'm 17." And I said, "What?" He said his older brother molested him from 7 years old. He was 17. Said he didn't want to live anymore because of that. He said his father didn't believe him. And uh he asked me, he says, "I just wanted to talk to you because Before I decided to kill myself, I wanted to talk to you because it would You need to tell me why I I shouldn't do it, you know. And uh I just gave him a big hug, man. And I sat down with him backstage back, you know, >> and I spent about an hour with him talking to him. M >> and I could only imagine how he was feeling, what he was feeling, and why, >> and and that's why I stand. That's why I don't mind standing there 10 hours because I've heard so many stories like that. And this kid to say, I wanted I was going to kill myself, but I wanted you to tell me a reason why I shouldn't do it first before I decide to do it. Wow. >> And he put that on me. I just poured out and I told him I was lost too, man. My My dad was gone. My mom was gone. You know, I I didn't feel like being here on this earth a lot of times. But I still hold on, right? And I said, I went through that thing to get to be the man that I am. I gave him my number and I stay in touch with him and uh he's still around and moved out and he's doing well. >> Wow. >> You know. >> But it's those stories like that, Ron, when people say, "Hey, you know, I got cancer and I know your parents died from cancer. I had to get my arm cut off and I got cancer and you inspired me because you said uh something about finding your purpose. No matter what you're going through, you're going to find your purpose. I hear these stories. I have mothers come up to me with their kids who have cancer and she said that their sons wouldn't son wouldn't even respond to nobody, but he just looked at videos of me all day and he wanted to come and meet me, you know, to have a picture with me. And I find that, you know, I it's more than just bodybuilding. It's not about sets and reps. just about who we are as human beings and how we can help save somebody's life and what we can give to someone you know and we just got to step out of sometimes our back might hurt in selfishness and just give and go and do it you know and then I think without any expectations or any expecting anything in return got to do the rest and uh that's why I understand and that's why I go into these countries and I don't mind I don't mind it you know I've been in Baghdad you know I've been to a lot of places and um there's always leaving me with the humble experience of saying damn now I see why I didn't win the Mr. because I got to do this. This is what it's all about. But Bodybuilders gave me that platform whether it's first, second, 10th, or finishing dead last at the Mr. Olympia where I was, you know, never was about placing. It's about how you place your life in other people's lives. That was what makes a difference. >> Wow. Powerful. Powerful. I mean for those of you whether you believe in God or higher power or not, you have to you have to believe that you know you were thing things unfolded in your life the way they did for for very very good reasons. You know you're exactly where you needed to be at at different points and you know I I believe God put you there for that for that young man um to save his life and you did. I mean that's that's >> Wow. I mean, >> and like I said, Ron, when I was 10 years old, I only had 10 pieces to my life. I I You got 10 pieces to a puzzle that got 75. You can't tell what that picture is going to end up being. But now that I have 60 61 pieces to a a puzzle, that's probably 80 P. You can tell, okay, that's the bigger picture. Now I see why that happened. Now I see why. Now I see why I needed to go through that because I have to have the strength to pour into somebody who's going through it now. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean that's that's wisdom when they say with age comes wisdom. That's exactly because you're able to look back and see things in context why thing you didn't understand it. You don't you never understand when you're young. Why is this happening to me right now? Why why did that happen? Why did I lose this contest? Why did this person leave me or whatever? Why did I lose this job or whatever? why' I get sick? But years down the line as you get older and you know more >> makes sense. Whether it's a divorce or you losing a child or you losing whatever it is, you use losing a body part or just whatever it is, God will use us in every single situation and circumstances. We just have to surrender to whatever is going on and say, "As long as I come out of this a better human being, then I'm going to serve my purpose and find my purpose in life." And that's all it is. Sometimes we got to get out of the way and just say, "You know what? Nobody's perfect. But it's okay. No matter what I have, no matter what the task is, it's not about me. But I'm going to learn something and I'm going to be a better human being and I'm going to prosper from it to help pour into other people that are going through it right now. People won't tell you that they're having a tough time. They won't tell you that they just got a divorce. The guy won't tell you that he wants to commit suicide or whatever. They won't tell you anything. But they'll feel your vibe. They'll listen. And you could change lives, man. Just by love. Love is all we need. Love is all we need. Not trying to be perfect, but sometimes you got to strip all that away and just love people and hug people. Like Jim Bon put his hands on my shoulders. I was a little kid, man. I had seen my dad 15 years. You know, I was hurt. I was beat up inside. But when Jimmy said, "I believe in you. Come to the nationals." I'm thinking, "Oh my God." It was like my father from heaven was talking to me. An angel. God told him to come to me, man. Ron, I I dove in 100. That was all I needed and my life was on another whole path. I found my way, you know. So, that's it, man. That's it. When you're in a high high place, you can either break somebody down and destroy them or you can build them up. I choose to build people up, even if it's at the mercy of me going through my pain and suffering to to help people. That's what I do. >> Yeah. Wow. Well, I'm going to end it there because that's a perfect perfect place. So, thank you so much, Kevin. Really opening up and um speaking a lot of truth and and wisdom there. So, I I hope you guys listen to all that. Weren't expect hope you weren't expecting just a recap of his bodybuilding career or something like that. It goes far far deeper than that. So, thank you so much, Kevin, for being so open and honest and inspiring today. >> Thank you, Ron. Thank you very much. >> All right, everybody. Thanks for watching online report with Kevin Levrone and we will see you