What's up, guys? The British Grand Prix just wrapped up a few minutes ago over there in the UK and Michael Crezo. Michael Kio walked away with a very decisive win over some stiff competition. Let's take a look, guys, shall we? Of course we shall. All right. So, this was actually a free live stream. Okay. Am I streaming? Yeah. Here we go. Okay, guys. So, it was free on the Two Bros Pro bodybuilding channel. So, I'm not taking any money away from them. And it's over now. Anyway, going to show you right now the first call out. It was a six-man call out and it was comprised of number six Pavl Ban from Czech Republic, number eight Sassan Herati from right there in the UK, number nine James Haulings also from the UK, number 12 Michael Kzanic aka Ko from Slovakia and two guys from Spain, number 14 Pablo Lope Munoz and 18 Joan Pradell's Martinez. as uh I think I will go ahead and put the placings up in a banner. I should have typed that up first, but I was in a rush. What do you want? So, first was Creo. This was the first call I got. Six guys. Second was Sassan. Three was Joan or Juan. I guess it's not Juan, but it's Juan from Spain. Pablo was fourth and fifth was James. James just got another new coach. Yeah, he's been going through a lot of coaches, James. So, all right, let's take a look. This the first time I'm really watching it. They had Creo in the middle. Yeah, like I said, people, we really can't complain about the live stream too much because it was free. Perfectly free. Didn't didn't cost a penny. I mean, the Olympia was uh $75, but in retrospect, it was worth it. You got five days of content. This show did start three hours late. That's not a good look. 3 hours late. It was supposed to start at 5:00 p.m. over there in UK. It did not start till 8:00 p.m. And it just wrapped up uh less than 15 minutes ago. So, about 11:00 at night, these guys got off siege. So anyway, Kriezo, who had come over to the US this spring trying to get an Olympia qualification, picked a couple tough tough shows. He picked the Pittsburgh Pro or Derek Lensford, uh a former Mr. Olympia champ who had just won the Arnold Classic a couple months before that, decided to go and get another win. So that knocked knocked everyone else's chances out, although Nick Walker did almost get him. Then New York Pro of course Nick Walker was pretty easy choice for that. So on stage right now we see 14 is Pablo Yopi Lopeis Munoz double L Ko and Sassan Sassan got moved closer. You can see just how big a man CO is. He's a big big dude. Expeditators moving around. Head judge was Ma Ali from the United States by the way in case you're wondering who was doing those duties. Oo wins. Yes. Yes. All those legs couldn't be slightly bigger, but silly was overlooked. Um I mean he got fourth place. He couldn't have been that overlooked. James always disappointment. Sorry Keon. Uh I mean James hasn't been performing that well. Uh what do you do? The France show a few weeks ago. And it seems like he changes coaches a couple times a year. I'm not saying that's why he's not doing well, but uh I don't think he's ever really stayed with one coach long enough so that they could learn his body, figure out his perfect peaking protocol. I thought Tuttle was a really good choice. Chris Tuttle. Um he let go of Chris. He decided no more. And uh didn't give Chris really a chance to learn his body. Only gave him one. Keon wasn't in the show, guys. Keon is next week. That's next weekend. Next weekend in Prague, Czech Republic, Keon is competing. Really? His physique structures found his non deep separation out his physique. Oh, you talk about Keon. Keon was not in the show, guys. He was not not even close. It's Crezo in the middle. He did not get moved. Uh 14 was Pablo. Yeah, Pablo. Pablo was a big thick guy. I mean, in terms of thickness, he's right up there with Crezo. Uh, I think they're both bigger and thicker than Sassan. Sassan has a tremendous physique. I mean, very complete. That's why he ended up in second. And Sassan, give the guy credit. He's been competing freaking all year. Started off in Detroit, which I think was late March or early April. And I think this is his seventh show of the season. Sashon, it's been a long season for Sasson. Yeah. I mean, James hard to work with. Um, I've heard him say that he just likes to learn from coaches. So, I don't know if he even hires coaches to coach him or if he just wants to see what he can learn from different people and try to improve that way. But, I don't know. I'd like to see him stick with one coach that he believed in and could peak him a couple times, few times, and really learn the physique, learn what he responds best to in terms of foods, gear, all that stuff. Water, sodium, you name it. And I I still think Hollings Head has tremendous tremendous potential even though he ended up in fifth here, which is not what he want. He'll be in he'll be in Prague next week as well. Congrats, KZO. Oh, talking about James Abs. Yeah, sorry. I mean, usually when people are talking about the weird abs, they're talking about Keon. Yeah, Kiso is a is a big big dude. And I'm curious to see cuz we have a crazy lineup. We're going to be doing a preview Tuesday morning, me and Giles for Power Hour. Prague is shaping up to be a great great show. We have now Samson Dada in it, former Mr. Olympia, former Arnold Classic champion, looking for some redemption. He's supposedly back up to 300 lb. He's put 20 lbs on in six days. We have uh Martin Fitzwwater uh who was a very solid fifth. I had him in fourth at the Olympia. He's the defending champ. He won the Prague Show last year. We have Keon Pearson making his open debut. Uh and there's a couple more guys. Can't really know what the prize money was. Don't know what the prize money could have been that great. Uh he looks huge. Was rooting for Sassan. Yeah, it's hard not to root for Sassan. He's such a work just a worker, a hard worker. Anybody who does that many shows and consistently keeps coming in more and more, you know, consistently shredded, that that is not easy. If that was the first call out, I'm gonna skip ahead to the last call out. Last call out was just these four guys. So that was your and it ended up being your top four. James was not in this call out. Okay. So here it goes. So, your final call out of the judging, which rolled right into the finals, of course, because it's it was already like 9:30 at night at this point. You have Creo up there. Uh, you have Pablo or is that Joan Pred? I'm sorry. 14 is Pablo. No, that is Joan Jawan. That's him. Joan Pradesell Martinez. Then you have Pablo Lopez Munoz. And of course on the right, Sasen Herati. Uh, I would keep an eye on this. Uh, is this Pablo guy? I keep messing it up. Is that June? This Pablo guy. He is massive. Uh, it's hard to tell the condition from this lighting. This was not the best lighting. Uh, they do have almost a black backdrop, but the camera that they were using for this Yeah. 18 big dude. That is Oh, that's Joan. Yeah, that's John. Guy in the black trunks. That is Joan Pradesell's Martinez. The the the camera, whatever, iPad, iPhone, I don't know what they were using. It's clearly set back a couple rows. It's behind the the photographers. It's behind the judges. And you have the photographers blocking part of the part of what we're supposed to be seeing there, which if we had paid for this, maybe we'd have cause to complain, but it was free. James looks out of shape. Yeah. I mean, James wasn't Was it the France show that he did a couple weeks ago? I wasn't thrilled with his condition there. Joan I'm very impressed with. Yeah, I wish I knew the prize money from coaches. I don't know if they even announced the prize money anymore. They usually don't. The Quizo's glutes look slightly bigger. Am I tripping? It's hard to tell. I I would imagine they must be because everyone was was really uh making a point about how his glutes were very underdeveloped. So, I don't follow his content, but I'm sure Kiso heard all that and he took it to heart and he's probably been working very hard on getting his glutes bigger. I don't know, hip thrusts or more squats, maybe a sumo stance, leg presses with your feet high. Yeah, they probably are. I couldn't tell either. It's hard to say. Creo came in pre-dialed in hamster bags. Hamster bags. What's What's a hamster bags? I don't know what that I think I think you want to mean. The hamstrings. It's you're doing the talk to text and that messes me up all the time. Like what the final placing? Uh there it is. You can only show one thing at a time on StreamYard. So these were the final placings. It was Michael Crezo, Kzanic, Sassan Herati, Joan Pradell's Martinez, Pablo Lopez, Munos, and James Hollings. That was your top five. Learn from the coaches. Yeah, I mean, I'd rather just have a coach that can help me win. I understand the whole concept of trying to learn from people, but you can learn from coaches while you're listening to them. I don't know. I don't know if he does listen to his coaches. Hopefully, he does. I mean, that'd be awful if he didn't, right? Uh, what was after that? Quiz came in pretty damag final placing I just showed you. What's up, Gregory? Release in Montlair. Sign has had a tremendous year. James is absolutely losing a lot of time by hopping from coach to coach. Yeah, I'm I'm not a fan of that strategy. I don't think that's a good thing. Then sick can't take my eyes off Pablo and that. Yeah, Pablo is a big kid. Uh I think you we're going to be hearing a lot more about Pablo Lopez Martinez there on the left. He's a He's a young guy. I can see I could I don't know how old he is, but he looks very young. So that means he's got time to grow, to improve, to really get some This was actually the last call out. This was the last call out of the the judging. Jones sweeps her wild. Yeah, look at those quads on him. He's there on the left. Green trunks. Yeah, I think those are green. Crazy crazy big thighs with great sweep to them. So that was your final final call out. So then they did wheelchair. Those guys are great. Wheelchair wheelchair. Just want to show you the posing routines and then the finals. Oh, it's still wheelchair, guys. Wheelchair. Yeah, I'm skipping around, guys. If I was live, I wouldn't be able to skip. So, uh, who do we want to show? That is number six. Okay, so number six was Pavl Ban from Czech Republic. He was in the first call out of six. So, I'm going to assume that Pavel probably took sixth place. I haven't seen the final. They only announced the fi the top five. I'm guessing he was probably sixth place. Pavl Baron from Czech Republic. I've seen him a few times before. Very good bodybuilder. There were 17 men in this lineup. Same old Creo. Every breathing during pose. Well, I don't think he's ever going to be the best poser. I do think he's getting a little bit better. He's never going to be like a Terrence Ruffin poser. By the way, I posted a really good interview with Terrence Ruffin today that I did this morning while he was in Sapalo, Brazil. He's competing tomorrow at the Muscle Contest Brazil Pro. So, he's got that wrapped up. And then over in Mexico uh today, I don't know if it's probably over by now. Mike Summerrfeld competed in the classic Classic Z division down in Mexico at the Mexico Pro show. So, this is Pablo Bono looks improved glutes. PZO is finally approved. All right. I guess you've seen enough of uh Pavo, right? So that was number six. So I want to go to Sassan next. So I'm going to skip skip. That's not Sassan. It's number. It's still number six. Shouldn't have to tell you to bear with me, guys. Right. The good thing is there's no commercials on this. you know, uh, Leo Marhoffer berated me the other day because when I show the YouTube videos, the commercials will pop up because I don't pay for YouTube Premium, which is like 14 bucks a month for an individual plan. And some guy said, "Stop being cheap. I'm sick of seeing commercials on your videos." So, he thought if I paid for YouTube Premium, he wouldn't see commercials on my videos. Which is not not the case. He would actually uh What a long pause there, guys. Geez. What took so long? Okay, there's SAS finally. Yeah, I don't know what. There was like a five minute pause between those guys posing. Maybe they couldn't find number seven. So anyway, if you get YouTube Premium, you don't have to watch commercials on my videos. But if I get it, it doesn't affect the commercials on my videos. Anyone who's not showing commercials on their YouTube videos, that means they're not being monetized and they're not making a penny off their videos, which is I mean, I got to try to make a little bit of money, guys. So, there's SAS. SAS looks really great. $2,000 first prize. No, that can't be right because the minimum is $10,000. That can't be right. If that's right, I'm really shocked because it's supposed to be a minimum of 10,000. And $10,000 has been the minimum for about 2530 years. A long time. They haven't raised the minimum prize money for a pro bodybuilding show, men's open, which is crazy. You'd think it would have been, you know, inflation. Everything costs a lot more money now. So $10,000 doesn't buy you what it bought you 30 years ago. You know, 30 years ago, the average home in the United States was probably like uh I don't know, 150 to 200,000. Now the average home is between 4 and 600,000. It's crazy. Jones back is stellar for that age. Yeah, he's a kid. Does anyone know how old he is? He looks like he's in his mid20s, maybe. We'll get to him in a minute. So this is Sassan. He was number eight. Hollings head is going to follow him. James was fifth place, Dave. Fifth place. Yeah. Rough. Rough. 2,000. Jeez, that is awful. Wow. 500 bucks for third place. All right. So, here's the shed coming out next. Prize money is listed on Google. That is I I can't believe the prize money is that low. That is That's shameful. I'm sorry to say. That is shameful. All right. There's Sassan still coming back. Why is he coming back? He came back to to wave some wave to some fans, I guess. I'm not really sure. This was free. What was it not talk about? Uh, it was ESN sponsored it. Um, but it's on it was on the Two Bros. Two Bros bodybu Two Bros. What's the name of the the name of the channel? Uh, I'll find it for you. It's on the Two Bros bodybuilding YouTube channel. It was free. I mean, I mean, it if you were paid for this, I think you'd be upset because they only had one camera. If it's even a camera, it might be an iPhone here set up on a on a tripod like in the third row is what it looks like. It's either a new a newer iPhone, maybe a G Samsung Galaxy, maybe it's an iPad, I don't know, but it certainly isn't like a a 4K camera. There's James. James fifth. Well, let's take a look. Uh, you can't really judge condition very well from this video. I know. Uh, this was the stream. It was free, so you can't complain about free. But from back here, the condition doesn't look spectacular. Now, they never zoom in on anybody. There's not there are not multiple camera angles. That's another thing about the Olympia. You paid you paid a hefty amount for it, but it was 4K. It was different. Multiple cameras. They had like a boom camera. They had a handheld camera. They had a camera on a tripod. You got to see different angles. and they zoomed in and zoomed out and it was a top-notch production. This this was not but it was free. So what am I going to do? Complain about complain about something that's free. Yeah. So James looked looked okay but I mean he was one of the favorites to win this James he should have won this. I mean I don't know if at his best I don't know if he was going to beat Kiso today anyway. Kiso and Sassan but he got beat by two guys from Spain that are much lesser known and less have less accomplishments. James has won shows. He won this show a few years ago. He's won, I want to say, three, four pro shows at this point, and he's been top five at the Arnold USA, top five at the Arnold UK. He's better than this is what I'm saying. He should be he should be placing better. So, I don't know what's going on. Paul Dlette posing. O, yeah, Dlette was an awful poser. See what I'm saying about the the the camera never never moves, which is why I don't think this was even a camera. I literally think they just set up uh like a a smartphone streaming on you on the YouTube channel on a tripod and just left it alone, which whatever. It's fine. It's free. It's free. So, I'm not going to complain. Pablo is a standout. Never heard of him before. I've heard of him, but I never really paid attention. I'm definitely going to be paying a lot more attention to him now. So, Crazy will be a little bit after this. Show is tougher than James last show he played. So, he's heading the right direction. I'm never going to give up on James. I mean, maybe eventually, but the potential is still there. He's got a great physique. You know, it's not the it's not the prettiest terms of shape and structure, but ton of muscle. Usually, he gets in a really good condition most of the time. If he does listen to his coach, he's not listening long enough. I mean, if every coach only has him for like one show, what are you going to do? There's not much you can really every coach really needs, even the best coaches typically need two minimum and sometimes three or four shows to really nail it with somebody, really learn their body, figure out what's what's going to work best for them. So, that was James. We're going to move ahead to number 12, Kio. That's not him. Ah, here we go. Okay, so let's see his posing. Creo is not known for his posing. Steve Weinberger chewed him out when he visited Bev's gym uh earlier in the year. Said, "You your posing is [\h__\h] Awful." Believe he actually said your posing sucks. So, let's see if he's any better. Now, this is obviously not his mandatory posing. This is his free posing routine for the finals. And let's see how he looks. Okay, he is kind of square. He does not have much of a taper from the front. You saw it in that frontal bicep. Not much of a taper at all. Great legs, best arms. I think it's either him or Nick Walker for the uh the honor of having the best arms of probing. He looks a little soft from the side there to me in this lighting. Let's see when he flexes again. Yeah, I mean the lighting is not great. The glutes are a little bit in, but they don't look like they're really dug out. I mean, it's it was good enough to win this show. Good enough to win this show. I don't know. I I think he would need to be a lot sharper. I think he just got lean enough for this. I mean, in on Instagram, he looks shredded out of his skull. So, I mean, that tells you what the lightning would be like. All right, that was number 12. Want to go ahead to number 14, Pablo. I'm only showing you like the top five routines. Actually, six. I showed you Pavl, the first guy. Yeah, man. This was like a long pauses in between. Okay, here he is. 14. This is This is Pablo Lopez Amunos from Spain. Again, I don't know how old he is. Got to be somewhere in the 23 to 26 range. If anybody knows, let me know in the comments. James Holl Hollings heads competitive career experiencing quite a precipice. Well, I mean, all it takes is one good show and one good showing for people to really forget about all that. But this Pablo kid, he's a kid. He's a young man. He's fantastic. Keep an eye on him. He's going to be moving up the ranks. Was he overlooked in fourth? I don't know. Was he really going to beat Creo Sassan and this Joan guy? We'll see Joan in a minute. Joan was number 18. That'll be the last routine we look at. Was in the car listening to EP Zero cover we just saw you on. Yeah, I waited. I waited till it was over so I could just skip around because, you know, otherwise I don't want to I don't want to make people wait. Yeah, I mean I'm I don't watch that much YouTube, so it doesn't doesn't make sense. I know it's only 14 bucks a month, but gez, I pay for like six different streaming services on my TV, Sirius XM radio, extra storage on Apple. I mean, there are these people are getting my money. Ads are out of control. Yeah, I mean, YouTube wants to make money. That's YouTube's objective is to keep you watching YouTube forever. And the YouTube Premium is a really good way for them to even like Netflix and all those uh all of them now they have a basic subscription package with commercials and then they have one where you pay for no commercials premium. They all have that now. All right. So that was that 15. We want to go all the way ahead to 16. Now imagine if you didn't have to see all these photographers. That's 18. Okay, that's who we want. Oh, 18 is who we want to see. 18 is Joan Purdell's Joan is this kid is huge. Another youngster. Got to be in his mid20. You can see the baby face, I think, because he's probably shorter and thicker. Uh he's to me, he's probably actually bigger than Creo. I'm sure he doesn't weigh more, but he's more compact and thicker. Look at those quads, those arms. He's a big big kid. He's I could see the condition could be better. So, no, he wasn't really overlooked. This is 18. This is Joan Pradell's Martinez from Spain. We just saw another young guy from Spain up there. Pablo Lopez Martinez. Boy. Yeah, he wasn't overlooked. Uh, looks great though. Geez. Glutes aren't even in at all. The hams and glutes are pretty soft. So, the fact that he took third in this condition tells you. Now, I'm sure when we see high resolution pictures like these guys that were we're seeing these photographers up front. I don't know who they are, but when those pictures come out, I guarantee you every one of these guys is going to look so much leaner. This lighting is just it's it's awful for video. And again, they don't have a whole video pay-per-view setup like the Olympia had and like most of them have. This is just like a tab. This is like a tablet or or a smartphone or something on a stand. Contest says they had no clue how to run the show. Well, I'm not going to talk [\h__\h] about them, but haven't seen that in a long time. Joan has a bright future. Suppose you suck. See, that was 18. James Campri Creo. I mean, maybe at his best. Uh, let's see. 30 years ago was more than 100k. What's happening with the Mexican show? I don't I haven't followed it at all. I don't know. I didn't even look to see what was going on with that. I'm sure Nick Strength and Power is probably doing a wrap-up for that if he hasn't done it already. So, you're doing it, making the show happen at all. Absolutely. I mean, I give him credit. Uh, I don't think just now James was already committed to uh the Prague show, the the EVLS Prague show next weekend in Prague, Czech Republic. So, why not do this one while you're at it? So, skip ahead to the confirmation round. This was the confirmation round where they have one last the guys have one last chance. So, this was the fifth through eighth group right here. James sort of in the middle there. I mean two guys in the middle, Pavel and James in the middle. These were your fifth through eighth placesers. So that's typically in the confirmation round they bring in the fifth through eighth guys and then the second call out in confirmation round is the top four. Typically that's how they do it a lot of times. Quality groups I I don't know was Kiso posing any better? A little better. Not much. James was best. Patrick is a very demanding coach and if you don't listen to him to the tea, if you don't follow the diet, if he thinks you're just slacking and and or doing your own thing, he drops the client. He's done it. He just did it with uh M was it Melman? He did it he did it a few weeks ago. Uh and I heard he just did it with a very big name client, but I can't say anything about it. James can't beat Creo. I think James ever going to win a pro show again. Uh if I'd like to see him get with a good coach and really listen to that coach and stick with that coach potion lead's back to bicep. Yeah, Crezo is Ciso's back double bicep has been the toughest post from doesn't look much more condition than James Sass with better condition. Pablo is popping more than Ciso. Also Big Ron that's mimosas. Joan has a bright future. Big Ron Marksmax Muscle Marks Max Muscle guys great YouTube channel. I love the comparisons that that Markx Max Muscle does with uh you know former greats versus current greats. Uh split screen stuff. He compares uh guys how they look now versus how they looked at a previous show. A lot of stuff like that where really lets you sit there and analyze. He does it with videos with stills. Fantastic channel. Mark says appreciate you watching Marks Max. I assume it's Max. Maybe it's MarkX guys. Very good. All right. So this was your final call out of the confirmation round. It was your top four. Creo, Sassan, Joan, and Pablo. Great, great top four. I mean, you know, wasn't I can see why James didn't win. He was off. He was off. Samson doing the Prague. Good question, Sean. Uh I don't know if it's a great idea. If it's a great idea, it's a great idea if he wins. Now, I've seen Samson's updates. He does have a lot of the fullness back. Uh he is holding a lot of water right now. Um he's lost a little bit of condition too. I mean obviously it's going to be a lot of water bloat. So I don't know if he's actually lost condition terms I don't think he's gained any body fat. He wouldn't be that reckless to do that between shows when he's only got two weeks but he could get beat by Martin because Martin almost beat him at this last Olympia. I had Martin beating him. Um, I guess if he wins, he didn't need to qualify anyway because as an Olympia champ, he's qualified for life. But it would redeem him in the eyes of many and I guess of himself because he wants to show people that uh, you know, him and Marla, Marina, Marlinka, Marina, his coachwife, that they did screw up. They they claimed it was just a peaking issue that they didn't they didn't take enough time to load, meaning days of eating carbs before the show because obviously he was depleting pretty hard to try to make make a better uh look, get show us something more conditioned than we'd ever seen from him. And it didn't it didn't succeed. It backfired because he was smaller and flatter at the show, the Olympia Samson, but he wasn't any more conditioned. I didn't see any improvement in condition. I just saw a smaller version of the guy that won the Olympia last year and won the Arnold Classic a couple years ago. So, I don't know. We'll see. It It'll be a It'll be a smart idea if he wins. It'll be an awful idea if he doesn't if he doesn't win. Put it that way. Usually these things you only can say in retrospect whether it's a good idea or a bad idea. James Best probably can't beat Kiso's award. Uh I disagree. I think his best can beat Kiso's worst. Uh, but we haven't seen James's James Hauling's best in a little while. It's been a minute. Uh, I guess he looked really good last year at the Arnold shows 2024, the ones where hottie won both of them. I think he was fifth in both. He looked really good at those two shows, but he doesn't look like that right now. So, now they're they're doing a pose down right here. This was the pose down. Uh, Urs, I think Urs actually would have won this honestly, even though Kiso is a bigger guy. Uh, Urs gets into better condition. I think Urs would have won this one. Honestly, I wonder if Urs will jump into anything else. Has he said? I don't follow. Dude, the left looks good. Or should be good. You're saying he's got a a soothing voice. James Hong says he's going to Ramy has me in terms of hopping from coach Bark. Uh I mean Ramy stayed with uh Abdullah and was Abdullah was his coach Otabi. He stayed with the camel crew for a long time and then he went to did he work with Aceto for a minute? I don't know. I know I know when he won both Olympias he was with Chad and he was with Chad when he came back. So I don't did he work with Aceto? I'm not sure. He was with the camel crew for from like 2013 his pro debut all the way up till the 2019 Olympia and then from that point on 2020 to 2023 the last uh three four seasons he competed I think he was with Chad that whole time that waist of queo. Yeah, you don't you don't notice it in a lot of poses but you in that front double bicep when Ciso hits it, you definitely notice it. All right, so they're going to bring the guys back on to get their awards here in a minute. If the love Samson champion what's compete Oh yeah. I mean I I admire the hell out of Samson. I hope I don't come across as a Samson hater. I'm not I'm not a hater of anybody, man. I mean I I I respect the hell out of all these guys. It's I I did it not at their level, but I I competed for 24 years. The training, the gear, the diet, the cardio. It's very hard work. And I'm glad to see they're finally starting to get some better money. It's still not the kind of money that guys in football, football, both of them, both American football and football, aka soccer, uh, basketball, baseball, even ice hockey, NASCAR. Those guys all make far more money than pro bodybuilders. But we do have Arnold Classic now paying out 750. The Olympia was 600. I think next year they're going to have to at least match what the Arnold did with 750. I was really surprised that they didn't didn't increase it for this year. Shout outs. Actually, just Mark. Okay, Mark here from Mark's. Yeah, I know. I should know that. I tend to skip a couple minutes into your videos to get to the good stuff. My bad. My bad, Mark. Mark, why don't you call it Mark Max Muscle in that case? I would. Is this another pose down? Who are these people? I don't even know what's going on there. Oh, it's another It's like a second pose down. Martin never came near Samson. Mark Bates. So, you don't think Martin was anywhere near beating Samson? I mean, Martin looked the best Martin I've ever seen. And that was not the best Samson. I think James can be the end of his competitive days. Nah, he's only I think he's only like 35. He's He's not an older He's not an old guy. But yeah, I don't know why he keeps going from coach to coach. Happens to everyone. People overreact. Simpson win. Martin second. I mean, I I don't know if Samson can regroup. I I'd actually be surprised if Samson doesn't win. I mean, it's going to be Krezo, Martin, and Keon are the three big big names that I know he's going to have to face. Uh if he's if he's significantly fuller, even if he's only regained half of the fullness that he lost from earlier in the season, because he was pretty full at the Arnold uh when Derek beat him. Uh if he can if he can get even close to that, yeah, I think he wins. I mean, he's Samson doubt man. He was Mr. Olympia for a reason. I think at his best, at Samson's best, I think even if he had come in looking exactly the same as he did last year, he might have won again. So, he got in his head and it was mostly because of the fans and us media jerks that said he's got to be leaner. We're Samson's never been in shape. And he listened to that. Him and Marina listened and it just didn't work out. Expect gain 40k. Yeah, that's true. I mean, he probably he's made a lot of money and prizes and he's got I'm sure uh Fouad and Hostile pay him pretty well. He's got other sponsors, Merrick Health, he's got some some good sponsors, the equipment sponsor that decked out his whole gym. He's got really good sponsors. So, I don't think he's doing badly financially, but that was a big big loss because he should have should have won that show at his best. Nobody beat Samson. So, he should have won 600, but instead he won 40. That is a massive difference because his left lat was kinking up a bit. Yeah, I think that's the shoulder that he had surgery on. And you once you once you tear a shoulder uh like cuffs, labyrinum, whatever, it's never quite the same again. I mean, you get a you get most of the function and strength back, but it's it's never quite the same again. If I was Samson, I collect all those checks. Yeah, make that paper. Get that money. These are long pauses up there, guys. I don't know. I don't I don't want to talk [\h__\h] about how these two bros run their shows, but there's some long pauses like waiting and waiting between posing routines between like pose down in awards. I don't know what's going on there, dude. Prague pro. Okay, 30k is not bad. Or says no traps. Is everyone blind? Well, Mark, uh I want to call your attention to Kai Green. Kai Green had no traps. He won three Arnold Classic titles in the US. I think he won like another two or three Arnold Classics outside the US. He took third place at the Mr. Olympia three years in a row. He won the New York Pro twice. So, Kai Green had a tremendous career with no traps. Traps are nice if you have them, but it doesn't seem to really matter much if you don't. As long as everything else is good. Milo, no way Urs would beat Ko. His back and side poses suck, and Creo is much bigger. Has more dad. The reason I say that is because structurally Urs has a much better structure. Kiso like in that front double bicep and the front lat spread, not much of a vtaper because he has a pretty wide waist. Creo does not. Urs doesn't have the wide shoulders that Kiso has, but he's got a much more narrow waist. So, he has a better vtaper. Creo does have much wider massive shoulders. Those arms, oh, I can't get over those arms. They're awesome. But, he doesn't have much of a Vtaper. And structure and shape do count. So there's James getting announced in fifth place. Truth. I've never heard any judge call out lack of traps. I mean they don't seem like calves. I know I get [\h__\h] for saying calves don't matter. I mean I have like 18 and a half 19 inch pump calves. Who cares? Nobody cares because if the rest of the physique isn't great, nobody cares if you have great traps or great calves. If you have a great physique and your traps aren't that great or your calves aren't that great, doesn't seem to matter. Dexter's calves were not great. Ronniey's calves are not great. I could Jeez, most of the guys in men physique have really bad calf development. I don't know why they don't judge them. That was uh fourth place going to Pablo Lopez Moz from Spain right there. Third coming up is going to go to Joan Joan Prael's another young guy from Spain. Then we'll see Sassan get runner up and CO get his win. Mark, I'm not I'm not denying it that he has no traps. I just it clearly the judges don't care. It doesn't seem to affect his placing. Romney was initially with Abdullah, then he went to Neil Hill, then Chris Aceto, then back to Camel Team, finally back. I don't know if he ever even competed with Neil. I think he was with Neil for a little while, but I don't know if they I don't think they even did a show together. Yeah, I don't know if he did a show with Aceto. Yeah, Sean. Mark Mark does really good work. I like his videos a lot. By will get way more money. Solid betting line could be placed. I mean, I don't think they do like sports betting in the casinos or on bodybuilding. Martin should have beat Samio. I I think so. Mark doesn't believe so. Mark Bates in Thailand. I know. I know you're in Thailand, Mark. So, it's what's it like Tuesday over there by now? I know you're way ahead. I know. I know who you are, Mark. I appreciate you being on these uh live group chats. Sasan, second place. Build a brand. These guys can make a lot of money. I mean, the money to be made now is basically on like social media, coaching, making getting your own app. Congratulations, Kiso. Damn, what happened to James? Fifth place, biggest Momo. Didn't didn't look great. Um, he's on the screen there somewhere. I mean, I'm hiding him, unfortunately. Where is he? He's He got it. He got his fifth place medal. Dqualified. Actually have any muscles. Minimum muscle. Well, I mean, I I don't really look down on guys who are covering this who aren't necessarily bodybuilders. I mean, the people who are the best analysts in other sports aren't the greats of those sports. So, do you have to be There are like great football players, for example, who later become great commentators, but there's James there on the right. Uh, but some of the guys like on ESPN that do the best commentary never played a game of football in their life. James must change his coach. He did. Oh, he's going to change his place. Ah, he's not going to retire. He's still a young guy. He's still a young guy. James been competing since Junior's mind, Ron. I've seen him a few times. Been bing for ages. Yeah. I mean, I think he started competing in his late teens, early 20s. He's only like 35 now. Sam is best and the best in the world. I agree, Milo. I mean, Samson's when Samson is at his best. I mean, last last year, he wasn't even like shredded. He still won the whole Olympia. He won the Olympia this year. He just came in too small. I did not get it. I did not get it. Okay. How's our calves? Some have some don't. That's all genetics. If you have great calves, you just have low insertions. If you have high insertions, you could train for your whole life. You freaking train calves every day. It's you're never going to have great calves because there there's not enough muscle tissue to build. If you have these really low insertions, um, then you can build huge calves because there's a lot more muscle tissue, muscle cells to work with. It should be about the whole body, Mark. But, I mean, it seems like certain muscle groups don't distract a whole lot if you if you're lacking them. Like, weak calves don't really seem to detract from the overall shape and flow of a of a physique. Same thing with with traps. But if you're missing, if you have weak legs or if you have weak back or weak chest, especially weak arms, you can't hide those in any pose and they they will take away from all the poses if they're if they're bad. Honestly, it's not smart for by elite level to trade off of strength or something which seems to make them better version. Yeah. Well, congratulations, Kiso. There's Billy Gardin MC letting him have a little word there at the mic. Oh, jeez. Sunday morning. Yeah, I mean I know you're way ahead. Like it's Sunday morning over in Australia, too. I guess that's same side of the world. Why did Nick's coach call out more of a death fac? Oh, I I guess he was dieting, too. I don't know. Maybe he's dieting for a show. What's up, Kenson? Anyone know if there's a live stream for Mexico Pro tomorrow? Oh, it's tomorrow. I thought it was today. I'll be busy all day. I won't be doing any any coverage of that. uh going to training a client who pays me very well. Uh a private training client, good dude. And then I'm going to Spooky World in New Hampshire with my brother for the Halloween shenanigans going through the mazes and all that good stuff. That's his translator there. He's helped me out with two different interviews. That guy, the shed EP Kinson Kinson is very accomplished in uh two different areas. the marine the marine world and this elf mark here mark max cruiso will be crying next week yeah I don't think he's beating Samson next week I I don't think he's beating Samson I don't even know if he's going to be Keon or or Martin honestly cut my face yikes that's awful I say you cut your face on chicken earlier oh boy a bit Sam so last more than two years of raw supplements I see him taking sebum Oh, I could see Celich coming out with his own line uh and doing very well with that. I could see Celic Seabum came out with his own line and does well. Could have been so much worse. Oh, talking about your chicken cut. Yeah, I love Halloween, man. I love Halloween. It's It's my favorite holiday by far. Best Cavs I ever seen. Jeff King. Yeah, Mike Morazzo. Cuz I knew Mike pretty well. were both from Boston and I I followed him quite extensively uh when he was out in LA. We were actually in LA for a few years at the same time together living out there. Spooky World is awesome. Uh best place I Universal My son went my son and my daughter went to uh Wednesday night this week they went to Universal Horror Nights down in Orlando, Florida and that looked pretty crazy. Subscribe to Ron. Thank you. That's a good That's a good suggestion. Subscribe to Ron. Always bring the show pregame wrap-ups. Appreciate it. Why would Ko be crying? He's already qualified living. I guess cuz he's probably not going to win. I guess that's what he means by that. Yeah. So, I'm going to stop sharing that. All right, guys. I'm going to wrap it up. I got to eat meal number five of six. Take a little shower. So, here were your final placings again for the British Grand Prix. Creo Sassan Joan Pradesell's Martinez. No, wait a minute. Joan Predell's that's just his whole name. It's Pablo Lope Martinez and the shed. James Holling said that was your top five. Have a good night. Appreciate that. Jordan Yates had some freakiest cabs. Oh yeah, he had some crazy cabs. Sams will crush him. Yeah, I don't doubt that. So, uh, next week I'll definitely want to do some coverage. Giles is actually gonna be my buddy Giles Thomas in the UK. He's going to be in Prague, Czech Republic. He will be doing the playbyplay for the pay-per-view. So, you'll get to hear Giles. He's going to bring in different people to help him commentate on different uh divisions. So, it's going to be a good time. I'm definitely going to do some sort of watch party or coverage. I'll get the I will pay for the pay-per-view on that. I'm a cheap ass, but some things I'll pay for. I'll pay for that. Uh curious to see if Samson can regain recapture most of his best look in just two weeks. That'd be amazing. Martin is going to be tough. He's the defending champion. Keon Pearson. Very curious to see how Keon's going to look up there against the Open guys, the big big dudes. Creo will be there as well. The full list will come out Monday evening. So, we'll see. Yeah, Prague is already sold out. So, if you're in that area and you didn't get a ticket, you are a [\h__\h] out of luck. So, as we say here in the US. So, again, that is your top five. Appreciate it. Uh, and please check out the Terrence Ruffin interview I did earlier today. It's on this channel. Great interview. Uh, and I hope more people watch it because Ruffin is he's one of my favorite athletes in the entire sport regardless of division and I consider him to be the greatest poser of any division. Terrence Ruffin, Rough Diesel. So anyway guys, that's it. Appreciate you watching so much. Peace out. I will see you next time.