Hey, hey everybody. Welcome to Ron Line Report. Awesome guest today. Joining us right from Pittsburgh where he's going to be competing at the Pittsburgh Pro on Saturday. Creo Michael Kzanic and helping translate is good friend Patrick. Thank you so much. Thanks for having us. Yeah, Patrick. His English was great a couple years ago. It's even better now. Um, he's teacher. He's English teacher. Oh, is he an English teacher? Yes. Yeah, I am. English and Spanish teacher. Ah, okay. Here we go. So, I said he has Michael, you didn't speak any English the last time I talked to you. Now you speak a little bit. A little bit. I speak. Yes. Wow. Okay. So, um I want to start with the shoulder thing because you you look better than before from what I remember. So, tell me when did your shoulder start really giving you problems and what was what was actually wrong? What was the the injury? It start uh maybe around when I prepare for Olympia for 20 2023 or in Orlando. He wanted to fix the issue right after the Orlando Olympia. He was already limited in terms of his training. But just the time off after the Olympia helped him. It didn't hurt as much anymore. So, we started prepping again. as they started his prep for Spain of last year. He was getting some injections to help him go through it with the injury there, but it started to not work anymore. And so he wasn't even benched like the lightest weights that he would otherwise bench for reps. Wow. Yeah. Was it What was the injury? Was it a Was it a rotator cuff tear? What was the actual injury? for So, uh, he went to a doctor to check it with a CT scan. Uh, first they thought it's just a mild injury, nothing too serious, one tendant. But then, uh, they I should have called CT. Then they found out eventually uh when he had more checkups that it's much more serious. It's actually three tendons and bicep tendon as well. Wow. Wow. So, uh when did when did he have the surgery and how long was he out of training for? The surgery was on the 19th of August last year. And he started training a a little more intensely from January of this year. Okay. Um, is his training now better than it was before? I mean, because he looks like he's bigger than ever. Oh, yes. Training is much better than before. Yeah. Um, all about it. He says he found again the passion in training because of the pain and suffering. He didn't have fun training anymore. He had to take a lot of painkillers. He didn't have the appetite to eat his bodybuilding meals. Wow. So, what what was it like to to not train for a while? Must you must have been going crazy not going to the gym or were you doing legs that whole time or what were you doing? He didn't wasn't really worried about not training because he was he talked to his sponsors about this that he has to take that time off and he also was confident in the fact that he's going to be able to come back to training and training fully. And he also has an amaz had an amazing physiootherapist that helped him and he assured him that it's going to be healed again and he's going to be able to train at 100% again. Go on. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'm looking at the uh the physical therapy. It looks like this guy was very very uh detail oriented. He looked I I can because I've gone through physical therapy this this but I'm sure it was a challenge for him to bring someone like Michael who's a you know a world class one of the best bodybuilders in the world back to full function and um man I I I'm just curious how long was the how long was the whole rehab? How long did it take from surgery until he was able to train heavy again? What he also did when he couldn't train the injured part of the body, he also trained the other part of the body. And talking about the physiootherapist, he was working. So the physiootherapist also told him that when you train one part of the body that is uninjured, it also helps to heal the other part of the body that is injured. Yeah, I I've heard that from, you know, Branch Warren who's who's torn everything pretty much. He said he would train the the other side of his body and it would send signals to the injured side that you weren't training, which is crazy, but I think it must be true. It was proven now. Yeah. Yeah. Um, I'm going to take questions from the viewers, but I want I want to ask uh about George Farah as uh your new coach. I I'm just curious, how did you start working with George? They started working together only 12 weeks out of Pittsburgh Pro. Oh, okay. And um what's different about work? What's different about this prep? What does George do differently with nutrition or training or cardio from what you've done? Everything's different. everything. It was his hardest prep up until now. But I look I think good better than before. Okay. Yeah. I mean, the the pictures we've been seeing, the videos we've been seeing, uh I don't know. Are you heavier than before? You look like you're bigger than ever, but the condition is better than ever. So, I I think this is right now we're probably going to see the best version we've ever seen of you on Saturday. Uh, body weight. Is this close to what you competed at last? I don't know. He doesn't really It's probably around the same weight if he had to guess, but it's in much better quality now. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, uh, you know, I've been doing previews with people, and the the one thing that really sets Michael apart from even guys like, uh, Derek, Nick, Martin, is you could see every little detail in fiber in the shoulders, the arms, the chest, some of these, you know, like Derek, that's one thing I wish he had. But, um, has has that improved? Because you seem like you're even more detailed than ever, more it's not just a low body fat thing. There's it's it's like a muscle maturity and detail that we don't see very often. anymore. The body just probably needed rest because even back in the day when he used to compete in the other organization, he would compete every single season. He would compete seven contests in one year. Wow. Wow. So, uh I think we're looking at a show right here from last I think it was last spring or summer before he went in for surgery. Uh this was I think this one that you're showing is the Empro classic in 23 that he won. Yes. Yes. I I won. Okay. Yeah, that was a winning. And you won this EVLs Prague that you won this one too, I believe. Oh, this was the second place to Samson. Yes. Oh, well, Samson's pretty good. So, he's pretty good. Uh, what else I want to So, uh, you're in you're in Pittsburgh. Um, I think the only You've been to Orlando, you've been to Las Vegas. I assume this is your first time in Pittsburgh. What do you like about the city? How is it different from Orlando and Las Vegas? I don't know. It's for me it's same because I am from Slovakia. I am the Indian. Every other country is foreign to him outside of Slovakia. He has to get used to it. Okay. So, you went to the manion's gym today. Is that right? Yes. Yeah. So, what was that like? Because that's, you know, he's the godfather of all this. He's he's a leader of all of us, the NPC, the IFBB. Um, did you get a did you get a good workout in? Did he Did Jim take a look at you? They inspired him and definitely motivated him to keep going. Yeah. Um I'm just curious, you know, there's so many pro shows. What made Michael decide to do Pittsburgh Pro and what made him decide he's going to hang around do New York Pro the week after that? Yes. Basically the sponsors told him to. Okay. Because uh No, because uh Evos is a sponsor of Pittsburgh, bro. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I mean, your your sponsors are great. They bring you over here and you know, great sponsors. Yes. Scitec and Nibia. Yeah. And the next small sponsors uh rice porridge and Okay. And yeah, choice. Yeah. Yeah. Let me take some uh let me look and see what the comments are. See, we says, "You're looking huge." Yes. St. Euro Muscle. It's ultra muscle. It's got pump for peak. Uh oh, this I kind of asked you, but what what was the biggest difference working with George? Was it more food, less food, more cardio? Less cardio? Less food? Less food? Less food? Less gears. Let's put less gears. And uh uh cardio was hard. Yes. Yes. I forgot hard harder. But uh that's about it. Yeah. How much cardio did did George have him doing every day? 35 minutes. But hardcore cardio. Oh, like sprinting fast. I know sprint, but uh high frequency. High frequency. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'm not going to ask five five minutes and I Yeah. Yeah. I'm not going to ask about the gear dosage, but I I do want to say that I know George pretty well and he does he has people use less gear and they look as good or better, which most people say that that doesn't make sense, but they think more gear makes you look bigger and better all the time, but that's not true, right? It's not true. It's not true. Yes. Yeah. I mean, he did that with guys like Kai Branch. I know he cut their cut their doses down. Enough about gear. Let's see. Good luck. Good luck. Think you'll shock a lot of people. I agree. Yeah. I wanted to ask you about that because I think a couple months ago you said maybe I'll be like sixth place or something, but are you feeling more confident now that you might be a couple spots higher? I know we got Derek. Derek's going to be very very tough to beat, but you know, you're you're pretty damn good. I think I think you might surprise people and place higher. What do you think? It's both five. Five. Okay. I mean that's in a show with Mr. Olympia and Nick Walker and you know these are all Martin was fourth place, Nick Walker was third place at the Olympia, Derek was Mr. Olympia, Bonak has been second. I think top five would be great and I think you can do it. I think too after my big injury is great for top five. Yeah. See, look at those arms. Yeah. Compare your arms to Derek. You I I think you might have the best arms in pro bodybuilding right now. Uh I can't think of anybody that really has better arms than you. Can you? Is anybody even close? Nick Walker, I think. He's got pretty good arms. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I'll give him that. I'll give him that. But we go to the footage. I like to look at the Marcoin. Yeah. But I mean, you have more detail. I mean, the Nick has huge arms, but he doesn't have as much separation and detail in there. I I just I I'm AI'm old. I like this the 90s detail, and that's what I see in Michael. I see the same detail that guys like Shawn Ray, Kevin Levrone, uh you know, Dorian Yates, that really quality. He has much to learn from Americans on how to approach the shoulder training. That's why he's Yeah, I I think your shoulders are just fine, but uh yeah, look at those arms. What What did they They me What's the biggest they've measured at? Because somebody's going to want to know. I don't know. Maybe around 16 cm 24 inch. Jeez. Okay. I was gonna I had my tape measure, but 24 inches. Good. Good god. That's like Ronnie Coleman when he was 320 pounds. All right, let's see what else we got. just three days out. So, one muscle group you think improve now. What do you think? What do you think the muscle group that you've improved the most since the last time we saw you? gone improving any specific muscle groups. He was just happy to be out of the injury and healthy again. We will Saturday. Uh we will see Saturday. We'll see Saturday. Absolutely. You'll see. You have to wait for it. This is a good compliment. Koi is the Levoni of this era. Kevin Kevin was very good. Was good. Yes. his mental when I was good as Kevin. Yeah, Kevin's pretty popular over in in Eastern Europe. I've noticed places like Poland, Slovakia, that whole part of the world, Kevin Levrone is very popular today. Yes. 30 years after he retired. Well, he wasn't retired out. It wasn't that long ago. Um, what's the biggest mental hurdle you've had to overcome during this prep? He was very hungry and tired. Oh, too tired to get up. Yeah, you would almost spend the entire night to it was the two in one. He would just browse through the internet, browse social media and so on. So, it was relaxing too. It was my night thinking room. Well, I think everybody watching this has their phone when they go to the bathroom. They're sitting on the toilet. Um, here's a good one. Uh, yeah, here's a good one because you are you are huge, but you also have the conditioning. How do you balance staying full without sacrificing the conditioning? Because that's that's the challenge for every pro is staying full while being shredded because it's sometimes it's either or. you come in a little full and you're not as conditioned or you come in super conditioned but flat. So, I remember talking to George a couple weeks ago and he said he had a plan just basically not doing anything crazy at the last minute and we're almost at the last minute. We're in the last three days. So, you know, you don't have to give away your secrets, but how do you plan on staying nice and full? He doesn't feel that full. Especially in the mornings, he feels really flat. But when he posts pictures, it's after his workouts, after posing, when he's pumped up. Yeah. I mean, you look like you're about to pop. No bodybuilder would take pictures in a mirror when he's flat. No. No. Well, they do, but then they have to tell you they're flat. That's what happens. Exactly. They say, "This is morning, but I'm super flat, so you're not supposed to judge them." But yeah, look at that. I'm about to Look at that. Is that is very full right there. Right there. Uh see so does do you do better with high carbs, low protein or high protein, low carbs? Uh high carbs, high carbs, uh protein, average protein. Okay. And uh very little fat. Did you already start carb? 500 to 600 gram of carbs feels the best. Around 400 grams of proteinum and up to 100 grams of fat. That's the optimal case. Is that is that average day or is that like right now today? We're not talking about today, but a day that makes him feel good, comfortable, where he's able to train at his best. So, this will be the ideal nutrients for like everyday life for him. Okay, cool. so that he can also function like a regular human being. So Alder White says, "Can't wait to see you and Nick Walker hit the front double bicep because yeah, I think between Don't worry. You two I think have the best arms in Bible. If Nick Walker, Nick's gonna disappear. I love it. Uh, did you already start carb loading today? Today. Today. Okay. Yes. Uh, can you read this because I can't read Slovak? Is this Is this Slovak right here? Let me see. Yeah, it was a compliment. Oh, okay. Good. Good thing I didn't put up something that was an insult because I don't know. I like him. Yeah. Stripey delts. Yeah. You know, Giles talks about stripey delts because some guys have no striations, but Michael has like 10,000 stripes in his delts. We like that. We know that's like every Gile comment is the same. Well, he likes stripey delts. Uh, this is from uh I don't know if you know Xavier Willis in Australia, Desktop Bodybuilding. Yeah. Uh, does does Krezo believe he can win? No. Okay. Yeah. I mean, we never learn to win Mr. Olympia. They're big names. Mr. Olympias competing here. Yeah. I mean, Derek, if Derek doesn't win, I'd be very, very surprised. But like I said, top five in this show. This is just like the Arnolds to me. It's It's just as good a lineup top five. So, I think I think better than Arnold. Did Did they try to Did they invite you to the Arnold, but it was too soon? Yes. Yeah. Next Arnold. Next Arnold. When Ivoice invite invoice, if he get the invite for next year, he would like to attend the Arnold. Okay. Will you be driving from Pittsburgh to New Jersey for New York Pro? Yeah. fly. Driving or flying? I don't know why they want to know. They want to recommend a gym on the way, but I don't think you're going to be stopping while you're traveling to go to the gym, probably. Oh, no. I'm the driver stopping. I don't want to do it. You've been driving the US. Do they Let me Patrick. Do they drive uh on the on the left side in Slovakia? Well, same same. Oh, I love it. Yeah. See, I went to Australia. They were on the other side. I didn't like that. Only English and Australian are Someone said the only two competitors that I know are ripped are KZO and Nick. Yeah, I agree. Uh, El is the back improve the posing. Yeah, I mean I, you know, I don't think you're a bad poser, but have you been working hard on your posing? Yes. Yeah, we we visited a legend of Czech bodybuilding, Lucas Oswil, and we also practiced with him couple couple weeks ago. Oh, Lucas. Very good poser. Very, very does that thing. He rolls his abs. He was trained by George, too. Oh, George Farah. Okay. Yeah, that's right. I remember they I remember him in Tampa. We all had dinner together one night. Uh, do you get along with your fellow competitors? Yeah. I mean, do you do you talk to anybody else that that's competing or do you is there anybody that's a good friend of yours that's that's competing or that's a pro? No, not really. Okay. Usually with the Czech competitors, checkers. Okay. Same language, right? Yes. Very similar. Very similar. Yes. I mean, when I was a boy, it was Czechoslovakia. That was the country. Yeah. Now it's two countries, right? Yeah. Uh give us some final questions because we got to go. Yeah. Yeah. We'll do. Yeah. I know. We've already been going for almost a half hour. Um do you have a favorite bodybuilder from the past? Wheeler uh Goldman Na. Okay, fair enough. All right, cool. All right. Well, uh, I said I'd make it quick and you've been very, very generous with your time. Uh, everybody's looking forward to seeing you Saturday. There is a live stream, guys. Go to the Instagram for the Pittsburgh Pro and you'll find out all the info. You can see Michael competing up there with Derek, Nick, Martin, Bonak. It's a great great show. We're very happy that you've chose to compete in Pittsburgh and that you're staying around and doing New York Pro. They're going to love you at the New York Pro. That's a great crowd. You're going to have a great time. Trust me. So, uh, okay. So, thank you very much. Thank you very much. You can't even listen anymore. He's so tired. Okay, no worries. So, uh, rest up. Uh, we'll see you on stage Saturday. Thank you very much. Are you Are you coming to Pittsburgh, too? No, I'm not coming. My son is competing Saturday here in Massachusetts. My son is for him. Good luck for him. Thank you. He's gonna like hearing that. He just made He just made his day. All right. Thank you so much, guys. And thanks everybody for watching. That's been the Ron Line Report with Grizzo Muel Ganek. Thank you, bro. Bye. Bye. Bye. You're very good.