Hey everybody, happy new year and welcome to the Ron Line Report. Wanted to uh start the year off 2026 with an excellent guest and who better than the great eighttime Mr. Olympia himself, Lee Haney. Welcome. Welcome, Lee. Very good to have you here. Hey, happy new year to you, Ron, and all the fans out there listening. I hope you guys had your share of uh what uh we call the black ey peas and greens. Black ey peas for the change in uh turnup green or cabbage greens or uh what that turner greens, collard greens. That's for the dollars. That's sort of a old southern tradition. >> Say I don't think there's too many viewers who are eating that stuff. >> Hey, that's that lifegiving food, man. Matter of fact, uh probably about 90% of my diet consists of plant-based now. Oh, wow. >> And I purposely did that. You know, hey, listen, at the age of 66, you you want to do everything you can to stay alive and remain healthy and functional. >> And plant-based is the key to doing that. >> Yeah. And you know, you are 66 years old, still with us, still in excellent health, no aches, pains, you got all your own joints, everything. It's amazing. >> Yeah, man. I was in I got me AI did a back and shoulder abs uh calf workout uh this morning earlier. Yes. So, I'm still at it, man. Not training this heavy, but trying to stay consistent. >> Cool. So, uh uh I I like having you on because it's always positive and uplifting. And we don't just talk about what's wrong with the sport or the industry. We talk about how can we make it better. How can we make everybody better? uplift uplift the sport, the people in it. Uh and that's why you're here because nobody does that better than you as far as I'm concerned. Uh and as an eight-time Mr. Olympia, I wanted to start off with this. Uh I feel like the Mr. Olympia title and the Mr. Olympia winner, most recently, Derek Lensford, was not given much respect at all. In fact, he was blatantly disrespected all over social media. Uh even though he's not a judge and he didn't pick the winner. And you know, you guys, you don't have to agree with the fact that he won the Olympia. A lot of people thought Andrew Jack should have won. A lot of people thought Heidi Chupan should have won, but judges went with Derek. Derek didn't pick himself. Uh, and he's gotten just so much so much outright almost hatred online. Um, you know, that must have made you a little bit upset as a as one of the greatest Mr. Olympia champs of all time to see that title that meant so much to you be treated that way. >> Yeah. Uh Derek is a first class athlete. Uh an incredible role model and for those who follow me on Instagram, you know, I let it be known that it was it was unfair the way he was being treated because he didn't judge himself. you know, uh, that was a decision that the judges made and whether we like it or not, we have to go with that decision and, uh, Derek should enjoy his reign as Mr. Olympia, him and his family because he worked hard to make it happen. So, um, that type of treatment, that type of uh, air, this shouldn't happen within our sport. Uh, you know, we can disagree, but uh, let's not beat up the athlete, you know. If you got any questions of disagreement, hey, go to the judge, say, "Hey guys, you know, what are you thinking? You know, why did you pick Bills? What is the standard?" And and there you go. >> Yeah. >> Because it's a subjective sport, Lee. >> It is. It is. >> I've been following it since 1987 and I remember many many Mr. Olympia contests in that >> 40 40 plus years where most there were there were many times when people didn't agree with the decision. Sometimes they did, sometimes they didn't. But people have their favorites. People have what they prefer in a physique. >> And sometimes the judges don't don't award the guy that you want to be awarded. But that doesn't mean you come after the athlete. And you know, >> Derek, I don't know, you've met Derek. You've spoken with him. >> He's such a he's such a good guy. He's just a humble a humble a man of God, a family man. >> You know, uh >> he's an excellent representative of the sport. He's everything that the sport needs as far as promoting it and uh that outside world looking in. He's he's all of that, you know. But I I would say that too for Samson. >> I would say that for Andrew Jack. I would say that, you know, for for Hottie, all the first class guys, you know, I wish each and every one of them the very best. So, we have some incredible guys up there. So, guys, let's make sure we cheer them on. Let's let's not beat him up cuz it takes a lot to get there. Being Mr. Olympia is a miracle in itself. >> Absolutely. It's still only 16, 17, 18. I I [clears throat] lost track, but it's still it's less than 20 men in 61 years. I've earned that title. >> Mainly because a few a few guys like you and Ronnie hogged up all the titles and Phil Heath and Dory and Arnold. Uh, next thing that I would like to see change is the obsession with drugs. There are entire podcasts that almost entirely focus on talking about the peeds used in bodybuilding Instagram pages. You know, I as a YouTube content creator myself, I I feel like sometimes I'm missing out by not focusing more on that aspect. I could be getting more views, but I don't want I'm not I just I'm not that interested in it. It doesn't interest me. You know, drugs have been a part of bodybuilding for many many years, but uh it's it's to the point where people don't want even to hear about nutrition, training, anything like that. It's like what drugs you using? What were the doses? How long did you use them for? As if those are the keys. It's a part, but those aren't the keys. Lee, >> right? We live in a microwave society now. Everyone wants it fast. Nobody's willing to to uh sacrifice to work hard. uh you know it's a process it's a journey you know nothing happens overnight I mean you can force it and try to make it happen overnight but the end results would not be positive you know uh it's my hope that these young guys uh that are competing now will grow to be a grandpa like me one day you know and still have their health and enjoy their journey but if you adhere to the rhetoric that's being pushed on social media media with all of these different type of drugs and that sort of deal and and not the narrative of good nutrition, good quality training, then bad things is going to happen. And we we're seeing that, you know, young and young athletes are are dying early, you know, with internal organ failures and all of that. So, I mean, you can choose your own poison. Uh I hope that you choose life and be mindful of things like that. You know, Ron, one of the things we talked about few minutes ago was uh you know, here here we are the first of the year. You know, blood work is real important. Getting your blood work done, having your system to reboot itself, you know, following the protocol of good health because your health is your wealth. If you tear yourself up, poverty comes fast, >> you know. So, you got to be mindful of that. You know, even when I was as young as 24 years old, I was getting blood work done. I had my kidney, liver, blood systems checked out. I detox my body. I did all of those things during the early part of my career. And here I am at the age of 66 to say, "Man, I got great health. I can run around with my grandkids. I'm still touring and uh enjoying the fruits of my labor, and I'm not sick. That's that's the blessing of it." Yeah. I mean, how many guys that are blasting huge amounts of drugs right now are going to be 66 years old, if they if they make it to 66 with no heart damage, no kidney damage, no liver damage. I don't think we're going to see a lot because the narrative being pushed out there right now to these young guys is not only are drugs needed, but massive massive doses of drugs of are are needed if you want to look like a pro. And um you know I I see a lot of these kids posting that they're on this and that and to me they look pretty much natural aside from a bloated face and a bunch of zits. I I don't see the development that you expect if drugs were the key. Then why don't they all look like Lee Haney, Dory Yates, and Ronnie Coleman. I don't see that. I I I just see them taking a lot of unnecessary risks. And yeah, your health is your wealth, Lee. is if you know I knock on wood I've never been in really poor health but I've known people that got sick got cancer whatever and they would have given anything to be healthy again anything >> you know it's >> at the end of the day you know even for those who say okay I love bodybuilding I want to seek it uh seek a career in it you you have to think of ways early how how can I economize this hard work and the sacrifice. That's the name of the game. You know, I didn't lift weights and grunt and scream and holler just to win a trophy. I wanted to at the end of the day be able to provide for my family. So my whole mindset was okay uh how do I you know use this opportunity this time in my journey to be able to do those things you know whether having my own gym having my own supplement line my certification organization investing in stocks real estate those kinds of things public speaking all of that I've done uh but I've taken care of my health in order to do So, so that should always be the number one priority. Winning. Yes, I love to win and nobody want to lose. Anybody don't mind losing. Ain't nothing but a loser. And so I never wanted to lose. >> But at the same time, I wanted to make sure that I was healthy. I've always, and as you know, Ron, my term has always been stimulate don't annihilate. >> Yes. And that's in everything you do. Be it in the gym, be it in supplementation, and also if you're going to be using enhancements, you you better do it in that area, too. Especially, >> more is not better. Better is better. And that comes by way of training, good nutrition, consistency, and rest. >> Yeah. I I never get tired of looking at this footage because this was your last win. You were 31 years old here, correct? >> Right. 31 >> 31 years old and going out with eight Olympia titles, your health, uh a beautiful wife and two children, your whole future ahead of you and your health. And here you are 1991, what were we 30 35 years later? >> Yes. Wow. >> It's almost. So, you know, I'm so happy to be here talking with you because a lot of your cohorts and a lot of even guys who came all along much later than you did, they're no longer with us. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> No longer here on Earth enjoying uh you know >> Yeah. >> family and friends and just waking up and seeing the sunshine every day. >> Yes, that's so true, man. you know, in my office downstairs have a poster of Cedric McMillan up on the wall and uh I mean, every time I enter my office, I see that picture of Cedric, you know, and I I I just my heart aches that he's not here that uh his wife and his children, his family, uh don't have him anymore as a father, as a provider, as a protector. >> Yeah. So, I mean, my heart goes out to these younger athletes and them making the right decisions to take care of their health. You know, this year's Lee Haney Games, we introduced the classic bodybuilding division and we'll be uh testing in this in 2026. We didn't have time the last time because of the changes we made as far as uh creating our own uh federation organization on the IFS, but I want a healthy and a safe place for my grandson to compete if he choose to do that as well as athletes from around the world. So, we got some great things that we're working on. I'm excited about. And um there's some beautiful people involved that that heads up their own federations, their own organizations. And it's all about health. You won't see mass monsters in these in these organizations. It don't exist >> because the number one priority is health. >> Right on. Before we continue, I want you guys in the comments. I like the beard on Lee. His wife likes it. His kids and grandkids like it. Uh, let let him let him know. He's he's curious to see what the uh what the fans think. I I think it's pretty unanimously. I don't think anyone's going to say shave it. It looks it suit it suits you well. You know, it's it's very distinguished looking. All right, next topic. I wanted to see the the infighting, the the bickering, the feuding. Um, we just saw it with the women in the women's physique division where what where former champ is going after the current champ over this or that. And it's just a bad look because we're already such a small niche sport. We're already looked at as freaks and weirdos and outcasts by the mainstream public. So the least we could do as this little fraternity, this little brotherhood of bodybuilders is get along amongst ourselves. So it really it bothers me to see us fighting each other. >> Yes, that that's so true, Ron. You know, there's a you know, there's a saying that goes, "A house divided cannot stand." That is that is so true. We already have the world throwing rocks at us, you know, like you know that's strange that that doesn't look right or you know what's the matter with him or her, you know. So amongst each other there's a brotherhood that exists and you know I like to think of how I came through and during my era you had death of Will Cos you had Dave John you had Alba Beckles you had Tom Platin you have Muhammad Cowe you had Frank Zayn you had you you you you had Roy Calendarer you had um all of these incredible champions that we were together doing tours in different countries and it was never a word of negativity. We laughed, you know, we ate together, you know, it was just a beautiful thing and I I guess with the social media era, um things has changed a lot. I don't not guess, I know it have. And so we tend to hide behind social media and we say things uh that doesn't build our sport. It tears it down, you know, and I don't want the outside world looking at us like, you know, this and that and other, you know, listen, where Arnold is gone is because of the of the positivity of our sport, what he's been able to achieve. what I've been able to do, you know, chairman to the president's council on fitness and sports, a show on ESPN, a show on the Trinity Broadcast Network, spoke all around the world, you know, uh, introduction to the International Sports Hall of Fame. It was a because of reputation and because of the the the positive vibes that bodybuilding gave off, you know, being sought after by people like Steve Harvey, you know, Tyler Perry, I mean, just to name a few. Shannon Shaw, I Holoffield, all of that with positivity. See, that type of rhetoric that we're hearing now didn't exist during that time. So, I hope that we can come together. I mean, not that we have to agree with everything that happens and but at least let's agree with our brotherhood. And if we're going to do if we're going to have some dirty laundry, let's not throw it out there before the world. >> Yeah. Yeah. Another thing that's sort of related to that is obviously you see in the comments in Instagram, there's a lot of people with these troll accounts and they it's always negative. they're just insults or putting people down. You know, my mom always used to say if you if you ain't got nothing nice to say, don't say anything at all. You know, I I don't care about NASCAR driving that that racing. But I So, I wouldn't go on a NASCAR driver's Instagram page and say, "You suck." But, you know, that I just wish the fans the fans who are the real fans don't do that. I just wish the ones who I don't know, they're either just casually interested in tearing down people, I wish they would just reconsider, too. But I had to throw that in there. Uh >> yeah. Yeah. You You got a lot of wannabes out there. You know, >> I have every so often I have somebody make a a weird comment on my Instagram and and I don't reply back because it's beneath me to do that. Not saying I'm better than anyone, but at the same time, I realize that is not someone of the brotherhood of bodybuilding, >> right? >> You know, what Shawn Rail say and what Bob Chick say, uh, what Chris Creier say, Milov say, you know, uh, guys of that character yourself, run, I look to because we're part of a brotherhood. We we may not agree with each other on every topic, but at the same time, we respect each other because we've been there, done that. I mean, we've been in the trenches, I mean, pumping iron and sacrificing. So, we we we we understand where we come from with each other, you know, and that's important. >> Yeah. Uh this is one that you brought to my attention right before we started recording. Uh I forgot and you reminded me that in your era and for a while afterward the judging panel of Mr. Olympia would be comprised of judges from all around the world. So you were judged by maybe somebody from Belgium, somebody from France, somebody from Israel, somebody from Panama. Uh and now it does seem to be a mostly American judging panel for a show that's it's our world championship. It's the Mr. Olympia. It's not the USA or the Uh the nationals. Um so yeah, I mean would you would you like to see a return to that somehow? >> Well, I I really feel if the Mr. Olympia is a worldwide competition championship, I mean the Super Bowl of the world cuz the Super Bowl is the United States, you know, really. So the Mr. Olympia is worldwide. There was a time that the world was part of the Mr. Olympia as far as the judge and panel before there was a split between with the NPC and the BBB which um which Ben Weider started IFBB the NPC was started by Mr. Jim Manion. He was a feeder into the IFBB. So during that time, you had to go by way of the IFBB. And listen close, youngsters, because you guys don't know this history, you know, for you guys listening. >> The NPC was a feeder into the IFBB. And only after you win the BBB world championship, which each country sent representatives at least four to five >> that was that was sometime what lightweight, middleweight, light heavy, heavyweights during my era. >> Yeah. >> And only when you win your class um at the world championship were you allowed to uh go on and become a pro. But each country sent a diplomat and each of those countries was a IFBB official that was over that particular region of the world. And so when the judging panels came together, these representatives were the judges, the best of the best around from around the world. >> Yeah. >> So that's what it was comprised of during that time. I would like to see it become that again. Thereby having if you're going to have a world competition, a world competition, you need world judges. >> Yeah, >> that's what I feel. Not just judges from the US cuz Okay, you got you still got athletes from around the world coming, >> right? you know, you got them from India, you got them from Iran, you got them all from all over the place, you know, so it should be representative of the world when it comes to the judging criteria. So that's something that I would like to see happen whether it will or not only up to the powers that be, you know, not to knock the judges that we have now. I'm not saying that. But I will say if you got a worldclass event, there need to be a world judging panel heading up the event as far as the decisions are concerned. >> Yeah. And there there are judges they could, you know, I don't know the pool of judges they're drawing from, but and even though the IPB split, we still have NPC worldwide, there are still shows going on in places like Russia and Korea and uh in the Middle East that are, you know, I'm assuming there are judges there that we qualify. I also want to remind people because you just said something that the younger guys might not realize is back in the early days of the NPC nationals. You were the first NPC national champion. 82 I think Bob Paris was 83. I want to say Mike Christian 84. For at least the first three maybe four years or five years you couldn't turn pro in the United States. There was absolutely no avenue. you had to go to the worlds and beat all the other in your case heavyweights from >> England, Japan, France, Iran, Egypt, wherever. Um, so yeah, that's it's things have changed quite a bit, guys. Back then when Lee won the nationals, he still wasn't a pro. He was still an amateur. Unbelievable. Um, last thing we want to talk about uh is what you'd like you talked about this uh much better than I could. a better balance of of not just this physical body and building up the big strong muscles that you see on the exterior, but your inner self, the spiritual side of yourself, uh, psychologically, spiritually, mentally. So, talk talk to me a little bit about that, Lee. >> Well, you know, Ron, you we live in an age now, particularly with social media going on, you we we hear of athletes that are dealing with depression. uh some has committed suicide and it and it's still happening. We don't always hear about it but it's happening and I strongly feel that that's because of not having a balance you know we can grow up and become those this huge muscle little monster but on the inside spiritually still remain a toddler >> you know and then that's that's no balance when it when these type of things happen. So I always emphasize with young athletes, make sure you breathe. as you uh as you uh uh make this journey breathe you know and in breathing you have to make sure you're balanced spiritually not just physically but also spiritually you know and I I for me my relationship with Jesus Christ as a follow of Jesus Christ I'm not religious so I'm not that I hear a lot of people say religion religion religion has gotten a lot of people killed I liken myself into a follower of Jesus Christ. If you know anything about Jesus Christ, he walked in love. Yes, he lost he he walked in strength and he was um he was he was welcoming to people who didn't look like him and that sort of thing. be taught the importance of balance in life, you know, and not to worship or idolize anything because bodybuilding can become an idol where all you think about waking up and lying down is your is your next show. uh how much protein you know let my body my body becomes an idol in which you know the Lord tells us that's not where we want to be and I've never allowed myself to see my career in that way you know uh I you know it's my career I had a wife and two beautiful kids m training for the Mr. Olympia or any shows was my job. But when I left the job, I was a father. I was a husband. I was all of that. And what gave me balance was my relationship, you know, with Jesus Christ. I read my Bible. I studied the book of Proverbs. I studied Psalms. I've read and that is became a part of my spirit. Thereby when things come my way or different type of things that I'm physically may not be able to control then I go to prayer concerning those things. I don't let I remember having a doing an interview with one of the anchor people uh on NBC and he asked me can't think of his name now Lee uh tell me about a time in your life that you were stressed out and you just didn't know how you was going to make it out. I looked at him and said, "Listen, I don't have a time in my life when I felt that way because I didn't allow myself to feel that way because I believe what the word of God has to say." And it says to me that I'm ahead and not to tail, I'm far above and not beneath. That all that I set my hands to do, I shall prosper in. So, these are the words that I gathered from reading and studying the word of God. So, it has empowered me all through the years. Even when I was met with things that didn't go my way or that look weird, I I still met the challenge knowing spiritually I was a winner and that I I had overcame those things. And that's what the word of God teaches. So, it's very important, you know, as we grow or we meet different parts of our career that we keep God first in those things. My mom taught me this as early age. She said, "Son, you put the Lord first in your life and it'll take you around the world and you'll be blessed and you'll maintain stability." And it has been a saving grace for me. And so that's something I'd like to pass on to younger athletes. Make sure you remain your balance. Always know that there's authority and a power greater than you are. >> And also know too, >> well, Lee, uh, thank you so much. I knew I knew bringing you on for the the new year would be a a good idea. Your insights, your attitude, something we all need to consider as we begin this whole new year of our lives. Uh not only as bodybuilders but as human beings. And you know, you you always remind us that there there are things that are more important than the muscles, our health, uh our spirituality, uh just being a well-rounded person and not being onedimensional. Because at the end of the day, bodybuilding is a temporary thing. You're not going to be a a big competitive bodybuilder forever. And there should be a uh not only a life after bodybuilding, but a content and meaningful life after bodybuilding. So, always always appreciate you sharing your wisdom with us, Lee. Thank you so much. >> Thanks, Ron. God bless you. Happy New Year. >> All right, everybody. Thanks for watching the Ron Line Report with the great eighttime Mr. Olympia champion, Lee Haney, and we will see you next time.