All right, everybody. Welcome to the Ron Line Report. Please welcome a very special guest, a birthday boy all the way from Australia, the living legend, Lee Priest. Wow. Thank you, Ron. Have fancy this doing a podcast on my birthday. Well, it's not your birthday here yet, so technically. No, no, but we'll have to we'll do another one tomorrow then. So, yeah. Wow. I can't believe you're 53. Unbelievable. I know. It's like remember when you're younger and your parents would always tell you enjoy life cuz as you get older it goes quicker and you'll be like yeah [\h__\h] off mom yeah whatever. Now you're older you're like they were correct it does go fast. Well you know that they say youth is wasted on the young. I'm 100% convinced that is so true. Oh couldn't you just go back like when you were young you couldn't wait to grow up and as you get older you're like [\h__\h] I wish I was younger again. Dude, I would I would give my left nut because I don't really need both nuts anyway. But I would give my left nut to be like 20, even 30 again, even 40 because I'm 55. Yikes. All right. Well, on your birthday, I have given you this task. How to fix bodybuilding. Today, we're going to fix the entire sport of bodybuilding. Thanks to uh Lee Lee Priest and his infinite wisdom. Thank you. And I'm only doing this podcast on how to fix bodybuilding. So, the voice of bodybuilding can do a video about me saying how dumb I am. Well, like I said, when Bob Chikarillo uh disparages you, you know you've succeeded because you've gotten under Bob's skin, as it were. Well, I thought Bob was a bit harsh on some of them when he goes these idiotic ideas. Like, you know, look, people throw ideas out there. Doesn't mean it has to be done that way or a certain way, but it's good to get the discussion going somehow. Like, you know, yes, you throw ideas out there. Some might be stupid, some might be dumb, but some might lead into something else. So, you can't just dismiss every idea and say it's stupid. You know, yes, it might need tweaking certain ways for it to actually work, but don't just cut people off and go, "That's dumb. Why would you even [\h__\h] say that?" Blah, blah, blah. It's like, come on. Well, you got to be careful, Bob, when you say, "That's the dumbest idea I've ever heard." Because there can be you can get a there are levels to stupidity and to say that invitation only Olympia is the dumbest idea you've ever heard. No. Maybe like putting uh pedophiles in charge of a nursery. That's probably the dumbest idea I've ever heard. Something like that would be dumber. Well, well, Bob, you're about to hear a few more dumb ones today. All right. So, let's get let's kick it off. Two old two guys over 50. Uh driver. Of course, we're going to we're going to say there's too many pro cards because I want to go back to your I want to talk tell the story of your pro how you got a pro card because at the USA Championships coming up very soon in Las Vegas in one contest they're going to give away 87 87 pro cards in one show. So when you were a youth back in the back in the early 90s in Australia, um how many men in Australia turned pro every year? Sometimes you could go years and years with no one because I wanted like I said to Mr. Stray when I was 17, 18, and 19. And your excuse for those three years was you're too young to get your pro card. You're too young. And that's when, as you know, Lou Zuk was bringing me over when I was 19 before I turned 20 to do the amateur Niagara Falls. And just so happened when I was in the gym, Manion saw me and contacted Wayne and Wayne contacted Australia. got my pro card that way because I'd already, like I said, won my national title three times. It's only my age had held me back. So, yeah, it took a while to get it. And now, yeah, look, what it get annoys me is like I understand an overall getting it or maybe even a class winner at some events, but that many pro cards, it does water it down sadly. And and we've seen it so many times, you know, back in the day. Hey, we're are old so we say back in the day, you know, when it was like you'd see those lineups at the USA or the nationals, it was like Tom Prince, Chris Cormier, Flex Wheeler. And it was like one of those would get a pro card. What did the other guys have to do? Well, maybe do the USA in July or the Nationals again. But they had another whole year to bed themselves. So when they back then when you turned pro as you'd know when they got their pro card they were ready to stand on a pro stage like Flex Kevin everyone they went straight on the pro stage and did pretty good. Whereas now sadly like anyone that trains I respect we all train hard we all get in there and do it but sadly now some of these guys who get their pro card I look at them I'm like you're just a bad amateur. It's like to me, even if you have a proqualifying show, these judges know what pro standard is. And if the guy who wins the overall can't stand on a pro stage, I'm sorry, you don't get a pro card. You have the opportunity to get one, but if I don't think you're up to pro caliber, it' be like, if you had qualifying for the Olympics and someone can't run a certain time, you're not going to send them off to the [\h__\h] Olympic Games to represent your country, are you? It's like, go train hard to come back next year. So, now it's just crazy. Like I said, then you interview them. I've seen so many of them. So, when's your pro debut? Well, I think I need two to three years to put more size on. So, you're pretty much admitting you're not ready to be a [\h__\h] pro, so you should have just stayed into amateurs. And that's another thing people go, they give out so many pro cards because it's all about the money. I'm like, no, it's not. You get 80 people who get a pro card or 87 at this USA or nationals. Yeah. They pay one fee, which is like what, 275 or 300 a year for the pro card. Well, I mean the entry for the USA is like 300 bucks per Well, that's the entry fee. I understand the entry fee. That's why I'm saying because people are saying that they're turning people pro to get money that way. I'm thinking no, the NPC and that makes more money when they're amateur because like you said, every amateur show they do, they got to pay to enter it. And then if they want to do one division, they got to pay to go in that division. If they want to do crossover divisions, they got to pay for all those divisions. So, keeping giving out one or two pro cards and keeping the other 78 people amateur, they make more money when they're amateur because once you get the pro card, you pay one fee a year and that's it. So, well, I mean that I I to that I that's I was thinking that too, but then I thought, well, if you made it that much more difficult to turn pro, you didn't offer as many pro cards at these pro qualifiers like the Nationals USA, North American, maybe a lot of people would be discouraged and they said, "Well, geez, they're only giving away 10 pro cards. Forget it. that's too hard. They might try once and say, "Man, that's too hard." Now, that might be a good that might be a good reality check for people to go, "Yes, it's too hard." And deep down, I'm not procalur, so I'm never going to get a [\h__\h] pro card if I got to compete like that. And the best of the best are the ones that get it, not second place, third place, or give it to your [\h__\h] grandmother. If you're sick, we'll give it to her to get your pro card. So, it's like, it's just like I said, watered down. Back in the day, as we say again, when you looked at somebody, you knew they were pro. You could walk into any gym back in the day and go, "Fuck, he must be pro. He must be pro." Now you get people coming up, "Hey, Lee, such and such." Yeah, I'm a pro bodybuilder, too. I'm like, "Oh, are you?" Like, okay. It's like, yeah, when you got to tell someone, then you know, hey. Well, I mean, like, like I said, I when I used to walk into a a gym in Venice, because most of the pros back then would they were either living there out west or they would visit. You knew them. You could you could spot them from across the gym. You'd like, "Oh, wow. That's a pro bodybuilder." I go to a gym. It's just a regular gym. It's a pretty big gym, but we have about at any given time between seven to 10 pros, IFBB pro league pros that train there. And a lot of them you would walk right past. You would never ever you wouldn't be like, "Oh my god." You just think it's another another kind of buff guy or kind of buff girl, but nothing overly special. Yeah. And I'm not, like I said, I'm not taking nothing away from them. They went and compete in that. But that's the judging. It's like anything. It all comes back to the judging. You know, with all these different classes that have come out, you know, back in the day, we were told, "Watch your stomachs. If your stomach gets too big, we're going to mark you down." Did they do that? No. So, everyone got bigger and bigger. Their stomachs got bigger to what they have to do. Oh, we need to start classic now because the open guys are getting too grotesque looking. Same with women's bodybuilding. They told the women, "Lose 20% of your muscle." Kathy and those girls did. What do they do? Rewarded the big girls. So, the girls went, "Well, [\h__\h] it. We might as well get big." They got too big. Now we got to start physique. Then we got to start figure. Then we got to start this. And now we got this new class, the fit model, whatever it is. Because we want the people to look like bikini used to look. Well, if the judges had kept it under check, we wouldn't have to keep making classes. The judges have a criteria they meant to or guidelines they meant to go by. If they went by those guidelines, they wouldn't have to keep making these new classes. So, you know, people get up the up the competitors, but the competitors are only doing what the judges are rewarding. So if if a guy who's bigger and bloated is winning, you'd be like, "Well, [\h__\h] I might as well get big and bloated, too, for my chance to win." So they never kept it in check. They let it get out of control. And now look where it is. We have a class for everybody. That's the thing. I mean, back in the old days, there was there was men's bodybuilding, was women's bodybuilding. That was it. You know, if you said you competed, you didn't have to ask which division. It was there was it was only one. Now, like you said, there's something for everyone. And I predict, mark my words, probably at the end of this year, Tyler's going to make a video announcing fit male model or beach body. It'll be something that's less than men's physique because men's just like bikini started out with a very attainable like natural look. Men's physique, those guys are blasting gear out of their eyeballs. What the heck? And no, it's don't do what you said. Now we're going to start this men's fit body and we want you to look like how men's physique used to look when it started. Well, if you had kept it under control, you wouldn't have to start a new class again, right? Yeah. So, I mean, is this is this it? Do we should we add I mean, we're not gonna they're not going to take any divisions away, but No, every time I think there's not going to be any more divisions. They can't possibly add another division. There's another division that comes through. Granted, it's like one a year. They don't roll them out all at once because then there would be an uproar. And the thing is people like sadly they I call them the down syndrome divisions because it just seems like we're dumbing it down. Give everyone the war type thing. I've said it before. I might I might want to go win the Olympic gold medal sprinting, but they're not going to be like, "Oh, Lee, you can't run under 10 seconds." That's okay. Next Olympics, we're going to make it 25 second class for retards like you who can't make the 10-second class. So, you can still go the Olympics and get a gold medal in your special class. So, it's like, yes, the cream's going to rise to the top, but to me, to be a pro bodybuilder and get to that level, you're talking about the top 1%. And that's the sad thing because there's a lot of guys out there that love training and they train their asses off. Look, some amateur guys train harder than the pros. So, I'm not putting them down, but you got to be a realistic person where you can have a good physique, but somebody might only ever get to state level. They'll look great, but state level is all they're going to get. They might do a nationals or USA, but they might not win it. Then you get the ones who win the USA and nationals who might get a pro cup, but they're not going to be a good pro. Then you get the ones who will turn pro, they might do so, so because there's always different levels. So, you know, to say, you know, to have so many pro cards going out, like to me, it's like you just waddle it down. And to me, to get a pro card used to be something special and like I said, it's still special, but you know, I don't want to take it away from people, but it's like I'm a pro. I'm a pro, but it's like deep down are you really? And how many people get get pro cards and they've never competed as a pro? They just use it for their business or they can put in their name pro IFBB blah blah blah for their personal training business or whatever. So, it's just crazy. It's like just stay amateur and just do whatever. See, I I think there's a big difference now. Years and years ago, when I was competing in the NPC, I don't remember everybody aspiring to be a pro. They they enjoyed competing. They like the challenge getting in shape. They wanted to win these contests and they wanted Most of us did aspire to go to the national level, but in our in our hearts of hearts, we're like, you know, a pro is like Flex Wheeler. It's a Lee Priest. It's a Ronnie Coleman. I'm I'm not that. we knew, but now it seems like I see the hashtaggoing pro or you know going for my pro card. Everyone seems to it's not good enough to just compete and do do it for the love of the of the I get people all the time that say to write to me go look you think what it takes to be a pro. I'm like listen and I've always said this if you have the passion for the sport and you love training and that you know whether you do or you don't you're not going to know till you try. So I say give it 100%. You know, because I've said if you never touched a drug and you're just genetically gifted, you train right, you eat right, you get the rest in, you're going to grow. You'll be just one of those people who you see pick up a weight and they just grow naturally. So, without even thinking I'm going to be a pro because I never got into saying I was going to be a pro. I got into it because I love to look like He-Man. I love training. My friend said, "Maybe you should try competing." I'm like, "I'll give it a go." And I did. I did well at it. But still, even when I was winning shows, I never said I was going to be approved. When I got my pro card, I'm thinking, "Fuck, I'm not on the same level as these guys." When I was at [\h__\h] Falls, I'm like, "Fuck, you know, there's David Dur." You know, all the people all of a sudden I looked at in the magazines. Now I'm standing on stage with them. I'm like, "Oh, [\h__\h] hell. This is like, you know, surreal to be up here." So, I think if you got what it takes, it will happen. You don't need to force it. You don't need to tell people I'm going to be pro. If you do everything right, it will happen. It's like in any sport. Some people are gifted for running, basketball, baseball. They just have that natural ability. And same with bodybuilding. And that's why I said it's like for some reason I got friends that play tennis, they love it, play golf, but they do it for fun. They might be competitively, but they're not saying, "Hey Lee, you know what? Next year, [\h__\h] I'm not going to [\h__\h] Wimbleton. Dr. Vic is going going down." It's like they understand their limits. But for some reason today, everyone that goes into the gym and takes a bit of gear. I can be a pro. I can be a pro. It's like, no, you can't. It's like you can probably be an okay bodybuilder. And that's why I said just have fun. like you said, go train, compete if you want to compete, and if it's going to happen, it will happen. But the thing is, because they've watered it down now, so many people it's happening to when it shouldn't be. And I say I'm not taking nothing away from them, but you know, you got to be realistic with it. If you do get your pro card, think to yourself, am I really going to place in the top 10 of any pro show and most of them won't. So yeah, dude, do you blame We didn't have a lot of coaches back in the old days. I I suspect that a lot of the coaches now, and there are thousands and thousands of them, I believe that they sort of blow smoke up the asses a lot of these clients and make them think they have much greater potential than they do because that's that keeps them going, keeps them competing and competing year after year. Well, exactly. We look now, just look on online now. They got big muscular men, big muscles everywhere, and you just say the wrong thing and [\h__\h] me dead. Do they get upset? It's like Jesus Christ people. Stop being so sensitive. Whe it's constructive criticism or someone's just being a [\h__\h] troll in you. It's just words. Get over it. If someone has an opinion of you, okay, someone might not like your physique. Some people like the classical, you know, like the Bob Paris style. Some like the freaky Nick Walkers. So just because someone says something negative about you, don't take it to heart for [\h__\h] sake. Just move on. What's it doesn't mean anything to you. Just go [\h__\h] train. Prove them wrong if that's what you're going to set out to do. But so many people are so sensitive now when you watch any podcast if someone just says one little bit of thing of negativity. [\h__\h] him. It's like just relax people. Come on. I I don't know how many times I was told I was going to die and get big on the Deadpool and everything. Yeah. Well, I can I can tell you now, Lee, I I never told you this, right? Remember the Deadpool in uh in the old uh Muscle Media 2000? Oh, yeah. Yeah. That was me that wrote those. They were funny though. I think it was my name. My name on get big was um what they call me someone Dundee something crocodile dumundee I came up with that I had a different name almost like crocodile but something else and they kept going on this year look how bulked up he is he's gonna die at 24 and I'm okay next year thank god you proved me wrong I'm glad you I'm glad you're still kicking that were funny but we just laughed at that type of [\h__\h] you know people like I said you're not going to please everybody and like I said there's trolls out there and half the trolls who write half the [\h__\h] are really fans anyway. They're just writing [\h__\h] to get a rise out here and even if you reply it's like, "Oh [\h__\h] he replied to me. Even if you abuse them, they're like, "Haha, you still saw what I said." So just let it go, people. Don't [\h__\h] take it to heart. It's like, you know, everyone's got an opinion, good or bad. Just, you know, ignore it. All right, let's fix the Olympia now. The qualifying or the prize money. Where do we start? Well, there's three to 400 athletes at the Olympia. think it's around the average is around 350 lately between all the divisions. You add them all up. Some of these divisions I don't think men's open has ever had a problem with way too many guys on stage. I think it's 20 to 25 is average. We do see because there's not that many open body open shows. It cost it costs a lot more money to promote an open show. The sanction fee is higher. You have to pay higher prize money. So, people shy away from that. Classic is cheaper to put on a classic pro show. bikini, uh, figure, uh, wellness, fit model. These other ones are all, well, fit model starts next year. We end up with 50 to 60 athletes on stage in some of these divisions like men's physique, bikini, and classic because they all did, they won a show. They earned their right to be there. But now we have 50 to 60 athletes on stage at one time, and the judges have to sit there and the crowd has to sit there while these judges do the their due diligence. You can't someone they made it to the Olympia. You can't just not look at them. You have to call out every single person in a group. Give them a fair shot. So, do we cut down the amount of pro shows? I don't think that's going to happen. Do we make it harder where maybe there's a tier one, tier two, tier three? You have to either a point system or you have to win a two shows in some of these cases to get to the Olympia. How would you, you know, if Dan Solomon said or Jake Wood says, "Lee, you're the man for the job. I want you I want you to decide how are we going to cut down the amount of athletes competing in the Olympia. What would your what would your solution be? Well, my solution would be only one guy qualifies. You know, back in our day, it was the top 10 would requalify for the following year. So, and generally because, you know, there wasn't as many new pros coming through. A lot of the time the same guys would be there, but they were all top quality. You know, look at the top 10 at the Olympias back in the 90s, early 2000s. any of those guys could be up in the top six any given day. You know, certain shows you have now where you might get the first top three or four are good. The rest are like you say, second tier type. I even hate hate saying second tier type pros, but if you get up on the pro stage, you deserve to be there, but doesn't mean you're going to do good in the show. But yeah, like the Olympia, I'd have to Mr. Olympia would re-qualify. But I've always said to me to get the Olympia, at least win a show. But if you win a show, you have to at least do two to three shows minimum a year. That way the promoters make more money, the fans get to see guys on stage more because a lot of these guys compete once a year, twice if lucky. Lucky this year Samson and them have done a few more and Bonak's done a few more which is great to see because you're a pro bodybuilder. That's your job. Get out and compete. You know, I know Sean back in the day would just sit and wait for Olympia, but everybody else would do a minimum two or three to four shows a year. That one year with the European tours, I did 11 shows that year. So, I think pros should be made to do at least three shows a year just to help the sport, helps the fans, they get to see them more on stage. And plus the athletes, the more you compete, the more you're going to learn your body, the more you're going to learn how to dial it in. Doing one show a year, then it's hit and miss. If you mess up, what you got to wait till next year to do it again. And what you do this year, it's not, you know, it's never going to be the same. You could have a diet where you come in shredded. You do that same diet next year, it doesn't work the same. and you got to make tweaks and change it up again. So, I'd have the first guy, but then, you know, the point system wasn't bad because that way, even if you didn't win a show, guys who maybe did do four or five shows earned the right to go the Olympia due to the points they accumulated. So, that always helps guys get there because they're competing more, which I said is good, rather than just sitting on your ass. And I know people say, "But competing is dangerous, taking all those drugs." Yeah, they're taking all those drugs, but they're eating clean. They're doing cardio. offseason, guess what? They're taking all those drugs. They're overweight. They're not doing [\h__\h] cardio. So, offseason is a lot more worse than actually getting ready for a [\h__\h] contest. So, you know, really something today to show. And really now, if you're not doing anything stupid and you're not going crazy with diuretics, it ain't that [\h__\h] dangerous. Back in the day was, you know, guys taking diuretics way too much, taking them way too long before shows and drying out and cramping up where most of the problems come from with the deaths. It wasn't the actual steroids. It was the diuretics that was [\h__\h] causing the problems. So yeah, I'd go back to that Mr. Olympia qualifies. Everyone else has to re-qualify. But pros need to at least do two to three shows a year to be a pro or keep your pro card. You know, you want to, you know, I know they have it was it now three years. If you don't compete, you lose your pro card. You got to re-qualify. Well, I think they amended that so that you have to just keep renewing your pro card, keep paying the membership fee. Yeah. Well, I would I'd make it two years. You haven't been on a pro state in two years. you lose it. That way you can go back amateur. You can try to get it again if you think you're good enough or you're still going to make money because you're going to compete to amateurs again. But there's so many, like I said, get it and just use it for their title. But I just want to see more pros out there competing more. And like I said, this year's probably been the first year where we've seen, like I said, Bonak Sass has proved you can do it. You can do it if you want to. It's just I said, we get lazy. I know certain times if you do too much I've happened to me once when I did a lot of shows you get to a point where your body does need a rest because you can be dieting cardio take all the drugs but your body just seems to shut down no matter how much cardio you do you can cut back the food you probably happened to you Ron and you're just like [\h__\h] my body's not changing even though I'm cutting back on the food my body's pretty much just telling me hey I need a break so so I mean as far as these divisions you know I hate to pick on divisions but when they do We have had 60 people on stage in some of these divisions at the Olympia, which you want to think of the Mr. or the not the Mister, just the Olympia in general as the elite, the best of the best. If you're 59th in the world, are you really elite? I mean, you're still very good, but can you say you're one of the best? Well, I think I'm the voice where Bob and Sean were talking. I think Sean had some good ideas where Sean was saying like the prejudging round, have that as the cut round, you know, for the prejudging where if you had 20 odd or say in the men's physique, you had 40. You have that cut round then and only the top 10 or 15 from that prejudging round will come on the Saturday to do the finals and do their routines and stuff like that. And I think that's really the only way to do it rather than have everyone go through the whole prejudging all through the things. And I think he was talking about too once you get to the top 10 like to go to the Olympia I think even Sean said to go to a little pro show people pay their air fees and accommodation. So just because you qualify for Olympia. Yeah. There's certain people who the promoter can pay because he knows okay someone like a Bonak or a Hardy or someone I'll pay you airfare and hotel because I know you're going to be in the top six or the top 10. There's certain people. Yes. But other people, it's like they should pay their way and then if you make it to that top 10 or 15, then the promoter will pay your airfare and expenses. But the other people, I'm sorry, you you paid to come there. You had a chance to do it. You didn't come back next year. So, and then I think the top 10 or 15 should get money because this is a Super Bowl. I know majority of pro shows you could probably just make the top three. You only get money. No one else does. But the Olympia to me, if you get there and it's meant to be the Super Bowl and it's meant to be this number one show, once you've got to the top 10, if that's what they're going to cut it down to or the top 15, everyone then should receive prize money in that top 10 or 15. Well, you just posted that and some people corrected. I'll show this is from your Instagram here. Um because I think Matt was Matt the first one or whoever. Yeah, Matt said only the top five get paid, but that's not true. I think they do get paid all the way down to 15th. It's not a lot of money. The money goes down drastically after, you know, as you go down the line. They used to always beat a top 10, remember? And that's when that press conference that's on YouTube, 2003, where I gave Wayne that letter and Kerry K's and I think the IFBB put in a thousand each. And from that day, if you were in the top 10, you got 2,000, which you know, 2,000 is nothing. But if you're in Vegas, take your friends for dinner. It's something anyways. bedlin having nothing or at least back then too we used to get those you know the participation certificate where it said Mr. Olympia you're placing on and stuff like that at least give the guys something medals and stuff like that to show that you're on the Olympia stage you made it through to the final cut you're up there so even like I said if you don't go home with a check at least you go home one year they gave us those nice crystal look like a fruit bowl and had Mr. Olympia on it and the placing engraved on this nice crystal fruit bowl. So even a ring anything just something I can show you being there and you know it doesn't sound much but a lot of athletes do like that sort of thing where if they got like a medal or a ring or something they can just have the show for the hard work getting up there and competing in the biggest show ever. So yeah not for all things not like the Arnold or any other pressure but the Mr. Olympia is meant to be special. It's meant to be the number one show. So if you are going to have 10 or 15 guys in the finals in each class and women all of them should receive some money. Fair enough. Here's one. I remember the Mr. Olympia used to be and most of the shows the Arnold everything was a one day show. At some point they decided to split it up which it wasn't as big a deal. It wasn't always one one day always. It was because when did they you were you were competing in Olympia during that time when it switched. Yeah. It switched towards the end. Yeah. But and I've always said that's where a lot of problems would come from then because you know you you staying in shape that long and if people are overdoing diuretics and they take more and more you're going to get problems you know cuz you know when you're in the best shape of your life like contest time that's when you're dehydrated that's when it's most dangerous. You look your best but you feel your worst you know a week or two beforehand you're fine. So, I've always said prejudging should be around 11:12 lunchtime, finals 7:00 p.m. And we all know it. Everyone that's competed or guys leading up to shows, you always look your best and dry. It's generally in the morning. Having guys like before go on at 11:00 at night, 10:00 at night, when the whole career or training, that's when they're in bed having their last meal, relaxing, and your body's on that same clock system. So, they should just go back to one day. They're still going to sell the same amount of tickets. People go, "Oh, they'll lose ticket sales." They wouldn't. People are still going to buy tickets to come see the Mr. Olympia because you put it late on the Saturday or the Friday. Once they've watched the Open, they leave anyway. So, the auditorium's half empty. They've still brought their tickets. So, who cares if the seats are half empty because no one's interested in those divisions, but it needs to be one day because you got to think about the athletes. The athletes are to show. Do what's best for the athletes. Go back to a one-day format. And there's enough classes now to fill in the Friday and Saturday. So you just don't need them all. Like I said, they say classic getting bigger and all these are getting bigger. Don't use the open men to keep butts on the seats. So I mean the they seem to have settled on a very a very the format is is really solid now. So judging is all the judging takes place Friday and Saturday during the morning in the afternoon in the expo and then the evening time goes to the big fancy theater. So would you have the men the open men be judged at the expo or or switch? I don't the fancy theater like the other classes you can judge on the Friday. Some of the other classes judge them Friday and have their finals the next day. But the open men where it's more critical maybe even the classic I'd have them judge the Saturday in the finals the same day at night. Some of the other smaller classes I want to say smaller I mean you know where it's not imperative that you know you got to try and hold your conditioning for that long. Some of them figure and those type can get away with a little bit less of being so detrimental to how they look because you know bodybuilders they can change in a matter of [\h__\h] 30 minutes 10 minutes. You've seen guys on stage during prejudging changing why they're on stage posing. So, and I don't like the thing too where if you ever come Friday, we've seen it happen. You'll see him come out on the Friday, Hardy, Samson, whatever. Someone's a little off, but then you hear it. That's okay. He can go back tonight, he's got 24 hours to fix whatever. I don't think that's fair because you can have someone that's a bit off and someone who looks like they're going to win it and then all of a sudden the guy who's going to win it 24 hours later looks [\h__\h] [\h__\h] and now he's going to get fourth and the guy who was probably in fourth is now going to win. It's lot. If I go to a boxing match and it's 12 rounds, after six rounds I don't go, "Hey guys, you look tired. Come back tomorrow. We'll finish the other six rounds tomorrow and stuff like that." Unless it's a cricket match where it's gone for days. Most sports are done into one day. You're not coming back. The we don't go halfway through it. Then have a break UFC. Okay, have a break guys. You look like you're a bit worn out. We'll finish the last two rounds tomorrow. You'll be a bit more refreshed. Come back. No. I mean, that's I mean, how many Mr. Olympia champions like Phil Heath, they called him Mr. Saturday night because he always came in a little bit off on Friday, but everyone's like, "Don't worry. Don't worry, he'll look better tomorrow night." I'm like, "Why couldn't he just look look great tonight, too?" So, why so how many would he probably not have won if it was just a one day thing? Would he have won that many if he had to go off that physique on that Friday? If that's what he brought, that's what you bring. So, yeah. I mean, it's to the point where I I remember the judging. We didn't have the confirmation round back in the old days. That That's a fairly new phenomenon, I believe. If you Oh, there's your doggy. You messed up at the judging. That's it. You were you're you couldn't really make up any points after that. No. And I hate that, too, because after prejudging, you know it, too. Word gets out, hey, you're in such and such place right now, and you're in this, you're in that, or you're not doing too well. But then you'll hear him say, that's okay because, you know, you got tonight. He'll go back to the room. honey or so will go see him and do what needs to be done. And I don't think that's right. It's like you got the one day to get it right. You got to pick for that day and that's it. If you miss it, too bad. Everyone's in the same boat, you know, because some people can fix [\h__\h] up and then sadly, like we've said, some guys who look great on the Friday night, come back Saturday and they've moved down a few spots when if it had been Friday, they might have won the show. So, I just think it should be a one day format. Simple as that. Fair enough. All right, next one. Let's go to this is uh your from your Instagram again. The motorcycle stance. Yes. So, um you know, it's it's not everybody does this. Does Does it Does it Would Samson look better with his arms down? Would Derek look better with their arms down? Or do you think this is the optimal way to display their physique? No, I think that would look better with it down. Even like I said, even just halfway down from that cause, you know, here we go again. Back in our day, yeah, if we stood like that, how many times would Wayne yell at you? Arms by your side, feet together. Even if you turn side on, remember if you tried to turn side on and even turn like that, they tell you turn this way. So you had to stand like this. You tried to do a little bit not straighten up. So we're pretty much told heels together. And if you got a great physique, even Samson said with his feet together, he's still going to have the flare in the quads, his waist is still going to look small. To me, they start to look blockier when they're doing this. Yeah, you might bring your shoulders out more and stuff, but you still just look like blocky. It doesn't look pretty. That's why I put up that photo a while ago of Milos how he would stand and other people would stand. It still shows your shape. And you know, flaring the legs out like that doesn't make you look any better. It just looks silly to me. So, you know, I just, you know, people go, "Oh, you just oldtimers. This is how they look their best." I don't think they look their best standing like that. And he doesn't like Milos doesn't like it because even look flip there like that. I'm saying this was so this was 1991 very long time ago obviously before most pretty standing side on like that if you tried to twist a little bit that'd say you know stand side on you know so I mean would you do you does anyone watching this think Dorian would have looked bigger with his arms way up like a riding a motorcycle his legs out or Gaspari I mean yeah these well the thing is is like when you're doing comparisons I think everyone needs to stand the same and I've said it before I know Bon mentioned doing his ab shot. He looks better side on a bit like this. So why would he do the ab shot front on? But the only reason is because if we're going to judge you on a pose, the front double bicep pose, everyone needs to be doing it the same so we can judge. You know, if someone's got a twist or they're hiding something, you can't judge them. If I'm doing an ab shot and I got my hands both here doing ab shot like that, but someone's like this doing side on, how can you judge that shot compared to mine front on? So, everyone needs to do the same mandatory pose first and then if you want to add your little flare to it, if you want to go from that into that or same as a tricep shot, you know, some would do it this way and then some would go out this way and then with the leg change. So, everyone should do the pose, the mandatory pose exactly the same for a couple of seconds and then put your little twist on it. But everyone needs to be in the same shot to judge. It should be like if you're doing an ab shot and half the line did vacuums and other half flex their abs. They're two different poses really. So you can't really compare and judge who has the best abs if one's doing a vacuum and one's Yeah. doing like that. See? Well, see to me this is that's a beautiful shot. It shows his seratus, but that's not an abdominal. How can you call that an abdominal thigh? No. I said it looks great like that. But to me, if we're going to judge an ab shot, everyone needs to be front on doing that way. And then once you've done it that way, then turn and do that because you know you're going to show your best and he looks his best doing it that way. But you can't judge people if they're doing different poses or a different variation of that one pose. Fair enough. Fair enough. If I'm doing a front double bicep, then someone else is twisted a bit and stuff like that like Arnold would do sometimes. It's like that's a different pose all together. Even though you're still doing a bicep shot, it's I can't see you standing directly front on. The only poses they do that are similar probably be a front lat spread and rear lat spread because they got to be directly on. You can't twist sideways doing a lat spread shot. Very true. Very true. I gotta find the dancing guy because that's the last thing I want to talk about. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no. Can't find him. Was this a Okay, here we go. Just be penalty point. Well, this was a different dancing guy. Hang on. This is two, wasn't it? It was dancer number one. This was a men's physique guy. Now men's physique, they don't even get a posing routine. So, I don't know how this guy felt. Oh, okay. So, they're both there because this was uh Oh, yeah. John Hans his panel. So, we got the the men's physique guy busting moves there where I don't Again, they're just supposed to stand front and back. That's what we're supposed to do. And that bodybuilder there from the the Italy show. He's just doing a like an America's Gut. I want I want what he's on. Yeah. Ketamine. I don't know. Don't I'm sir I'm not saying you're on ketamine but you are dancing your ass now. Um yeah I mean look look look it's funny to look at but to me it just makes the sport look stupid and for some reason look if he had clothes on doing that at a nightclub it wouldn't look half as bad but for some reason when you're a muscular guy covered in oil imposing trunks or even board shorts doing that on stage it doesn't look right. At least back in the day when Melvin or King Kamali or Vince Taylor did some sort of posing routine, they hit poses in their routine. And I mean like properly hit poses. Vince Taylor's Terminator where he's like loading his guns and then it hit the bicep and stuff like that. Theirs wasn't just dancing. Theirs was actual posing. And even Kai for some of the crazy moves he did, he'd actually still hit poses in in amongst all his theatrics. So it's meant to be a posing round, not a dancing round. And like I said, just seeing big muscular men do that, it almost looks like I'm watching a, you know, Seth Rogan [\h__\h] comedy show or something. Yeah. I mean, well, when you were competing, was the posing round still being judged or by that time was it already not? It was for a little while and then they stopped it because I remember even posing sometimes I'd look down the judges and they're just talking, not even watching. That's why towards oh the last probably five or so years, you'll see my routine stayed the same. I just changed the song. It's like, if you're not going to judge it, why would I put time into doing a new routine? Every time I change the song, people go, "Lee, I loved your routine." I'm thinking it's the same as the one last year and the year before and the year before. I'm just changing the music. Oh, I mean, you you I I think you only had you only had props that one that one show that you did for PDI, right? The ' 06 Arnold Classic let us have props. Yeah. Remember? Yeah. So, I mean, that was memorable routine because, you know, you and Superman have this long-standing association with each other. You've always been a huge Superman fan. I mean, that was really cool. I wouldn't mind I wouldn't I don't know if I don't mind props, you know, props as long as, like I said, if you got 10 competitors or 15, you could do props, you know, whatever because like I said, most bodybuilders have a nickname or they have something with their personality. That's where I really enjoyed it when the WBF took off. remember in their first show where they had Gary Strider in the top hat like an all class guy and I think Tony Pierce and they showed like a fighter jet and they saw a fighter jet come in on the stage remember and Robinson came in on like a parasailing thing and stuff like that when it's done properly it can add to the entertainment value which is great for the night show to entertain the people because just seeing posing routines can get boring so if you can get something on the stage and with all the lights and thing on the background now the nighttime where they can do like all these LEDs and put anything behind you. Like I said, if I was Superman now, I could be dressed as Superman. They could have like [\h__\h] behind me like Metropolis and the Daily Planet, you know, make whatever character you're meant to be could be in the background behind you as well, type thing, you know? Yeah. I mean, if they're not going to score it, I mean, why not make it as uh as entertaining as possible? Exactly. Even if you had like different people come out like different things where you're coming out of Superman, you could have other people. That's why the PDI was good because remember I had actually that phone booth on stage and Wayne's son went into the phone booth dressed as Clark Kent. They filled it with smoke and when I opened the door I stepped out dressed as Superman because I came in from behind when he slipped out. Yeah. So like things like that are just great. Yet the crowd likes it. Let's make it like in Vegas for [\h__\h] sake or the stage shows it. Get someone who knows how to Yeah. Get a stage where he can come up through the stage and just appear out of nowhere. It's like like I said, it's Vegas. Magicians do it all. Get someone who can create illusions on stage and make it [\h__\h] entertaining. Did Did you have to cut those boots in the back because your calves are too big? Yeah, they wouldn't zip up. I could see I could see there was an issue there. Uh I want to let people know where they can see you because uh you're a muscle. You're a muscle. I'll be I'll be seeing you next weekend, won't I? No, I had to choose between getting my shoulder replaced or going to Amsterdam. And I said, "This shoulder, the pain." Me, too. You too. Ronnie. Ronnie was meant to be on stage with me at the booth with me. And look at Ronnie. He'll do anything out of getting on stage with me again. The [\h__\h] Come on, Ronnie. What are you doing? It was together. But unfortunately, uh, so you guys can see Lee at the Euro Muscle Show in Amsterdam next weekend, July 12th and 13th. With talking to Jaws at the moment, of course. Sadly Ronnie can't be there. So we wish Ronnie all the best in his recovery. Would have been good to be on stage. It would have been Ronnie tell us that story how I almost made you retire. But it's like because Ronnie can't be here. I think Jaws is talking due to promoter and Kevin said I seen if we can get Kevin to replace Ronnie doing the seminar with me. Oh, okay. Yeah. A lot of people don't realize that that Ronnie Coleman almost quit because you beat him at the Iron Man earlier in his career and then the Arnold didn't. Yeah. I mean and I mean did did you take that personally that he said you know I was going to quit because was it your height that he had an issue with if somebody that short a small guy short small guy beat me because yeah I remember even on Patrick Bet Dave they're like Ronnie what's your worst thing in bodybuilding was it getting beat by Jay or this and that or something else he goes something else he goes what was he goes getting beat by Lee Priest five times and I don't want to tell Ronnie but I actually beat him seven times that year but that might be a bit too much if he knows it was two more so don't worry All right. Well, so if you're going to be in Amsterdam next weekend, you can catch Lee. Uh and then Giles Giles and Lee are doing the Unholy Tour, too. Yes, we're back. So, you're in Glasgow. That's Scotland. Uh 16th of July. Next day, you're in Preston, wherever the hell that is. I don't know. Yeah. Next day you're in Manchester, which sounds familiar. I think they have a soccer team or something. Yeah. Yeah. Manchester United. Yes. Very good, Ron. And then, um Northern Ireland. I know that's uh technically that's the that's the UK and then Ireland is a different country I think these days. I'm not really sure because they say the UK isn't the UK that England and is Great Britain when they include Ireland and part of Ireland is when they say Great Britain. I know there's two different dude I mean I said England for all for many many years to me everything was just England just like until uh the Berlin Wall we just said Russia. Everything was just Russia. Uh everything's just Australia. Well, I mean, well, it is Australia, but like my grandmother's from Ukraine, so I always said I was h I was part Russian all those years and then this war broke out. I had to say, I guess not. I guess I'm not Russian anymore. I guess I'm Ukrainian, right? Gota got to be very specific with that. I know. And actually, I've seen a few people write, they're like, "Oh, I'll go see Lee in Manchester. It's a 4hour drive." I'm like, so I commented like, "Thank you for taking the four hours to drive considering it's taken me 33 hours to fly there." It's funny because you get comments that be like, "Oh, damn Lee, you're going to be in Manchester. I'm like five hours away." I'm like, "Well, [\h__\h] I'm a [\h__\h] world away and I'm coming. So, if you can't drive four hours to see me, dude. I I went to Australia a couple years ago and I've never spent so much time on an airplane in my life." It was ridiculous. I don't know how you did it going back and forth. Well, like I said, I leave here Thursday. I fly Sydney to Koala Lumpa, Malaysia. 10 hours and then from Koala Lupa Malaysia I go to Istanbul Turkey which is another nine hours and then from Istanbul Turkey I go into Amsterdam. So by my calculations I should be there by September man. So you're in the uh you're in the Sydney area now right? Newcastle. Yeah you're two hours north of Sydney. And then I think that could be my last overseas trip until October. People with Jim Reapers at the Mr. Olympia in Vegas. Oh, right on. Okay. Gym Reapers. And uh Yeah. And uh man, I just want to wish you another happy birthday. I feel I feel awful that I didn't just automatically know it was your birthday because you told me I I do feel very special. I didn't get you a cake. I didn't get you a damn thing. I just That's okay. My wife has me a Fredo the frog ice cream cake. What is it? Kermit the Frog. Fredo. Fredo the frog are like chocolate frogs here. You can get Australian thing. That's an Australian thing. It's called Fredo Frog. You can get milk chocolate frogs or white chocolate frogs or half and half, but they make a big ice cream cake as well. So, I got a It'd be good for my lactose intolerance. They're not actual frogs, right? There's not like cooked a frog inside, is there? No, it's not. My wife said it's not Louisiana. Come on. No, they love their They love their frog. There's no gator or snake in there. Alligator. I tried alligator once when I was in the South in America. It did taste like chicken. So that's when my brain kicks in. They go, "Lee, try alligator. Tastes like chicken. Try snake. It tastes like chicken." I'm like, "Yeah, but chicken's $10. Alligator's 25. If it tastes like chicken, I might as well buy a [\h__\h] cheap [\h__\h] chicken then, mate. Why am I going to spend all this money on exotic food when it tastes like the [\h__\h] cheap shit?" Well, I had cro I had crocodile jerky because my my son-in-law came back from Australia one year after visiting his family with jerky from it was kangaroo. That wasn't too bad. Mhm. But uh the crocodile was just vile. It was It's It was a really putrid taste. I was like, I don't know how anybody rotting rotting flesh. I don't know how anybody could possibly want to find that appealing. Was that the crocodile or person? Maybe it was the person the crocodile ate that you were eating. Well, they're eating things and they're festering inside their bowels for, you know, a year. Very slow digestive process. Well, anyway, man, uh I know it's uh your birthday, so I want to let you get get ahead with your birthday. 53 we haven't and we haven't we haven't fixed any of the bodybuilding problems. That's okay. I think we fix Didn't we fix everything? I think the sport's going to be okay now. Well, like I said, look, they need to have a round table because, as I said, I enjoy watching the voice of bodybuilding with Bob and Sean and sometimes they're funny and I said they but yet the last show they did, I agreed with a lot of the stuff they're saying with cutting off frowns and doing this and doing that, but it's like I said, no matter who it is, whether it's Matt's show or anybody's show, look, don't call them dumb or stupid because people are just throwing ideas out there. Sometimes you just think of an idea off the top of your head, then you think, "Yeah, that's a bit stupid." But yet you could take that what they said and like I said discuss it tweak it say look we can't really do that but maybe we can do this. So you know no no idea is a dumb idea you just got to you know get voices get heads together and different opinions different ideas and put them all together sit down around the table and see what you can come up with. It's the only way things get done but you just can't shoot somebody down going that's [\h__\h] stupid. Come on. It's like just look at it and go okay well but that might not work but this will work. So I think you think with all the people in the sport young and old like the Lee Haneies and that people getting on to Lee Haney but you know he's just he's [\h__\h] eight time Mr. Olympia you know listen to what he says I don't think anything that he said has been wrong or disrespectful so get a few of the older guys get a few of the younger guys and like I said you might have difference of opinions different ideas but if you can come together and work something out that's good for both and you can agree on something the sport will grow and be better so but don't just shoot people down going that's stupid [\h__\h] don't even pay attention to it. So then you've just become like the [\h__\h] governments in Australia and America. They don't listen to the people. They just do what they think is best for the people. So you know Yeah. Well, think about that yesterday because we we uh celebrated our independence from the British because protesters. No. Well, they were burning American flags here yesterday all over America. I still don't get that. To me, it's like there should be I know other countries you burn the flag there's jail time. It should be the same here in Australia. And to me, it's like, yes, you got the pride flag, you got all these flags, but I don't care if you're gay or trans, whatever. You're a gay, trans American, so you should respect the flag of America that's letting you have all the opportunities like these gays for Palestine or trans for Palestine. Go to Palestine and wear what you're wearing and see how far you fly off that building rooftop and stuff like that. So to me, if I was over there right now, say it's in the groove of the Ukrainian or the Palestinian or the pride thing. If I burn a pride flag or Israeli flag or Ukrainian flag, that's a hate crime. I get [\h__\h] thrown in jail, but they can burn the American flag, the place that's given them. Look, you can you can find bad in everything, but really we complain about Australia that, but Australia, America, and that if you had a choice to live in any other country, you're doing okay if you're in Australia or America. Trust me, compared to other parts of the world. So, I haven't been I haven't traveled extensively as you have by any means, but I've been around a bunch of places and there's only two pl Australia so far has been the only other country I could say, "Yeah, I could live here. It's not awful. It's it's not that it's comparable. The lifestyle, freedoms, everything. There's a lot of countries I've been to. I'm like, "Oh my god, I this is a nice visit and it's the beaches are nice, but I would never live here. No way." Was even like that one. Who was it? But one even Whoopy Goldberg when she said, "Oh, being a black person in America now is like living over in [\h__\h] one of these countries, Somalia." I'm thinking really like have have you been to Somalia lately or somewhere like those other countries? And they come up with comments like that. It's like come on people. Like I said, America is not perfect, nor is Australia. But you know, compared to any other country, you're doing okay if you're living in that. And I think it's like anything. We get people that come from other countries here the proper way. immigrants that come in legally and you see them and they flourish because people get mad. They go look at these people coming in taking out jobs. It's like because they've come from a country that had nothing and they've been like I said war torn countries or just countries where they don't have rights and stuff. Now they've come to America and it's a land of opportunity and these people see the opportunity. Sadly I think when we're born in these countries we take it all for granted and that's what happens. We take it for granted and we just sit down biting our time and you know go nowhere in life. Whereas these people come in and they can't believe they're like, "Fuck, you can do that here. You can do that. I can do that. I can, you know, get an education and go do that for a living." And they do it. And then we get mad at them for doing what we could do ourselves. It's just that we're lazy and take it for granted. Well, anyway, guys, if uh you don't feel like we did enough today to fix bodybuilding and you have some ideas, put them down here because like I said, there are no stupid ideas. They might just lead to someone thinking of something that could be a good idea. So, anything that we've talked about, leave some comments. What do you think could be fixed? How would you fix it? You know, the more the more the more good ideas, the more bad ideas, you put them all together, you're going to come up with something that's going to that's going to lead to uh improving the sport. Like you said, you might get 100 ideas, 50 of them might be stupid, some are out there. But if you could condense it down to maybe 10 good ones that really help the athletes and in helping the athletes, that gives the audience a better show on that, which also helps the promoters. It's a win-win from everyone. But like I said, you got to throw the ideas out there and get discussions going for anything to get moving forward. So yeah, there's no stupid ideas. There's just stupid people like me. And with that, we'll say goodbye. But yeah, guys, drop a comment below. And Lee, happy birthday. Appreciate you doing this on your birthday. Glad you're still here on planet Earth. It's a much more interesting planet with you on it, let me tell you. I always I said, "I'm going to live to 100." My wife says, "What for?" I said, "Because I keep living that long. It just annoys the people who wish that I died years ago. They're like, "Fuck, that [\h__\h] is still going. [\h__\h] hell." Oh, spite. Living living in spite. All right, Lee, thank you so much. Guys, thanks for watching Ronline Report with Lee Priest and we will catch you all next time.