Hey everybody, welcome to Ryan Line Report. Today, one of the most colorful characters in bodybuilding, the pride of Australia. Please welcome the one and only Lee Priest. How are you? I know we're going to mention at the end of the show, I'm going good around you, but the Euro Muscle Show, I'll be there. So, Matthew, keep sponsoring this show because I'm going to be at that show. So, sponsor Ron a bit longer, Matthew, because I'm coming to the expo there. And then actually also because Giles is doing I'm doing a European tour. So, I'll be going through probably Romania and that going to go to Dracula's Castle if anyone's interested. And um Giles just told me today I'll probably be it's looking like I'll be at the Prague show. The pro show evils pro Prague show as well. So, wow. Right on. Right on. I always want to go to Dracula's Castle. Yeah. I've always found it interesting. It'd be interesting to go see, wouldn't it? Vlad the Impaler. Well, I mean, I don't know how well you've checked your DNA history, but I've got some I got some Romanian in me, so you know, maybe maybe we're connected somehow, me and Vlad. I don't know. It's possible. But, uh, today we're talking about the current lie. I want to talk about first the old lie. You're old enough, you might remember this, or at least prior to the uh 19 late 80s, the American Medical Association, their position was that anabolic steroids did not work. If they produced if they produced any muscle growth, it was a placebo effect. So, they were trying to tell people all those years, steroids don't work. And you know, the old Weer magazines, they never mentioned they never mentioned steroids. Joe had his athletes holding up the bottles of Weider Muscle Shaper, dynamic muscle builder. We didn't even start talking about steroids in the magazines until I think it was both Muscular Development and uh Muscle Media 2000 were the ones that really started started doing that in the in the 90s, which wasn't which wasn't a bad thing because I think every now and then I think Muscle and Fitness or Flex might have had a small little topic on it, which was a good thing because to me it's almost like we shot ourel in the foot. Yes, it's good to be open about it and try and tell kids don't use too much even though they don't believe it, which we'll get into. But yeah, it's a good it's like a double-edged sword because we've been so open about it and now we get labeled the most steroid users when we know NFL, every other pro sport uses it. But guess what? They don't [\h__\h] talk about it. It's like we know it's in this sport. Let's all stop talking about it. It's like as we get into it because like I said, knowing what Ronnie took or Dorian or myself, it's not going to [\h__\h] help you. What I took or what they took is not going to help you. So, why do these young kids so obsessed on what was your cycle? What was your cycle? Then you tell them he's [\h__\h] lying. I'm like, liar. You're a liar. You're a liar. I mean, here's a good analogy. Uh, if people, even if you were lying, let's say you were lying and you were taking grams and grams and grams and Joe Schmo, some regular schmuck in the gym, he took the same exact cycle as you. He's not gonna look like there's nothing he can do to look like you. I mean, this is It's almost that mentality where whether it be bodybuilding or anything, it's like if they can't do it, then you can't do it naturally either or they can't if they can't run as fast as Hussein Bolt, there's got to be a reason why he can. Yeah. His mind, his mindset, his heart, his genetics, everything else. Yes, steroids help a little bit. And I've said it a hundred times. To me, they're about 5% of the equation. Look at the guys who were great. Look at them when they were all natural. They were winning shows naturally. Now you got young kids taking steroids before they know what their natural potential is. So it's just ridiculous how there's so much emphasis put on drugs. And the thing that annoys me is I've always been truthful with what I've you know you've been written my articles for how long when it was with MD. All the stuff I talk about in my life sexual stuff everything where people go [\h__\h] I can't believe he said that. It's like why would I lie about my steroid use when I'm so open about everything else. And the reason is because I want young kids to know listen if you are going to take that route you can do it with small amounts and I try and tell them start on a small amount you'll get results and if you get results there's really no need to increase it okay you might start at 200 on test and maybe a bit late you might go to three 400 there's no need to go to a,000500 when I was in England there was kids taking two to five grams of test a week so when they look at me they're like 400 I'm on five I don't look like you got to be taken more than me. That's the mentality they have and I just don't get it. But yet here I am as a pro and I know other pros I've seen other pros come out and say it and they're like, "Oh, he's lying." And they'll be like, "Peter Smith told me Lee's taken this much." It's like, "Lee's telling you what he's taken." But you call me a liar. Peter Smith that doesn't know me is telling you what I'm taking and you believe him. I'm like, I don't get the mentality that goes with these young kids or people today where that's why I said if you don't believe me, just do this. If you're on a big steroid cycle, go clean for three or four months. Oh, shocker. Oh, can't come off for that long. But just try it. Go back on. Use a small amount. See what happens. If you make the gains, then you don't need the big amount. It's just simple to do. It's like, you know, rather than go, you're lying. You're lying. This guy told me, "Well, I don't know that guy. How does he know what I'm taking?" And yet Ed Connors was just on Cutler cast. Thanks, Ed, for saying I'm the greatest bodybuilder of all time. Thanks. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then um and Ed would say I got Lee his stuff when he was living with me. He barely used anything. Scott who's now married to my ex Cathy. I posted on um is it beyond the TV that one where they put up steroids and I said I I tagged Scott tagged Cathy in that and Cathy come on there and wrote a big thing saying yes when I was with Lee I'd laugh because women took more than Lee. You're getting it from the horse's mouth. Scott who I used to buy it off he used to tell people Lee didn't buy hardly any [\h__\h] from me. I remember when there used to be the Iron Man, the Arnold, the San Francisco, 16 weeks of dieting. The most I spent on steroids was close to a thousand bucks. That was it. I never got into the big cycle. So this whole thing, like I said, this is going to be the last time I'm going to discuss it because if you don't believe me, there's no point when people ask me and I tell them the truth, they go, "Here's lying." So it's out there. It'll be on here. It'll be on other podcasts I've done. I've always been upfront because I want kids to know you can make the gains if you have the genetics you have. I've always said in bodybuilding, yes, you got to be strong physically, but bodybuilding, you know, it too. What you got to go through training day after day, year after year, all this [\h__\h] the strongest thing you're ever going to use in this sport is what's up here. Not not the muscles, it's what's in your head. And if you haven't got it up mentally to go through it all and think, like when I was off the gear, I never thought I couldn't do it. where I know people like, "I can't go heavy now because I'm not taking anything." If you have that attitude, you're going to go [\h__\h] nowhere. I was just as strong when I was off it. Yes, they just helped me recover more, help me keep the muscle mass when I was doing cardio three hours a day and dieting down and stuff, but it wasn't one of those things where I need it. I need it. I've got friends that like, I got to have my shot today, have it tomorrow. No, it's got to be today. I'm like, come on. It's just ridiculous. Yeah. I mean, oh, look at this flashback here. This is like I'm saying, you know, we genetics genetics are so powerful in bodybuilding. And it's it's a very inconvenient truth. And I think that's the heart of this is that it's very hard for most guys to ever accept that they can't look the way they want to look. They want an excuse. Like, well, if I had the drugs, if I took as many drugs, look at you at 17. Still natural at 17 here, right? Most guys on drugs. 18. Still natural. I'm only 70. I'm only like 70 kilos there. 71 kilos. So that's like what 150 lbs or something. So yes, the illusion I look a lot bigger, but I wasn't that heavy. And that's 19 there. When it comes Look at the end of my 19th year there, now I'm on steroids. That was after Deca from that last picture, I put on 20 pound of muscle. And you can see now I'm on it. Yeah. You know, but but like I said, this is the only sport, if you want to call it a sport, where the fans are the they're also participants usually at some level. They all work out. There's not too many couch potatoes that are fans of bodybuilding. So, you know, people watch soccer, they see someone like Cristiano, Cristiano Ronaldo is the highest paid athlete in the world. He made $260 million last year. Similar to Samson, Samson may play. But, you know, they understand the fans the fans who watch him understand that there's something special about him. They could never play soccer the way that man plays soccer. No matter how much they practice, how great coaching they had, there's no drug that could make them play because that's athletic. It's funny you picked soccer because it would have been in the 90s. I'm not sure if you can still find it now, but muscle I mean um Sports Illustrator did a big thing on steroids in sports. Bodybuilding was number eight on the list of steroid use. College Kids was number four. You know what number one was? You just said it. Soccer players. Wow. No way. But no one but no one thinks that because they're not muscular. They equate steroids with muscles. I've seen like you've seen it too when natural guys at the gym they could be lean and muscular not huge but just muscle people go steroids it's like no he diets down he trains hard for some reason now steroids and muscles have to go together. You can take the average person he gets a bit of muscle and gets abs and that he's on steroids. No he's just [\h__\h] dedicated and trains hard and people don't want to believe that. Like you said they're looking for an excuse to why they aren't where you are. And the sad thing is, and I've said it before, when young kids go, "I want to be pro, I want to do this." I'm like, "Listen, if you train right, you eat right, you get your sleep in, you got the genetics." Before you even touch a drug, we've all seen it. You could have four mates go to the gym, they all train the same, eat the same. One of them who has the better genetics will just start growing. Everyone's like, "We must be on the juice because look at him. He's growing. We're not." But no, it's just if it's going to happen, it's going to happen. I've always said that. So try to go as long as you can. Build a foundation if you have what it takes. Steroids then will add to that. But steroids aren't going to turn [\h__\h] into gold. And we've seen it. How many gyms have you been in over the years? And we see guys know guys are on a ton of drugs more than the pros and they don't even look like they'd be able to go to the gym. It's just steroids aren't this miracle drug that people think they are. So they need to get that out of their head. It's just crazy. Well, I mean it here's another analogy that that I I try to impress upon people. You had some of the greatest arms in that's ever we've ever seen in bodybuilding. There's there's no doubt about that. You know, you're I think we've done I did articles in the past about greatest arms and you were always up there. Hey, I remember MD did that article. I got number one. Remember? Exactly. So, but here's the thing. You could do any guys any of you watching out there could do Lee Priest arm workout. I I did I think I did your arm workout for like a year. I didn't get arms like my arms. You're like, "Fuck you, lady. It doesn't work." So it's a similar thing is the gen if you have the genetics to look a certain way which very very few people have the genetics to look like you and Samson Da and Ronnie Coleman Derek Lunsford Marcus Rule you know the you are genetic freaks. You're one in a million or one in a 100 thousand or something. If you don't have those genetics you're never going to be able to look like this no matter how much you train. And it's it's you could look at it as a as a defeat. Oh no. I'm never gonna achieve my dreams. Or you could just say I can be the best version of me I can be. My old my old training partner Richard there missing me he sadly committed suicide. Great guy. You don't the thing. How many of us used to do Tom Platz's leg workout? Did we get legs like plats? No. It's like this the thing too. It's like that's why I tell people listen you know I've said it a hundred times. I've said I think in articles I got friends that play tennis and golf. They do it because they enjoy it. It's fun. If something came of it great but they're not going hey Lee I'm doing tennis next year. I'm going to take on Nadal and Raphael. It's like, but for some reason, every guy that goes into a gym and lifts a weight thinks they can become a freaky pro bodybuilder. It's like that that shouldn't stop you from going to the gym because if you're not taking the steroids and you are eating clean, train, that's a good lifestyle. It's a healthy lifestyle. So, just go be the best you can be. And if you do have the genetics and you can go further, you start doing some little shows naturally before you can take the gear and you do well, just keep progressing. And then if you get to that point where, okay, like I did, I'm going pro now. Time to get on the [\h__\h] Because people have always said, if your genetics were so good, Lee, why'd you have to take steroids? I'm like, because all those other guys genetics were that good, they were on them. So for me to keep up, sadly, I had to go on them, too. So, but until you get to that point, I don't get it why these young kids are all on it. And some of the [\h__\h] they take, the trend thing, and I just shake my head when I read the amount of trend these kids take. I'm just like, you crazy. I mean, I love my analogies. They're they're not always spot on, but I say because they start off on trend now. These kids, that's the first thing they use is trend, but to me that's like saying, "I've never done drugs or I've never had a drink of alcohol or drugs in my life, but give me some of that crystal meth. Give me that fentinil. That's I'm going to start on that." Um, and and did you find like I used to take anrol the last few weeks before a contest where I wasn't really eating much because I'd lose my appetite from the anadrol anyway, but it kept me nice and full and that. But when I read these comments from these young kids, I'm taking Tren. I'm so irritable. I can't sleep. I got no appetite. I'm like, why are you taking a drug that makes you feel that shitty? Because if you're not sleeping and you're not eating, you're wasting your time taking the drug. You can train all you want, but if you're not doing the other [\h__\h] you're not going to grow. So for a drug, like I said, I took it four times, Tren, and last time Cathy can tell I was with her in the bathroom, had a shot, and I didn't get the cough. I mean, I got like a [\h__\h] I got stabbed in the chest. It was that painful. It was like bang. I said, "You know what? I'm never touching this [\h__\h] again because it gave me a scare like [\h__\h] hell. I'm like I'm not going to put this [\h__\h] into my body if that's how it makes me feel. That's why I don't understand. If you're taking a drug that makes you feel that bad, get off it. There's many other things you can take. So why why is this trend all of a sudden become this wonderful thing that it's the drug you must take. It's ridiculous. I I have my theory on why trend became so popular. Uh I think one is the name. It's a very catchy name. Trend trend trend. I play Mike O'Harn. micro I thought you gonna say micro trend, but you didn't. So, good for you. Um, another reason is it's it's very fast acting. It's usually most people get the acetate version. So, they're going to feel something within a few days. They're going to they're going to start, you know, it does you don't hold water, but you do gain strength and size fairly rapidly on it. And, you know, you're a young kid, you you want to be huge yesterday. You don't you know, you're telling kids, build a natural base, train for a few years. Like, few years. I know. I love that. I'm not I'm not training for a few years before I do steroids. You're out of your mind. Um but yeah, I mean it's it's it's a quickly you see the rewards rather quickly with trend is what I was saying. And it's fairly cheap. Um people can make their own. They brew it at home in their bathtub. Yeah. That's good. That's always I remember I remember a guy I used to train with. He was making his own. He's like, "You want some?" And I'm like, "No, I'm good." I mean I don't know if you're I don't think you have a lab. You inject it in. You're like, "This smells like [\h__\h] bubble bath. Where'd you make this? I want to show you uh I want to show you Nick Walker because anytime I bring up genetics, people like to say, "Well, Nick Walker had bad genetics." And he's pretty say that about Dorian. Remember, they say Dor Dorian. Look, Dorian mightn't have had the prettiest shape. Some people might not like Nick's shape, but when it comes to building muscle and [\h__\h] they have the [\h__\h] genetics. Okay? It's like, so there's there's Nick Walker right there. you see his progression 18 because they always want to show you the first his 18-year-old picture when he did his first show. He was overdighted. He I remember interviewing him and he told me my coach had me on like 1,000 calories a day, two hours of cardio. He was natural. He lost he lost like 30 pounds of fat and 30 pounds of muscle for that first show. So that was not an accurate representation. But you can see the muscle bellies. You can see the shape and everything was there. Then look at him at 19 right there. That's a year later. Yeah. Kaboom. He's on drugs. He's not being overdighted. He's double the size. So, if you guys have been on drugs for a year and you've been training and eating and you haven't doubled in size, you're never going to look like Nick Walker. Genetics. You can say genetics don't matter all you want. You can try to you could try to but they do matter. There's there's Nick again. Even Even the ones that don't have you say it's hard to say when they say it hasn't got the best genetics, but they still got them. They still got some genetic potential to build muscle. They might never be a top six Olympian, but they might still get the Olympia stage. So, if you can get on that stage, you still got some genetic potential for building muscle. But like I said, I've seen guys 10, 20 years taking drugs training. And it's sad. Like I said, I used to hear what Paul took. Paul takes this much and that much. Paul never used over four. Paul takes ad here and stuff. I'm like, he doesn't. He lived with me for eight months. I saw what he took. It was very little. It wasn't even a quarter of these rumors. And it's like I don't get how these rumors stop because I' i'd be doing seminars and say something and they are you're lying. I'm like why? I heard you took this. I'm like I'm the guy taking it. I'm telling you what I'm taking. Well such and such. I said who's that? I don't know the guy so how would he know? Well he heard it from such and such. Well I don't know him either so how would he know? I'm like you people is just like why can't you just take it like all these pros telling I don't get why they think the pros would lie. They go oh because you want us to think that you're that good on a small amount. Guess what, [\h__\h] The top pros are that good on small amounts because of their genetics. And like I said, not only your genetics. Look at Dorian, Ronnie, all these guys. Look at their [\h__\h] work ethic. The mind. You You can't underestimate up here when you're in the bodybuilding. This thing here is going to get you through the workouts, the diets, the training more than any [\h__\h] drug will get you through. Trust me. Yeah. But, you know, getting back, I keep I have to keep harping on genetics because I think that's what people they either they want to be in denial or they want they don't want to believe that genetics are a limiting factor because you can improve. You can get better and better. I mean, I I trained for 40. I took plenty of drugs, plenty. I did a lot of cycles that were two grams, two and a half grams a week, which that's a that's a good amount of drugs. For anyone to say that's a low amount, it's not. Two grams. Well, I think I um I think I added up because you know I take like 400 a test, people go [\h__\h] I'm like no. And then I'd take like maybe one mil of sus I mean not sus um stanzol or winstrol every second or third day. So you add that in 30 milligrams of dabol a day. I'd probably be barely touching on a gram or just over a gram of my [\h__\h] combined. And people go oh but it's like no. It's like and I've always said if I took more I would tell you I'd say this is exactly what I took 10,000 grams or [\h__\h] 2 grams or 5 grams because I've been so such an open book but I want people to know if you are going to take that route start small because young kids now they'll start on 800 or a gram. So in their mind their next cycle well I did a gram first I got to go 1200 this time. It's like they keep going up and up. Start small you'll see the gains you make and then just do another small one if it works. after a year or two it's not working, maybe bump it up to 300, then 400. But when they start so high and they just keep going up and up, I'm just like, and they won't believe you because you you'd know you've been around as long as I have in the sport. Some of these amateurs or people who don't compete, when you tell them they're taking more than the pros, they're like, "Oh, [\h__\h] Them pros are taking this and that." And I did that Tom Platz video. How long ago were those Tom Plat videos done where Ronnie, Chris, Cormier, and I, they all had their faces blacked out? 20 years ago. and the voice is distorted. I was the only one that said, "Tom," I said, "don't distort my voice. Don't black my face out. I'm going to be honest and sit there and let kids know what I'm using. I'll just let people know what I've taken. I'm not hiding who I am." So, I was the only guy on the video series who didn't disguise himself. So, I've never run away from the thing and that. And I remember um Trevor from Nuclear Nutrition, Resty, Trevor, great guy, massive, massive guy. And he said to me once, he's like, "Lee, what are you taking?" I said, "400." He goes, "Why don't you try 800? you might. I said I never I thought about it, but I never, like I said, I I was doing good. I was placing good, but I was never one of those people where, oh well, he's taking that, I have to take it. I never played that I want to be like him, like when Ronnie come on the scene or Dorian, we've all got to play the size game. I just did my own thing. I went to 800 for a couple of weeks and I can honestly tell you, I swear on my mother, I felt [\h__\h] on 800. I felt like crap and that. So, after a few weeks, I went back to 400. I felt great again. Training was better and stuff like that. So, I just don't get why, like I said, they'll believe some idiot. We can have pros that have been there and done it, telling the honest truth, but they'll believe some guy who just has a YouTube channel, barely trains, sits there like, um, nothing against him. More plates and dates, some of the stuff he says. He did one on me once or he did one on me once about my cycles, and he goes, "This is what Lee says he does. Do I believe him? I'm not sure, but if that's what he says and that." So, you get people like that and it's just like there's so many people out there who have who are around the sport. They're not really into it, but yet they're calling us liars and oh, I'm going to doubt him on this. It's like, that's what people say about Mike O'Harn. Lady, you think he's natural? I'm like, I've never seen him inject anything until I see him do it. I'm going to take him at his word. Maybe he could be on TRT now, but Mike was never one of those people. Like, you see me at 19 when I just turned 19, then at the end, you can see the 20 pounds. Mike hasn't really gone from this to boom. He's always been consistently the same, you know. So whether you could say, "Oh, but he probably took him just to get lean. Did he or didn't he?" It's like, but what gets me is what does it matter? What doesn't matter if he is or isn't what doesn't matter what I'm taking or anybody else is taking. Worry about yourself. It's like as you as we said, what I take doesn't work for you. And as you said, the arm thing, I could say barbell curl are the best to make my arms grow. So people go, I'm going to try that. But you might go, you know what? I feel dumbbell curls better. Then that's great. Do dumbbell curls. You got to find what works for you. We're all built different. Our leverage points are different. Our muscle attachment sites are different. So just because someone does one thing and goes, "Well, [\h__\h] that gave him big legs. I'm going to do the same." It ain't it ain't going to be the same. So everything's individual in this sport. And just find what works for you. But that's why I say if you're going to do it, start small. And I guarantee if you have everything else, a small amount will work. You know, if you're a good like a hyperresponder, they say it's going to work. And another thing, as you know, when we come off, we come off. In our day, there was no bridging, blasting, cruising. We'd come off for a couple of months at a time, and I'll just eat like a pig and get fat. My strength came from being 285, eat like a pig, and just lifting heavy weights like a powerlifter. And then when I went back on, I think that's why I responded so well because I go from eating whatever I wanted, no gear, to eating clean, cardio and gear. The body just turned on like that. It's like anything. You stay on a diet so long, your body becomes used to it. You do the same training routine. You stay on gear for never come off it. Your body gets used to it. So coming off and going without it, not cruising people totally off and then going back on your body will respond a lot better. But they think, "Oh, did you ever have to do when you train with people?" Let's go heavy. I can't. Why not? I'm not on anything. I'm like, if that's how you think you're going to go nowhere because these guys when they're on it for some reason, they clean up their diet. They don't miss a workout. They're so focused. I got stronger. I got bigger. Now they've come off it. I'm not on it now, so I can't train hard. They miss meals and then they lose size. I'm like, if you come off it and you still train just the same and you eat the food and that, you might drop a couple of pounds from fluid depending what you're taking, but you shouldn't go [\h__\h] down to nothing when you come off to gear. Yeah. I mean, we the way it was explained to me when I started using gear in the late 90s was I was told to do a cycle of 10 to 12 weeks and then come off completely 10 to 12 weeks. Yeah. same amount of time on and off and I you know I didn't question I just said well that makes sense to me and that's the way I did it for years and years on off on off on off that's me because at the beginning of the year I died 16 weeks so I'd be on it for you know maybe those 16 weeks or last week I'd stop taking anything because I take like this maybe still novadex and half a diuretic last week but I'd come off all my shots because you know when you're that lean you can still get a bad shot that when you get on stage if you got a lump it stands out so I'm like not taking any any shots the week before a show and then I'd be off if I qualified for Olympia at the Iron Man come the beginning of March I'm off till I start dieting the end of July get ready for the Olympia in September or whatever so I had a good time off it just eating and getting big but like I said when you say that now I never come off you stayed on it we never did there was no such thing as cruising and stuff I was like never heard of no cruise and blast I don't think I don't remember hearing that term until maybe like 2010 2010 maybe around that time 2019 time stupid [\h__\h] macros come out and all the other bro science [\h__\h] and bro splits and I'm like what is all this [\h__\h] you people you're overthinking it bodybuilding is such a basic thing you lift weights you eat rest you do whatever it's not rocket science you you want to build a big shoulder do dumbbell presses laterals red delt shrugs but now you got kids going how do I work this part here I just want to concentrate on this section I'm like you can't just isolate this without working the whole and after guys who want to isolate this, you haven't got a shoulder to begin with. You got to build the shoulder first. It's like I mean, if you I don't want to don't don't get me started, but I I see in the gyms these young kids, to me, a kid is like anybody under 30. I see these young guys in their teens and 20s on back day when they should be doing deadlifts, barbell rows, dumbbell rows, chin-ups. I see them with a bench and a cable doing like, you know, 30 pounds. I'm trying to isolate the terrace minor. And I'm like, "Dude, you don't have a back yet. Go do some barbell crossovers and they haven't got a chest yet." I'm like, "You should be doing dumbbell presses. Incline flies." But here we are. What's that? What are you doing that for? Oh, it gives you the styrations. And I think, well, you going to styate your [\h__\h] rib cage. You haven't got any muscle yet. So, I was like, "Come on, build the muscle first. Build the foundation. Be like Leonardo or someone or one of those famous sculptors. They got a mold of clay. They start doing the body and once the body's formed then they start putting all the pieces in after that. But you can't just go I want to get stirrations here when you don't have the muscle to begin with. Come on. Getting back to these like uh peripheral people in the industry who we've never heard of. So many of them will chime in on a post and say I know exactly what all the pros take. I know a famous coach and I know exactly what every single pro takes. There are thousands of pros right now. Thousands. There's no way you possibly know, you know, like I saw, was it the thread that I was responding to in yours where they called Tom Plattz a liar about what he said he used too? I think I think so. Yeah, because I remember years ago someone posted on Get Big. I remember I know exactly what Dorian's taken. And someone like, "How do you know?" My mate was in England and he went through his garbage and found his cycle. I'm like, "Wow." He threw his he threw his journals, his his gear journals away where he wrote everything down and threw his garbage and found them. I'm like, you people are just like, it's just ridiculous the stuff they come up with. And like I said, I know exactly. And here's how's this? I think I told you a story once. My mate was at a gym once. I was just at home. My phone rings. I said, "Hey, Mick." Yeah. Hey, Lee. Do you know such and such? I'm like, never heard of him. Why? He goes, "I'm just at the gym now. This guy, I'm just overhearing him talking. He's got four young kids standing there and he's like, "Yeah, I used the room with Lee and that and I walked in the bathroom one day and Lee was there with [\h__\h] needles in his legs and that." So I said to my mate, I said, "Put him on the phone. Just give him the phone." So he gives him the phone. He's like, "Hello." I said, "Hello." He goes, "Who is this?" I said, "You don't recognize your own roommate? It's [\h__\h] Lee Priest. What are you talking about?" He handed the phone back to my friend and he [\h__\h] took off out the gym. But this is what I'm saying. If my friend hadn't have been there, this guy's telling this madeup story of I don't even know him, but he's telling these young kids, he lived with me and he caught me shoving needles in my quads in the bathroom. I'm like, how [\h__\h] dumb is that? I mean, I I'm in Massachusetts and Jay Cutler is from Massachusetts. I've met probably a hundred people who claimed they were Jay Cutler's training partner. And it's funny you say that. Every time someone came to Australia for a seminar, they'd come back to LA like Chris Cormier or someone goes, "Lee, I didn't realize you had so many [\h__\h] training partners in Australia." I mean, people people will lie their ass off. I remember Hanie told me one time someone someone was telling someone else that they helped Chris Chris Cook, if you remember who he was. Yeah, I remember. Yeah. He said, "Yeah, I helped Chris Chris Cook uh for his USA. I helped with his nutrition for the USA win and Hani was his coach. And so Hanie when he did a little digging, you know what his help consisted of? He was at a gym and he he microwaved his food one time for him. Ah, so easy. I get that a lot when I read comments. It's like he's lying because I know he took this and I know the guy he brought. I'm thinking the only guy ever got my stuff off was my friend Scott that used to work at the Max Muscle and that. He's the only guy I trusted. He's the only one I got off. And even he on a show once said, "If I was to make a fortune from Legos, I would have gone broke. He'd only get a bottle of this and a bottle of that." And he's the guy I got it off telling them what I took. He's Kathy who I was married to for 5 years who would laugh. She goes, "I know women that take more than you." I said, "What more proof do you want?" Then their comment is, "Oh, they're just lying for you." I'm like, "Oh, [\h__\h] You can't win." It's like, "You can't win." So that's why this is the last time I'm going to talk about it because these people are going to believe what they want. That to me to me it's like you said, it's just an excuse. To me, it's almost like when someone says to me, "Oh, you short guys can build muscle easier." Yeah. Short guys, short guys with genetics. Yes. Because I can go to a gym and find a hundred guys my size who can't build one bit of muscle. But I know tall guys like Ronnie Gunter and other guys, the world's strongest men guys and them. They're tall. They got genetics. They can build muscle easy because they got the genetics. So, it doesn't matter if you're short or tall. If you have the genetics, you can build muscle. So, it's like, you know, Yeah. But you know, this is just to get back to it. This is you at age 23. Okay. Um steroids. Yes, you were on steroids. But I'm saying you could feed any other Let's start the average schmuck at 17, 18 years old. Load them up on all the drugs in the world. And you know, these kids have good have they they made a lot of money on like cryptocurrency or some stupid [\h__\h] So they have plenty of money. It's not like they can't afford it. They're not going to look like this because I I say the genetics to look like a Lee Priest are probably as rare as a genetics to be seven foot tall or taller. We don't see a lot of guys walking around planet Earth that are seven foot tall or more. You know, it's it's but like I said, it's it's hard for people to ever come to terms with because telling someone you they can't achieve their dream because that dream is determined in the womb and it's, you know, you had to pick the right parents and the right grandparents and so on and so on, it's crushing. So, it's easier to believe that genetics don't matter. And if they could just take the right the right cycle, the right amount of gear, the right amount of growth hormone, IGF-1, all the insulin, they would look just like that. Yeah. Well, it's like when my mother started because my mother, you know, we have a high level of testosterone in the family naturally. So, that probably helped a bit because my mother, she used to take female hormones to keep her male level down. And when she competed with me, she stopped the female hormones. And in eight months, we're on stage together winning a show. And even then, Lee's giving his mom steroids. I was 17 years old. My mom just got in shape naturally. So people just don't want to believe. My grandfather was still training leg pressing six 700 pound when he was 80 years old. So it's like you can do and say what you want, but genetics is the main thing. But as you said, people don't want to believe that. And look, that shouldn't deter you. Look, if you love going to the gym, do it. And that's why I said, but if you have what it takes and you go further, that's great. But even if you don't, if you only have the genetics to be a regional level, regional level competler and you enjoy it, compete. So you might get the state level or you might get to the nationals, you might never win, but if it gives you enjoyment, do it. But don't look for excuses. Then you get guys that turn pro. You might never be a good pro, but you still got there anyway. So, but you said to be that 1%, it does come down. It's like running. If you went around the world with sprinters, there's probably thousands and thousands of fast [\h__\h] sprinters. But to be a Carl Lewis, a Hussein Bolt, you're talking about the one the top percentage here. When these other ones that run quick, you can give them every drug in the world. They're not going to still outrun, you know, Hussein Bol or somebody because they just have it. Even Phil Heath, they're like, "Oh, he must take lots of drugs. Look at him." But even when he played basketball, you could see he had the muscle bellies there. They were all there. And there and then he put all the time and effort into training. You can see he became a bodybuilder. So, it's like it's just crazy. It's just It drives me mad. That's why I get get sick of talking about now and just like I said my mother always told me tell the truth. That's why when I'd always do articles and talk about stuff as you know because yes to write them after I after I trans you have to transcribe what I said. You'd be like oh [\h__\h] this is going to be funny. My mom would always say me because I remember I got the biggest belting one day because I lied to my mother. She goes don't you ever lie. That's the worst thing you can do in life. So I hate it when I get called a liar. It doesn't offend me but I just get like oh [\h__\h] And even when I used to do those articles mom would be like that was a good article. She goes, "I know I told you never to lie, but maybe you don't need to be that truthful." I'm like, "But mom, you said you said always tell the truth." And I always found if I tell whatever I did sexually, even like I said with that freesome where the guy blew me and stuff like that, I was like, "Well, why would you say it up for?" I'm like, "Because it happened." But imagine if that guy come out and said, "I was in a freome years ago and I blew priest." Like I put everything out there so no one can ever [\h__\h] hold anything over my head. I I'll tell you what I did and where I did it and stuff like that. So it's like, "Hey, I'm not hiding nothing. I'm an open book." So, you don't need to say online. If you want to know something, just ask me. But you can't get upset by the incident and call me a [\h__\h] liar for God's sakes. Yeah. I mean, that just just to put a cap on this uh genetics thing. Another component that you mentioned was responder. How well you respond because like I said, I I trained out in I was at this I I belonged to the same gym in Pasadena for eight years and we all we all Pasadena. What that reminds me of Lonnie Tipper when you say Pasadena. Lonnie went Lonnie went to that gym. I saw Lonnie. Did you go Did you ever go to Tu's restaurant with Lonnie? I did not. No. Oh, that was a good the best pies like the cream pies and all that. Like Boa Deppo, some Italian place. He always Oh, that was a good We used to go there after the Iron Man. That was a good place. Yeah. A good Italian restaurant. Now I'm hungry. Actually, 96 Iron Man we're looking at right here. But uh no, the point was is we all bought our drugs from the same the same couple guys. And a lot of times we would just pull our money and like one of us would just get the drugs for everybody. We we'd we'd go to the guy and give him a couple thousand bucks and okay, so here Joe, here's your here's what you ordered. Here's what So I knew we all knew what everybody took because we were buying. We usually bought as a group to they would give us a break in pricing stuff on gear if we bought enough. So, some guys would respond so much better to moderate doses and other guys I knew were on massive doses and they just got bloated and zits and losing their hair. And you know, it's the the myth the the lie being told now is that everybody will respond fantastically to high amounts of drugs and it's just not true. You know, I kind of wish it was true because then geez, anybody could look like a lead priest or Ronnie Coleman if they just took enough. But it's even like the whole roid rage thing. It's like I never got roid rage. I remember sometimes I get annoyed when I'm dieting only because I'm like [\h__\h] I don't want to eat chicken again. I want a hamburger. So I get mad at that. I would never get go off the hand because I said if roid rage was a thing it's like anything. You can get happy drunks or you get people that drink too much and they want to beat the hell out of everyone at the bar. To me steroids, alcohol, whatever. It just brings out your natural [\h__\h] shitness. Or if you're a good person or bad, you can be a happy drunker. Like I said, I took steroids. I just sat on the couch watching TV going, "Oh [\h__\h] I got to go to the gym again." Because if steroids and there was roid rage, the amount that people take, you'd walk into any gym on any given night, it would be like a UFC match every [\h__\h] night people are taking. Everyone would be [\h__\h] raging all the time. Get off the [\h__\h] machine. Get the [\h__\h] out of just [\h__\h] [\h__\h] It's like you're an [\h__\h] You're an [\h__\h] You take drugs, you're a bigger [\h__\h] if it affects you that way. Like you can drink and become a bigger [\h__\h] because you're drunk. So there's so many myths out there. You know, I was just talking about that not long ago of that movie magazine Dreams. Yes, it's great they did a movie about bodybuilding, but they couldn't have picked on every stereotype more if they [\h__\h] tried the roid rage, wanting to kill someone, beating up the girlfriend, the gayness. It's like you [\h__\h] touched on every stereotype you could rather than say, you know, why can you pick something good about the sport? Yes, there's the dark side to it, but that's only a small percentage of it. You know, it's like you could pick on you could do the Shaun Rhodens or the Samsons and stuff like that. Their story where they've come from a hard background and worked their way up being in the military did whatever worked the construction job for Samson and he got through and this was his dream and he achieved it without the roid rage without taking a gun to try to kill someone and all this [\h__\h] It's like yeah Sean like I said you made the sport look worse than you know if they did it's like you think you watch these other football movies apart from the program which had Andrew Bernowski in where Roy raing but all these other movies about football and that they're all inspiring movies where you go [\h__\h] what a great story where this person what's that one with um Sandra Bulock where they adopted the the kid and he became oh yeah yeah that one that was like an inspirational movie. It's like why couldn't you do a bodybuilding movie like that where it's inspirational and stuff rather than oh [\h__\h] that's a looks like a [\h__\h] cult type sport there. I wouldn't want to do that or don't want my kids doing that if that's what happens you know the blind side was it the blind side. The blind side. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You can make one like that about bodybuilding because a lot of us have come from like you know Flex Lewis you know he came from a small town in Wales and stuff and you know my stepfather was a coal miner and stuff and we didn't have lots of money and [\h__\h] like that. how to get up. I I left school at 14 and started working, got a job and [\h__\h] like that. So, like I said, we never went through all these stereotypical things that they're portraying in that movie. So, it was sad to see that they took that route rather than, hey, let's do make a good story about this, an inspirational one. Even uh Bion Ansley, who was in the movie, he had a very negative review of it. He didn't like it. Yeah. Yeah. Because but like I because my son wanted to go see it and they couldn't find it playing anywhere and he's like you can like pre-order it on on demand now for 25 bucks but you can't even you can't even like rent it online yet. You can go to you can go to flick f l iix something like that. It's like a movie site. You can watch them for free. Okay. Well, you heard it. I'll send you I'll send you the link to the site. You can watch. We didn't say that here. No, no, no, no. I don't I don't agree with pirating movies even that are all in HD copies. Well, I mean, we don't want people pirating uh your documentary, so No, that's not on there. That's okay. It's not on there. Yeah. So, okay. Well, I'm glad that I was the last person that you uh allowed to speak to about this subject because you're When you said to do it, I said to my wife, I said, I'm going to talk to Ron about this. This is the last time. Because not that it's frustrating, but it's just like even I think even in my documentary my mother says she even says on my documentary where they're interviewing about steroid she goes mom I think he my mom's sitting there she's like he would come to me and say mom they ask me these questions but why don't they just believe me and stuff like that I think my mom's talking about it in my documentary and that because she'd come to some of my seminars and and then she said too she goes if you don't believe me then why do you [\h__\h] ask me my mother like that's right oh Because I guarantee you you so you go to a seminar and you say I took 500 milligrams a week of this or that and maybe another 200. If you say I used under a gram of gear and they're on two grams of gear and they don't even they barely look like they lift. They say he's got to be lying because if he was really if he's on three times more than I'm using and he's 10 times bigger he's got to be lying. There's no other explanation for it. It is that that's how they think. That's their mentality sadly. That's it. Yeah. I mean, it's I I you know, I'm speaking to everyone out there. It's it's it's awful that we can't look like the guys we idolize in bodybuilding. I'm 55 and I've come to terms with I was you years and years ago. I was never going to look like these guys. I figured it out after doing drugs and training my ass off and eating seven meals a day for years and years and I got to a certain size and that was it. I never got any bigger than that. And that's and that's the thing too. You got to realize, you know, cuz you're seen, I've seen I remember at gold sometimes I actually feel sorry for him where yes, it's good to have a dream, but don't put all your eggs in one basket. It's like cuz I'd see these guys where I want to be pro and I mean they wouldn't get a job because they think if I get a job I can't train and this and that. So they do whatever, sell drugs, do whatever to make money. They'd be a pro. They'd go to the gym every day. They'd eat, take gear. 10 years go past, they're still not a pro. they won't get in a relationship because that will affect their training and this and that. So 20 years go, you know, life goes by and they're still stuck in this rut of wanting to be a pro when mate, it's gone. You know, yes, go to the gym, train, be happy, but you got to, you know, put your sights somewhere else now because it ain't going to happen. But like you said, a lot of them don't want to face reality where it ain't going to happen. There's got to be a reason why. if I just take more, if I just do this, if these guys just told the truth. Because I read some of the comments, they're like, "Why even ask Lee? He's gonna lie anyway." I just sit there like, "Oh, [\h__\h] hell." I'm like, "Come on." It's like, when when I'm feeling like an [\h__\h] I usually say back respond to guys like that. I said, "Do this. Take all the drugs you can possibly take for five years. Come back to me in five years. If you look like a Mr. Olympia competitor, I'll bow down and say, "Okay, you were right. Drugs were the answer. High doses drugs were the answer." But we've both known, I've been around so long, I've seen so many guys blast drugs for years, years, and very few of them ever looked remotely like a pro. Remotely. That's what I tell people too when I do these seminars when they ask me and they sort of go and I've actually said to them, "Well, what are you taking?" And some have been honest. They like, "I'm on two grams of this and this and that. How long you been doing that? Eight years. Have you?" And I say to him, "What shows you on?" None. I'm like, well, with that amount of drugs, why aren't you on a pro stage by now? But in their mind, oh, you're taking moral. We know a secret. I can tell you right now, people, there is no secret because I hear this all the time like Ron and myself who's been training. I've been training what over four I'll be 53 this year. So, they'll be coming on 40 years. I've been training. If there's a secret, I wish someone would tell me because I've done it the [\h__\h] hard way for 40 years. If there's a secret out there, just tell me now because I I want to know it. in the last few in the last 20 30 years of my life I can use this secret and maybe you know [\h__\h] I mean everybody wants a shortcut everyone wants something quick that's why has made a trillion dollars because oh my god is aren't people going crazy for that now it's like look to me if you're morbidly obese and it's a health situation or something yes take a if it's prescribed by the doctor and you need it for that but if you're just taking it because you want to lose some weight you can do that with healthy eating clean eating cardio and training Yes, it might take longer, but you know what? That's that's the fun of it. You know, you don't want anything that comes quick is never worth it. Anything that's just handed to you is not the same as busting your ass, working hard for going, you know what? I achieved this. I did this myself. Yes. Okay. Training with the steroids that Yeah, that helped a little bit, but it's not like, like I said, but I was already winning shows from 13 to 19. I won the Mr. Australia. And like I said, a lot of those pictures you see me even when I was Mr. Australia winning, I was still a lightweight. But because being compact and the muscle bellies I had, I just looked, you know, I looked a lot heavier than I was. What you weigh in this picture? I'm like 150 pounds. I think when I first competed with there, it would have only been I think in my first contest. Hold on. When it comes on stage here, hold when it comes up. 13. There I was like 48 48 kilos there. So what's that in pounds? 100 pounds. 100 pounds soaking wet. There you go. And I think by the time I got to 14, even when I was 15, I think I was only like the next picture here when it comes to because I remember I used to have a little book I wrote down and you know like my weight, my little diets and stuff and I put down my body weight so I can I have to find that book somewhere. I think one of my old training partners I gave it to him. Oh no. When it come see at 15, how much do you think I weigh there? Looking at it quickly. What do you think I weigh? I'm going to say 130 pounds. Oh, it's 52 kilos. 52. So gez about 115 110 something like that. Yeah. It's all an illusion on there. There that's the universe where I placed second. That's where I first met Milos 1989 at the Carlos Rodriguez Mr. Universe. I was only 70 I was only 70 kilos there. So that's like what 150 odd pound. Yep. Yep. That's all. Yeah. Wow. And you know once once you went to gear you said you put on like 20 pounds the first year, right? Yeah. Because 19 that there at 20 I look like that when I was 19 at the end of my 19th year. So you can see the difference. Yes, Pander. I'm talking right now. That's my catch. Yeah. I mean, like I said, it it it's awful, guys, that we can't all look like these specimens, these genetic freaks. But, you know, why can't you just enjoy training and improving and being a better you? You can get better and better and better your whole life. And that's what annoys me because bodybuilding look apart from the storage as long as you don't abuse them. But even who's to say 400 isn't dangerous but to me taking 400 seems less dangerous than two grams. So but the reason I get so annoyed is because there are so many young kids in this sport and I tell the truth I want them to be like look if you are going to do it please start on a small amount. Don't go crazy. I'm not saying this because I think I'm better than everybody else and that. I want things like if you're gonna give advice to someone, like when I used to do car racing, they would teach me how to go into a corner, break early, get on the accelerator quicker. If I went, "Oh, [\h__\h] you. I know what I'm doing. I'll crash into a wall. I know how to go into the corner fast." So, why don't you listen to people that have been there and done it? We're not lying. Sure, maybe there's some out there that might lie and [\h__\h] but the majority of the pros out there are telling the truth. So, if you are going to go down that road and do it, start with a small amount. And I guarantee, hand on my heart, you're going to make gains. So if you startled on 200 a test, next time maybe go 250, 300. But like you said, they're all starting on a gram of this and something else. So next cycle 1,500. So that's the main reason I I always told you because I want because they're going to take it no matter what. It's like if you're young, don't drink, don't do drugs. Kids are going to go, "Oh, [\h__\h] you, mom and dad. I'm going to do it." So if you're going to do it, start on a small amount. That's why I've even said use that are taken now. The people out there who are on this huge cycle, come off for a couple of months, go back on with the small amounts. train as hard, eat the food, and I guarantee you're going to make the same [\h__\h] gains. I said, I used to tell people, the only one who benefits from you taking two grams this and that is the guy you're buying it off because you're buying a shitload of drugs. He's the only one who's going to benefit. Oh, there he goes. You're back. We're losing them. Well, he said this might happen, guys. So, am I still here? Yeah, you're still here. Well, I think I'll wrap it up before we have any more mishap. Hello. Yeah. Can you hear me? Go on. Hold on. I'll have to come back in. No, you're there. I see you. Hold on. Hold on. I think I got locked out. No, no, you're there. Hold on. I can hear you. No, now I lost him. All right, guys. Well, he's going to come back and I'm going to say goodbye to him. So, uh, like I was trying to say to him, I tell people all the time, if you don't start off on a small amount, you'll never know that a small amount could have given you good results. So, I'm I'm just pretty much reiterating what Lee said, but I say this all the time. I've been saying it for years. Start off on a small amount. See how you do. Next time you can use a little bit more, but if you start out on a massive, massive dose, you'll never know if the smaller amount could have given you the same results or better. So, that's it. I think he's coming back. He's coming back. Add stage. All right. Lee, well, sorry. Sorry about that. Like look, every time I'm on a podcast, can somebody tell me when I'm on my phone how to block calls when I'm on the phone? Because airplane mode, you got to put it on airplane mode. Well, anyway, what was I saying? It doesn't matter. I was gonna I was going to wrap it up because we're we're getting towards an hour anyway, and you've been very generous with your So, uh, this young kids, if you're going to do it, start on a small amount. That's why I mainly do it because I said I love to see young kids get into because I got into it like I said at 12 13 it can be a great thing if it's done correctly and to me like I said maybe taking steroids any amount isn't the best thing to do but I would it's like anything but to me maybe it's a bit safer but all depends too on your body what genetic check your genetics to me I know people can eat a ton of fat food and the cholesterol is zero almost and people that eat healthy cholesterol through the roof so there's a lot of genetic potential when it comes to markers like that with your liver kidney and everything else so even a small amount could affect you. But I just, you know, I'd rather air on the side of caution. It's like you can go and have one or two drinks and be fine. You can go out and get [\h__\h] face past it and you're [\h__\h] drunk as a skunk fighting people, drive a car drunk, kill people. So less less is always sometimes better when it comes to steroids. More is not better because they go, "Well, 200's good. Next time I go 400, next time I go 600, 600 will be three times better." It doesn't work that way. I'm sorry to tell you. And like I said, sometimes here in the reality, it's hard for them to take. And as you said here in Sunny to do what, five years foundation work. It's like anything. They want it instantly with internet and that. You probably get text me. I get text messages. How you going Lee? I could be watching a movie or out in the yard here fishing or something and I don't answer. Next one is Lee. You okay? Lee, have I upset you, Lee? It's like I'm just [\h__\h] busy. I'll get back to you when I get back to you. It's like the [\h__\h] If you don't reply instantly, there's like some big major problem. So people relax, calm down, and be patient. Bodybuilding is like a marathon to build muscle doesn't happen overnight unless you're super genetically gifted and even then you still got to bust your ass for years and years and years. So just be patient and like I said just be realist with yourself. But the main thing I've always said just go to the gym, train, have fun, like I said, eat, do everything right, and if it's meant to be, trust me, it will happen. Before you even touch a drug, you'll know I'm built for this sport. It's that simple. All right. Well, he has dropped a lot of wisdom, guys. You can choose to listen to it and and accept it. First comment, [\h__\h] liar. That's fine. You know what? Drop a comment below, guys. If you want to call him a liar, if you want to say he's full of [\h__\h] I'm full of [\h__\h] That's fine. Comments are good for the algebra, brother. I'll do I'll do I'll do a lie detector. Just say he knows how to beat the he knows how to beat the lie detector. He took Valium before he [\h__\h] went on it or something. Or put a thumb thumb tack in your shoe. I heard about that one, too. Oh, is that it? It's another method, but uh that's it, man. So Lee, thank you for being you. Thank you. Now, if anyone asked me this question again, I'm going to go go watch Shiron's podcast. Do that to him. Do the do the Lee Priest. The old the old the old one that was in muscle muscle development. Dude, that's a that's a And the thing with that pose is two people go, "I can't believe you flipped off the IFBB." I'm like, I've been shooting with Purr all day. We're doing a photo shoot all day long. And at the end of the photo shoot, P's like, "Oh, I hate to tell you, Lee, I forgot to put the card in the camera." So I just smiled and went [\h__\h] And he took a photo, went the magazine. Lead priest flips off the I was flipping off per because he said he didn't have a card in the camera. Wasn't the IFBB. Think we mis we misrepresented the intent of that photo in in MD. I believe it worked well. It worked well and it still pops up today. I think it's one of the greatest pictures of you ever of all from all over. Tomat the Tom Plats one. If I had a dollar tricep one that's that's the number one Lee Priest shot of all time. But this is a dollar for that one. [\h__\h] I'd be a millionaire. According to Wikipedia, I am. So, Oh, well, yeah. I'm glad Wikipedia knows everybody's net worth. I mean, Wikipedia Wikipedia. I'm gonna ask Chat GTP what I take. That might know. I'm gonna go ask it. Do you know my cycle? Wikipedia told me Robbie Robinson had died and I went and made a video about it and got I did a thing and I took it down too because the only reason I did it too was because Rick Falante and all those people posted. I'm thinking, well, [\h__\h] they know him well. Derek Gold's gym. They all know him. like his close friends posted. I'm thinking, well, if anyone knew, they would know, right? No, that's I got pulled into the same trap because I know Rick knew him and then I saw Lee Haney post. I'm like, well, I guess it's real. I guess he's dead. He's still still kicking. That might have been it might have been an intentional hoax on his part. I heard that. I heard it might have been a bit for publicity. So, we'll never know. He's never gonna cop to that. So, all right. Well, [\h__\h] lie. I mean, Lee Priest is a lot of thing, guys. He's a lot of things, but he's not a liar. I've known this guy a long time, and he's painfully honest to his own detriment sometimes when he probably would have been better off lying, but he just can't. My mom always says that to me, too. A lot of times, I could have just not said anything at all, but I'm like, "Mom, that's not me. That's not who I am." So, if someone asked me a question, I'm going to answer it truthfully. So, so love him or hate him, he's not going to change. And that's why I like that about you. You never uh you never sold out. You never uh you never changed who you were or pretended to be someone you weren't all these years just to to try to to try to be popular or successful. You see is what you get. Like me or hate me. And like I said, I get I think I get a lot of people that follow me just because they hate me too. It's all I've always said your haters are your biggest fans half the time. So, hey, the haters. The haters are the ones who check your posts more than anybody else. They're like, "Well, now what do you say? What do you say now?" Uh liar prick. I hate you. It's like I I did a post today about that thing and I said if you hate someone why do you follow them? It's like you watch I said go watch Little House on the Prairie. What's that? You don't like it so you don't watch it. Then why do you follow people you don't? Like I said it how I respect tennis players. I might watch Wimbledon or something. But yet I don't follow Nadal and when he's on his Instagram go you [\h__\h] suck. Your backhander across the court is the most pathetic [\h__\h] thing ever. It's like I don't I said I respect him but I'm not going to follow him just to abuse him. I don't get this whole who has time to follow people you don't like just to talk [\h__\h] It's like go find something you like that gives you inspiration or motivates you rather just spew hate to people you don't even really like why follow them like there's a lot of miserable people out there Lee I think we know this sadly sadly yes. All right well that's going to wrap it up guys. So drop a comment below. You can love love Lee whether you love him or hate him. Tell me what you thought about the interview. What he had to say. Appreciate you guys uh feedback all the time. and Lee, appreciate you doing this. Your last interview talking about this. And don't forget the Euro Muscle Show. I will be there. So, Matthew, keep sponsoring this podcast. It's a great podcast. We might have to go out for a special cookie uh between the show between the round Oh, those cookies. That'll be okay. We'll do a podcast after the cookies. It's actually not a bad idea. I think it would be hilarious. It would be, wouldn't it? Imagine Imagine what I'd say then. I mean, I'd probably just sit there like a zombie, but we'll see. You be like, "Le, Lee, put your clothes back on. Put your clothes back on." Lee, yeah, guys, that's it. Eurom Muscle Show. Matthew, appreciate the sponsorship. You're going to see Lee Priest there, Ronnie Coleman, Kevin Leone, Samson Da, tons of other tons of other big celebs are going to be there, guys. So, if you can manage to get your ass to Amsterdam July 12 and 13, it's gonna be a great great time. I'm I'm really looking forward to it because I haven't seen Giles since 2020. early 20 22 23 23 Arnold. No, 22. It's been like three years since I've seen Giles. Well, that was that funny when I did that tour with him because he did the big write up that I'd been almost 20 years since I did the first tour with him and then I went back for this one. I said he wrote such nice things about the first tour. I said, I can't wait to see to wrap up on this one. That was just like Lee, you've just got [\h__\h] crazier over the years. Yeah. I mean, I was looking at I was looking at the photos and stuff. the from the dinners and look like you guys had an amazing time going all it always ended with a bottle of gin and stuff so you could imagine how that went by the end of the night and Jos once he has wine if you've been around Jaws when he's had a few wine it's all over it's all right well let's see if we can uh recreate that in Amsterdam so oh easy all right guys so we thank you so much thanks everybody for watching run one and only Lee Priest and that's it we'll see you next time thanks for watching