Hey, what's up everybody? Live today with the preview of the Legion Sportsfest happening in Reno, Nevada this Saturday. and joining me, Matt Sinkarang from the channel Muscle Discord. Great channel. I've been a guest on his show. Uh, every Monday night they go live at 9:00 Eastern. Uh, and it's, uh, we have quite a discussion. It's usually me, Matt, but you did surprise us with Chris Cormier uh, last week. So, yeah. No, that's is just an honor to have Chris. Um, you know, Chris could have chosen anyone to to really work with. And uh we've been talking for months and months going back and forth about you know doing something together and just finally made it happen and did the first few episodes and to have Doran Yates on uh with us for the second episode was just awesome and uh you know just blessed to to do it and continue to you know grow the channel and and do new things. Right on. So I want to get into it first. I had I had a theory about show that completely turned out to be wrong. I'm wrong every once in a while like every day 20 or 30 times. I thought May has four shows in a row every weekend. It was Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Pro, New York Pro, Cali, and Legion. I thought it would be the winner of that show, uh, the first show would be done. Second show would be everybody else. That guy who won that would be done. I thought we would keep seeing the same guys over and over again. And we really haven't been seeing that. This is almost a completely fresh lineup for this show. Uh, actually, there's nobody in this show that was in Pittsburgh even, now that I think about it. So, uh, yeah. So, let's get right into it. Uh, the front runner is the defending champion, Antonio Burton. This guy is just phenomenal. I got him on screen. Yeah. So, we were looking at some updates. We did a preview on uh Muscle Discord last night, but um geez, he is looking ready to rock. Look at that conditioning. Yeah. Yeah. Like I I'm I'm not I wouldn't say I'm hard on Tonio. He he, you know, I posted the video yesterday. He commented already on the video saying that, you know, myself and Ivan Bodybuilding were picking him apart and stuff like that. I don't think we're picking him apart. We're just making an observation. I still think Tonio is the front runner to win this show. He's got a phenomenal physique. The conditioning is on point. I don't see anyone else with this level of conditioning really in that show right now. Um, you know, he he's a blessed uh genetics uh athlete. He's gonna win the show most likely uh and he's gonna go on the way to the Olympia. I was just hard Antonio just for context people uh because he missed the Olympia last year and I think you know you should never miss Olympia especially when you qualify for an Olympia don't miss it just do it and that's all I was saying about Tony Burton. Yeah. And I don't disagree with that only because you never know what's going to happen. He was in that motorcycle accident. It turned out it wasn't it wasn't minor. He had thirdderee burns but he's look at him. He's fine now. You know, you and I have both known people in our lives that had motorcycle accidents that either severely injured uh or died. I know I have. So, anything can happen. So, if you have a chance to do the Olympia, unless you're nowhere near ready for the Olympia stage, which he he's been eighth place to the Olympia because you never know if that was the one the one last Olympia you you were going to ever be able to do, but geez, he's dug out. Yeah, man. He looks ridiculous. Ridiculous. Yeah. And I I've gotten some heat for comparing him to guys like Flex Wheeler and Dexter. And yeah, those are he's he's not a clone of any of those guys. I just see little glimpses here and there of, you know, past greats in certain people. And I pointed out, but he's he's the funny thing is when I interviewed him, I you know, he was a 212 pro, not for very long. He won his pro debut. I was there at the Indie Pro and as an open pro, he's still only in the low 220s. He hasn't really had to add that much mass to do well as an open. Yeah. Yeah. He's he was it Go ahead. I was saying did you know he was that light? Uh yeah. Like I was surprised. I think he said he competed at the New York Pro last year and like at like 220. Okay. Or it was like 27. Yeah. So he's he's on the lighter end and he can still grow. And I mean I guess that was the whole reason why he took a year off was to to obviously try and get bigger. Now, is he bigger? We don't know. We're going to see what his stage weight is here at the Allegiance Sports this weekend. But, you know, if if to me, I can't see it, but maybe there is 5 lbs of tissue that he's put on. We just can't really see it. But, usually on a smaller frame like that, when you put on five pounds of tissue, you can see like, wow, he his legs are bigger, his upper body is bigger. But I don't He just looks like he did the last time he competed in my in my in his progress photos. his progress photos look the same as they did last year when or last time he was posting progress photos. So, I'm I'm unsure if he's actually made improvements. Yeah. Okay. Well, that that I agree with because it I thought you and Phil were saying he looked better like his legs were downsized now. And I I I think he looks pretty much identical to the way he did 23 and 24 both seasons. Yeah, that was Phil saying that he doesn't look like he looks any better. I didn't say he doesn't look any better or lesser or better than he was from the year before. I just think he just looks like pretty much the same. Uh, which is great because he looks phenomenal, but I just don't think I don't see the improvements yet. But again, we can't tell until he's on the stage to be like, "Oh, wow. Okay, yeah, his back to a bicep looks better." Like, we don't know yet. So, yeah, time will tell. So somebody like him, yeah, I would like to see a little more size but evenly distributed where there's other guys where, you know, like Rean, I I I don't want to be called a Rean hater, but Rean hasn't really changed much. And I still see the same areas of the physique, uh the biceps, the uh the quads, the upper chest that that haven't really improved, and I want to see those improve. So I'm not as harsh Antonio because he's got a very complete physique. I don't see anything lacking in when I look at this guy. Antonio, no. Uh, with Antonio, no. Uh, quads are good. Maybe the calves can be a little bit bigger as Doran Nates would say. Uh, but conditioning is always on point with him. And, uh, oh, and Chris Cormier points this out quite a bit. Deeper separation in the front quad. Okay. That's if you go back to his quads, you're going to see that he struggles with the deep separation in the quads. And we want to see more feathers in those quads. Yeah. Yeah. I do see that the quads don't have a whole lot of separation detail. I do see that now that now they pointed out. Yeah. But boy, they're that's an impressive physique. They're nice sweeps. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh yeah, and the back shots obviously he's he's got one of the greatest backs going right now. Yeah. We're we're Rean, Derek, even Nick has a really good back now. We're starting to see more and more very impressive backs I think than we have in a very long time. But to to me, this is this is his best shot is just standing there relaxed where you see that that X-frame, super wide shoulders, the flared out quads, the little waist. Yeah, I I know this picture here, that delt looks a little a little wonky with that angle there. I'm just wondering. And and that's where he's kind of coming at me and uh saying that me and Ivan are pointing out the delts. And I mean, you know, he he I don't know what he's doing with the doubts, but they are a little pointy. But I mean, so does Hottie Shup. And I pointed out out on Hottie as well. So Tony, I'm not just picking on you, or if you want to say picking or pointing out things on you. I'm point I pointed out on other athletes, too. Nick Walker, right? It's not hating. I just hate this whole thing. This whole culture is like when we critique these guys and we point out, oh, that guy has a bigger waist. Well, that guy's delts look a little suspicious. Oh, we're hating on you. No, brother. That's just what you look like. That's what we see. If you have such thin skin, you can't handle it and it pisses you off, then I'm sorry, but you're in a sport that your physique is being judged. You are the [\h__\h] product. Sorry for my language, but that's the product. So, don't take offense when we as pundits in this sport of bodybuilding where we have media channels, just go watch the news, go watch sports, go watch football, basketball. All they do was talk about the athletes all day. That's what we do. So don't hate us for critiquing you. Get out of the sport. Every every week that I do a power hour with Giles, we have we we touch on this aspect of it because we both have guys that that stop talking to us and won't do interviews with us because they felt we were hating on them or just being critical. You know, like if Giles, I won't even say the names, but let's say he was at a show commentating and he had some other guy winning instead of the guy that won. And the guy who ended up uh winning says, you know, you hated me. You didn't want you you didn't want me to win and this and that. And they take it very very personally. It's very hard for these guys, a lot of them anyway, not all of them, to separate the physique from the person where if you're you're talking about their physique, they take it very personally. Yeah. But here's a here's a good point. you you uh Mike Cox who does these things with me, big Mike Cox, he said uh Don Long skipped the 96 Olympia, never qualified again because after that I think it was kidney failure and kidney transplant. So yeah, you never know. You never know. All right, that's enough. Tonio is our front runner. Yeah, my big big question mark for this show is blessing. Blessing we have not seen on stage in a year and a half at this point, closer to two years. uh the Flex Weekend Pro. I believe he did the one it was in Italy. He took fifth, which for a guy that had won some shows. He's won New York Pro, he won his pro debut, Indie Pro. Uh you know, he shouldn't be placing fifth at a at a show over in I don't want to get the Europeans mad at me. Let's just say it wasn't a wasn't a top tier show. You know, he should have been winning or second at the World. So, looking at these updates, these were posted yesterday and I'm just I'm concerned about the conditioning. He does look flat for him because I know what he looks like at his best. I was I was at both of his pro wins so I know what he's what he's capable of looking like and I'm this is two days ago. I'm concerned that he's not going to bring his best package. Like look at even in the worst lighting. Yeah. Tell me what you what your immediate reaction would be to this photo right here. Uh this thickness of the skin. So you always want to look at the athletes the thickness of the skin because how the thickness of the skin is going to determine what their body fat percentage is at. And to me he's got this body fat percentage is not low enough to be at an elite level competing as an IFBB pro and to like win a pro show, right? With his genetics, his god-given genetics, yes, he can probably place in the top six if he's lucky, but I just think he looks over dieted like he he rushed. You can even see it in his face. It's like it's not the same. Um I don't know what he's doing or why he's jumping into this particular show when there's a lot of other shows he could do and and take a little bit more time and get that body fat lower, but he seems to be want to jump into this one. Uh maybe he's just testing the the waters here and then he'll do another show. I'm sure he's he's going to have to he's not going to win this show, so he's gonna have to do another show. Um and we'll see. But he doesn't look like he's quite ready yet. I think he looks about four to five weeks out in my opinion. It's not hard enough. It's not dry enough. We just went from Tonio who is just Tonio could step on stage right now and he'd still probably be in better condition than anybody else there. And I I'm just I'm worried because blessing like you said genetically the the structure, the shape, his quads could we've always been talking about the quads could be a little better, but yeah, the guy is just put together very very well. And you know, we we still when he burst on the scene a few years ago, we we were thinking, you know, this guy would be like a if not an Arnold Classic Olympia champ by now, certainly like a top five in those shows. This was two weeks ago. And um yeah, I don't know if we're going to see it. I mean, I hope so. I like Blessing. He's funny. He's he's cool, dude. I'd love to see him do well. And I'm hoping that he can pull a rabbit out of his hat and uh just get into crazy good condition all of a sudden. Yeah, man. I want to see him. I He's He's a He's a He's a little bit of a [\h__\h] talker. Remember, he was on the he was on the stage and he was calling everyone out and that's cool. I like that. Like just have some character in the sport. You know, a lot of these guys are It's kind of boring and they don't really say much, but he he talks he him and Nick Walker were going back and forth. Remember that? That was awesome. I want to see more of that stuff. So, yeah. I think I think that was like one of the only thing was that 2020? I think like during COVID that was like the only thing that was keeping us going in bodybuilding was the the [\h__\h] talking between those two guys. All right. So, this guy was fourth place in California. Brazil's Bruno Santos. Very, very impressed with this guy. I I thought he looked very complete. Uh, thick. Yeah. My only knock on him, it's it's nothing he can do about it. Structurally, the shoulders aren't super wide, but he's got a ton of muscle. And look at the conditioning dug out. Nice separation in all the muscle groups. Trying to find some video. Yeah, find the better. He's uh he's a threat. So, you got uh uh Tonio. Okay. And then you got uh Bruno who's won I think he won the Legion last year, did he not in the Legion? Was it the Cali or the Legion? One of is one of those shows. Uh who's that? I think I'm mixed up now. I get mixed up. I I think uh Bruno won the Legion last year. Actually, you know where you can find it? Charles Charles Griffin. Charles won it. Okay. So, then what show did he win last year because he qualified for Olympia? Uh, like I said, I know there's a couple open shows in Brazil that we don't always follow super close. It was probably one of those because I I covered a lot of shows for my channel last year and I don't remember covering anything that he was in that he won. But look at that thick thick dude. Uh, I have Yeah, he's thickness. Okay, go ahead. Sorry. No. Yeah. Uh, uh, placings wise, I think I did the predictions yesterday. I have Tonio first. Um, Bruno in second. And then, uh, the list if we don't have the list. Uh, and then who else is in there? We have Blessings in there, but I don't know. Bless Kennedy. Uh, you have Yeah. And that was pretty much it for Top Guys in there. Yeah. I don't This show's not that. So, yeah. Look at that. No, it's not that stacked. It's not a stacked show. And, you know, in a way that's kind of refreshing. It's easier to It's easier to make predictions for us. We don't have like eight teams. We don't have 10 guys to try to squeeze into a top five. So, in that aspect, I like it. Bruno looks really good. Uh let's go back to uh I'm look at Florian because I don't know him that well. Giles knows him a lot better than I do because he's seen him compete. I think Giles know has known Florian since he was uh competing as a junior. So he was fifth place at this Cal Pro. Me find the right footage so I'm showing the correct person. This is Bodybuilders Without Borders Instagram page right here. Okay, here he is. So here's a look at Florida. Beautiful shape right there. Yeah, good color, good tan. Um, work on his posing. His legs are just kind of straight on and he could maybe flare it off a little bit to one side like Dererick does and Samson does. Uh, I just think guys should start doing that because it just it just accentuates their physique a little bit better. Uh, but he's got great conditioning. Uh, very thick and compact. He's got calves. um needs more back width and development thickness to the back. You can see the lower lats little thin there. Um but aside from that, if he can improve the back, uh he's got all the body parts, the tools to do very well and potentially win a pro show in the future. Yeah, we we were looking at this yesterday and that's they I was trying to find flaws because it's they all look good. You can't just say everyone looks great, they're all going to win. That's what kind of kind of critique is that? So, it's the back. It's the back that he really needs to work on. When that matches the front, I think he's going to start doing even better than he's been doing. Florian. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Because he was a classic. Still is a classic physique pro. I can't believe he was classic. It doesn't make any sense. This guy's thick as [\h__\h] to be a classic. It's like what? 12. Yeah, it makes more sense. something. I wonder how much weight diff what he what he has how much he has to lose from what we're looking at right here to get down to his classic weight. I'm curious. Is that a red? I don't know because he's be tough. I didn't want to say his height. I was guessing he was on the shorter side. Yeah, he looks a little like maybe five, seven. Is that Well, I guess we're I guess I'm short then. All right. So, another guy that just made his pro debut, Colossal Ken. Colossus Ken, I'm sorry. Yeah. So, full name is Kennedy Ananu. Is that I don't know how to pronounce. Wonder if that's Nigerian. Not sure. I'm I'm gonna I didn't want to say that, but I think it's N. If I was a gambling man. Yeah. Put a couple hundred bucks on the fact that it's Nigerian. Yeah. So, this was his pro debut couple weeks ago in New York. And look at this. Great. Yeah, good debut. Certainly. Just needs the biceps to be bigger. Awesome. I I said he has the best front lat spread in the business right now with that lat spread. Ridiculous. Um, good quad development. You're going to see when he turns around, that's where he needs to work. But the arms need to be bigger as you can see. Great chest. Conditioning is on point. Like he's dangerous now because we know this guy can come in. Look at this. He can come in condition. He's got that part out of the way. Now he just needs to build up that back as you can see. That's to me that's kind of like a national level back still. He needs to make it a pro back, right? So he's got to get it bigger to compete with these big guys. And uh once he does that, man. Yeah, you can see it there. He needs some more width. Once he does that to the back, brother, he's he is going to be on a mission. Be one of I I can't tell how tall this guy is either. I think he's on a shorter side as well, like 5'6. I always just say everybody's 5'8. I can tell by his midsection. Makes things easy, but they're not. Yeah, I have no idea how tall he is either. But sixth place at New York Pro. That was a really good lineup in New York obviously with Nick and the and the rest of the guys there. So, sixth place in your pro debut uh up against an Arnold Classic champ and, you know, couple Olympians, several Olympia top five guys in that lineup. Yeah, pause it. Pause it on that last spread. Pause it. Pause it on the last. I can't now. one of the that guy in the comments is saying uh he's like uh go if you go back to the start and just go out of it and click back in the video it goes right he goes spread right away and uh I want people to see this because I you have these these clowns sometimes in the comments that are like ah the front lad spread what the hell dude my viewers show me someone yeah exactly there he's gonna do it here a double pie after he does the front double there yeah you can do it wrong look how wide his lats are in this on that part. There it is. I went up right there right there. Looks like guys, are you kidding me? Bro, in the comments, do you know what bodybuilding is, brother? Well, let's see. Who was it? You can't with the with the guys in the comments. I'm going to come back at you. If you if you got something to say in the comments, I'm going to come right the [\h__\h] back at you. So, be ready. I don't give a [\h__\h] Oh, I usually don't even half time like I'm not even showing the right screen and I I go back to the comments and they're telling me they can't see it. So that's like the most useful thing is okay so the real coach the real coach powers what's Matt Synra's competition history and accolades asking respectively. Oh that's a good question. Yeah tell us so I've yeah I've won uh so the Mr. Canada uh in bodybuilding um Canadian national title. So that's I was competing against with Rean Grimes and Antoine back in the day. Uh I won that and then that's bodybuilding and then classic physique I also won that uh Canadian national title. Um but in Canada you only win your pro card when you win the overall right. Uh like the North Americans etc. you get your pro card if you get second sometimes third. So unfortunately just didn't win the overall because I was always like a a middleweight smaller on the smaller end of things and the and the the light heavy or the heavyweight would always win. So I've never could compete against those guys and usually it was like 95% of the time in Canada the heavyweight light heavy super heavy is winning the pro card. So that was my uh a little history there. And then obviously people maybe remember I worked for Mutant for 10 years as well. uh work very closely through Rich Piano, a lot of the pros and stuff like that. So I come from that definitely come from a bodybuilding background. Been in the in this industry for a very long time. I I thought you were you so you never got your pro card? No. No. I said, "Fuck this [\h__\h] I tried two times." Okay. And I won the nationals two times and uh you know, but they didn't pro. I was like, "Fuck this." about the Canadians now. Is it all the class winners just like it is at most of the US shows? No. This overall. No wonder we don't have that many Canadian pros. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I I don't know why you [\h__\h] this month. Change it, bro. Change the polit. Change it. Give us more pro cards. Well, you know what? I like it. I like it because you only get the best, right? When it comes out to like the overall only one pro card amongst all the classes, you know, you're going to get. So, it's it's pretty, you know, I like that instead of just handing out pro cards left and right, first, second, third place, no, you got to you got to earn it. So, Oh, I I agree that when you have this proliferation of pro cards and so many pros being cranked out like a like a factory, you're still only going to see a few of them doing well. Most of them are just going to they might hit a couple pro shows and realize, "Oh, no. I'm I don't belong up there. These guys are just they're making me look like an amateur, which you know, they really when you compare it to the old days when you had to win the overall, you know, I'm I'm old enough to remember Flex Wheeler. I was at the USA when he won. Flex immediately starts winning the Arnold Classic, second in the Olympia. He won like I think six pro shows in his first season. Next year, Chris Cormier turns pro. The only guy to turn pro at the USA. Chris immediately starts winning things and placing high at the Olympia. You know, it's not like that anymore. We have I we used to know everyone that turned pro in the US. We even knew all the top five guys, the amateurs. They were that good. I I don't even if you asked me who won. Not like that. Not like that at all. So that's who Matt is. Yeah, you're right. Yeah. Okay, that's who Matt is if you're wondering what his credentials were. So Ken, let's see if there's any other good pictures of him there. That was Yeah, that is a hell of a shot. That's Evan Cinnapony. What the heck? Oh, he's with He must be with Animal as well. So, this was a week animal. Yeah, this was a week ago. Yeah. I mean, I I still think he could be more conditioned. Uh, what I saw at the New York Pro is about 85% of what I'd want to see. But, okay, good lord, when this guy gets more back and puts the condition to another level, he's going to be breaking hurting a lot of feelings, breaking a lot of hearts. Put it that way. I think his condition is good. I think the New York Pro conditioning was was really good. Uh um the glutes and the hamstrings are shredded. Um he just needs bigger biceps, but I think this guy's going to be like top three, top four at this sport. See who else right now? It's such a small show. I think I can actually show everyone that's doing it. Some of them people are going to be like, "Who the hell is that?" Okay, so this is uh Mexico's Jonathan Padilla. Tell you the Mexicans have come a long way and I can say this. I'm I speak Spanish. I've been to Mexico many times. I'm not but I remember the North American championships every year because North American is for uh US USA, Canada, and Mexico. All all those athletes can compete there and get their pro cards. So, but I remember they only had bantamweights and lightweights every year. I think the first year they had a middleweight, I was like, "Wow, they're starting to get a little bigger. They're 175 pounds now, 176 pounds." But now we're seeing some bigger dudes, some guys who are 200 lb plus. And I don't know what this guy weighs or how tall he is, but he's got some got some very decent size. Uh I just wasn't thrilled with the condition that he showed at the Cal Pro, which is why he ended up in eighth. But, you know, we'll see. It's not a lot of time to to fix your condition in one week. Like I said, I don't think it was water. I think it was just a little bit just a little body fat that probably needs a couple more weeks to get rid of. Yeah. Okay. Thick thick guy, but yeah, it just needs it's not there yet. All right, let's go to former winner of this show. Oh, no, I'm sorry. He won the cow a few years ago. We're talking about Patrick Moore. Uh, so Patrick was just in pro. Um, didn't do that well, but you know, a lot of a lot of people still hold out hope. Some people have written him off and saying they're they're just not going to wait for him anymore. He's he hasn't hasn't made it happen by now. And other people are they're still holding out hope. Okay. Okay. Well, there's a good side by side. It's not the same pose, but this is 2019. He says he's up 24 pounds in the past. So, that was six years ago almost. Ah, man. Do you I don't see 24 pounds there. No, I mean the chest is bigger. I can see the arms. Uh legs maybe a little more thickness on the legs, but his conditioning isn't the same. Um, Patrick Moore is an interesting guy because he had all the potential in the world when he got, I think, 10th place at the Olympia that one year, the first time he did the Olympia crack top cracked the top 10. Yeah. And he was shredded and he's never been able to produce that condition again and and that look. Um, and uh I don't know. I don't know. A lot of people say, "Can you do classic?" No, he's too heavy to do classic. Um he's had six plus years to you know improve his physique. He's genetically blessed and gifted. So you think he would just grow and just be one of those guys that is just genetically blessed to be like Antonio or something like that. But he's just not been able to do it. Um when he doesn't do well he blames the coach which is terrible. I hate athletes that do that and he did that to Aceto. He threw Aceto under the bus. Uh which is completely disrespectful. Aceto was a legend. Okay. So for him to just throw a cedto under the bus, it says a lot about uh him, I don't think ace is a problem. Usually it's the the athlete, especially when it's a veteran coach like that. So uh he's he's lost a lot of respect and and throughout a lot of the other bodybuilders, pro bodybuilders out there too, don't have the greatest things to say about him. But hey, I don't know what else he needs to do. He just needs to improve because he's he he's just on the cusp. He's always like sixth, seventh now in these shows, 10th. So, if he can get in better shape, in better condition, he can be right back up in the top five. But not at this show, I don't think he's going to be in the top five. No, I mean, this this was a week ago, and this condition to me, that's like six maybe eight weeks out what I'm looking at right here. Let's just call it six weeks. And um he's the only one on the list. You pointed out uh another uh Instagram page. I can't remember, Muscle IQ or something. They they listen to the coaches of everybody which yeah he's not coached by anyone. Muscle insight. Muscle insight. Yeah. Yeah. Muscle insight. So I don't think coaching himself is really working out for him. I think he's someone that does need a coach. And uh as far as Aceto goes, Aceto knows what he's doing. He knows how to get athletes in shape. He's done it for hundreds if not thousands of top top competitors over the years. So, I I I have to wonder, was Patrick even listening or or doing what Aceto was telling him to do? I don't know. That that Yeah. I guess we'll never know, will we? We'll never know. Yeah. I just to blame a top coach is kind of like, okay. All right. I'm gonna try to show some other guys here. Olu Wati, you know him, right? Olu Wati. Uh, sometimes I see his name. Not a Nigerian. Uh, I don't know. Maybe it's very possible. I mean, I don't know the origins of these different names from different countries, but he might be. Oh, this guy's doing it. Ah, man. I didn't realize. Okay. Yeah, because I posted him in a story. I was like, this guy has an awesome structure. I sent I sent this to Chris as a guy, this guy's structure is ridiculous. So, yeah. Okay. Forgot about him. Okay. So, he What does he look like from the back? Does he post any back shots? He's AI believe he's the current Is he the current USA champ? He won his pro card at the North Americans. Yes. Okay. Gotcha. Not the USA, but the North American. That's right. Because Ken Kennedy and him both are someone said they want to see the two North American champs side by side. Uh yeah, Ron, you still have that comment up. Move that comment on the You've had it up there on the screen there. Oh, let's see. Comments up there for like 45 below average. Uh, let's put another one. Cardart doesn't mean you'll be a top bodybuilding News Network. Yeah, there we go. So, that's a little more relevant. Yeah, man. Yeah. Uh, yeah. So, he's uh he's got a great structure back. I saw you posted the you just passed by that back shot of him. He needs the glutes and hamstrings to be tighter. Yeah. The next slide. Oh, yeah. There we go. There we go. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'd want to see more thickness in the back, especially in the lower lats. Yeah. You notice how common that is is the upper back. A lot of guys have a really well-developed upper back. Nice and thick. Because in the middle there, that's that's the traps. That's really not your lats. Yes. Then as you get further down, very few guys have that impressive thickness and width to the lats. That that's what makes a back shot really pop. And uh yeah, a lot of these guys probably maybe I don't know aren't doing deadlifts and that heavy rows, right? Uh that will build that lower uh midback more. So that could be what's going on. They're just using machines and whatever. Looks really good though. Looks really good. You know, they're wishing well. I mean, you know, sometimes if if we're making predictions and we don't have somebody in the top five, either them or their fans get really buttth hurt about it, but you know, we're going based on what we've known these guys have done already. So, sometimes there's, especially in divisions like classic, there's always I'd say every every three to four months, there's some like brand new star in classic that comes out that I never even heard of, but they're pretty they're just awesome. So, we'll see. Yeah, there's so many athletes now that it's hard to keep track of all these people. Um, and then a lot of them aren't just they're just never going beyond the top seven. Like they never get higher. It's just a bunch of new guys coming in getting their pro card at North Americans in second place, whatever, third place, they get a pro card and then we never see them really excel. So that's it's unfortunate, but there's there's a lot of it's oversaturated. I think there's just so many I was talking to I can't remember who it was but last week on one of the podcasts I was talking about Muscle Mag International the the great magazine that the late Bob Kendy ran for like 40 years they had a page every month called Pro Rankings. So at that time this was you know late 80s all throughout the 90s you could fit all the pros in the world onto one page in like you know 12point type in their rankings because there was only one division. And it was men's Bible and they I think they had I I think they had men and women all on one page. You couldn't do that now. You would need like 12 pages for all the divisions and all these athletes or more. You need a whole match. Yeah. I mean, it's it's Yeah, it's good that this sport has grown that much. And if it was still just one page, I mean, that would be a small little thing that we're into with bodybuilding. But, uh, you know, it is what it is. It's pros and cons. I mean, I I I admit uh I've never been a fan of all these new divisions, but I admit that without them, the sport would it would have died. It would have not been able to sustain itself financially. So, we wouldn't be talking right now, you and I. Felix Norman. So, only got a couple more guys on the show. And if I haven't heard of them, this is why I'm putting them up. I want to give them all. This is Felix Norman. Uh I think he's from the USA. Uh, yeah. You know, his quads remind me of Nate. Nate Nate Spear's quads. Nate Spear. Nasty Nate. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome. Nate's awesome. Yeah. This guy's got a really good front lap spread, too. Look at that. Yep. Super wide. Good front L. Yeah. Good pecs. Back conditions right there. Oh god. This is 36. I don't know what he was getting. This is an old These are older pictures. These are from Okay. Last fall. But let me see if he's got anything current up there. Texas Pro. Did he do Did he win the No, he wasn't didn't win the Texas. No, no, no, no. 11th 11th 11th place. Okay. Yeah, it's usually Andrew Jack wins the Texas Pro. Yeah, I think is is Ian the only other guy that's won that thing since it began? I think so. H I think so. I think it's been I think it's been Andrew. No, Hunter hasn't won it. He took second to Andrew. Oh, yeah. Yeah. To find the last guy. I have to go to uh that I did have them on there. Muscle IQ, Muscle Insight. So, they made a post. Yeah. was really cool that they gave the lineup and they gave everyone's coach and they gave the last time we saw the most recent show which is telling because some of these guys have been off stage like Blessing since 2023. Everyone else has competed this year. Yeah. Except for Antonio was last year. And on the right hand side, I really like this. They have everybody's Instagram page. Yes. He was talking to me yesterday about that. He's like, "Matt, I got it. I got it in the the comment section. So now you can just uh instead of having to go to everyone's page like we were just doing, right? We can just click on should have just done that in the beginning. So this is the last competitor. I covered everybody in the show, guys. I'm feeling very generous today because I'm not covering there's several divisions. This is uh Adam Mill. He is a chef. So make his own can make his own food. Uh yeah. Yeah. It's good. Len looks good. I mean, upper body's mass-wise doesn't really compare to some of the guys we're looking at, obviously. But, you know, he's earning it right. He's got his pro card and he's gonna You know what? I applaud people that even if they probably in his heart of hearts, he knows he's not going to place top five. Uh he's making use of the pro card instead of just Yeah. putting it on his Instagram handle and using it to boost a coaching business or something, which I feel like a lot of people now that's all they do. they turn pro and they never never compete as a pro. And I've had this argument that with some of these people saying, "Well, that's why do I have to compete?" I said, "Well, if you were drafted," and it's a horrible analogy because NFL and MLB, they'd pay you a [\h__\h] ton of money. But if a football player got drafted and just decided, "No, you know what? I don't want to play for the Jets or the Patriots. I'm just going to go do something else with my life. It'd be a huge waste." Yeah. No, it's good that you're getting on stage and uh you know, maybe that's what he's doing. he does have a coaching business or something too and he wants to show that he can do it or he just loves some guys are just addicted to the sport and and training and dieting down and you know if you want to put yourself through that and get on the stage and you know why not do it. So banners I want I want to go to the uh website to give some info to people. So, this is the centerpodium.com. All the info about the stream, the schedule, things like that. It's going to be there. Legion Sports. Click on that. Uh live stream, I think it's 40 bucks this time. Yeah, I won't be I won't be covering this one. I remember I think the promoter on this one uh um when Desktop Bodybuilding used to do it, they he like copyrighted strike them. So, I'm like, okay, stay out of this one. We don't need that. Yeah, man. I I see you probably see it, too. When these shows are going, there are these little channels. Um, and they're usually in I don't want Well, every country other than whatever country you live in is a foreign country. Brazil, Mexico. Yeah. They stream it and they have themselves in a corner giving commentary the whole time and they're they're streaming it live with the pay-per-view. So, they bought the 20, 30, $40 pay-per-view package, but now they're monetizing their channel live with the pay-per-view, which huge, huge risk. Massive risk. I'm not sure. So, they're in Brazil, they're in Mexico when they do this. They bootleg it and they reream it um fullon, not screenshots like me and Desktop Bodybuilding do or EP09, right? We screenshot and um when they do that, you have there's music playing in the background. All that's copyright music. They're not monetizing those videos. Hell no. They can't They can't They can't think about that. So, they're playing it and the music is playing in the background. You can't monetize those videos. So, um and the reason why they can't get they don't get taken down is because they're in Brazil. And then, so the the promoter has no jurisdiction to say, "Hey, want to copyright strike that stream because they're using my legal IP property, intellectual property." They can't do it over there. Just like in China. China could rip [\h__\h] off and get away with it, right? Same thing in Brazil and um Mexico. They could do whatever they want and they don't get their channel doesn't get taken down. If me or you were to do that, we'd be done in a second. But I don't understand because YouTube is a is a international platform. I don't I didn't why would they care? They would treat everyone equally as far as copyright infringement. I would think you would think like they get away with it. Why have they gotten away with it? And then other channels like myself, Desktop Bodybuilding, we got strike out, right? It's just I got a strike for the Olympia last year and I was covering I wasn't doing it live. I was showing it like an hour later, but it took me like three months to get my strike taken away. Uh here's something cool on the website because I found it's so hard to find the the cash breakout show. This one gives it to you. That's good. Fitness first, second, third, 2,000, 1,000. Classic physique 4,000 for first. Wellness is 4,000. Mench physique and open bodybuilding is the biggest prize of course. 15,000, 10,000, 3,000. I I don't know why it's so hard to find that information usually, but I've had a hell of a time. A lot of Yeah. Yeah. And to give you, you know, Yeah. That's what the muscle sight guy should do. You should also put the prize money, make a graph. Yeah, right. That'd be good. Muscle insight, if you're listening, that's another thing you can do. What the which the other channels are not doing. Right on. Uh, so here's another another cool extra that Chris Mace, the promoter, does. These are for uh the because they all these shows usually typically run an NPC contest along with the pro because that's where they make their money is the amateur stuff. The pro shows, believe it or not, they don't make money. They don't. No, they have to pay. They have to pay the IFBB Pro League uh large fees, sanction fees per division. They have to pay the cash out. But anyway, so the NPC, look what they're giving these people. 26-inch tall, very cool sculptures of like superhero males and females for all division winners, medals, medals. So that's pretty cool. Yeah. Yeah. They don't have to do they don't have to do that. And uh and that's also a cool thing there. That's they put the order of divisions because a lot of times you're watching a a stream and they'll be like, "Well, when are the when are the bodybuilders coming on?" You know, they people want you to tell them exactly what time. You know, it's it's three o'clock and uh wellness is on. They're like, "When are the open men coming on? I'll come back when they're on." Like, I dude I I don't know. We have these we have like three more divisions. It's going to take as long as it takes. People get buttth hurt about it. I know. I'm like that too when they're, you know, covering the show. I'm like, "Man, the man coming on, man." and you got to drag the show on until they come on. So, I get it. All right, let's see if there's any. So, he That's Muscle Insight HQ. That's a newer channel. There are 800 Classic MP guys qualify qualifiers there are, how many pro shows there are for each division. And I think men's physique had almost a hundred. Uh, bikini had over a hundred, I believe. Uh, certain classic had about a hundred. The smallest division, well, actually, fitness has the fewest. Not many people put on fitness because there's not that many fitness pros anymore. And men's open has the fewest contests per division because the prize money has to be higher and the sanction fees are higher. So, that's why we don't have as many open pro shows. You know, every weekend there's like two or three shows that have a bikini division or men's physique division or figure division or something. Yeah. Get big hitter. Yeah. 100 men's physique guys are qualified for the Olympia. Well, they will be. Yeah. We're still only in May, but by the time he gets the Olympia, doesn't mean they're all going to Yeah. Yeah. What happened to Charles Griffin? I don't know. Did he retire? Mike says he thinks he retired. Yeah, I think he's I think he retired. Didn't he retire? I think he did make a post about Yeah. Copyright Classic for a reason. Everyone sell Brazilian channel live stream the New York Pro for free. Well, not really. They they were doing it. They were they were pirating it basically, right? I guarantee you Steve Weinberger saw that he he'd put a he put a stop to it in two seconds. Mike says, "Yes, he would. That's why I did not do Steve show." No mistake again. I did it the first time. I like Matt. So, like, don't piss off Brazil. No, I would never want to piss off Brazil. Certainly not. Don't piss off Iran or Brazil. Bad bad places. Yeah, Bruno did win a show, but I don't know what the show We can't remember what the heck show it was. Uh, remember that last Olympia when Ronnie competed? The show was very Okay. Yeah, that was a very late Olympia. The 4 a.m. night for Olympia weekend. Fair enough. All right. All right. Cool. So, that is it, guys. Uh, Legion Sportsfest is going to happen this Saturday. You can go to centerpodium.com for all that information on the stream, the schedule, and all that good stuff. Uh, there's a great preview that I did for Muscle Discord on Matt's channel with Phil Clayar. We did that last night. So, check that out. I'll put the link in a little bit later in the description. And, uh, Matt, thanks, man. This was this was a good time. Good having you on. Good good flipping the rolls this time. Instead of me being your guest, you So, all right, guys. So, drop a comment below. Let me know your top five, who you got winning and why, how do you think Blessing is going to look, you think Tonio looks any different? Whatever you have to comment on, please drop a comment. It's good for the algo rhythm and I like algorithm, whatever it is. So, that's it, guys. Thank you all so much for watching. Appreciate it. And we'll see you right here next time.