What's up everybody? The list for the 2026 Arnold Classic came out yesterday and two front runners instantly emerged. four. I had four people in my uh leadup. Of course, Hottie Chupan, Tupan, Andrew Jack, Martin Fitzwwater, and Nick Walker are probably your top four in some particular order. But I'm narrowing it down today to two guys I think have the greatest chance, and they are Hottie Chupon and Andrew Jack. Why? Hottie should go without saying. Hottie was Mr. Olympia. He was the Arnold Classic US champion. He was the Arnold Classic UK champion. He just took a very close second place to Derek Lensford. In fact, he was beating Derek uh in the finals. So, he didn't uh Derek did not win the Olympia with a perfect score. Hottie almost had him. And Hottie almost had him the year Derek won in 2023 as well. Hottie is very tough to beat. None of the other men competing in this show, not one of them has ever beaten Hottie Chupan. So, uh, I have Andrew. I have Hottie as probably my favorite probably. Uh, Andrew Andrew is very, very good, too. Andrew was third place. A lot of people thought he could have won that last Olympia. Uh, the points the points and the judging did not indicate it was as close as the fans thought, but that doesn't always mean [clears throat] the fans are wrong and the judges are right. fans sometimes have preferences that are a little bit different from what the judges think. So, Hottie, my my favorite, but Andrew Jack also damn good. Andrew showed up at this last Olympia with a a package that was improved. He was bigger, particularly in the back. Hamstrings were even a little bit better. Condition was better than we had ever seen it before. So, this Andrew Jack was uh another level up from the Andrew that we'd seen previously. And Andrew's been very, very good ever since he jumped on the pro scene in 2022. Remember, he only turned pro in 2022, early March at the Arnold Classic, winning the Arnold amateur. So, he hasn't been a pro that long. It's been about three and a half years now. A little over three and a half years, going on four years that he's been a pro. And he's accomplished quite a bit in that short time. Could he improve more? Uh, I know we only have 11 weeks left until the show. It's coming right up. But he is going to be back in Florida training with Kamal Garnney in the Tampa area. And that's that's where he made the most improvements was training with Kamal Garnney for this last Olympia and the [clears throat] Romania Muscle Fest. Now, uh, what do we got there? Comment there. Andrew wins. Kianne says, "Much don't want to say Hottie, but I guess he passed peak years." Well, the thing is is I don't think I don't think Hottie is getting better. Uh I think Hottie is excellent, but he has not improved. Tell me how he's improved in the past few years. I I don't think he has. He's probably at his physical peak. He's holding it very very well. He's not on a decline in any way. But is he getting better? No. Is Andrew getting better? Yes. Can Andrew get close the gap and make more improvements in the short amount of time we have left before this Arnold? That is what remains to be seen. So, I want to show you some interesting sidebyside comparisons that were made on YouTube channel, a YouTube channel called Super Set Man, and these show side by side different shots. Uh, that's an awful hottie. Wasn't even fully in the pose there. There we go. So, he's going to run through the poses. Super set man. and he scores each and I think most of us are actually gonna agree with the the uh the opinions of superset man. I certainly agreed with pretty much everything he had to say. So right now they're just he's just running through the poses. Now he's going to start tallying them up. Front double I would give it to Andrew, right? Just a beautiful shape. Front lat he's so wide. That is one of the widest lat spreads ever. So we'll give Andrew the the front lat spread. Side poses. We know these are not Andrew's strong point. We give that to Hottie. The side chest, the rear double. Give this one to uh Andrew. Hottie's got a great rear double. But Andrew, I think the stature and the width of that upper back gives him the back shot there. The back pose. Uh although because of the thickness of the back, he does get the rear lat spread. Side try. We give that to Hottie. We give him the side poses. Abdominal thigh. Andrew. I give that to Andrew. And so does Superset Man. Superset man. What a great name. The most muscular. I give this one to Heidi. He's just thicker and denser. So it's a four to four. It's a very evenly matched pose for pose between these two guys. Uh yeah. What do you guys got to say so far? Too much SEO on Andrew. What's up? Oh man. Here we go with the SEO and the at least not being accused of PMAA 99% Baron hottie 100% you know structurally aesthetically a better bodybuilder. I mean you know I'm a shorter guy 57 and a half and you'd think I would always take the side the preference of the shorter guys like a Derek or a hottie. No. Uh I I give Andrew the poses that he beats hottie in. Hottie beats him in some poses. Andrew beats him in some poses. side shots, the rear lat spread, and the most muscular. I give those to hottie all day. No, not even a problem. I have no problem admitting hottie is a better bodybuilder than those shots. But this is tough, guys. It's gonna it's going to be tough. Now, Andrew has never beaten Hottie before. However, that doesn't mean he can't beat him. You know, a lot of times some it takes guys a few shows, a few years before they level up, make all the improvements they need to their physique and beat the guys that were beating them. I mean, Ronnie Coleman was a perfect example. Ronnie was getting beat all the time for years. His first few years as a pro, Ronnie was taking 10th through 15th in many, many shows. However, after after he won his first Olympia, he didn't get beat again until Gunter beat him at the 2002 show of strength, which was a controversial call. And then he didn't get beat again until Jay finally caught him in 2006 when Ronnie's physique was on the decline due to the back injuries, nerve damage, all kinds of things like that that led to Ronnie's physique starting to decline. But like I said, is a fantastic bodybuilder. He's incredible. There's a reason he was Mr. Olympia. He was the greatest bodybuilder in the world. He's been second I think three times now. Um I if I was a gambling man and I'm a huge Andrew fan, but if I was a gambling man, if you said Ron, you got to put down your next six months of wages on one of these guys, I'd probably have to go with Hottie. It's not that I don't have confidence in Andrew. It's just that until he beats Hottie, which could happen, I'm still going to say that Hottie probably has the edge. He never comes in out of shape. Um, you know, Andrew Andrew seems to be getting the condition aspect down pat. Uh, we saw that in both the Olympia couple months ago and then again in Romania. Is conditions better now than it's ever been? Is it going to be enough to get past Hottie? I don't know. I don't know. We're going to see. It's going to be a very exciting uh Olympia Arnold Classic. Uh I'm curious to see what the polls say in the live chat. Where's the poll? I can't even see my poll. I know I had a poll. Oh, there it is. Uh super chat goal. No, I'm not getting any super chats. 60% say Andrew. 33% say Heidi right now. So 60% of you right. So far, we've only had 15 votes. Say Andrew. 33% are saying Hottie. 7% Nick. And so far, none of you have picked Martin Fitzwwater for the win. And you know, I'm not writing Martin off. I I I I've seen so many upsets happen in the sport over the years. I would never say there's no way there's no way Martin could win. Of course, he could win. See, I mean, you don't have confidence in the judges. Uh well it's a it's subjective sport. It's personal preference. So sometimes I don't agree with the judges. Sometimes I would have made a different decision than the judges. Your height Mitch m 6'2. Well congratulations. You picked some good parents. Pick anybody else's aesthetics. Arnold classic size lot shape and structure. See I don't believe that the Arnold Classic judges any differently from other shows. You might think so because Arnold's show and Arnold himself prefers more aesthetic physiques. This is judging from the last Olympia where we had Derek there was first. You're actually looking at uh first place Derek, second place Hottie, uh fourth place Samson, and third place Andrew in this uh past Olympia right there. No, it's it's the same judges that judge the Olympia and the Arnold. It's not like there's a whole different crew of judges with different uh standards and ideals and things that they're look attributes that they're looking for. They're all looking for the same. It's almost all the same judges. Olympia judges and Arnold judges. I bet if it's seven guys, I bet it's like four of the same guys in both shows. Guys, girls, Nick will win. Okay. What's up, Paul? What's up, Paul? Well, I don't know if you're saying that just to be uh controversial or you really believe Nick is a he's a question mark. He is a question mark. Go to go to the poll and vote, Paul, because nobody's voted for Actually, we don't No, Nick Nick has a couple votes. Martin doesn't have any votes yet. He needs a couple votes. Uh Nick has won the Arnold Classic before. He's been as high as third at the Olympia, just like Andrew was. Is he capable of winning it? Sure, he is. Nick will be fourth or worse. I can't see him any worse than fourth. I mean, looking at the list of guys, I don't see anybody that would that would beat Nick aside from the top four. Just flicker Arnold seems like pretty aesthetic. Well, Arnold isn't the judge. Josh Arnold has nothing to do with the judges and the judging. It's not like Arnold meets with the judges before the show said, "Listen up, guys. Here's what I want. This is the IFBB Pro Lee's show to judge. Arnold has no say in the judging. The only thing that he was able to change about the judging for his show a couple years back was that in the Arnold Classic, the posing round is scored. It's the only show where the posing roundt versus Nick will be the show. What about Andrew, man? Come on. What about Andrew? I mean, Andrew looked pretty damn great. I got Andrew in Romania. Andrew in Romania or No, yeah. Yeah, Romania. That's where it was. I'll show that because some people like that look better better than the uh the version that won. Martin Olympia Samson AC top three was the last that was the last classic where Andrew was. Yeah. Samson Andrew Prague. Uh what I want to show you guys Oh, here he was. So, here was uh we're going to take a look at Andrew Jack in Romania, which was several weeks after. I think it was 6 weeks after the Olympia. Um, didn't need to do it. He was already qualified for the 2026 Olympia by virtue of his third place, top three at the Mr. Olympia. Did [snorts] qualify for the next year. So, he didn't need to do it to qualify. Um, but he wanted to push the condition. He wanted to see if he could get better in that span of time, and he did. I preferred this look to the Olympia look. I thought he was in a little better condition. You You may or may not agree, but I liked his look at the Romania show. Nick will never beat Hottie. Let's go to People only high on Andrew lately because everyone hates Derek, Mr. Row. Well, I mean, they still have they could be high on Hottie. Why do they got to go with Andrew? And it was not consistent. Yeah, we I I although he's been great in these two shows in a row, the Olympia and the Romania. I want to see it one more time. Nick never beat Hottie. Not even once. No, none of these guys in the lineup. Andrew's never beat him. No. No. The only one that's beaten Hottie in recent years has been Derek. No one else has beaten Hottie. Hottie probably will win. Yeah. I mean, like I said, if if you put a gun to my head or if you force me to to bet my life savings, I'd probably go with Hottie. If Nick finds some third place, he redeem himself. Yeah. I mean, third place for Nick would not be uh a disgrace. Nick is not consistent as well. Yeah, Nick at this last Olympia, his midsection was blown out. Very thick and blocky looking. I liked his look in Pittsburgh better. Didn't like the Olympia look as much. And more than a few people had Nick lower than sixth. They thought he was going to be seventh or even eighth. Nick had one bad showing for half of one show. [laughter] Do I need to show Nick? I guess I'll show. I know. We're not talking. I know it's not the topic of discussion, but it's only fair, I suppose. Where did I put Nick? Got so many video clips. All right, so this was Nick at the Olympia. big, freaky, ripped, but that midsection, he needs to keep that in. He needs to control that. It bother me all that. You're downplaying. Uh, I mean, what what what more is there to say about it? Unless there's like direct evidence like the doctor says, "Yes, I I put PMA MA in these bodybuilders." We don't have any real evidence about this PMAA use. We don't. We have a lot of uh what do they call it? uh in a in a case like in a in an actual criminal trial, uh that type of evidence is not admissible because it's not uh what's the word? Somebody help me out here. There's there's a term for it. Nick's stomach is simply getting worse. Yeah, that's why I hope he he dials it back and slims down, downsizes a little bit because this 270 or 80 pound version of Nick, whatever whatever this was, it's too big. It's too big and his midsection gets thicker. I don't want to see him with the thick the pre-judging Olympia Nick the final was stronger than hell. Uh he still had that midsection though, Paul. He still had that midsection. This was the fifth through 10th guys. Lighting was horrific. What's that? Veto Antonio. Nick's up there somewhere. He was not in the first call out. Well, actually wasn't in the very first. Martin, Nick, Brandon, and Bonak there in the end. Yeah, shooting a plastic polyry muscle is okay. No, I don't think it's okay. Circumstantial evidence. That's that's the uh that's what I was looking for. It's not direct evidence. It's circumstantial. So, no, I'm not saying Pmama is okay. I hate I don't like synthol at all or PMA. I don't like any of these fake muscles. I mean, at least with peeds, steroids, growth hormone, insulin, you still have to train hard and everything. It's not injecting instant size into the muscle. You're injecting drugs that help you gain size if you do everything right, the training and the eating, but it's not fake muscle. Andrew Hottie, is this your top four? Yeah, I mean, that's could go that way. Nick's midsection was blown out in Pittsburgh as well. We'll take a look at that. Nick say himself approved his earlier on looks. I mean, everybody did. I mean, I I don't know too many people that didn't prefer the way Nick looked when he won the Arnold in was it 2021? That was a really good look for him. And he was much lighter. He was probably about 250 255. He's about 20 to 25 pounds heavier on stage now. Bigger is not always better. In the case of Nick, I liked him smaller. Hope Andrew loes Mike Morazzo. Yeah, he doesn't stick his tongue out anymore. [laughter] Love the current crop physiques. Yeah, it's going to be an exciting show. This is this Arnold Classic. It's a great lineup and we're only really missing a couple guys. We're missing Derek Lunsford. We're missing Simpson, Dada. But geez, to have just the four that we keep talking about over and over again. Hottie, Andrew, Martin, and Nick. I mean, that's just right there. That's pretty damn sensational. And you have Brandon Curry. Uh I guess I'll show uh Pittsburgh while we're I'll show the Pittsburgh stuff while we're yapping. It's got to be up there somewhere. Yeah, I know. I have it. Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh. Oh, I had it way up there. This problem with having too many video clips loaded is sometimes it takes me a while to scroll through and find the ones I want, but I'm going to find I'll leave Pittsburgh up for a minute. Uh, that wasn't the Pittsburgh, but not the top five. [snorts] I'll leave this up while I'm trying to find it. This was Nick in 2022 when he took third place at Olympia. Smaller version. Smaller version, but I like this version. I prefer this version to by far to the version we just saw at the Olympia. All right. So, that was Pittsburgh. We'll leave that up while we get some more of your comments. Hearsay. Uh, no. Circumstantial evidence and hear. Yeah, I mean, they're closely related. I'm not I'm not a lawyer. Don't pretend to be. Circumstantial evidence is evidence that looks bad, but it's not directly linked enough to the case to be admissible. Uh, it's not enough to convict somebody. Put it that way. So, the PMMA stuff, there's just not any real clear-cut evidence that Natalia, the Derek, there's no evidence that Derek used it. There's, you know, you can speculate all you want. You could say it's anybody with eyes, but, you know, it's still just your opinion. Circumstantial evidence. Thank you. I mean, I finally thought of it. Only took me like five minutes. When you say freak, I don't know if he has freaky legs to back it up. Uh, Nick, Nick's legs from the side are damn great. From the back, they look pretty great. Uh, from the front, they're not as great. Uh, in Pittsburgh, they weren't any worse than Nick's because Nick's legs were flat and downsized in Pittsburgh. Pull up 21 Arnold Nick. I didn't I don't have that recorded, unfortunately. How will that do in this Arnold lineup? Uh he'd have a chance. He'd have a real chance. I if you know if Nick can revisit that smaller version of himself, the 2021 Arnold Classic look. Yeah, he could he could pull this off. Could he beat Hottie Chupan though? I mean, Hottie is deadly, guys. Hottie is Hottie is very, very tough to beat. Andrew is going to be tough to beat, but I think Hottie is the man to beat here. That's why I put him first in the uh in the title and everything. Derek and Natalie going around and said doctor wouldn't make much sense. She was hoping with something. Yeah, I agree. It doesn't look good for Hadtian. Uh, actually, was there any Was there any evidence that Derek went there? I I I haven't been following that closely that story closely enough. Haha, Nick [\h__\h] rules. We love Nick. Well, I mean, we've all got I'm waiting for someone to chime in and say Martin. I mean, come on. Martin's damn good, too. I don't like the way he treated Giles, but his physique. I have nothing bad to say about Martin. Martin Fitzwire's physique. I think he's fully capable. fully capable under the right circumstances of of uh winning this. It would take a lot. Not saying it's uh it's going to happen. Uh let me show that Pittsburgh lineup where we also had uh a good look at Martin in there. Yeah. So that was Pittsburgh. This was a call out with uh Martin, William, Derek, and Nick back in earlier in the year in Pittsburgh. Was that April? Early May. It was late April, right? Yeah, that was the first call out in Pittsburgh. Temporary swelling Bros. Well, that would be a clean Paul. The old school stuff that was temporary. I like Nick to beat Martin. I don't care who wins. Yeah. I mean, that is another rivalry. Nick and Martin have had a a pretty long-standing rivalry. Martin did say some weird [\h__\h] to him when he was up on stage at the Olympia. And he's he said some awful things like, "I hope you're uh you don't get cancer from the those varicose veins or something like that." I don't remember exactly what he said. I'm going to go back to the Blitz matchup because I thought that was a really cool comparison. Yeah, this is Super Set Man that does these these sidebyside videos. A lot of people call his Pittsburgh look his best ever. Got disagree. Yeah, I don't think I don't think Nick's best look was this year at the Pittsburgh. I'd say when he won the Arnold, I I like that 22 Olympia that I showed too. That was a really good look for me. He got third place behind uh 2022 was Hottie and Derek. So gosh, that was Come on. I agree with Nick looking better earlier. Permanent swung is where we draw a line in the song world. Exactly. [laughter] As long as it's As long as it's only temporary, you're all good. What's up, Davey? My m Davey, this round will be the most intriguing years. Could have five different guys. Who's the fifth guy? Raphael Brundo. Now, Raphael looks damn good. Don't get don't get it twisted. Can Raphael beat Hottie Chupan, Andrew Jack, Nick Walker, and Martin Fitzwwater? I don't think so, guys. That that's my opinion. But I'm not saying it's impossible. I just I don't see it happening. I Martin Sarah, please share it. I was only after Jimmy up his arms. His arms grew a lot until he took a break competing. I don't know. I mean, if if you put stuff in your arms and it's done well, you can't tell. Paul, you're not a Derek fan. And that's fine. You don't have to be. I think it's because you're tall. No, because you're a Nick Walker fan and Nick's certainly not tall. So, I guess I guess your height is not giving you any bias towards anybody. He's a meeting for the doctor and his trainer in Brazil. Oh, that talking about Derek. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. [laughter] You want me to just say Derek is a cheater and Natalia is a cheater and I'm not gonna do that. Ernie Taylor was a poster boy for sight enhancement. Yeah, he his triceps were ridiculous. Ridiculous. You know what's funny is I used to have this chart on my wall. It was an anatomy chart uh with the best body parts. You know, it was like one of those muscle charts you'd see in a doctor's office, but they had made it using body parts of all the top bodybuilders of that time. And I think it was like geez mid probably like mid 2000 2005 or something like that. And they had Ernie Taylor for the triceps, which ridiculous because Ernie's triceps were fake as [\h__\h] They were awful. Awful. All right. Uh, let's see. Is it the Derek tore his chest tweaks out the Olympia? It was a month out. It wasn't a full tear. If it had been a full tear, all the injections in the world wouldn't have done [\h__\h] Trust me, if you have a full muscle tear, you need surgery to reattach and you're not getting on a bodybuilding stage for a long time. So, it was a very minor tear. It was enough to cause bruising. And I'm sure he took a [\h__\h] ton of TB-500 and BPC-157. Probably upped his GH uh for healing properties, but no, I I don't think he injected his chest to to heal it. Martin could surprise him if he comes in sharp. Oh, absolutely. And Martin's condition last few shows has been spectacular. Absolutely. Martin's physique is great. Now his arms have no peak. I don't remember him ever having a peak in his biceps, honestly. You know, Andrews, look at the peak on Andrews. Great peak on his biceps. Hottie's got a nice peak, too. PMA is permanent. Yeah, it's it's uh it's like I believe it's tiny little plastic balls. Find Martin in Prague. Give Martin some love. Even though, again, I am not a fan of Martin's personality. I don't like the way he treated my good friend Giles. But when it comes to physiques, I give him all the credit in the world. He looks fantastic. He looked amazing at the Olympia. He looked great in Prague. Uh physique-wise, I think he's great. It's just uh that personality. Don't hit the guy. Freeze, Mr. Ro. Blame the judge if you want. In my opinion, Derek won deservingly. Yeah, it's it's true. When you when you disagree with the decision, you should be mad at the judges because the athlete didn't do anything. What do you think? Derek bribed them all or something. Come on. Now Martin has a Milos look to his biceps now. We know Milos used synth to grow his arms. I don't know what's in Martin's arms. I don't know what's in Derrick's arms. I have no idea. Martin's show blasting. Is it slander? Oh boy. Antonio. Antonio's great. Is he beating these guys? No, he's not beating these guys. Not yet. Raphael can beat anyone if he shows up right. Not saying it's gonna happen, though. [groaning] That's a wild That's a real wild card. Circumstantial evidence. Yeah, sadly FB started rewarding Martin with wins only after he jimmyed up his arms. Well, I mean it's not because he jimmied up his arms. It's he improved his arms. Whether it was through oil, through training, I have no idea. But, uh, you know, if you have a weaker area and it's it's improved, then your placings are probably going to improve because the judges are looking for the physique with the least weak points. They're looking for the most complete physique. Reno has the best statuesque body. Oh, Raphael looks great. Absolutely. If Andrew was Iranian. If Andrew was Iranian, they'd pick him over Hottie. Well, they picked Samson, who's of Nigerian heritage, and so is Andrew. The Iranians. Hottie has beaten Andrew several times. Yeah, Andrew has never beaten Hottie. So, Hottie will Well, it doesn't mean that just because Hottie's never been beaten by any of these guys that he can't be beaten by them. It just means that on paper right now he is the favorite because he's never these guys have never beaten Hottie. They they've never come close. None of these guys. Dererick's beaten him and Dererick's come close to beating him on various occasions. But no one in this Arnold Classic this year has beaten Hottie Chupan. He is undefeated so far by these guys. Who be who lasts? Otherwise Ronnie would have never won. True. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we've seen Olympias where people go from third or fifth or the year before Ronnie Coleman won the Olympia, he had been like eighth place. The year before Jay won. No, that's not true. Jay would had been second, but Jay Jay used to do a lot more poorly in the Olympia. Hottie, Nick, Andrew. My criticism for Derek doesn't come from me being 6'2. No. Paul is about your height. I think Paul's about 6'2 and he's a big Nick Walker fan. How's favorite Marie for Martin? Martin has the best structure, most potential. Yeah, he does have a beautiful shape and structure. Absolutely. I like Andrew's structure, too. Martin does not have the Milos look or does does not the Milos look. Two fan favorites. It's going to be fun. If Andrew wants to win, then he cannot neglect posing presentation. Yeah. I mean, he can't if you're gonna if he's going to beat Hottie, he's going to have to be in spectacular condition. His posing is going to have to be on point. Everything's going to just have to be firing on all cylinders. No biceps, front elbow. There's no peak. It has to be oil. Well, a lot of people don't have any peak. Genetically, you either have a peak shape to the biceps or you don't. I mean, Sergio Leva, the great three-time Mr. Olympia in the late 60s, early 70s. He had the biggest arms, you know, him and Arnold of their of their era. But Arnold had those crazy jagged peaks on his biceps. Sergio Leva had no peaks. They were shaped like footballs, but they were enormous. Bicep peak is 100% genetic. You either have it or you don't. Uh Larry Scott didn't have peaks. Yeah, he had more full biceps as well. Ronnie had great peaks. Robbie Robinson had great peaks. Boyer Co had great peaks. I'm just thinking of some guys. Kevin Leoni. Exactly. He had zero peak to his biceps. And it wasn't from shooting. That's just a genetic shape. You like I said, you either you either have it or you don't. You either have it or you don't. Oh, there's Andrew again. [snorts] It's genetics training in oil. No, the the again to reiterate, if you have a peaked biceps, I've seen guys, listen to this, my my son has much smaller arms than me, but he has a better peak to his biceps. My wife has peaked biceps. That's where he got it from. He got it from his mom's genetics. I never had much of a bicep peak. They were somewhere in between a full a fuller shape and a peak, but they weren't like the sharp peaks like you see. stupid to give Derek the title based on his shape when his details are all missing. Well, judges didn't say outside North America, guys just vote for guy because he's from the same country. Yeah, I think the Iranians tend to be extremely biased towards Iranians. The Brazilians tend to be very biased towards Brazilians and so on. Canadians and sporting off your country. Well, you don't have too many pros coming out of Canada. You have some great ones, but not a lot. Sergio Oliva. Yeah. Yeah. There was no synthol. There was no Sergio retired decades before people started putting [\h__\h] in their arms. So, his claims are wild. Hottie should have won three or maybe four Olympia. Yeah, I believe was uh close enough at several of the times he got second places that you could arguably have given him the win. It was like a a coin toss. My money is on Andrew. I'm g take a look at the poll. How's the poll doing? Oh, so right now the poll is 48% for Andrew, 42% for Hottie. Nick Walker gets 8% of the votes and Martin gets 2%. Oti needs to win this. It's a swollen look to the arms like Rich P which gives away that gu. Well, Piana, when they go that far, there's no doubt. There's no doubt you're looking at uh PMAA, sorry, synthol. They're looking at some sort of substance in the arms when they're that ridiculous like rich pianas were. Uh but with with Martin, with Derek, I don't know. They might have stuff in the arms and they might not. I really I'm I'm not I'm on the fence. I can see Andrew in second place at semi-permanent filler. You have to tilt your wrist out really to pop the bicep. Yeah. I mean, you have to you have to move your wrist in to to ro to supenate the bicep uh and get it to fully contract and that's when the the peak shape emerges. [laughter] Oil is a new word for trend at this point. Use far more sight enhancement in the 90s than now. No, I don't think people use more sight enhancement in the 90s than now. I think it's we're seeing an all-time high in sight enhancement now. See, the posing round is scored. It's not. They just It's only scored at the Arnold, Wayne. It's not scored at any other event, but Arnold was adamant. Um, and he was able to convince the IPB Pro League that his show posing would be scored. Best pros award is based on skill. Martin's on the same genetic ladder as Kevin Leon, though. No, Kevin was a genetic phenomena. Martin's got fantastic genetics, too, guys. Make no mistake. >> [laughter] >> No, I didn't know she had bites at peaks back then. Oh, well, when I got with her, it's Gez, we're we're just about [sighs] 10 days away. We're nine days away from the 36th anniversary of my first date with Janet. December 22nd, 1989 was our first date. Let the best guy win. Absolutely. Major judging reform and overall. I wouldn't mind you being a judge. Oh, I mean to become an Olympia judge takes years. It's a very prestigious honor. Every judge wants to be a Mr. Olympia judge. That's the highest the highest honor for a pro judge. So, you have to be not only a you start off as an MPC local regional judge, national level, prolevel, and from there only the best what they consider the best prolevel judges ever get the chance to judge at the Mr. Olympia. It's it's uh it's considered an honor. Derek Lensford, Clarita, Andrew versus June. Yeah, I'll leave that up again. What the heck? I like these blitz matchups. Super set man did these. Super set man. Trying to keep up with your comments. Esclean, Nolil, and Synthol brand doesn't exist anymore. Hopefully, well, Esclean was just temporary. Gumang Gum Gumagill. Esclean would uh inflame the muscle and blow it up just for a day or two and then it would go right back down to normal. I think nolatil was a very similar substance to that. It was temporary. Synthol would stay in there for quite a while. Yeah, the brand we just call it sight enhancement oil. Synthol was the big one. The big brand name that a lot of people used. Hope Andrew wins enough money to afford gyno surgery. I'm sure he could afford it right now. He's he's got plenty of money. Flex Wheeler. [laughter] They weren't all as a clean telling. This is going to be the year of the Mona Lisa. That's Andrew Jack. He calls himself the Mona Lisa of bodybuilding. When Nick won the score sheets and it came number on the posing round, even though Sergio won best poser, huh? Yeah, best poser award. You're right. It's more on skill. I don't even know how how do you judge this the posing round? It's It's silly because what if someone's got a terrible physique and they're an awesome poser or vice versa? Dory Yates had forgettable bicep peaks even before he got injured. Not to mention, yeah, he tore that bicep and never got it repaired. Definitely not. Dex Jackson said Chris Cormier taught him or shut up by their trainer. Yeah. Yeah. Nick under most pressure he has to beat one of the top three. Andrew Hottie Martin Judge don't seem to care for SEO as long as long as it's not grossly obvious like yeah that year that hottie had the squared off pointy looking delts. He definitely got marked down for that that year. Flex was shot synth was on say something about Kevin. Well they were all doing it. They were they were all doing either escan which is temporary or synthol which is longerlasting. Piana used silicone from Home Depot. Oh, I thought I thought I always heard Piana used PMAA and he had Rich Piana had a lot of money because he had his supplement brand 5% nutrition. He was huge on YouTube. Uh he had his clothing. He had merch. He had all kinds of stuff. Rich Rich made great money in his lifetime. uh going back to Pittsburgh to show Nick. I know it's got nothing to do with this Arnold, but I like that look for Nick. I like his look years before this even better, but that was a damn good look for him. You can buy the next perfect decade. So, that's great. Thank you. I mean, I have been around for I've been covering the sport. I started working for the ESPN American Muscle Show in January 1991. So, it's going to be 36 years in the business next month. Is that right? 2006 35 35 years covering shows. That's that's a long time. Magnus with Dexter. We said Kevin still sight enhancement. Oh, there's all types of sight enhancement. Temporary [clears throat] permanent. Elbeckles had great bicep peaks. Yeah. Yeah. El Beckles. Those arms were all real Elbeckles and they were fantastic. His biceps were some of the greatest ever. Robbie Robinson, too. You got to you got to throw his name in there when you're talking about biceps. Go look at texture at the 99 Olympia. Jake Wood is seeing all that backlash from labor results. Smart guy. They can fire his judges. No, he Jake can't fire the judges. The judges don't work for Jake. The judges work for Jim Manion. Jake is the promoter of the Olympia. Jake doesn't own any any part of the MPCRFBB. That's all Jim Manion. Jim Manion owns all that. Jake just owns the Olympia, the Wings of Strength. He owns those shows. That's Jake's position in the industry. Pause the poss tissue buildup. [snorts] Uh he was able to Yeah, I think it was just regular gear as well. I agree with you on that. And I think he's calmed it down. I don't think he's going as crazy with the delt uh injections. I mean, before the Olympia, a few weeks before they were they were looking a little weird, but by the time he got to Olympia, they were down. So, I think he stops pinning his delts. That's my That's my theory. He stops pinning his delts uh probably about three or four weeks before the shows. Oh, Rich didn't own I don't I don't know. I don't know. I don't know Rich owned it or not. How's the shoulder healing up? Great, Davey. Great. Getting stronger. There's no pain. My range of motion is almost back to normal. It's great. >> [snorts] >> spreading information. Nick is pissed. He could shock the world to victory. Oh, I'm I'm Dengui. I Dengui. Absolutely. Nick Nick is capable of winning. I think Martin could even win this. You never know. You never know. It's just people online complain about that favorite guy didn't win. Yeah, the Hottie fans think Hottie was robbed. The Andrew fans think Andrew was robbed. Some people even some Martin fans even think Martin should have won the Olympia. I mean, people like who they like. If if you're a fan of somebody, you get very upset when they don't win. When athletes start, do they usually keep their coach in the loop? Uh I'm sure it's it happens both ways. I'm sure sometimes the coach knows, sometimes coaches probably encourage it, and sometimes I bet the coach has no idea, although they they might be able to figure it out pretty quickly if they've got eyes. Aloha State, what's up? Oh, it's super early over there. You're like eight hours behind me. Wow. Jake has no control over the judges. I'm telling you, Renote. He controls the production of the Olympia 100%. All the aspects of that. He has no control over who judges the Olympia. No, he has nothing to do with that. You got to put the gear somewhere. Yeah, it's true. The Olympia doesn't need the Manions. Well, they need the IPB Pro League or they have no Olympia. [laughter] It's an unsanctioned show. Without Without it being sanctioned, what do you have? You know, you have uh you don't have an official contest. You don't. So, they do need they do need the minions. I am an expert. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. I miss MD, man. Thank you, Kian. I really miss MD. Wow. 7:40 a.m. Sunday morning time. Just max out chest. Wow, that's early. Training early. I don't like training that early. About 9 9 10 o'clock is usually when I roll into the gym. I don't in the morning. I don't know Derek has fans. Uh he's got millions of followers on Instagram. He's got a ton of subscribers on his YouTube channel. So he he definitely has fans. Even if you're not a fan, he definitely does have fans. Best thing for violence reward the best guys rule. Corruption, collusion. No one like Derek. [laughter] That's not true. Look at that front door from the Olympia. Derek looks the worst out of all them. Yeah, he's Mr. Olympia. Make it make sense. I can't. Why do you miss MD? Uh, it was a it was a a very nice steady paycheck. I was paid very well. Uh, and I got to write. I love writing. I don't write anymore. I miss writing. I I write for my own amusement sometimes, but I was getting paid to write. I was getting paid very well to make videos for their YouTube channel. They sent me to all the contests on their on their money. I didn't have to pay for the flights, the hotel. I got a food budget. If I want to go to a contest now, I have to pay everything out of my own pocket. I don't want to do that. Heidi definitely over Andrew Dallas. I'm in Dallas for nationals. [snorts] Check out this gym called Destination Bible in Heaven. Yeah, I if next time I'm out there, I definitely want to hit Destination Dallas. Who you got winning? Yeah, I have I have uh Hottie winning. Can't they just fight the best buyers in world? You still have Mr. Olympia the way things are now. It's ridiculous from the sport. No, the old guys are going to hold on as long as they can. I mean, this is they're good at it and they're still placing well. Good has got the best friend over by US tense. Uh, I actually like Andrew Jack's frontal better than his. Fake followers, subscribers. I get it. You don't like Derek, you don't like him. I get it, guys. I get it. Uh, anyway guys, I think that's enough. Um, we got a lot of comparisons on this video. So I think the two leading leading names are Andrew and Hottie. Right now in the poll we have Hottie and Andrew. Hottie at 41%, Andrew at 46%. Nick at 11%, Martin at 2%. I'm gonna end the poll. I'll take like one more comment. Derek War. [laughter] I don't know, man. The judges the judges had him winning. I don't know what you're gonna do. Put up hottie Vancouver. No, that was just awesome lighting. Hotties looked just as good at these other shows. That Vancouver show had a black backdrop and really nice lighting. I don't I don't have the the video ready to go. So, I'm not going to do that. I like Derek Zik's losing details. Yeah, that good if there's some bias. Anyway, guys, I'm going to wrap it up. So, appreciate you joining in on live chat if you're watching this on the replay. Appreciate that, too. Please, if you like these videos, like, subscribe to the channel if you're not already. Share the videos on your platforms. It helps me out. It doesn't cost you anything. And that's it, man. Appreciate you guys joining me, and we'll talk to you later. He s us.