Hey everybody, welcome to the Meatthead podcast. Coming to you 26 hours earlier than usual because tomorrow night's Christmas Eve and I'm not going to make Clark Griswald here. As you see, I'm not going to make him work on Christmas Eve. And we are joined by special guest Philip Visakaro, better known to the world as Phil Viz. Phil is uh he was a great competitor himself and now he's been coaching all kinds of pro athletes, top amateurs for years and years. So uh Phil, I wanted you on because I saw this on your page a couple days ago, your Instagram page, which is very educational. Uh [snorts] so here it was. You did one about uh I don't want to say salty Sarah, that sounds awful. So, it was basically breaking down the whole controversy about PMM. Is it PM? It's two M's, right? PMA. >> I keep saying PMAA. I had to redo the graphics. >> I think is it PMA or PMA? >> I I keep messing up, man. I have to keep looking it up because I looked it up. It is called PMMA which uh stands for let's see uh let me try to read this. Polymethylmethylryate. It's a it's a lip filler. The best known brand name is Bellafil. >> Offers long-lasting volume by using tiny synthetic microspheres in a collagen base to provide permanent structure. But it's less common for lips than temporary fillers. Anyway, it's mainly for the lips. But you know me heads. We we find uh we find and repurpose these things for our own uses. So it is used and Sarah Viegas after losing her title to Natalya Quao back in October at the uh Olympia, the women's physique Olympia, she immediately came out with a post the next day saying Miss Oil Olympia or something accusing her of using oil. Then she got more sophisticated, narrowed it down saying no it's this PM I got to keep looking. PM MA. >> That's what she's got in her quads and that's why her quads look so great. Phil, you did a really good breakdown. Um, first of all, you you explained that her quad sweep wasn't the only reason she beat Sarah. So, can you talk about that for a second? >> Yeah, I mean, listen, I did a breakdown comparison of the poses, you know, as just logically and simply as possible. Um, whenever I'm like teaching or talking, I try to make sure that I I speak on a level where anybody can understand, even if they don't even know bodybuilding. I want them to be able to watch my video and not have to go googling things, you know? So, I try to make it as as simple as possible. So, like I broke it down very very simple in ways that people can understand. And I don't think that my my uh analysis was really critiquable because it was so obvious, you know, that you know, you're not gonna there's nobody that's going to say that Sarah had more detail than Natalya. There's just nobody that's going to say that, you know, and there's certain things that are obvious. There's certain things that look better in other positions and whatnot, but for the most part, Natalya's going to win anyway. It didn't matter if she had her legs from last year or even from two years ago. She's still going to win, you know. So, what she she she lost a little detail here in the quads because like I said in the video, I do think that she did something to the quads, but she would have had more detail if she didn't, right? So, she would have lost one thing and gained another. But the thing is the quads weren't what was making the difference in the physique. The like I was sitting pretty close and I was like stage level with where I was sitting. Like I could see like with an eye shot the condition wasn't close. That's one thing that drives me nuts about when you you view things online like you'll see videos and you'll see pictures and be like oh the condition's close and then but if you were in person sometimes you're like the condition was not close the pictures are making the condition look close you know like and what really sucks sometimes about this is you'll see somebody in person who's like really crazy conditioned but then you see the pictures and they look kind of close to everybody else and you're like it doesn't do them justice you know so like in this instance >> she was just a heck of a lot tighter and harder and drier than Tara was you You could even see it when she was walking uh things flickering, things moving on the transitions and whatnot. And it just wasn't close. Like every literally I don't there was nobody sitting by me because you know we at the Olympia you talk to people next to you. You know some people not one person thought that she was going to lose. >> It was it was so clearcut that we weren't like waiting for the announcement. We're like okay this is pretty obvious you know. >> Yeah. >> Like it it some she's complaining about something that wouldn't have mattered anyway. You know, I think she just wants to take a shot at her and try to tear her down because she's salty about the situation. >> Yeah. Which, you know, as a as a champion, it's it was such a poor look. I mean, being a poor a sore loser, a poor sport, it's just h it's such a bad look. I mean, I can't imagine anyone other than her hardcore fans are still rah, we love Sarah. Because I, you know, I had nothing against her. I don't have anything personally against her, but when I saw that post, I was like, yeah, I get it. But, you know, what do you think they're going to do? You think they're going to like reverse the the decision based on uh your accusations? >> What she wants what she's trying to do is she's trying to draw attention to it so that in the event that it's there next year, the judges will look closer at it. She's trying to like get the judges to focus on it so that if they see it next year, they mark Natalya down. That's what she's trying to do. >> Nice. [laughter] Really see that in the muscle field? Can you I mean you can see some stuff up close. So you kind of you can see those strange lumps and bumps up close, but with this [\h__\h] I mean, is it PMA or is it >> I don't think it's PMAA because I've I've used all of the sight enhancers in in all different body parts throughout my career, help clients, you know, and I I have rules. For example, I won't inflate a body part because you can't grow it, but I will shape it if you don't have the shape. Like I'll add bicep I'm not gonna inflate your biceps and give you an inch on your arms, but I will give you bicep peak if you don't have bicep peak. Does that make sense? Yeah. >> So, so like that that's just my principles of it. But people people in this industry, it's crazy these comments because they don't understand what each individual thing that's injected into the muscle actually does and makes the muscle look like. That's I don't think that's PM MA. It doesn't look like because PM PMMA, whatever you want to call it, um works more like metapform. It kind of like disperses evenly throughout the muscle um rather than being able to shape the muscle. You can't really shape a muscle very well with PMAA or or PMMA in I'm just going to call it PMA because that's what I've always called it. So with that or metapform, you can't really shape the muscle. You can't add peak. You could just add volume to it. So it ends up looking like a like a swollen bag of water almost. And we've seen that in a lot of people. There's uh some Brazilians that are pretty prominent with it that have a lot of I'm not going to name names. Don't ask me. Don't DM me. I'm not taking shots at people. But there's some well-known Brazilians at the highest level or close to the highest level that have a lot of it. And you can tell because the muscle looks very very inflated. With Natalia, it looks like she shaped the sweep. So the only thing that can shape the sweep is synth dog because it stays in the same place. So I if I were to guess what she used, I would say that it was uh it was going to be SEO. I guess everything is called SEO. I would I would say that it's synthol simply because you can shape a muscle better with synthol. can't really shape a muscle with medor PMA. It just inflates the muscle. So, it's two different things. Um, another thing is with the legs, like, um, I tried to do legs back in, what was it, 2011, I think it was, or 2012, and I realized quick, you need an ungodly amount of volume, first of all. >> So, I was like, I got to the point where I'm like, my legs were really tight. Like, I couldn't contract properly. like it was it was like listen people will deal with any manner of like struggle to win a bodybuilding show and I just wasn't willing to do that. So I you know I actually stopped and it didn't entirely dissipate by the time I did my show and I had lost I had lost that outside line. So this is one way you could really tell when somebody has something in their quads is nobody has a really separated teardrop but then not separated sweep. You either have the whole thing separated or it's not separated but it's usually all the same level of separation. So when you see a deep line from the rectus forous into the into the teardrop, but then you don't see the line on the other side into the sweep, it's a very good sign that there's something in there, you know, and a lot of people lie. And you'd be very very surprised how many people at this level do it. Um, again, because I've done these things and I've played with it and I've done these things with clients, I can identify it really, really easily and really, really well. I can pick out all the way up and down the line of who's done what where, you know, but I'm not going to talk about that because you know what? These people are getting criticized and I feel like it's just part of the game you know like where do you draw the line you know um Charles Glass was quoted in saying um you know you don't have side delts put all your gear in your side delts now you have side delts right wouldn't that be sight enhancement you know is it it's different because it's gear you know it's still an oil inflating the muscle and there's people that put their gear in their arms there's people that do all of these things so like who's decide who's to decide where the moral ground is you know if if we're going to sit here and criticize that well then natural can naturals can criticize us for using steroids You know, >> casual fans though, casual fans don't know what goes into this. >> They just see, they want to believe it's just hard work. Hulk, say your prayers, take your vitamins, but all the muscles you see on stage aren't coming from training. Like, all those biceps aren't just from barbell curls. And you can see, listen, there's a lot of guys in the Olymp whose calves are very suspect. They don't move. I mean, they're just like balloons. They're just like two balloons with no separation. So, >> well, that's a mistake that people make with calves is when they try to in try to do calves, they they stick the needle straight into the calf and it ends up blowing it up like a ball. You have to go around the outside the ridges to keep the muscle with a flat appearance so it still looks natural. So, Phil, how how common is uh sight enhancement and out of all sight because I would put it all in the same category, sight enhancement, how common is sight enhancement in general at the at the pro level and how common to your knowledge is PMMA as opposed to just regular garanc? How many people, you know, percentage-wise would you guess are even are using this this? I can tell you. I can tell you. And on my life on everything that I love, I saw an order form for Mediform for a previous Mr. Olympia >> and it had an ungodly amount of it. So, I'm not going to name names. I'm not going to speculate. Don't DM me. Don't ask. I'm not saying it. But I literally swear to God saw the order form. Probably that like shame on the owner of the company because he should not have shared that with anybody. But I saw it and I would probably say seven out of ten use it because like almost everybody uses it. And at this level when everybody else is using it, it's kind of like trying to go on on stage natural when everybody else is on steroids. Like if everybody else has that advantage, you know, you're going to have a trouble keeping up unless you're Phil Heath, right? So we've had a lot of Mr. Olympia get caught in certain situations and then say, "Oh, I tore my bicep." Yeah, sure you did. You know, like things like that. But uh you know because they had a mishap close to the show and you probably shouldn't be injecting that close to the show, but um it's it's very very prevalent. Um I've seen tons of I've seen people in the comments criticizing it that I knew used it. Even I've seen a couple people that I had people ask me how to use it for that person in the comments. It's like it's crazy how immoral people are that I guess they think that if they start criticizing it, nobody will suspect them, you know? Like I don't know. But like there it's just it's crazy how people think of this and look at this. But the thing is if you inject a muscle that's not big and inflate it, it looks like hell. If we look at Natalya's quad, it looks great. Which means she had the muscle. She just shaped the muscle. If she inflated the muscle, it'll look terrible and it would have looked softer than everything else. But it does not look softer than everything else because she didn't just inflate it. And you'll see that with like biceps, triceps, shoulders. You'll see like the side delt will look softer than everything around it. Obviously, it's inflated. You'll see a bicep that just looks puffy and there's no lines. Yeah, it's inflated because you're going to lose lines. Oil doesn't flex and it impedes the muscle from flexing. And when the muscle can't get a tight peak contraction because what's we know if you flex the arm like lightly, you don't really get separated. You got to get like a nice solid peak contraction to get those lines to pop out, right? So, if you can't peak contract the muscle and and get a good contraction out of it, it's not going to separate. So, you see people on stage with that all the time. But the thing is the judges, I don't think they've learned how to identify oil in the sweep yet because I've seen it countless amounts of times and they never mark anybody down. They never say anything. We've had a Mr. Olympia, I'm not going to say which division where his muscles were like hard as rocks, not even moving on stage and the judges and I I swear to God, I swear to you, I said to one of the judges I was friends with in the lobby or something about it and he goes, "Yeah, but how awesome did it look?" That was his answer. Okay. So, we we seen I I wish I could pull it up, but I don't want to wait make everybody wait the quads on Natalya from 24 to 25. And I'm trying to be objective because people say, "Oh, you like Natalya, so you're so biased." And yeah, I do like Natalya. She's a she's a good kid. And you know, I I like her attitude. She's always positive and smiling. But you know what? I'll if if I see proof if I see anything that's like proof, I I'll I'll agree to it. When you see when you saw those side by sides from 24 to 25, Phil, did you notice an improvement in the quad sweep that would not have been possible with just training in gear? Man, I I I don't want to jump on Sarah's train. And I mean, I'm I'm I'm very very honest, so I have a hard time like lying or like shading an answer, so I really don't want to answer this. But the truth of the matter is I noticed it when she walked on stage. >> Okay. >> But I have an eye for it because I have the experience. I can identify it. I guarantee you 99% of that room couldn't tell. >> And that's the thing. If you make it look natural and it looks good, then what's the problem? >> Yeah. I mean, so it's it's all about drawing the lines. Why do we draw I guess I guess steroids are okay because you still have to put the work in. But a lot of people think anything that's a sight enhancement like a we use the term synthol. That's like calling call calling a diaper pampers. It's just a trade name. Synthol uh synthol is cheating. PMMA is cheating. Gear is not cheating. This is how some people look at it because there's no work going into what we're looking at. It's >> absolutely is because you still have to grow the muscle or like I said, it's just going to look like a big bloated bag of water. If the muscle's not there, it's going to look it's going to look terrible. So, the muscle still has to be built. And the thing about it is is at least in my experience, this is why I stopped doing the legs because it was just making my legs look worse and I could no longer train heavy and stimulate the muscle and get it to grow. So my legs actually stopped growing like it it didn't look good. I actually ended up after I stopped that oil putting four maybe five inches on my legs in the next, you know, six, seven years, you know, with hard training. But I I initially had tried that and it just it didn't work out very well. you got uh from from what I know, I know of one pro that worked with somebody that I know and I know the protocol and I know the process and in order for them to enhance the quad sweep, they went very very slow over a long period. But you've got to do multiple spots. You got to do like three three four spots down the side of the leg on each leg, you know, every week for months on end. You know, it's it's it's really a pain in the ass. And then if you you got to make sure you don't hit any nerves and cause nerve damage and impede the muscle from flexing and impede your ability to to uh train, cause muscular imbalances, cause different issues. But you got to think if you were to impede your quads from training and your squatting, you're probably end up shooting your hips for your body to compensate, which is going to put more stress on your lower back, possibly hurt your lower back, right? Or thicken your waist. There's a lot of different things you could screw up with using this, you know? But if you do it, you know, if you have a minimalist approach and you're just trying to shape with it, then I don't think there's a problem with Listen, again, who's to say where to draw the line? So, if we're talking about SEO, right? It's going to give us more shape. It's going to give us more pop. It's going to help with the overall impression. Okay. Well, then we got to get rid of breast implants, right? >> Yeah. That's I [clears throat] mean, >> we got to get rid of breast every by by Sarah's logic, every girl with breast implants in the entire division, in the entire industry is a cheer. >> And that's that's pretty much all of them. So Sarah, you just called every girl with breast implants in this entire industry a cheater. >> Yeah. I mean, >> it's about it's it's about winning though, man. Listen, I as I'm very competitive and there was a point when we were doing this, Ron, that we would do any [\h__\h] thing to win that show. We would have shut up anything in our glute, our tricep, taking any oral. We would kill ourselves for that trophy. But people are like, "Oh, it's too far." I mean, women take women take trend. Is that where they draw the line? But oh little Annavar is okay, right? But we're This isn't a morality contest, right? This is a competition. People forget >> they turn this into a morality. >> It's not a morality contest, bro. >> They like to turn this into a morality contest. The competition is always I took less drugs than you. I did more cardio than you. I dieted longer. They think that they get these brownie points. And I try to tell people there's nowhere on the entry form that says, I benched this. I squat this. I only took this. I didn't use trend. I didn't use a diuretic. There's nothing on the form that says that. It doesn't matter who took more or less. But like this is the only sport in the world. It's crazy. Like nobody I never heard somebody say, "Well, if I took steroids, I'd run as fast as Usain Bolt or I'd beat Michael Jordan in basketball." But for some reason, they think in bodybuilding, oh, the only reason that Jay Cutler is better than me is he took more steroids. What are you out of your mind? >> [laughter] >> So, I wanted to share something because I have a source in Brazil who knows a lot about that clinic and the doctor and the athletes and there were some misconceptions floating around. So, just because I know [clears throat] no one else from Brazil is speaking up and and putting this out there and I I wanted to let people know about this place. So this is the this is the clinic in question that they were it's called instituto medical esportivo sports medicine institute um it's Dr. Fernando Vtor. Uh you guys can check it out. So it was being sort of represented to us that that's all this clinic does is people go there to get fillers in their muscles. Uh that that's like the main purpose of this clinic. And I found out they do all kinds of things there. Uh let me get this for you. >> I know what they do. They run the audio. Maybe they can't hear you. >> Can't hear me. >> Yeah, I'm in chat. >> Oh, the chat can't hear me. Yeah, >> I can hear you. >> Chad can't hear me. My mic's on. Check. Check. Check. Should be able to hear me, everybody. Um, yeah. So, well, for one thing, I put this out here before I even tell you. They were saying Derek, Derek Lensford went there after his pec tear, right? >> Okay. So, the pictures were posted in June of him in Brazil. He tore his pec in September. So unless he has some time travel machine, he didn't go there to get anything filled in. They're saying because uh that trainer Fabitio that works with Rondino and and a lot and Horsemd and a lot of the top people and I think he came up to Tampa and worked with Derek too because he had it put in for his pec tear. He had a big big dent from a pec tear and he had the filler put in there. They think oh well everyone that knows Fabricio must do it. So this is what they do there. Uh he does a lot of treatments. intraarticular treatment that's in the joint with hyaluronic acid to lubricate the joint. He also performs small surgeries like inguinal hernas are the smallest surgeries. Uh he knows the sport closely and understands how a bodybuilder's physiology works. So he can assist in other treatments. For example, he helped to treat a 212 bodybuilder with cancer a couple years ago. And he does use fillers to correct torn muscles. That's Fabricio Patrollik's case. Torres Pec very badly. So taking a picture at this clinic doesn't mean oh I went there for PMMA. There there's a lot of things that are done at this clinic. But you know people just like to latch on to that one thing and and run with it. But you know that's >> that's another good that's another good point. I mean if somebody tears their pec and because I could tell you I there's there's an Olympian actually I'm gonna leave this one along because people might figure it out. But uh if you were to tear your pec and you were to fill that in with oil so that it's not a deformity. Is that cheating? You're just trying to eliminate a deformity. You're not trying to gain any advantage. You're just trying to get rid of the isore, >> right? And I mean, >> and that is something that is something that's commonly done. When somebody tears their pec, they fill it in with usually synthol. I mean, I didn't know you could do it with this, but typically it would be with synthol. They could fill that in and, you know, reduce the indent that there is and, you know, make the chest look more symmetrical from side to side so it's not distracting. It's not throwing off their symmetry, you know, but like I don't see a problem with that. I don't know why that should be a problem. The person got injured. It was an unfortunate situation. They used to have a great sha shaped chest. So why can't they just fill it back in so it's not an eyesore. They're not inflating it. >> I don't see a problem with that. Do you like Mike? >> Not not whatsoever. It's you're you're actually trying to healing the muscle, right? It's not that's pec tear can cause you to lose a show, right? That'll be you can be marked down for that. Filling it in will help will eliminate that weakness. So I don't have any issue with that though. But it they're they're talking about Derek and Natalia, but nobody says anything about those wellness girls with those asses that look like about the pop, right? The wellness girls are shredded and hard and vascular everywhere, but their asses look like mine right now, right? Like big and fat. So, nobody says anything about that. And that's how it's been for years where you can see that in the world. And some bikini girls have that same starting to get a little bit of that fake look to them as well. >> Well, here's the thing. If somebody has a body part that's shot up, but it's done well, who are you to accuse the person? How do you if you don't if you're not sure? You're taking a risk at like ruining this person's career and affecting the public perception of them if you're wrong. Right? Like for example, I did a video uh Derek uh months ago. Um Ron, I don't know if you watched that one. It's a little further down than Natalya's. And I explained that that muscle in the armpit, that's a Terry's. And even when I I had no muscle, like I haven't trained back in years. I went in the mirror, flexed it, and I showed it very clearly on the video that I can flex that muscle. And Derek, it's his best body part. And then I showed pictures of Derek all the way back to his amateur days, and I was like, damn, if he's really shooting that, he's got to be surgical, hit that same spot and create that identical look every time. It's a muscle. It's he did not shoot his lats. People are just idiots, and they think they know better and they jump on the bandwagon, you know, they like to like jump on the train with each other, and it's just it's ridiculous. Derek's lats are not his back is not shot. That muscle in the armpit, that's a muscle. That is not oil. >> Derek Derrick's back's big as [\h__\h] when you see him in person. >> Yeah, >> that dude is is freaking >> the video on my page. Pull up the video on my page and fast forward to the video to the video images. >> Okay, hang on. And the thing is they talk about Derek's biceps, but if you you go all the way back to all the pictures from when he was young, his biceps have never had a peak. They never had any detail. So, >> if you shoot his biceps, [clears throat] wouldn't he add some peak to it? >> That's what I'm saying. I mean, come on. >> Uh, okay. So, here's your page. Tell me how how far to keep going. You know, people have short memories, but you know, all the all the criticism that Derek's getting for being like, you know, not as hard through the chest and shoulders and arms. It's because he's not super vascular in those regions. Well, 15 years ago, was it 20 years ago, Jay Cutler had the same criticism, right? But the thing is, we weren't so focused on condition and the cameras weren't so sharp that we were like looking at it. But he had the same softness across those regions until he got older >> because he didn't have any vascularity at all. He just didn't have veins there genetically, you know? So, it's the same situation. >> All right, help me out here, Phil. >> Go to my reels and scroll down. >> Uh, how do you do reels? How do I do that? >> Okay, crazy. You crazy kid. Down, down, down, down, down, down. Lower. To the right. To the right. To the right. There you go. >> Real. >> Scroll down to where you see Derek. >> Okay. Uh, Nick Walker. >> Down. There you go. Yep. You bet. You missed it. >> I missed it. Shocking. >> There you go. >> Ah, here we go. Controversial topic. Yeah. See those bumps? Yeah. People were saying, "Oh, look at those look at those ugly bumps in his legs." Let's look at all let's look at all the images and even you can watch me flex it and I have no muscle there. Like it's just I but I have very good control over my muscles from posing in bodybuilding through the years. >> Yeah. I mean >> why would they think that that's his best body part? His back is always look there it is again. There it is again >> posing. >> There you just watched it flex. There it is as an amateur when you had, you know, like >> and then watch this. This is where like and and listen, I'm embar I embarrassed myself to have no muscle there, but you can see me flexing it. Look at the armpit. You can see it moving. >> Yeah. >> Same damn muscle. People just don't know their anatomy and they think that they're like they talk very pompous because they think they're smart when they really just it's like a Dunning Krueger situation. They they don't realize how dumb they sound because they don't understand anatomy and they don't know what they're looking at. That is not shut up. They're armchair fans too. The social media now everybody's got an opinion. Everybody in the entire world guys bodybuilding show have have an opinion about how shitty Derek looks, what he's putting in his body. He suck. But these it's just they jump on the bandwagon, man. They jump. They It's like let's team up. But he's the best in the world. Listen, nobody wrote um Tyler or Steve to complain about him winning. He didn't vote for himself, right? >> He was like he he won all three shows by about six points. >> So any court all those shows the situation could have been flipped around to Nick could have won, could have won, right? Samson could have won, but people don't see that. They just like to jump on these guys. >> Sorry, I apologize for you. You're good, bro. My AI camera is going nuts right now. I apologize for that. I got to stop moving. >> What the hell is an AI camera? >> It's a It follows me. >> Oh my god. >> So, um, if Derek was shooting up his lats, right, and got criticized for it last year, wouldn't he have stopped this year, but the muscles the bumps are still there? >> True. >> The reason why the reason why he got criticized is because his tan caked up on it last year and it drew attention to it. >> I don't know, man. This [\h__\h] though is going to be an issue going forward because it's so accessible, right? And like you said, Phil, like if it's done correctly, like it's going to look good, but we're the judges. Do they does Tyler say something that you can't really What are you gonna do? >> Call somebody out on something you're not positive of. >> No, >> because you could ruin their career over something that's not true. Because look, right now, Derek did not shoot his lats. And look at what this is doing to his criticism across the internet. We've got thousands and thousands of people saying it. We got people making videos and YouTube videos saying it and he's not even guilty. He's getting chastised for something he didn't do. That's not fair. So like when you go and speak out against somebody for shooting something, you better be goddamn sure. Like there's certain ways to identify things like you brought up before um the bikini girls, right? And and the wellness girls. So the thing is when you inflate it with something like PMAA and things like that, the muscle doesn't flex. So what you'll see is if you watch your training videos, we all know when you flex your glutes, there's a divot that comes into the side. they, you know, they shorten. That won't happen if there's oil in there. But the thing is, wellness and bikini girls don't shorten the glutes on stage. They don't they don't squeeze their hips in and shorten the glutes like a bodybuilder would. So, you're never going to notice the lack of detail because they're not flexing it. >> Yeah. Someone someone in the comments said that Derek had definition of his biceps when he was younger. I I I've known him I've seen him since the USA when he won, and he didn't have any back then either. I could I could send you a picture right now of Jay Cutler with his lats completely strided when he first turned pro and then his last Olympia. No striations. You're going to tell me Jay Cutler forgot how to get in shape? That's not what happened. It's the use of GH and insulin and it upregulated collagen synthesis and the skin got thicker. And this is actually something that happens a lot on the Olympia and pro level because what happens is it's very very hard to get to that size without good doses of insulin and GH. Can you do it? Yes, you can. But it's hard. So, what you'll notice is as people's careers progress, they start to lose detail. They're losing detail because um when you use uh growth hormone and it stimulates IGF-1 and then you use use the insulin to amplify the response of the IGF-1. Now, you've got like a super super physiological levels of IGF-1 upregulating collagen synthesis, thickening your skin. Over a period of time, you lose detail. >> I don't let my classic guys use it because it's a detail division. So, I wouldn't even let my classic guys touch GH because it's going to thicken our skin. Hm. Interesting. I heard that but I didn't know it was true. So, thanks for uh thanks for >> Yeah, I can I can I can I can break it down to the simplest, you know, scientific concepts is whatever you guys want to talk about, I can. You know, I can explain it. I won't talk about something I can't break down, but that's exactly what happens. >> Can everybody get that thin skin then? Can Samson ever get that really crisp thin skin that like or is that that's more genetic though, right? Because I can never get that super crispy look >> ever. Well, if you if you if if you consider different generic genetic variants, right? Um and again, this is all theoretical now because there's no real research to prove this. It's all theoretical based on what I have observed and what I've learned is I think that the darkerkinned black guys have a higher rate of collagen synthesis. They never get injured. They're very, very strong and their skin is very thick, right? So, it takes time to thin out. So, you know, it and it's consistent across the board. So, and as they get old, like look at Brandon Curry. Look at how thick his skin has been through his whole career, right? you know, but like you know, you get like the p I call them the pasty skin. White guys have super thin skin, you know. >> Yeah. >> So, I think it's a trade-off if you want to get really really if you need GH to get some people don't need the GH to get really really big. Some do. Um and if you're one of the guys that do, it's a trade-off. you're going to have to pay a price at some point one way or the other with you know insulin resistance uh visceral fat accumulation. Um you know you can affect uh you could acrue visceral fat affect the way your transverse abdominal wall is contracting cause hernas deformity to your waistline thicker skin. U you can start causing gastoparesis due to insulin resistance and things like that. There's a lot of different things you can do but there's always a trade-off with everything that you're using and people don't realize that trend the wonder drug. Yeah, but it causes anxiety. Anxiety is going to elevate cortisol and that's going to affect the way you digest and process all your food, right? So, there's always going to be a trade-off. >> Just to just to interject here, 30 years ago, I was talking to Flex Wheeler. Uh I think it was when we were shooting this video, and I said, you know, I made this. I said, you know, I don't see too many white guys with that really round full look to the muscles. He goes, you're right, but you don't see too many black guys that get that really thin, grainy look to the skin either. So, >> you know, we're not all the same. There's short, tall, fat, skinny. They're there. >> Everybody's got But the thing is, but but every once in a while, you'll find an exception. You'll find a white guy with really round muscles. You'll find a black guy with really thin, peeled skin, you know, there's always going to be that variant because, you know, nobody is just pure one race anymore. Everybody's got like a mixture of something, you know. So, you know, you're never going to see like 100% across the board a certain race or whatever it may be to have the same attributes. It's always going to be a variance to it. Like Justin Compton at his best was round >> round as >> he was like it was like a cartoon character how full he was. It was just >> I feel shipped that we didn't get to see him fully develop to his max potential. >> That was it was freak his front double dude was just like where this dude come from. He just morphed. >> Dennis Newman was another one like that. >> Yeah. And he had he got detailed too. He got really he had a mature look for such a young guy, right? Like he was really good. It's just, you know, life like that getting sick like that just derailed everything, man. >> Leukemia. Um, I did want to ask about detection for PMMA. PMA, two M's. PMMA, Ron, come on. Um, so Sarah suggested that if someone is caught caught using PMMA, they should be suspended for three years. And I'm thinking, how do you catch somebody? Does do you know, Bill, would that show up in an MRI? Are they really going to send cost? Anybody know? >> Listen, things will show up. Things I can, you know, you know how I can tell you things will show up in imaging? >> Because when I used to go through the airport going to a show, my arms would light up and they'd be like, "But you're not wearing sleeves." Like the machine must have messed up and it would show like these big circles in my biceps. But like, yeah. No, it lights up on imaging. But here's the thing. Everybody on stage has injected things. So everybody on and I said this in the video too. Everybody on stage is gonna have something in some body parts, right? It just depends on how much. What if that person's a mega doer who takes like five grams? Oh, he inflated his shoulders. No, he just needed somewhere to put it, you know? Like so like who how are you to say what they did, why they did it, how they did it. There's no possible way to prove it. She's just she's just she's trying to draw attention to it because she wants Natalya to not be able to do it again next year. Well, I mean, is to your know is is PMMA permanent? Is that something that stays in it for >> it's harder for the body to absorb? It lasts longer. I don't know all of the mechanisms of it because I from what I read and when I started researching on it, it's pretty nasty stuff and it's not very good for your body. So, I just stopped I don't I don't read further into something that I plan to just never use. So, as soon as I made the decision to just never ever ever have any athletes touch it, then I just gave up researching it because I didn't need to know about it. So, I don't know a ton about it. I know that it lasts longer than everything else. Um, I know that it can be very stressful to the Now, remember, all SEOs are going to be stressful to the kidneys. People don't realize that. So, that's something to also take into consideration. Your body has to filter all of these things out and you're causing micro traumas and damage. Every time you stick a needle into the body, you're causing some scar tissue. You're causing some type of trauma to the body, some inflammation. And the amount of times you have to stick yourself with, you know, volume and and and, you know, pins and this and that, now you're hitting scar tissue. And now you got scar tissue built up in the air. Now you got to use a bigger gauge to get the oil to go in. So it gets worse and worse and worse and worse. When I started bodybuilding, I had crazy strided side delts. At my last shows, it just looked like a flat surface because there's so much scar tissue from injecting that the muscle just, you know, wasn't detailed anymore from just the scar tissue. I didn't inflate my shoulders. It was just scar tissue to hell. So there's no way to tell. It's complete horseshit. She's just I don't want to say she's talking out of her ass. She's like she doesn't know what she's talking about. Well, let's just say >> I have no problem with her. >> Yeah. No, I don't either. I mean, let's just say that an MRI would detect uh this PM PMA because they're little plastic balls as opposed to oil, which maybe wouldn't show up. I guess I don't know. Um I know I only see what the copay on. I've had multiple MRIs. I'm sure we all have. It's th they're thousands and thousands of dollars. They're not cheap. You know, you're paying the hospital fee, the MRI. It's a lot of money. So for them to if the IFBB pro league had to what are they going to have an MRI backstate? I don't how would >> what what's at the airport? That's an X-ray, right? That's not an MRI, >> right? That's an X. >> And that showed my bice and that showed my biceps. So that would probably show everything. >> So >> how do you know what it is and and why they did it? That's the thing. >> Yeah. And I mean, so let's just say back to what you said before. Let's say you accuse someone of it and it's the X-ray finds nothing. Are there any penalties for the false accusation? Because you just put this person through the ringer. We know in our society once you get accused of something a lot of times people >> you know what honest honestly honestly if I was Natalia just being just being devious because I always think like this. If I was Natalia I would probably try to get rid of the oil then take her to court and sue her for a million dollars for ruining my reputation. I'd get an X-ray that was cleared and be like, "You ruined my reputation. I'd sue you. I'd sue you into bankruptcy." >> I mean, I don't know if she has anything in store because when we we did an interview a couple weeks ago and she didn't want to get into the Sarah thing at all because I think there is something legal in the works. I don't know what it is, but I would I would >> How do we know that Sarah didn't just put her gear in her quads? >> Yeah. >> Do we know that? >> No. >> I said I said I think something's in there. I didn't say it had to be simple. >> Absolutely. I mean, there's there's a lot of things you can put in there. I mean, um, you know, the old days >> I' I've I've actually done this with clients, you know, if they like if their side delts really won't grow and it's an imbalance to the body, I will tell them, "Put all your shots in your shoulders. Got to put it somewhere, right?" >> Yeah. >> So, who's to say she didn't put all her gear in her in her quads? That's not illegal. >> It's not. Like, you know, we we used to criticize Hottie [snorts] Hottie's delts have been under fire many, many times. Well, I know I know I know I know firsthand from talking to a judge that Hottie was threatened to not show up and do that again. [laughter] >> Well, I could tell like two months out from this last Olympia, he was his delts were looking really odd again, >> but they were fine at the Olympia, which tells me that's just where he needs to put. If you're putting if you're on these cycles, and you know, Phil, you would know more than than me and Mike about how much how much oil these guys have to put in their bodies every week during a contest prep, you can't put it all in one place. You have to rotate sights >> or that area swells up. [clears throat] >> There's c there's there's only a few places you can what what are areas you can put I know like I I do my TRT and my lats now because I have so much scar tissue. >> I don't let any of my clients do the lats because the lats have very delicate insertions. And if you notice >> the the times that people really started doing their lats coincided with everybody tearing their lats. Jay Cutler I'm not some some people are are active so I'm not going to name them but you know like we saw Jay Cutler's lats get torn. you know, there's a lot of people that's lats get torn. And I noticed, you know, I I like to like survey and like figure out like what correlations there are, you know, find pattern recognition, things like that. And I'll talk to people and I'll realize that a lot of the people that have torn their lats put their gear in their lats because it again, it impedes the contraction. So, I won't let my clients put gear in their lats. We do side delts, we do rear delts, we do venture glute, we do the upper outer quadrant of the glute, and that's pretty much it. I have one I have one other spot close to the show, but I'll save that little save it for. >> Yeah. >> But listen, the first thing everyone's gonna look at at the Olympia is Natalia Squads. >> Like that's the first thing everyone's every judge, every fan. And dude, even you think about the stress going into that show for her just knowing that that's what's going to be on display is her quarters got a kick out. It's just it's shitty that Sarah did that. And like Cormier kind of jumped in on with the whole, you know, the the the bottle of [\h__\h] there, man. It's just like you said, Sarah Dels don't have >> to stay relevant. He's trying to get clicks. So, you know. >> Yeah. But it's just at what expense though, bro. Right. Sometimes >> Natalia's expense. >> Yeah. Sometimes you get in bodybuilding. We've all had an ass kicking, right? We all lose a show. Ronnie Coleman lost a show. >> Well, actually, Cory did get his ass kicked by Victor a number of years ago at at an expo. [laughter] >> Well, that's true. The Fibo. Yeah, you're right. You're right. Definitely got knocked. I heard he got like knocked over a table. >> It's just Bro, I don't know, man. It just seems I get you I guess you I get you need clicks, right? >> But at the end of the day, the the judges decide who wins and who loses. >> I think that if you try to get clicks at the expense of somebody else, especially if they didn't do anything wrong, then you're a douchebag. That's specifically why I'm I'm being nasty about corn bear because I think he did a scumbag thing so that he can prop himself up and benefit himself and help his friend because I think it's really scummy to do something like that. If you don't know, that's exactly what they did. Now, a number of years ago, um I actually called Ramy out on this on FAD's podcast and I got a ton of kickback and FAD argued with me and so did everybody else. And then a number of years later, Chad comes out and admits it because he said he was trying to break it up and get it to go back down to normal. And that's why there was all those indents. The reason I knew is because I was actually I went to go um like interviewing to to coach Rammy in 2015. I trained him for a few days and I poked at his quads because I had I suspected and it was all rocks in there. It was all it was rock hard. It was all star tissue. >> Oh, just triggered all the our Ramy fans. But >> just so truth is truth. If you can't handle it, cry. Well, this picture is AI. This is not real, everybody. Chris was not sitting in her office. Uh, this was AI think people some people are fooled by that. But the thing is, I don't think Sarah was doing this for attention. I I don't know. I don't think Chris is either, but I think she genuinely in her heart of hearts believes that uh Natalya did some did this PMMA or whatever and that's why she beat her. And I don't know what she expects to happen other than just trying to ruin >> she wants the judges to keep their eyes on it is what she wants >> cuz there there's no there's never been a reversal of a decision in bodybuilding ever and there there's never going to be. >> The check's cashed cash that check man it don't count already. Like what's the point? >> Just come back train harder and see if you win. You know what I mean? Or do it do do another show make some money. But it's just it's a mute point. is like deflate gate with Tom Brady. Like they won that game 42 to nothing over the Colts. So that deflated ball didn't really help Tom Brady that much, right? You can [\h__\h] about it, but Tom Brady still kicks your ass. It's just it's it's a bad look, but >> it's like it's like bitching about Barry Bonds using steroids when the rest of the league is using steroids and steroids don't have help you make contact, right? >> Help you hit the ball. They actually hurt your mobility. It would make it harder to be act accurate and hit the ball. >> He was exact. It's just people like to complain and and when you have the entire the entire world is talking about this and I tell you right every country dude it's everywhere and because there's no competitions and it's a slow season so she's getting I'm only imagine the DM the nasty DM she probably gets from people is it's gota suck and be hard to just even log on. I mean, >> I've seen the the fans of both of them going at each other in comments and it's just vicious. Vicious. >> This is what I don't like. When we have an industry leader like Sarah, one of the greatest competitors in the division has ever seen. >> Yeah. >> And she starts talking like this, it makes everybody else think that it's okay to do. And then if you notice, everybody got nasty. The whole industry is fighting and being nasty about it because she did it. So if a if like if a high ranking competitor starts doing this with a big fan base, it basically tells everybody else it's okay to do. >> Yeah. I mean, you know, I'm I'm sure she thinks she did the right she's doing the right thing. She's standing up for what she believes in. And you know, I I respect the fact that she's at least sticking to her story. And she Well, first she said it was oil, so I don't know about that. But I I just wish she hadn't it it I wish she had done this privately either with the officials or some something other than the way she did it just to go out. >> I could give her I could give her some leeway because the fact of the matter is first of all we know I'm going to be stereotypical. Women are more emotional, right? Their estrogen levels are higher. It's harder to correct a female's hormones post show. It's much much harder. You can talk to any coach. So what happens is post show her hormones are probably out of whack. She's working on rebalancing them, right? Her ratios are off. Her moods are off. So, she's probably very emotional. She probably didn't think this through enough. Maybe in like another month passes, she's probably going to go, "Shit, I wish I didn't do that." >> Yeah. That's why I always say after a show, every competitor should have their phone confiscated. You don't get You don't get your phone back for like three or four days because I like that. >> That's when people out of their mind. >> Can you do that before the show? >> Uh, well, I mean, after the results. That's when I've seen the worst the worst posts people make are usually the day after a show and they I know most of these people probably like ah later on why did I do that or because the internet's forever everybody screenshots it and now you know there's there's a thousand Instagram pages that all they are is just gossip go they're TMZ so anything you put out there especially if you're a top Olympia level competitor Olympia champion boom it's out there within within minutes everybody is on it so be careful You got to think before you press send. Always think before you hit that send button, man. Once you hit that send button, >> yeah, you can't get that [\h__\h] back, bro. It's out there forever. >> How do we know Sarah hasn't tried talking to officials about this? Maybe she didn't went nowhere. She said, "Well, here's the interesting thing. Officials are connected to this. My source in Brazil, and I I I got to be very careful with how I say this. So, they were trying to say that Tamar and TK are in league together." are like Tamar is financially connected to this clinic. So he gets these people full of the Brazilians mostly I guess full of PMMA and then they go to the Olympia and TK judges them and well it I I can't say why but that's not even there's no way that's happening. Those two are not >> Everybody's got to make up a story so they have an excuse why they didn't win. >> Yeah, those two are not in collusion like that. And I can't say why but they're they're definitely not working together. If you're just thinking of this logically, Tamer and TK, they control a very large portion of the IFBB. You think they're going to risk their their career? So, all some all one thing has to do is leak and it could really hurt. You think they're going to risk their career over that for like like probably pennies compared to what they really make, >> right? >> They're not going to do that. It doesn't even make sense. It's not worth the risk. >> Bodybuilding doesn't have that kind of money involved to do shady [\h__\h] like that, right? It's not like pro. It's not like you're gambling prop bets in the NBA, right? Nobody's betting on what color suits Sarah's going to have on come October. There's not that kind of money involved. People think, "Oh, it's a conspiracy." Who's for what? Like, where's the financial incentive for a judge to vote for for Natalya? Like, who's going to There's people people like to gossip. They like to say bodybuilding has always had gossip. Ron, the first thing we read we read magazines was the gossip column. The first articles I went to were Pet were Peter McGuffs and Steve Niss because we wanted to know what's going on. People that's just in the TMZ world that's just like kind of human nature. And also people want to see you fail. Like the more successful you are, they want to see you fail, right? So even with with Derek's got two wins, that two Olympia wins, that's that magic number. That's that we hate Brandon didn't get it because he got one, right? Ronnie got two. >> It's just how it is. It's just the >> I was just talking I was just texting Derek yesterday and I was telling him to ignore all the BS, you know, and whatnot. And we were talking. I said I reminded him I said, "Remember how much [\h__\h] Ronnie got at the end of his career? Everybody wanted him to lose. Everybody was talking [\h__\h] and now he's the goat." I said, "Listen, got the truth is people are probably not going to love you while you're still active. It'll be later." [laughter] >> No. >> Phil Heath, perfect example. He got so much hate the last couple years he was winning. >> They don't like people who win too much. >> Yeah. But now I miss Phil. Don't you miss Phil? >> Oh my god. >> Different level of [\h__\h] >> I just wanted a different lyrics, too. >> I think at one point, dude, we all were. >> No, I was [\h__\h] honestly. [laughter] >> Let me address this real quick. Black Patron says Sarah doesn't have to make up a story. She's won every show there is. Well, when she's at her best, and she was not at her best, as we in the be, you must have not must have come in late to the to the podcast. This year, Sarah did not come in at her best. Her tan was off. Her condition was a little bit off. Natalya was just the better the better competitor that day. I didn't see it close at all. Even if her quads had had a little bit less sweep, I don't think it would have mattered. I think she still would have beat Sarah. And uh it's everybody's beatable. Sam, we thought last year when Samson were like, "Oh, Samson's just going to keep winning." Nope. Samson came in a little bit off at the Arnold, lost the Arnold, lost the Olympia, lost to Martin. Everybody, everybody out there, no matter how great they are, we don't have anyone that's like a Ronnie right now where they can be a little off and still kick everyone's ass. All these get beaten could be. >> Yeah, >> could be. [laughter] >> But Sarah puts out those crazy pictures pre-contest and that's what you expect to see on the day of the show. And like Phil said, when you see those physiques in person, it's totally separate, right? Like I always told Ron like Hunter Labrada's physique in person doesn't translate to videos. In person he's a ginormous human being with crazy quality great and he's a big >> I didn't realize how big he was but when you see those pictures online it's not the same thing. And when you're there and you're close especially at the Mr. Olympia it makes a huge difference. And fans aren't there. You can't go by a couple filter pictures on in like that's what that wasn't on stage. You don't see that, >> right? >> Like all these guys, they post these pre-contest picks >> and that's what I want to see. >> That's I paid my money to see, right? >> Honestly, I'm going to be honest and listen. I want Why don't you guys tell I want you guys to give me your opinion on this. Ron, you've been in this a long time. You probably really, you know, have a good, you know, perspective on this. I think that based on the way all the poses look that if Sarah's not able to match that lat sweep and pop that Natalya has, there's just no way she's going to be able to beat her. >> Yeah. I mean, I I didn't realize how much better Natalya's >> lat shocks and look at the look at what the lats are doing for Natalya. It just wins the whole thing. >> Yeah. No, I agree. It was It's, you know, taper shape. The the very first thing you notice when the competitors come out is the shape, the size, just you get an overall impression almost immediately. And I can I can judge a contest pretty closely before they ever hit a pose. when they just come out there relaxed. I'm pretty good at at getting the top the top five at least in order almost right away and rarely wrong. So yeah. Yeah. I mean Natala just has genetically a better a better taper. Well, it's the thing is her lats sweep. They're full and round whereas Sarah are kind of flat and straight. So what happens is that's setting off the entire pose and it's setting off the extra and really making everything pop. I made the point of the fact the lat was round tracing into the arm through the arm connecting to the delt and that's part of symmetry and geometry. Whereas Sarah kind of goes flat and then connects to the delt. So it's not like a circle. It's like a flat line connecting to a circle. So it's really hurting the pop of the pose. And if Natalyia's perfectly conditioned and stays detailed like she is, Sarah's gonna have a really hard time beating her unless she gets that lat sweep to pop out. You know, like it's just how it is. I just I think Sarah's a phenomenal competitor. She's amazing. She's been consistent. She's like like the uh girl said before, she's won literally everything. Um and she's crazy impressive in person if you see her. She's crazy impressive in person and she's a lot bigger. And I even said she she messed up in the back double because she squatted down and took away the size advantage she had, you know. So that's just a little error, you know, that you shouldn't have made, you know. You'll see it right here in this posing. Why is she squatting down to Natalyia's height when she could stand above her and be bigger? >> I think so. >> It's just not a good It's just not a good strategic move. But back to that comment that that person made in the comments. >> If you notice, if you go through the comments, everybody's making statements, but they're not backing it with any type of proof or logic or reason. They're just telling you what they think. Okay. Well, okay. You think that this is true? Prove it. Give me a reason. Why do you think this? Oh, because I see it. That's not a reason. >> Well, I mean, like I I did a show with Giles. It's gonna be out tomorrow. We're talking about Sam Sull. Sam Sull's not going to win the Arnold Classic. He's not going to beat Mike Somerfeld, Wesley Vissers, and a few other really good guys. But his fans, a lot of his fans, they don't have any idea how these how the sports judge, what the what the judges are looking for, what separates first place from fifth place and last place. There's going to be a lot of very upset Sam Sullik fans who will think he was robbed and they don't understand, you know, shape and structure, how incredibly important they are and what an advantage it is when someone has beautiful shape and structure versus someone who is not so gifted. So, I think a lot of the fans, they're they're fans of a particular athlete and they can't explain why they like that person or why that person should beat everyone else. They just like that athlete. Maybe it's their content on YouTube or Tik Tok or something, but look at that. I mean, to me, it was a clearcut clearcut case. >> There is, but you know, it wasn't like was Natalya's legs didn't just win her the show. It wasn't just the legs that were bigger, right? It's the overall physique like you said. So, you know, you can't compl Like it's just you have to work. Just go back to >> There's things that you would see in person that you're not seeing in this video right now. >> No. No. And people don't realize that like you said, Ron, when they're fans of the particular individual, they have blinders on, right? Like like I said to you before, I thought Shawn Ray won every show in the 90s. I couldn't see that Dorian was really [\h__\h] impressive and Ronnie was that good because you're fans of the individual. I love the sport, but we find that one person that we kind of identify with. So you you can't like kind of take those fans for at their word because I don't want to say they're idiots, but a lot of them are idiots. They're just they're not they're they just don't know the sport. >> But you know what? You can't explain it to them. You can't explain to them like >> this is what we're looking for. This is what we need. This is the dryness, right? Trying to explain all those aspects of a sport to a casual fan that found bodybuilding because of the internet, right? They they just know that because of the internet. They don't really have to know the nuts and bolts of it. So, it's hard reading some comments sometimes of people and like I get guilty of going back with some stupid people about the sport sometimes, too, man. We got some >> I'm reading all these I'm read I'm reading all these illogical comments and I'm waiting for any type of support or proof or or point whatsoever. >> Go watch these people are gonna hate me. Watch the comments after this. >> Natala's breast implants detract from your physique. >> How do they detract? All right. Well, here's a here's one that's more of a question. So, if it turns out a bunch of competitors ingesting ingesting injecting plastic into their muscles and are still winning shows, does this not upset you? >> Okay. So, let me >> go ahead. Let me make a point here. Every single person in these comments right now, you have rooted for somebody at some point who had shot up a body part and you didn't know it because they're surgical with that [\h__\h] There are a lot of people who made it through their whole career and you never caught it because they're really, really good at it. My arms were synthol my whole [\h__\h] career, but I will show you a video of me straightening my arm, bicep flat, bicep peak, everything changes. No muscle sits. If you really know how to do it, you're not going to catch them. So everybody in the comments, I want you to realize the criticism you're giving now. At some point, you rooted for somebody who did it and you didn't know it. >> Well, I'm not going to go play the Chris Cormier versus TK TK debate. Uh TK doesn't know fake from real. I mean, I don't know. Whatever. Clearly, >> you got to be delusional to think somebody's in a sport 30 years and doesn't know what they're looking at. >> Well, you hear that all the time. I got told the other day I I don't know anything about bodybuilding. At best, I was Jose Raymond's sidekick. I'm like, "Okay, [laughter] okay. I don't know anything." I mean, >> all the articles you wrote mean nothing. >> Yeah. >> Brain, dude. >> I've only been working full-time in this industry, the media side, for 35 years. I don't know. >> All that does is prove that they haven't been in the industry and they don't know what they're talking about. Otherwise, they would know who you are. Wouldn't say that. >> Right. So, MVP, you're stop making corny jokes. Well, no. I like corny jokes. He's really They've made up their mind. Well, I mean, >> I supported my point. So, if you want to say something, if you wanna if you want to refute something that I've said, go right ahead. But if you can't, you should probably stop. >> Yeah. Just you can't just say, "Well, you guys are you guys are biased or I mean, tell us >> just make an emotional statement." They're not making any points whatsoever. >> Back it up. Give us some kind of if not evidence, give us some kind of logical argument. >> Yeah, let's hear it >> to back up what your your opinion is. I mean, I you guys are all in >> the person hasn't backed it up with one shred of anything except emotional responses so far. >> Yeah. Yeah. And that's how that's how it usually is when you're discussing physiques, right? People can't make intelligent arguments about physiques because they don't they don't have the experience to back it up, right? I'm not going to go on a NASCAR website and say so and so sucks because I don't watch NASCAR, right? But like it's just you got to know your audience with people and it's just bodybuilding is just it's grown so much. >> MVP, where is it? You want me to play it? Tell me where it is on Instagram. I'm not gonna go to >> hilarious. Yeah, he's he's really upset. MVP. I'm assuming it's a he >> could be somebody else on a fake name. >> Corit has no experience. I think you mean Cormier. >> You're so mad that you can't even type his name, right? >> A top Olympian has no experience. Let's let's compute that for a second. >> No. No. Well, he's I think he's arguing that Cormier does have a lot of experience. So, and we're trying to say that he has no that he doesn't. >> Even back then, he he even said he shot his calves up and his delts. So, we all did it back the n the 90s guys did it with a sickling, you know? It's just you you can't just play like you can't just draw the line at this [\h__\h] dude. It's it's a bodybuilding. You want to win. Like the goal is to win, right? If I can shoot my cal shoot my calves up is going to give me a victory, I'm gonna shoot my calves up. You can do what you got to do. >> You have to at any point did we say that Natalya doesn't have anything in her quads? I never said that. You never said that. I don't know. >> I never said she didn't have anything in her quads. I said it didn't matter. She would have won anyway, >> right? But I mean I I I never said she didn't have anything in her quads. I mean >> I said we don't know what it is. It could be gear for all we know. >> Exactly. So >> these people are these people are making baseless statements that they can't prove. They better be careful because that could that could uh possibly be seen as liel or slander. >> Well, you know what the it gets me is when when they have their opinion and they they try to back it up by saying everybody knows that fill in the blank. Well, clearly everybody would be would be everybody's. That that's a universal blanket statement. So, if there are people anybody who disagrees with it, then your statement is is false. It's not accurate. >> Nobody knows. Unless you're in that person's like home and giving them their shot, their injection, you have no idea what they're doing. >> Like, oh, I heard a friend of a friend of a friend. No, come on, dude. It's like telephone. Like, [\h__\h] By the time it gets to you, it's just he's on like 10 grams of [\h__\h] this and a kid of growth a day. just it's it it just triples and goes, but it's hard to admit that you're not an elite person. This sport, everybody's got to come to it. One day we're all going to be like, "This ain't for us." And a lot of fans will never see the stage, right? They'll never put on protein. They'll never smell protein. So, like, but you're not an expert. You You have to be expert to go through it, but just have some common sense, right? >> If you've never been through the process and watched how it goes, that's why I brought up at the very beginning like that. I've done it. I've seen it. I've walked people through it. I know what it looks like step by step. I know what a good job looks like. I know what a bad job looks like. I know what this oil looks like. I what that one looks like. If you've not been through it, you shouldn't be talking because you don't know what you're talking about. You've never seen it. [snorts] >> I don't even understand this comment. Why would Cromier, you still can't spell Cormier. Why would he go along with Natalya? Keep it. I don't even understand what you're saying. So, Cormier is obviously on Sarah's side. Yeah, >> he's backing up Sarah's assertions that Natalya has some wacky substance in her quads. Uh that that gave her an advantage over over Sarah. And you know what? I I respect the hell out of Chris Cormier. I've known him forever. And >> dude, he's he's a legend. >> Yeah, he can have his opinion. I don't we don't have I don't have to agree with him. And even if she does have something in there, >> he's a legend. But even if she does have something as as long as it looks good, you know, I really I don't I don't see how we can say putting a bunch of gear in your in your quad or your delt that's that's okay because that's everybody does that. But putting something else in there now you're a scumbag and you're a cheater. I mean you you can't have it both ways, guys. >> Let's make this a hypothetical. Okay, they drag Natalyia to the doctor. They get an X-ray or they get an MRI and they show there's something in there. Natalia turns around and goes, "Oh, that's primo. Now what? What are you gonna do? Biopsy? You're gonna you're gonna stick a needle in there, try to draw something out?" You can't. That's not even legal. >> You know, man, very you literally can't prove it. There's nothing you can do to prove this. >> No, >> it's literally impossible. >> Do you think though, Tyler, they address it at all to the athletes? They mention something to them. >> But here's the thing. How do we know? How do we know she didn't, you know, uh, get a lot of deep tissue, tear up the fascia, change the shape of the muscle? Because I actually did that, too. When, uh, my deep tissue therapist was working on my legs back in the day. One of the reasons why my legs actually blew up was because she started digging into it. She's like, "Your fascia is like cement." She's like, "My fingers were bruised from working on you." She's like, "It's probably going to take four sessions before I even get to your muscles." And then what I noticed was all of a sudden my mobility was so much better. My pumps went through the roof. And I'm sitting here thinking, "God, I had this problem for how many years. I'm s here trying to grow my legs and I didn't even know that I didn't have a fair shot at it and then they grew. So like you could change the shape of things too with tissue work, uh with injuries, tears. We've seen people who have torn their bicep and then they get a better peak, right? You know, so we've seen all like even injuries result in a better shaped muscle. How do you know what caused this? >> Yeah, I mean I've seen a few people that got like a a great split in their bicep after they tore it before. Yeah, >> it's an improvement. >> The joke is the joke is when you bicep that becomes your good bicep. >> Yeah, he had a good pink. >> Yeah, TK wanted to punch Chris, but he's a tough I'm not I'm not going to sit here and defend TK. Let TK he can defend himself. That's that's I'm not even getting into that. Whatever. >> Oh, this is >> that's between those two and I'm not here to to take anybody's side between those two. I know them both and I'm not getting in the middle of that. But MVP, you are on a mission, dude. You are clearly uh you've got your mind made up. Nothing is going to change your mind. And that's fine. >> Get an IP trace on MVP and see who that really is. >> I mean, but you haven't you haven't backed anything up with one with one thing that's remotely a fact. It's just your emotion. You're emotional. >> Yeah. Very emotional. So, yeah. I mean, we're not we're not solving the problem here. We're not we're not coming up with the solutions. That's, you know, unfortunately that's not what I do. I just I just ask a lot of questions. Do we expect the head judge to address this? Do you have any? Okay. I mean, if if it's an issue, if it's if it's a big enough issue, you could if you know, it's been talked about long enough now that I think if Tyl Tyler's usually the one that addresses things. He's basically the, you know, the face of the IFPB Pro League as a vice president. He comes and makes these videos with the breakdowns after the shows and everything. If there was an issue or there were if a few more if another week goes by and you haven't heard anything from Tyler, then it's a non-issue. >> Yeah. >> What is he gonna say? >> I Exactly. >> What do you want Tyler to say? You want him to guess? There's no proof. Think of this like a court of law. You're not going to win unless you can prove it. Like what do you expect him to say? There's no proof. >> And you gota dress the man, too. Every would dress every person, every division. But everybody though, >> there's no proof. Like it could be it could be gear. It could be some bunch of gear in there. Like you just don't know. And >> I don't know, man. It's just >> Sarah like opened up a [\h__\h] can of worms, bro. Like what are you doing, bro? >> Just put it this way. Everybody's put something somewhere. Whether everyone's putting gear somewhere that's everyone. Uh a lot of people use SEOs and you don't know most of them because it's done well. Uh, and I'm sure a lot of them use this PMMA, too. And you, if they're doing it well, you're never going to know. And they're not going to do thousands and thousands of dollars worth of MRIs on every competitor. That's going to add up to like million. You know, they you think they have unlimited amounts of money. They don't have >> I'll tell you what I'll do. >> Let's hear. >> I'm gonna I'm gonna post a video on my story right now of when my arms were completely shot so that you can share it and you tell me that this looks fake. >> Okay? >> People are surgical. They're just they can do it and you'll never catch it ever. Let me find this. Give me two seconds. >> Heart, bro. Like this is a this is like some serious like like scientific [\h__\h] for bodybuilding. A lot of people think, "Oh, I'll just take some deck and some dbol and little bit of growth. This is this is some next level [\h__\h] that a lot of fans don't want to admit that that goes on, right? Like we don't know what what the in work of pro football, all those guys that are shooting that shooting up every week to play. Like we don't want to see that. We don't want to know that. We just want to see Sunday, right? We just want to see the victory pose and here's the awards and the trophies. We don't want to see the injections in the calves, right? Or shooting the lats up. In in Tyler Man's defense, no, he's never competed, but he has been in the front row at probably three or four thousand bodybuilding shows at this point in his life. I used to see him as like a teenager up there with the with the judges long before he was actually judging. you know, they were grooming him because they know it's it's a family business. So, I can someday he was going to be in this position. So, he has he has been >> he's had the eye for physiques for years. So, no, you guys, most of you fans are not on the level of a Tyler when it comes to assessing physiques. >> And what they don't understand is Tyler got test judged three times the amount of any other judge normally would have been test judged because they wanted to make sure that he got the experience and was accurate. So, they've ran him through the ringer more than anybody else that they made that they would make apply for that job. But Ron, if you want, you can pull up my story right now. I posted the video on my story. You can put that on the screen. Tell me where you see oil. >> All right, let's go. >> I'm being transparent here just to help everybody else out and admitting what I did. >> Okay. No, I appreciate that because very few people would even admit, oh, I never put anything in my Are you crazy? All right. So, let's go to Phil. Let's go to stories. >> Yeah. Go to the next one. There you go. So, watch this. >> Okay. >> Full detail separation. >> Yeah. >> Now, watch what watch when I extend the arm. Look. Bicep flattens. Flat bicep. No peak. >> Now watch. >> Looks legit. But >> you had you had a good amount of oil in there. >> Yeah. Well, I mean, I shaped it. I didn't inflate it. That's the difference. But there's oil in there. There's there's there's a good amount of oil in there. You can't tell. And you know what? There's people that are way better than me at it. And you probably were like applauding these body parts and you had no idea. >> Well, that the choking hazard was pointing at your penis. Now I get it. >> No, I agree. I mean, if I I I think I'm pretty good at spotting oil, but I would not have I would not have pegged that as an armed head oil. >> These guys are surgical. Did did you did you have someone doing it for you that was just highly skilled at >> No, I I I what I did was I I talked to everybody that had done it. I figured out all the mistakes that they made. I figured out all the situations where it went right and I just like basically trial and error guess and check surveying everybody pattern recognition and then I devised my own way. But I can do arms like I don't really do it with my clients because I don't really have any clients that really have to, you know, because I'm not going to do it unless it's going to make a difference at a higher level, right? But, you know, so I'm not gonna do it for like a local show for somebody, but you know, I I really haven't had to. But I can do it to where you're not gonna see it, you know. And there's pros right now doing their quad sweep. You cannot tell. There are pros. There are classic pros. There are Mr. Olympias who have done their arms, their shoulders. You did not know it. You did not see it. You can go stare at pictures right now. You won't find it. >> Yeah. So, yeah. I mean, it's it's it's easy to judge when you see it very obvious and blatant. And I and I that's when people get marked on like when came out was it 2019 Olympia 2020? >> Wow. >> Whatever year it was where his his shoulders were square. They were like >> the angle was ridiculous and I they pushed they put him down in was he fourth that year? >> Right. >> He would have won other than his shoulders. If his shoulders had looked normal, he would have won that year. They marked >> Well, you know why people are getting caught, right? The reason why people are getting caught is not because people can see it. It's because they know what the person's shape and that body part used to look like. So they're comparing that person to themselves. If if nobody had ever seen Natalya before and she came out this year, nobody would have accused her. >> Well, all right. Well, uh I don't want to keep you guys too much longer. We've been going for over an hour. Phil, I knew you were a good choice for this topic. Uh you're still an >> want to help people out, you know. I just want people more things about the sports. I love the sport. >> You are a meatthead nerd. I love that. >> Yes, that's awesome. >> I just went through Olympia TV video where they addressed Sarah. It was conveniently edited out. Oh no. Wow. >> I mean, clearly it's uh it's >> Listen, we know that human beings have confirmation bias and they're going to believe what they want to believe no matter what. And you're not going to be able is it trying to convince somebody who right now is convinced that Natalya has something in her quads and should have lost and want Sarah to win. That's like trying to convince like a Republican or a Democrat to switch sides. It's not happening. I mean, if you're on Facebook at all, uh, the the politically divided USA, either side, they're they're so committed to their beliefs, there's nothing you could say, no amount of proof or facts that's going to change them from this side to that side. So, >> it's confirmation bias in psychology. They're so biased towards it that they can't break from their identity, from their opinion on the topic. So, these people are so emotionally invested in this topic right now. We're not gonna change their mind no matter what evidence we throw at them. >> Yeah. >> Like Michigan always sucks. You cannot convince me that as an Ohio State, Michigan does not always [clears throat] suck. F every Michigan fan out there. Merry Christmas. Go Bucks. >> Watch the comments. Yeah. So guys, uh if you didn't see this live, you're more than welcome to leave your comments. Uh good, bad, in, you know, whatever you want to say. It all helps the algorithm. So you can [\h__\h] us out. You can agree with us. You can say we're morons. It doesn't matter. It's all good. So, uh, I want to thank Phil Viz, Philip Visakaro for joining us. I still like Phil. Phil, who gave you that nickname? I was just curious. Phil Viz, >> my wrestling coach actually did. He named because of uh, Viscayeno on the New York Mets. His last name was his last name was Viscayeno and it was like VIZ. And everybody was mispronouncing my name and they were calling my name at wrestling tournaments and botching it. So then my my coach Brian Lachley was like, "We're just gonna call you Viz." So it stuck. Oh, I thought nobody could pronounce Vicaro. Maybe that was a problem. Uh, and uh, Mike Cox usually has a name of a top bodybuilder that's sort of been forgotten, but today he went with Clark W. Griswald, which is the character Chvy Chase portrayed in the Vacation movies. Yes. Great. Great. >> The greatest movies of all time, bro. >> Christmas Vacation. >> Christmas Vacation is is and Christmas Story are playing on like on loops right now on a few different channels. >> I'm gonna watch it, bro. So, 247. So, well, that's going to wrap up another one. I don't know what we'll do because next week, Wednesday night is New Year's Eve, so I can't do a Meatthead podcast then. Everyone's gonna be drunk. So, unless we do a drunk one, I don't know. But, uh, [laughter] have >> I watch that? >> No, I would watch that, too. So, I want to thank you, Phil, for for, uh, helping out and and >> apologize for the logo of the Meathead podcast cutting off top of your beautiful head there. So, sorry about that because you got >> I'm I'm fine with that. I'm not that good-looking, so if I can hide behind it, even better. >> Yeah. And uh you know, Phil went to the same place that me and this guy Chris Bumpstead went to in Turkey. Now >> my hair transplant. >> Yeah. >> Oh, nice, man. >> You're eight weeks post. >> Eight weeks. And I'm way a hell of ahead of schedule because of all the uh measures that I took for healing and uh recovery. >> Yeah, I am. Let's see. In February, it'll be two years. So, I'm >> Yeah, my hair was up here. It was like, woo. >> Yeah, we both went to the same place now. Hair time. >> It was running. My hair was running away from me. I was trying to escape. So, that's it, guys. I want to thank you all for watching the Miad podcast. It will be here some point next week again. Keep your notifications on and you'll know all about it. And that's it. We'll see you then. Peace.