Welcome, welcome, welcome. Happy Halloween. Ryan Harris here with my scary Halloween mask. And for one day, we're not going to talk about bodybuilding. We're going to talk about scary movies. I want to know what's your favorite scary movie. Which part or part scared you the most? What movies you want to watch tonight? What scary movies really messed you up? I want to get into it. I'll start because I think it's no secret. My favorite scary movie of all time is The Exorcist. classic classic horror movie made in uh and still to this day as far as I'm concerned the scariest horror movie of all time. What made it really terrifying for me was the whole concept of Satan, the devil, demons, these invisible forces that were incredibly powerful and that humans were powerless against. our only defense, our only way to fight this evil was through the power of Jesus Christ, of God uh acting on our behalf. And it it was the one movie that scared me the most. Uh when I first saw it, I was 11 years old. My dad took me, I begged him to take me, which I regretted almost instantly. About 30 minutes into the movie, uh I realized it was a big big mistake. Couldn't sleep that night. couldn't sleep right for many, many nights. In fact, I saw it uh right after the last day of school. I believe it was fifth grade. And I didn't sleep right that whole summer. I slept mostly during the day. I avoided my room because the layout of my house. My bedroom was up and around a staircase and hallway exactly laid out the way Reagan's bedroom was in the movie The Exorcist. So, I was terrified Reagan was going to be in there. The Devil Was in my house was going to get me at nighttime especially. It was crazy. So, I want to know what your favorite scary movie was. What movie scared you the most and why? What scene still gets you? Still bothers you even if you think about it today? Dawn of the Dead was some freaky [\h__\h] Smoke Dog. Which one? So, you mean the or the 2004 version? I thought they were both very, very well done. Rosemary's Baby. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was the first big satanic movie, Henry, for sure. Uh, I'd say that the trilogy, the classic trilogy from ' 68 to 75 or 76 was Rosemary's Baby in ' 68, The Exorcist in 73, and The Omen in 1976. Those three, and there were many other great ones. Some of them, some of them kind of fell by the wayside. Uh, The Sentinel is a really good one. If you've seen the Sentinel, um, man, Burgess Meredith, who played Mickey in the Rocky movies, was this creepy ghost of a serial killer or a murderer in the building in that movie. It's just just a creepy creepy movie. Uh, yeah. I mean, to me, uh, satanic movies, they're the scariest. Although, I will say some of the movies with these psychotic murderers, they're also pretty frightening because those are realistic. those. You don't have to believe in any ghosts or the devil or anything supernatural to understand that there are sick, perverted, twisted people in the world who love to inflict pain and torture on other human beings. Luckily, there's not that many of them. But if you're unfortunate enough to cross paths with one of them and get abducted or kidnapped or whatever, you [snorts] know, you're in for hell on earth. They they can hold you captive and tort you for months on end. like the hostile movies, the Saw movies, those are all things that could really happen. You don't need to believe in anything supernatural. Those are just human beings doing evil things. The Exorcists. So, the newer one, Ving Res. Oh, I know Ving Rams. It follows was pretty creepy, too. Yeah, it Follows. So, my I I love the classic horror movies, but I'm not one of those snobs who will say that h there hasn't been a good horror movie in years. It Follows is really good. I loved Hereditary. I loved Sinister. I thought that was very well done. The first two Insidious movies, they kind of got stupid after that. All excellent movies. There's still some really great horror movies. Talk to me from Australia, uh, with the the hunt, the the hand, they communicate with the dead and they can possess you. Talk to me was really really creepy. I thought that was one of the best horror movies of the last few years, for sure. Oh yeah, I finally brought this topic back. I've been waiting for. Well, very cool. Allan, hit me up. What's your movie? I want to know your favorite movie and the scariest scene or the scene that really bothered or disturbed you, maybe gave you nightmares. You can't get it out of your head. So, man, for me, uh, The Exorcist had a bunch of scenes. I did a whole video on it that got demonetized because I was overzealous and I used a lot of long clips in the video. So, I understand Warner Brothers hit me with a copyright strike for that video. But, uh, The Exorcist had so many so many traumatizing scenes for me. Uh, the first one I'd say was where the mother runs up, hears all this commotion. Uh, MC, Mrs. McNeil, she runs up and she opens the door and Reagan is sitting on her bed, stabbing herself with a crucifix in the vagina, blood everywhere. Her face looks like a mask of some evil sardonic mask. Doesn't even look like her anymore. And she's got this voice. Let Jesus help you. Let Jesus help you. And then her head spins all the way. She smacks some other sends her flying across the room. The door slams by itself. A chair goes up against it. A bureau comes across and smashes on the ground. And [snorts] then the head turns all the way around and she says to the to her uh her mother in the voice of the director Burke Dennings who had just been murdered by the demon by Reagan while she was possessed by the demon a few nights before. And Burke looks right at her. The demon looks right at her and says, "Do you know what she did? Your [\h__\h] daughter." And it was just oh my god. That was a scene for me. [sighs] I was broken from then on during the movie. Happy Halloween, Zionic. My favorite holiday. Trolls. When I was a kid. Yeah. You know what I mean? I remember we had a on channel 56, a UHF station in Boston. We had Creature Double Feature every Saturday. It's actually the same. It was a double feature. It was two horror movies in a row from I think it went from 12 to 4. It was the same same Creature Double Feature that Rob Zombie, who's also from Massachusetts, he grew up. He's he's like a year older than me. We watched all the same old horror movies. And some of them I look at, if I look at now, they were just dopey and and cheesy. But when I was a kid, man, like Gargoyles was one with these gargoyles that were living and they lived in a cave and they kidnapped this woman and she was held captive by all these horrible gargoyles and they were killing people. And I look at it now and it looks so stupid, but when I was a kid, it scared the crap out of me. Noatu. Yeah, lace was awesome. There's been there's been a lot of versions of Noseratu going back to the one from like 1925 or something and then um there was a good one made in the late 70s uh Klaus Klaus what's Klaus Kinsky played him. It was made by Vera Herzog the German director that was really good. It was in English. Uh and then they have the recent one with Bill Scarsgard. I didn't like that one that much but Jeepers Creepers one. And the last thing you show is a guy's skin and creeper sees the camera to his eyes. Yeah, Jeepers Creepers was very well done. The first one, like any any of these movies, usually the first one, maybe the second one's good, but as they as they keep doing sequel after sequel after sequel, it just gets watered down and they're just grasping at straws trying to keep the franchise going and make some money. Hereditary is the best scary movie last decade. I really can't argue with that. I thought it was incredibly well done. just you felt uncomfortable. The whole that that's the thing about a really good horror movie is you feel this sense of dread, this sense of unease, and you can't really put your finger on it, but you feel like something's really wrong. You don't know what it is, but you just have this horrible sinking feeling. And hereditary, you had that the whole time and it just went to places a lot of movies will never go. And I'm not talking about like gore and and violence. There's a lot of movies that have pushed the envelope there, but I remember like when the mother looked at him and said, "I wish I wish I wasn't your mother. I wish I never had you." Stuff like that. And the kid's like crying his eyes out. The son who ends up become becoming possessed by Payon the demon toward the end. Jeepers One. Yeah, I I thought that was so well done. All these movies where people are like out in the middle of nowhere and they're being stalked by either a creature or this psychotic murder or something that there's no getting away from the thing. So which thing I'm assuming you mean the 82 82 Kurt Russell version of thing which I I think most people would agree God of Frogs that was the best one because there was obviously the original the thing from another planet like 1956 or something and then there was a remake in 2011. Uh it was all right. It was it was decent. It was more the the thing in 1982 was was creepier because it had practical effects. Stan Winston. You remember like the the head coming the head the guy's head with the spider legs and just so many creepy things. The guy putting his arms inside the torso of the guy and the these uh teeth coming out and and cutting his arms off. There were a lot of scenes in that 82 version thing. Plus, the way it ended was so creepy where you didn't know, you know, who was Kurt Russell or the other guy, which one of them was the alien? And they left it completely ambiguous. It it was it both was it one of them? Was it neither of them? We never we never know. Uh that that's the the mark of a really really scary horror movie to me is evil. Evil could be winning in the end. You don't know. They leave it kind of ambiguous like that. Scary document. Jumbo jumbo. Jumbo Palumbo. Are there actually three jumbos in that? Yeah. Dave was a a creepy looking guy when he was uh 300 pounds. Very creepy. Sounds to the lambs. All the seams. Yeah. I obviously that won best picture which is I want to say that's the only horror movie if you want to call that a horror movie that ever won best picture. It's very rare that anything in the horror genre even gets nominated for an Academy Award or any any award in like the Ken's film festival or it's typically not a genre associated with like excellence in film making. You do have directors like Stanley Kubri did the Shining. You've had some really talented, award-winning directors make like one foray, one venture into the horror genre, but it's it's very rare. Hills Have Eyes. Wrong turn. Human Centipede. Oh, Human Centipede. Human Centipede one was awful. I thought number two was even worse. Uh, more disgusting, more disturbing. So, Human Centipede one was a surgeon out in Germany. He had a house out in the a house out in the woods where he was doing this disgusting, evil, vile experiment on uh the Japanese guy that he abducted and the two American girls whose car unfortunately for them broke down near his place in the rain. But number two, uh was a parking attendant, a little toad looking guy with super thick glasses. Uh he he he was a huge fan. is obsessed with human centipede move the first movie in part two and he abducted a bunch of people cuz instead of three people I think he made his human centipede with nine or 10 people and it was just they just kept every time you didn't think it could get any worse it got worse I should say the terrifier movies are probably have the most gratuitous disgusting violence I've watched all three a couple times each full disclosure And I always feel dirty after I watch terrifying movies cuz they take a really sadistic glee. Art the Clown with his facial expressions because he never talks Art the Clown. It's always just pantoime and laughing and he takes such glee in torturing and and dismembering and mutilating people. It's just awful. And evil always triumphs at the end of every terrifier movie. So, you know, you you're not left with a feeling of any kind of vindication or that the wrongs were writed. It's like evil wins. Good good loses and evil wins. Just awful. Heritary ending in a treehouse. Sheesh. Yeah. So disturbing. I mean, you had the the cult members there. You had the headless body like kneeling and the kid was possessed by this. He was this b this this boy had been bred him and his younger sister to be uh vessels for this demon Payon. It was just awful. People under the stairs. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Actually, I was going to watch that the other night because in October, any true horror fan will tell you. Horror movie fan that in October you will you will put all other movies aside. You can watch them in November. In in October, I would I'm only watching horror movies and I'll rewatch movies I've seen 10 20 times just because they're classics and they still pack a punch. Uh geez, what did I just watch again? House of a Thousand Corpses. Oh jeez. I just watched uh The Conjuring. The first Conjuring. I've seen that like probably the That was probably the 10th time I've seen it, but it was just so well done. I think Ring is the witch. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that was it was basically set in they didn't say Salem but or I'm sorry they didn't say Plymouth the Plymouth colony but all of us who have been to the Plymouth plantation on field trips as Massachusetts kids we all went there in elementary school multiple times. I think I think we went there three or four times during the course of our elementary school. The layout everything looked like Plymouth Plantation. Yeah. I mean that was just so well done. the the witch, just atmospheric horror. And there was there's they're out in the middle of nowhere. There's no civilization. They've been banished from the town. There's no help coming. And yeah, it's it's just there's just like no hope. I don't get the hype for The Shining. I watch this creepy but not scary. Yeah. Stephen King, who wrote the the novel The Shining, was not very happy with that with that film adaptation. It's one of the few that he really condemned. He he was not on board with it at all. Because Kubri Kubri was known for just the stylistic, the cinematography. He was all about getting the perfect framing, the perfect lighting. He was known to do like a hundred or more takes to get the perfect shot that he wanted for something. Um, but it wasn't really true to the to the book. I mean, The Shining's been done since then. They did a uh a TV miniseries that I actually thought was a lot it was a lot more faithful to the novel. But I mean, you had Jack Nicholson, one of the greatest actors of of the 20th century. Um Shelley, the late Shelley Duval, you had Stanley Kubrick directing. It was it was a really great movie. And it I'll tell you, I think anyone anyone who's seen the movie once or more will tell you the scariest part was when that the rotting corpse of that woman came out of the bathtub and starts coming after the boy Danny. And then later in the movie, she comes out as a beautiful young woman and embraces Jack, the Jack Nicholson character. Uh, and as they're embraced, like he's starting to kiss her, she instantly transforms back into that rotting corpse of an old hag. It was just ah uh bring her back. I'm gonna see that. I might I might watch that tonight. Thanks, Professor Wolverine because that was done by the same the same team that did Talk to Me over in Australia. And again, I think Talk to Me was one of the best horror movies I've seen in the last 10 years, bar none. It's up there with uh Hereditary and It Follows. Uh, I would say those are probably for me the best three horror movies made in the last 10 years because it's any horror fan will tell you you [snorts] have to go through a lot of bad bad horror movies to find one good one. I I the ratio for me I think is about 25 or 30 to one. So I will start watching I I I won't I won't keep watching a movie once I figured out it sucks. It's not getting any better, which is usually around 15 to 20 minutes. Sometimes I'll give it 30 minutes, but then I'm like, "No, this isn't worth it, and I'll I'll find something else." But man, uh, if you can watch, if you can find a really good horror movie that's very well done, it's not even about the budget. Some of the really good ones I've seen are lowbudget, but the acting, the script, the concept was just really creepy and gets under your skin. You know, I want to be scared. That's the reason I watch horror movies. I want to be scared. It's that catharis of knowing it's safe. You're okay. At the end, it's just a movie. You're going to go back to your life as soon as the movie's over. But while you're watching that movie, you get wrapped up in the characters, the crazy plot, whatever's going on, and you can really put yourself in the situation these characters are in, whether they're being menaced by a demon or a family of cannibals or a serial killer or some creature. You know, Candyman scared the [\h__\h] out of me. Black dude popping. Well, I think that the scariest thing about that was that all all you had to do was say candyman candy man candy man three times looking in a mirror and he was going to appear. How many people tried that which was just uh that's the other what's what's the other thing where you look in the mirror it's a woman's name something someone remind me of it. There's there's another thing where there's another game people played where they look in a mirror and you say something three times and this evil entity appears and it's going to kill you. extras of Emily Rose. Thank you. Uh I I agree the courtroom aspect was a bit much. [snorts] I think I would have liked I would have preferred I should say a movie that was just focused on the ex the possession of Emily, which I thought the way they built that up was so scary. uh where the actress was uh the girl was in her college dorm room being oppressed by this demon was pushing down into her and she was seeing all these demonic faces in like windows and people she was looking at uh and then the possession and I would have liked to see more of the exorcism and her death because it was a it was a true story based on a young woman in Germany named Anelise Michelle. In fact, if you Google, sorry, go on YouTube, which you're on right now. If you go to uh Anelise Michelle Exorcism, they have real audio, tons of real audio clips from that you can listen to. It was so creepy. So creepy. It's It's mostly in German, but the voices that were coming out of this young woman's throat, her mouth were just, if that wasn't a demon or a devil, she was incredibly skilled at making up different voices for herself. Yeah, but I agree. the courtroom aspect. It was it was actually very interesting from a legal point of view. Not too dissimilar from uh The Conjuring for The Devil Made Me Do It, which uh there was a lot of courtroom drama in that as well, because that was based on a a real case uh a murder case where the the perpetrator, the defendant, I should say, [clears throat] he claimed not guilty by reason of demonic possession, not insanity, but his claim legally was. and his lawyers, I think he ended up going to prison anyway, but his lawyers did try to present a case that he was not responsible for the murder because it was it was done while he was under possession and being completely controlled by a foreign entity, a spirit, some other consciousness that invaded him and was acting through him. And he did eventually get out. Um, but that was that was a very creepy movie, too. Brokeback Mountain [laughter] Sinister series. Yeah. The the first one was the classic with Ethan Hawk. I thought the second one that focused on the single mom and her two sons uh out in the out in the corn fields. I thought that was very creepy, too. Yeah. This the first sinister movie to me because that's going back a little bit, but that's one of the best to me one of the best horror movies of this this current generation. Say like the I'll say like the last 20 25 years. Sinister anything since like I guess this we could say this millennium ever since 2000 I think Sinister was 2010 the first one very well done Ethan Hawk is an amazing actor he does really well in horror movies he was great in the Purge the first Purge movie yeah Sinister if you haven't seen that check that out first Conjuring yeah Mike I just watched that again like I said because [snorts] it starts off with the Annabel it's it's based on it's based on a real story. And I know they took a lot of liberties. All these Conjuring movies, they're based on actual cases. But of course, for drama, they they make they made things that were a lot more uh frightening and graphic than than happened in the actual cases, but I still thought it was really well done. Children of the Corn wasn't too bad. It [clears throat] was okay. The Blair Witch. Yeah, I I was so mad because I had heard it was such a scary movie. was that 2099. It came out in 99. And I remember I think I uh I think I went to the theater after smoking out of my car first cuz there was a time when I used to like to watch horror movies baked. It made it even scarier because you're already paranoid and you're already thinking there's evil things all around you. At least that's me, my experience. And at the end of the movie, I was so upset. I was like, "That's it. That was it. We never saw anything." thing and they're like, "Well, you know, it's what you don't see, it's what you don't it's your imagination." Like, [\h__\h] But like I I told uh in our group chat that Mike's part of that movie was made for like $40,000. It was a crazy difference as far as how much money it cost to make. I'll find it. Uh, it was made for God. God, we talk about a lot of stuff, man. Okay. It was made for $60,000. The Blair Witch Project in 1999. It grossed $248 million. $60,000 investment brought them $248 million. That is crazy. That's great. Uh this is the first steroid cycle. What [laughter] not talking about? We're talking about scary movies, but test and deca. Test and deca. You can't go wrong with a test and deca. Fast and gore for reaching out to me on a Cheyenne sub. No, man. I mean, I'll only do a video like this once in a great while. I mean, in the links that I always put in these videos, um I've actually written uh a book of horror stories and then another another collection that one story was horror. The rest were just horrible nights called Rough Nights. But I did write a really scary co horror collection called Evil Times 10. The link is in the descriptions of all my other videos. The Ring Series. Yeah. Yeah. The Ring Series. Um I never saw the originals which were from Korea, right? [snorts] Ringu. I only saw Sarah Michelle Geller, the American remake and the sequels to that. But no, Sarah I'm I'm confused. The That wasn't The Ring. And that was uh the other one, The Grudge. So, The Ring, I just You know what? I just watched The Ring again a couple weeks ago. In fact, I told you October, I I rewatch all the the great horror movies I've seen. I think that was this this century. I think that was like the first Ring. I want to say like 2002. It's going way back. Maybe it was in the 90s, but I think it was in the early 2000s. Yeah. this whole concept of this video that if you watch it, you're going to die in seven days unless you can get somebody else to watch it. [laughter] Uh yeah, I mean it was so well done. So creepy. And that girl crawling out of the through the TV screen. Oh my goodness. Uh knife scene and bring her back. I haven't seen that yet, but I will check that out. I might watch that tonight. Sing Cooper's overcraft. Yeah, 2001 was, you know what's crazy is that movie was 1968, I believe, or 69, 2001, Space Odyssey. But if you look at the the scenes in space, the, you know, the spaceships and the and all that stuff, it still holds up today. And it was done with, you know, matte screens and and paintings of space behind them and models. There was no CGI back then. It was the same. The technology hadn't gotten any better in 77 when they did Star Wars, but that technology was really developed for 2001 of space odyssey and they kept using the same the same concepts for quite a while after that for another 101 15 years. Omen series. Yeah. I mean, if the more religious you are and the more you believe in the supernatural, the scarier these things are to you because they could be real as far as, you know, as far as you're concerned. Um, if if you have that belief system, if you don't, it's like, eh, there's no devil, there's no possession, there's no antichrist, it's it's just just fiction. But to those of us who uh at least even entertain the thought that these things are real or could be real, they're much scarier. The Omen movies, absolutely. [clears throat] I remember being terrified of the first omen Omen two where he was a teenager in in this like uh military prep school and he discovers he's the antichrist and then at the end he embraces his role as the antichrist and then in Omen 3 the final configuration I think it was called uh it was Sam Neil who played the good guy the the doctor in the first three Jurassic Park movies or was he in only the first two anyway it was him as as Damian as He was running Thorn Industries, this multi-billion dollar conglomerate that you know everything from defense systems to boweapons to but they they were masquerading as this benevolent company that was trying to solve world hunger and he was actually uh trying to take over the world as the antichrist would. Right. That's on the original paranormal activity. Yeah, the paranormal activity that that's a good that's a good thing because that's another one of those found footage movies where lowbudget effects were minimal. It's really a lot of sounds you're hearing and things that things that can be easily easily done without a massive budget. I think that was another one that was made for very small amount of money and and made back a ton of money. Uh I liked it. I like the whole concept. I've seen all of them. I think there's five in all. Uh, I like the concept of this of this generational generations of witches that uh they worshiped this this demon that the people called Toby. I don't know if they ever came out with the actual demonic name for at any point, but uh very well done. Very creepy and scary because again it's something that it's invisible. What are you going to do? There was no getting away from it and it's attached to people. So it doesn't matter where you go, it's going to follow you. it's going to keep terrorizing you and and trying to wreak havoc with your life no matter where you go. That's the whole that to me that's that's why the demonic is so much scarier because a it's invisible. B you're powerless against it without you know usually you need like a priest on your side to invoke the power of Jesus to to try to drive this thing away and send it back to hell or or at least get it get it to leave you alone. And C, it's just nobody would believe you. Cuz if this was actually happening to you, you were being oppressed or uh terrorized by some evil evil invisible entity in your home or wherever, nobody's going to believe you. They're just going to think you're crazy. And you know that that's the real scary is you have nowhere to turn because there's nobody that can help you. Unless of course you turn to the church, the Roman Catholic Church in particular, and they decide to help you. The original Thing movie was creepy. So I think you mean the 82 version with Kurt Russell. Absolutely. The original Blob movie was like 1957. Yeah. Again, like I saw that when I was a little kid, like four or five years old. Again, it was on that creature double feature on TV. Scared the crap out of me. Here's this big red blob. It's just getting bigger and bigger. It's going to it's going to swallow the world up eventually, right? Nicole Kidman's the others. Yeah, that was one of those great twist movies where you don't know that the people are ghosts. Just like the sixth sense with Bruce Willis, the whole movie you had no idea he was a ghost till the very end. I thought you know might I hope it's a 35 year old movie. I don't think I'm I'm destroying too much by giving away the the spoiler there. But yeah, the whole the whole concept of the boy who could see ghosts and he's being counseledled by this psychologist Bruce Willis throughout the whole movie who at the end we we we we look back and see there were clues all along which they sort of do a little montage to to remind us that if you had caught this it would have given you an inkling of what's going on but yeah the others was a very similar thing very scaryly [snorts] great actors oh boy looks wise you know any big freaky guy who's not very good-looking would be awesome, I think. Or it could be a good-looking guy and they just put makeup on to make him look like a monster. But, you know, like I guess it's hard for a guy who's under six foot to be scary, but maybe they could film him to make him look scarier. Like, can you imagine like Nick Walker with a with a demonic face or something terrorizing people in a movie running around looking all jacked? I think it'd be pretty scary. Hellraiser movies. Yeah, there's been so many of them. The first one was the classic. Was it 1986,87? So, it's it's kind of dated when you look at it now, but still very well done. I mean, Clive Barker was still is a great horror writer. He came up with some really creepy concepts and plots. And he had I think he wrote the screenplay for it, too. Did he direct it? I think he did. And um they did a remake of the original Hellraiser with the center bites. Uh the main cenbite was uh Pinhead. Pinhead was a woman playing it, which I it was a nice twist and I thought it was it was very well done. It was very scary. You know, it's tough to take a classic like that and remake it. Like I'm not a fan of the new Halloween movies, the new were hollow. They're not that new now. the Rob Zombie Halloween movies, I I still watch them, but when you compare them to the the old John Carpenter Halloween one and the and the sequel too, which wasn't John Carpenter didn't direct that one, but it was basically the same production team and the same same characters, Jamie Lee Curtis and Michael Myers and all that. Donald Pleasants as Dr. Lumis. Those are classics. Those are just classics. Uh, and Rob Zombie, he puts his own spin on everything he does, but I I still like the the original ones best. Kai should have went into acting. I think he tried. He actually did do some some uh a good amount of acting in India, Bollywood. Uh, I think he starred in a couple movies. I remember interviewing him like three, four years ago and he had just finished filming uh, one movie and I think he had a contract to do a couple more over there. So, you know, they I never heard about them. So, but I'm assuming they got released and everything. 30 to1 off read reviews first. What I'll do is so I look at the uh I look at the trailers and if it looks interesting to me because I've seen movies that don't get great reviews by critics obviously. But lately what I'll do is I'll start watching it based on the concept and whether I like the the idea, the plot and you know if I could tell it wasn't complete [\h__\h] Usually by the trailer you get a good sense of the production values and the acting and the script and everything. If it's complete crap, you can usually tell by the trailer, but sometimes I'll start watching and if I start getting suspicious, I always go to I'll say like say sinister or something. Sinister Rotten Tomatoes and it'll come up with the the Rotten Tomatoes score and the audience meter. And if they're anything below 50%, I'm done. Because if that many people thought it was crap, sometimes I'll look at a couple of the the reviews on the Rotten Tomatoes, but yeah, it's it's a gamble. But I I've should act in the ring. But I agree. It it's it's time consuming to try to find good horror movies, but to me it's worth it. Purge series movies scare shows true hate people have in their hearts. Single something. Yeah. I mean, I almost want to call the Purge movies horror movies. the concept is horrific that you know the the new America um the new founding fathers of America this new political party that's taken over power in the United States which they say in the future but if you watch the first Purge movie I think eventually it comes you see by the the numbers in the corner the surveillance cameras it was supposed to be like 2021 or 2022 even though these were only these the movies were only made like The first movie, I think, came out 15 years ago. So, the concept that we would have one night of just uninhibited violence, whatever anybody wanted to do, was basically a free-for-all where all crime was legal, including murder. It's it's just mind-blowing. And people were the first Purge movie, I think, I always say the first one was the best, but I thought Election Year was good. Uh, an Purge Anarchy was really good. They started getting kind of dopey. Uh, the Forever Purge. You know that they're always just kind of stretching. Bloody Mary. Yes, that's the one I was thinking. Bloody Mary. Bloody Mary. Bloody Mary. Which actually that's a plot plot device used in the uh Paranormal Activity, not Paranormal Activity. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was Paranormal Activity movies. It was a game played by Katie and her sister. The the ones uh the ones who were the adults in the first two movies. Uh it's them as children in the third. The third movie goes back to uh I think the early 80s when they were children and they played Bloody Mary and it was that that demon Toby or whatever that that came to came to visit them. Final Destinations were good too. Yeah. I mean, just very clever how they have all these all these deaths that like a series of horrible accidents, you know, unfortunate events, you know, like the mouse takes a dump on the takes a dump on this and that or pisses on this and that's a short in the fuse and that causes this to happen and it's just fascinating. I think they were very very creative in the Final Destination movies. uh all of them because they that that's their whole gimmick, their whole shtick is these really [snorts] gruesome deaths that are horrible, freak freak accidents and you can you always know by the by the music and everything when one's about to start and you're just on the edge of your seat saying, "Okay, what's going to happen here?" And people die in the most horrific ways in those movies. Uh but yeah, very well done, Mike. What's up, Mike? Paranormal activity of me up. Yeah. Well, I mean, there have been actual events that were similar to what happened in that film. Um, you know, I do I do believe I do believe in the paranormal. I do believe in ghosts and demons and all that. You can call me Amore. You can call me superstitious or, you know, backward, whatever you want to call me. I don't care. I've had I've had one experience in my life that proved to me where I was attacked by something that pushed me down into my hotel room bed in Columbus, Ohio, and I couldn't move and I couldn't get up and I was fully awake. I was not in between awake and dreaming. I was awake and I was trying my mo my hardest to move. And then eventually I started praying in my head. This happened in 2014, 11 years ago. It was uh the Sunday morning after the Arnold Classic. No, I'm sorry. The Monday morning because I was stuck I was stuck in Columbus because a snowstorm had left us there. Um yeah, so Monday morning. Wow. It happened at like 4 in the morning. 3:00 or 4 in the morning. And then it happened again right before it got light out and I was not going to bed after that. I was like I got up at five. Something was pushing on me again. and I woke up and I broke free. I'm I swear to God this exactly as it happened. And um that proved to me luckily that was the only experience in my life where I can actually say something other than human was attacking me. It was there. It was a presence. I physically felt it pushing me down into the bed. I couldn't speak. I couldn't move for I don't know how long. It felt like forever. was probably like 10 seconds or 20 seconds. Cox Parallel 2 is too much for me to put Bambi on this here. Bambi. Evil Dead. Yeah, that's in my uh in my thumbnail. I thought I actually liked the second one better. Obviously, the first one was very very low budget, but man, the effects and the voices and everything so scary. Even Stephen King, that was that was the review that pushed that movie into the public eye was Stephen King gave it his two thumbs up. It said it scared the hell out of me and people ran out and saw it. I remember seeing it on VHS so I would be I was 12 or 13 years old and damn that scared the crap out of me and I thought the remake the 2013 remake of Evil Dead was one of the best remakes in film history bar none. Uh the Dawn of the Dead one was really good too. Uh, I would say though, Evil Dead 2013, to me that's probably the best horror remake, unless you want to count the 1982 movie, The Thing, because that was a remake as well of the original one, which was I want to say late 1950s, 57 or 58. What's up, Donald Pump? Mr. Boogie from Sinister. Yeah, Sinister was really creepy. just the whole the whole concept of uh these home movies that were shot by children had disappeared that had murdered their entire families uh with the help of this entity Mr. Boogie Boole was an ancient demon from like Sumeri or something. I it's, you know, anything that's so original and still can be so so scary, I have to give it a lot of credit because it's it's hard to come up with scary things, scary concepts that haven't been done before because like everything's been done. But the uh the the sinister movies, the first two anyway, they've only had two. those movies, the home movies that that were shot by the murderer while they were murdering that the families just really it's hard to get those images out of your head. Kamela Harris make a perfect Volik. [laughter] Yeah, Volik was the uh the demon that masqueraded as a nun in a couple of the Conjuring movies and then in both of the Nun movies, Nun one and Nun Two, Evil Dead version like 10 years ago. Yeah, that was 2013. Lo, very well done. Texas Chainsaw Massacre. I actually liked both Texas Chainsaw Massacres, the 74 version and it was I want to say 2003 version with Jessica Beal. Very well done. Uh Andrew Bernardski played Leatherface. He's an actor you've probably seen in movies like the program. He's he was a bodybuilder for a time. He trained at Gold's Venice. He's like 6'3. He was juiced up to way over 300 lb. Big scary I mean you have to be a big scary guy to play Leatherface. Even the original Leatherface was a guy named Gunnar Henson who was he was like 6'3 or 6'4 just a big beefy 340 pound guy you know built like a big fat linebacker but it's it's creepy to think of a guy like that with a a dead person's face wearing it as a mask coming after you with a freaking chainsaw. Wrong turn was scary. He'll have eyes. Happy Halloween. Happy Halloween, Mr. Jinx. Appreciate it. Appreciate it. When I was a kid, Kujo scared the crap out of me. Again, that's Kujo could be a real thing. I mean, dogs get rabies and a rabid dog. You could be trapped in a in a freaking car out in some farmhouse yard in the middle of July with no water and no food. And if you leave your car, this rabid St. Bernard's going to kill you. That was a pretty scary concept. And the kid the kids the kid died. The boy died. hoping they'll be on board the next Blair Witch comes around. Yeah. I mean, I think the found footage movies have run their course. I don't think they're going to do much many more of those. I think they've been done to death if that makes if I can use that phrase. There's only so much found footage that people are going to want to watch. After a while, it's like shaky home home video stuff or our cell phone stuff. [snorts] We've seen so many of those. So many of those. The first movie, Gregory Par. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That that was scary as hell. I mean, the whole concept of the freaking devil has a child born of a jackal and it's here on earth. It's it's here to bring about the end the end of times and the end of mankind. The thong last 28 days. I didn't like those that much. I didn't like those Stephen King movies and how they're all part of his Dark Tower series. Well, they're not all a part, Dan. I mean, they're they're Stephen King fans. If you've read all this book, there's a lot of cross references that is sort of what they call Easter eggs for the fans. Like they'll reference a character or a location or an event from some other novel just like ah I remember that guy. Yeah, they just mentioned Joe Blow or and he was in uh he was in Salem's Lot and yeah, I remember that. Uh the dark p the dark tower. I was so disappointed by that. I I love this the book series, but then when I saw the the movie I was like, "Oh my god, this is just awful." Stigmatada, I didn't like [clears throat] that one that much. American Werewolf in London. I thought that was a great one. Yeah, absolutely. 82. Yeah, he was it was kind of horror comedy. I mean it was a John Landis the director was a he was mainly a comedy director and he did mix in some some comedy elements into that uh very in a very clever way but the there were some some crazy makeup effects by Rick Baker. Uh obviously the werewolf transformation scene was was a classic. There was a a vision he had or a nightmare that he was before he had his first transformation of his family being slaughtered by these like uh mon Nazi monster creatures. That was really really creepy. Sinners. I haven't seen that yet. I haven't seen any of those. Yeah, I've seen every every season of American Horror Story. Great great series. I love it. Malignant. I I think I saw that one. Hang around Lee Priest. No. Seven with Brad Pitt. Yeah, I mean that's I'd call that horror and that was a movie like just like uh just like the ring where it was always raining or dark and gloomy and you just had this sense of gloom and and dread and unease throughout the whole movie. There was not one light scene in the movie seven. Everything was dark and forboding and depressing. Blob getting bigger and bigger sounds like yis person experiencing paranormal. Yeah, I actually talked about it. But I was I was pushed down into a bed in a hotel room in Columbus, Ohio by something. I don't know what. Ghost, demon, I don't know what it was, but it it happened twice over the course of one night. Happened like at 3:00 or 4 in the morning, then again right before dawn. So it happened to me twice. I know I wasn't dreaming or hallucinating. I wasn't on drugs or drunk. So yeah, I know that actually happened. Pumpkin head. Good one. Good choice. Ch Muscle Discord [laughter] EP0 online. I was thinking you could start a channel called Muscle Disgrace EP09. I'm gonna be on I think he's going live Sunday night at 6:30 with Bob Chick. And he invited me on. Thank you, Kenson. I'm gonna have a good time on that. Got to meet Doug Pinhead Bradley, Sam Hellrazer Blue. Yeah, I saw him at a horror convention. I I walked right past him. I was only there to see a few people. I I got Danny Tjo's autograph. I got a picture with Danny Tjo and Bill Mosley. Danny Tjo, you know, machete needs no in Bill Mosley played Otis in the uh the three House of Thousand Corpses, the trilogy. House of Thousand Corpses, Devil's Rejects, and Three from Hell. So, I got a picture with him and I got his an autograph picture. Matt from MD playing me and Annabelle with his beady eyes. It's almost time kids collect sing. Don't miss it. next May's debut in Indian movies. Oh, I didn't know that. I meant Weapons. Oh, I just saw Weapons a couple weeks ago. Very, very well done. Yes, I I highly recommend Weapons if you haven't seen that. My son had seen it in the theaters a few months ago and I I waited until it was like I could rent it for like five, six bucks on on demand and then I saw it. Baba Duke, great one. Great one. Thank you for your purge. We'll see. Leap pretal destination. Which horror movie is the longest monologue? That one's for Kai. Binging American Horror Story. Yeah. What What's your favorite season? I like them all. I of course Murder House the first season to me. That's that's still the classic. Dave Plumbo and Jimmy the Bull. Excellent cast for Bible. Happy Happy Halloween. Silver Shamrock. That's Halloween 3. That's a reference. Only people who have seen the movie Halloween 3, which had nothing to do with Michael Myers or the first Halloween, first two Halloween movies. We'll get that. The fly was creepy. Yeah, let's go for a couple Simpsons Halloween episodes. Ah, that's a good choice. I always love the Simpsons Halloween episode. Rumble's ghosts. You don't have to. It's just my personal thing. Sinner was amazing. The monkey. I'm gonna have to check both of those out. Thank you. Quick chat pulls the night before Christmas or Christmas or Halloween movie. I called that a Halloween movie. 24-hour event, you know. Could have been Arie Schwarz's guest. No, he's still alive. I don't know what it was. It really happened and I don't know what it was, but it was real. I have no Yeah, The Exorcist, The Ring, and Pet Cemetery. Great choices. Yeah, it was. It scared the [\h__\h] out of me. It's the scariest thing that ever happened to me in my life, bar none, because it was it was real and I was I'd seen these movies all my life, and now, oh my god, this [\h__\h] is actually happening to me. [\h__\h] Batman and Robin B's little substance all you don't really scare when you have to watch cartoons after you watch it. The thing is probably my fave omen was scarce movie so I witnessed Biden Biden end of days. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I liked uh [snorts] Gabriel Burn as Satan was was terrifying in that movie. Key to scary movies. Watch him as a kid. There's still some that get me as an adult. Welcome to Darius's Law Potential. I didn't like Nasatu that much. Hottie pushed down to a bed and it cost me $20. No, I I wish I could say it was a a pleasurable experience. It was not. What's up? Final curse. Biggest fan of horror movies are Christian European psychological thrillers. I like some of them, but I get mad when some of them are built as horror movies and they're not. I feel like cheated. I think Columbus once was a curvy goth lady. I like the goth ladies, too. Favorite season? Season of the witch. uh season of the uh talking about American Horror Story. Uh Murder House was still my favorite, but I did like I I can't say too many of them were bad. I liked Coven where there were the witches in Louis in in u Louisiana, New Orleans. I liked Freak Show. I liked Asylum. Yeah, they were all good, man. The original Salem bothered me back when I was a kid. Yeah, the TV. It was It was directed by Toby Hooper. the t it was a two-part miniseries for made for TV by Toby Hooper who had directed t Texas Chainsaw Massacre and he directed Poltergeist 82 Poltergeist. So yeah, it was a classic scary movie we're watching first tonight. So we do a horror thon. I think I might splurge and go for a new one first. Uh I I I do want to see uh one I've got taped that I want to watch is uh [snorts] Late Night with the Devil. Late Night with the Devil was only made a couple years ago, but another excellent excellent movie. It's it's a late night show on Halloween night uh where devilish things start happening and the host is wrapped up in it and just so well done. So well done. Scary [snorts] movie with Radcliffe Potter. There was a red, what was that called? It was a ghost story. I know. I know the movie. I mean, it's more of a gothic kind of horror movie. Think of Get Out. Pretty there for a while. I thought the concept was very original. I liked it. It wasn't wasn't awesome, but I thought it had it was worth watching. Anyway, guys, I'm not going to go on and on too much more. It's been almost an hour. So, uh, enjoy your Halloween, guys. Yeah, can't recommend that one enough. If you haven't seen it and you're a horror fan, check that one out. I thought it was awesome. I've seen it like five times now. I can watch it like back toback. I think it's that good. So anyway guys, that is it. Happy Halloween. Watch some scary movies. Eat some candy. Enjoy it. Uh I know it's not a big holiday outside the US, but I love Halloween. Always have. Always will. Appreciate you joining me tonight, guys, or today. And that's it. Happy Halloween. Watch some scary stuff tonight and really get into that Halloween spirit. Later, guys.