What's up everybody? Happy Friday. It is a time, a special time, four weeks out from the biggest money show of the year. Prize money, the Arnold Classic. And what's that on your phone? What were you showing me? >> Time of the time. >> Of the time. So, we are going to do this power hour live. So, joining me as always, the one and only Tiger Giles Tiger Thomas over there in Old England. I'm in New England. And we're going to start looking at this lineup. So, yeah, man. I I'm so psyched for this show. We were just talking before we started. This time when there's no shows going on, it's just ah it's rough for all of us who are huge huge fans of the sport because we we love the leadups to these shows. So, uh, should we go we'll just go alphabetically. Well, we'll go in in the order that they're showing because it's only fair. Uh, Antonio's going. So, this is Anthony Williams who won the Arnold Amateur last year. He's making his pro debut at the Arnold Classic, which is a bold, bold move. Same thing Sam Sull is doing in classic. Uh, looks really good. This was these were taken yesterday. else >> th this guy I'm telling you I mean obviously there's not a huge amount of um updates and everything so this guy's really kind of standing out for the right reasons because he's looking like look at that rear double bicep look at the the ab and thigh he's he's kind of difficult to fault now I thought he was pretty good when he won the amateurs like when Andrew Jack won the amateur the Arnold Arnold classic you know when he turned pro he's kind of kind of he's kind of at that level where I'm thinking lost you there. >> Yeah, >> you got me. >> Yeah, he's kind of at that level. >> Hello. >> Yeah, I can hear you. >> Yeah, I'm here, J. >> Yeah. Yeah, he's kind of that level. And um I mean, looking at these just four shots randomly, I'm I'm finding him really hard to fold. So, he's clear he's clearly um he's clearly made improvements since he turned pro. Um and obviously here's a guy that needs a little bit more muscle tissue to really do battle at the Arnold Classic. Um but look at the symmetry. Look at the shape. I'm getting kind of flex wheeler Shawn Rhoden. Uh look at the waist. He's he's flat. It's tight. He's dry. Uh Ron I think um I think we've got a superstar in the making here. this guy could even if he doesn't place well which he let's let's be honest he's probably not going to place well he's probably going to place near the bottom but this guy is going to make an impact because already looking at these shots now I am impressed what do you think >> yeah I think I agree with you this is he's not ready yet but he's made serious improvements in just one year and yeah he's jumping into one of the toughest shows we he could possibly have chosen so even if he places near the bottom which is probably that's a very likely scenario it doesn't mean he sucks or anything like that. It's just he's jumping in with both feet into the pool. Uh and I I think we're just starting to see the tip of the iceberg with him. I think he's going to be a lot better than this. This these these were two weeks ago. This uh the live posing that we're looking at here. So, yeah, he'll be ready. I mean, I I see exactly the structure, the shape, that small waist. So much potential with this guy. So, good luck to you, Anthony. Moving on up. Antonio Burton is not in the show. Hang on one sec. One sec. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Run, run, run back. Go back. Go back. Go back. I think um apart from size, I I don't see anything holding that guy back. So, because every every other box is ticking. The shape, the symmetry, the condition, the the He looks good in every pose. He doesn't seem from what I can see here, doesn't seem to have a weak body part. He's got beautiful flow, nice shoulder to waist. I mean, apart from size, um I mean, that's that's that's a bloody impressive physique. Sorry, I just I I I to be honest, it's the first time really really studying him that much rather than just kind of scrolling on Instagram, but uh like I'm getting um I'm getting major superstar vibes here, mate. >> Agree. So, if I had any any critique, and that's what we do. We critique. Biceps look incredible. I would I would hit those tries a little. Fill out those triceps a little more because we would like to see more volume. There's some guys in the show with ridiculous ridiculous triceps. >> True. Look at the red double work. I love the red double. >> All right. I don't want to make it all about Andrew Jack, but look at Andrew Jack. Wow. >> This was just posted in an hour or two ago with uh he's there at MI40 gym in Tampa, Florida with the one and only Masters Olympia champion and 212 Olympia champion Kamal Elgari. Kamal putting him through the paces and that's that's been his secret weapon, Kamal Elgari. Wow. Yeah, I know this isn't showing much, but he's he's been showing more of his physique, this prep, than I've ever seen him do before. >> And you and you know what, Rob, with all the advances in all the different pharmacological aids and all the different styles of training and everything else, all the different this coach and that coach, who'd have thought that the one thing that would make a difference was basically going to an old school also new school bodybuilder because he's been successful over like since the 90s. So the last four decades he's been winning winning winning winning winning winning winning winning winning winning winning um and not really known to be a coach or you know like a prominent training partner to anyone. He's always been kind of a bit of a lone wolf Kamal. But who'd have thought that taking it right back to basics and just having someone just putting you through those basic hard old school you know short rest banging out the sets, banging out the reps, um mixing everything, good form, good technique, focusing on the muscle. Who would have thought that that would be the magic ingredient all these decades later after basically you know you could you could put this in black and white and you'd think you're watching something from Pumping Iron. Do you know what I mean? It's uh you know you know all that you put that retro filter on. You know if you weren't a familiar with the sport and who the people were you'd think you know this is uh well maybe the equipment might give it away but stuff like this you you know you could be forgiven for thinking you know what's really changed since the 70s. you know, you've seen pictures. In fact, it's better form than Arnold had, but uh it's just you can't but my point is that you can't beat you can't beat the basic. You can try and get as complicated and make bodybuilding as scientific as you want, but you know, when it comes down to it, mate, this is what counts. those that time in the gym, the grinding, you know, the set after set, you know, having that training partner paying attention because do you know another thing is something I noticed like training partners now what even watching in the gym generally you don't see training partner training partners now are on their phones they're not even they're not even training they're just training on the same piece of equipment or something they're not actually you don't really see many training partners anymore like look at this this reminds me like I said when I used to train with my old training partner the 70 kilo guy the Wayne like I was watching every I wasn't blinking I was watching every single rep he was doing, you know. I'm checking out the the form, the technique. Is he squeezing? Is he giving it everything? Is he is he making more noise than effort, you know? So, and and that's all it is. It's just someone to make sure that you ain't slacking off. It's like when I used to watch um Syibble with Ry, she didn't let him get away with anything, you know. And you could see the days that he was tired and he was like, "Make a bit more noise. You'll think I'm putting the effort." And you know, you could see the you know, you know the ones that know who's blacking and who isn't. It's that kind of honest honest old school training and I love it mate. >> And it also goes to show that like you said people think the key to improving is finding a new coach or getting on more drugs or some new drug. People don't put enough credence into training and how much it affects the physique. Even they think at these at this level it doesn't even matter. The guys are genetic freaks. They can do whatever they want. But a simple a simple change in training partners and probably a little bit in the training style has made a massive difference in this guy. You know, he he leaprogged. He went up to third at the Olympia and he is the favorite along with Hottie to win this show right now. >> How how many times when you've seen bodybuilders make massive leaps and then when you or I have say interviewed them, you find out they they just say, "Oh, I got a a really good training partner, a local guy that was reliable." not and and sometimes it's more often than not it's someone that's not a big name. It's sometimes I've even heard instances where it's not even been a bodybuilder they've been training with. Just someone that trains really really hard. Like I've trained with so many different bodybuilders over the years. And I would say one of the best training partners I ever had was my one of my best friend, my like childhood friend, guy called Gareth. And I just and the reason he was so good is because he was so bloody competitive and he was reliable, you know, and he was wanting to it was it was an ego thing. It was a pride thing. He was someone that wanted to get ahead of me and I wanted to stay ahead of him. So like sometimes it's not always about training with, you know, it's not just Kamal because he's Kamal, he's an Olympia champion, he's this, he's that, he's won the world championships and all that. It's about someone that is going to show up, who's going to be reliable, who's going to be who's going to, you know, he's not going to be sort like said checking his phone or, you know, or sort of um texting clients whilst the guy is lifting because I've seen that many, many times. You know, you see them being trained, but they're not really being trained. like Kamal, it's almost as if Kamal is living his bodybuilding through Andrew now because he sees the potential like because I've been messing Kamal regularly and he's been saying um you know he's because he knows he's like me he knows a good physique when he sees one and he knows the potential in someone. So we kind of recognize the same things you know um and not just about physical attributes but mental attributes. So um yeah it's um I'm really I'm really really happy he's got Kamal actually. Um but uh and also I mean I put that that when he was doing the side laterals. Andrew doing the side laterals you played there before and you see like the stripiness and the detail in his shoulders. Was it four when was that video taken? What four or five weeks out? >> Uh so this was posted says three days ago. I know it's older than that. >> Ron, if you could get this v if you could get this video and put it next to the stage footage of Romania. He's sharper, the skin is thinner, and there's better detail and separation now than how he was when he won at Romania. You feel free to go and check him in your own time. >> Seriously. >> Yeah. He's uh he's he's getting so much crap about uh you know, oil this and oil that, but look at the should the stripes in the shoulders. I think if you're putting a ton of oil in your shoulders, you're not going to see that. You're just not. >> Exact. Exactly. Wrong. Because people because I mean there's so many experts on Instagram now. It's it's it's astonishing. I don't know where they've all come from, but um the thing is with you use if you use sight enhancement oils, um the one thing you're going to lose is you're going to gain fullness, but you're going to lose condition. You're going to lose separation and detail. Now, if Andrew's shoulders are getting bigger and more detailed, then that tells you it's from training, not from because if anything, you know, it's like I was funny enough, I I I pinned some TRT in my shoulder the other day and I was laughing. I was in the kitchen laughing at the the hypocrisy of how I bang on about, you know, pinning shoulders. And it's like, well, but if I was going on stage, I wouldn't be doing that, you know, because I know that if I'm fighting for those 12, 16 weeks or whatever to get all that conditioning detail, it doesn't make sense to me to then go and pin areas where >> you want, you know, where where where you're going to be taking away all that detail you've worked for. For me, it just doesn't make sense. >> No, I agree. I mean, it's Do I pinning delts is such a >> such a risky proposition. Yeah, Andrew at the Olympia there where he took third place. Uh I did want to I know I I don't want to be a jerk, but I said I did see this this morning. It was hearkening back to that. Uh I don't know why who is the best bodybuilder did this. This is not my post. Who is the best bodybuilder brought up the day Martin Fitzworth through Shade Andrew Jack and this was 22. So this is four years ago at the Arnold Classic UK. You were you at that show? >> Yeah. >> Arnold UK. I remember. I remember. I remember. No, I wasn't at that one. But I remember when this happened. >> It was when just just about when because Martin got refu because Martin was refused the um Well, no, that was a couple of years later, but I remember because he did quite he was really upset that he got fifth and it kind of knocked him out because he took a year off, didn't he? Put size on. It really it really lit a fire under his ass the show actually for Martin. >> Yeah. So this was the post that he made. The internet is forever, guys. So you got to be so think before you post. Really all of you. Uh he says, "I don't want to compete even want to compete again. What a [\h__\h] joke. When this is a perfect score and you look like a bag of chocolate milk." Oh no. Not just regular milk. Chocolate milk. But yeah, Andrew's condition was not the greatest. But I mean the physique was just uh insane. Even this is four year. This was his rookie. Wait a minute. This couldn't have been the 22 Arnold Classic UK because he turned pro at the 22 Arnold uh USA amateur. He didn't make his pro debut until >> Yeah, it was 23. >> So, this must have been 23 Arnold UK. Who won? Did Did Andrew Andrew won that, right? Yeah, he won that with a perfect score. >> So, >> Andrew Andrew won it. Andrew won it. Um because I remember it was a last minute thing. he jumped in at the last minute and I remember this it was funny because there was so much interest around this show and it was so uh like crazy amount of interest and they didn't do a live stream and I was like you've got you know because Martin wasn't quite as big a name as he is now um but um but but Andrew was because he just Andrew had just turned pro he just got eighth Olympia so having him jump in the show was a huge um was a huge point of interest >> um but um he looked um he looked really really good I think um the Olympic I don't know. You can't. >> Yeah. I don't want to keep I don't want to believe. >> I've got Yeah, of course. >> I won't. >> No, but the um Yeah. Yeah. Going back. Talk about it. >> I just So, here's uh that was a recent That was the only full body picture of Andrew. I know it's cropped there, but that's the only full body. He didn't post that. It It got posted. It was like a quarter millisecond of the beginning of one of his Instagram posts, but man, he's looking awesome. There's Rafa. gets to Rafa. >> The legs are bigger, aren't they, on Andrew? The leg leg thicker. >> He's getting better overall, I think. I mean, for a guy who's 40 years old now, he's he's not showing any signs of Okay, so Martin Fitzwwater, I cannot go to his Instagram, guys. I am blocked. However, I can show you a couple pictures that a friend of mine who is not blocked sent me yesterday. Uh, this is from January 22nd, so it's not fully fully current. This is January 28th. Also not fully current, but I I I don't doubt that Martin's going to be in condition. I don't worry. He's been so consistent with conditioning. Uh I I don't I don't think anyone needs to worry about him being in shape or not. Jos, what you think? Are you there? Jos. >> Yeah. I'm just looking there because there's not there's not really much to tell because he's not really showing that much. But um uh I wonder if I wonder if you'll end up being one of these guys like Flex Wheeler that always looks good at the Arnold Classic but never kind of nails it at the Olympia. Maybe it's a seasonal thing because some bodybuilders, you know, like I was thinking back to Flex Wheeler like you know the distraction of training in the summer at Gold's Gym and all the women in the little shorts and I do think about things like that as a as an actual factor. Um whereas some guys like I remember Alvin Small, he never used to train in the summer. He used to take six months off. He wouldn't train through the summer. He goes, "I want to train in the summer." I was like, "What? You want to train through the winter?" And he said, "Yeah, I love training in the winter because I en because I enjoy it." So I was like, "So the time you're looking your best is when you're covered up with five layers and no one ever gets to see unless you step on stage." So I wonder if I wonder if Martin's one of these guys that will be able to nail it at the autumn shows at the Olympia, but maybe early on because Pittsburgh he was off last year. He really he didn't really hit the hit. But I find it very very hard to imagine Martin not showing up looking good after what he did at Prague because think about I mean yeah he was he was um fifth place at the Olympia arguably should have been fourth nailed it absolutely bang on at Prague and beat Samson fair and square. So really he's kind of like the fourth best in the world and he took out the the current Mr. Olympia at well not sorry the um he took out the m well not the current but he took out a Mr. Olympia that was looking much much better than he did at the Olympia. So, think about his confidence. Him and Stefan have been really working the formula out. They're going to be they're not going to want to miss. They're going to want to keep this role going, especially going into the Arnold where say Martin does just say even if he doesn't win, say he beats, you know, Nick, uh, Andrew or Hadti or any of those, like that's really going to break give him a ton of momentum going into the Olympia >> um for so many different reasons. So, um I just Yeah, I I um I'd be very be very shocked if he turns turns up off for the Arnold Classic. What do you think? >> No, I agree. But just to address this one last time, he couldn't have been talking about Andrew beating him at the Arnold UK in 2022 because Andrew was not did not compete in that show, the 2022 Arnold UK. Andrew made his Andrew. >> Uh, so that >> Yeah, the post where Martin was complaining about Andrew beating him. It couldn't have been that show. It must have been the Texas show that he made that post in reference to. >> I'm thinking, >> oh, I see what you mean. Right. Okay. Okay. >> Because he wasn't in the 2022 UK. Uh, Andrew wasn't in that show. Did they even have it that year? The Arnold UK in 2022? Oh, I don't I've only I've only been to the I've only been to the one in um 24 that had won Samsung was second. >> Yeah. Well, I know for sure that >> the other one because the other ones because the other ones were two bros and I didn't go to those. >> Yeah. I mean, I was at the 2022 Texas Pro where Andrew won and I I can't recall Martin was second, third. Maybe that was the show he's talking about. Anyway, >> oh [\h__\h] Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Not that important. I'm gonna stop sharing that one. Go back. Yeah. All right, let's keep it going. Uh, >> Brandon Curry, a Mr. Olympia champion, an Arnold Classic champion, >> seems to have been w pretty much forgotten by a lot of people, and he is not posting a lot of physique up, that's his shoes. I don't know why he's posting that. >> Ron Ron, can I ask something? >> Yeah. >> You know that comment he said about white guy Dorian, that's such a white guy thing to say. >> What's your feelings on that? I don't want to stir up trouble because I love Brandon and I'm not trying to stir [\h__\h] I swear. But I just thought I I kind of I I kind of imagine Brandon saying it whilst laughing as a kind of but I just do you know what I mean? There's there's different ways you could look at this and I don't and I never want to think that Brandon isn't anything that one absolutely wonderful guy with good intent at all times. But what's your thoughts on that? Because I imagine that might have sparked a few you know when race is anything brought into it unless it's an off the off the cuff kind of jokey comment. What was he doing? Weird movements. >> Yeah, he's got a lot of I I don't know what I don't know this reference, so fill me in. I'm lost. >> Oh, he said um uh Dorian was because, you know, Dorian's always berating the guys of today, saying they're never as good as him and all that. You know, he kind of he kind of catches a lot of [\h__\h] for it because it is kind of he does come across. Yeah, he's kind of right in some ways, but it sounds a bit it sounds a bit mean-spirited and disrespectful to the guys of today, you know, to say because he said before, you know, when Brandon won the Olympia, it's like he wouldn't have made top six at the Olympia in his day. >> Now, even if you think that, it's not something you really want to say publicly unless you're willing to take a lot of crap for it because it is kind of, >> you know, the end of the day, Brandon's Brandon's Mr. Olympia and no one can ever take that away from him. You know, it's not his fault that, you know, Ramy wasn't there. Rhoden wasn't there. Phil wasn't there. You know, he was the best man on the day. He won the Olympia Ference Square. Um so of course Dorian has been sort of throwing shade really at the um the guys of today and and and I think um obviously he's mentioned Brandon's name particular. I think it might have been on the valuement you know the Patrick BD David one. >> Oh >> he has he has specific and you know when names are specifically >> yes so you know when names are specifically mentioned you know that's going to that's going to get a bit of a backlash. So, I think something else was said recently where Dorian again said, you know, the guys of today aren't as good as the guys in my day. Blah blah blah, you know, which I think Dorian could do. I mean, you can't tell Dorian what to do. He's like he's one, he's like Lee Priest. It's pointless trying to, you know, um, you know, try and guide him in a certain way because Dorian's Dorian, you know, and I think that's why one of the reasons why we love him in many ways. But, um, he said and I think and he basically Brandon said in an interview and he says, "Oh, Dorian blah blah blah. That's such a a white guy thing to say." So, in fact, because I was gonna message Brandy and say, "Did Brandon really say that?" Because I just wanted to get clarification privately. I wasn't gonna post it or anything, but I just wanted to see like her reaction like, "Oh god, that was blown because you know things they get taken out, not necessarily taken out of context because he did say it, but something that's kind of then blown up out of all proportions and you know, like like I've experienced. I mean, God, in the last year where things are taken out and just completely magnified and it just creates this huge [\h__\h] storm." So, um yeah, I just I just wondered um what your thoughts on I thought because I I I assume that um everyone had heard it. You know, >> I I just don't understand how the how race even has anything to do with Dorian's comment. Dorian's saying that, you know, Brandon wouldn't have done well in his era, whatever. He's he's downplaying his achievement as winning the Olympia, which, you know, not cool. But >> why why would you say white white guy thing to say? Yeah, you you probably have to see the I'll I'll try and find it for you and send it to you and then maybe you can bring it up next week. Thing is I don't want to blow that up as well because that's kind of I'm kind of talking about it because it it's ridiculous how it has got blown up. But I just thought what a what a deliberately careless thing of Brandon to say unless he was just trying to get a rise out of Dorian because thing is it probably is quite annoying actually when you know the guys of yesterday aren't kind of giving you the credit for today because like you know things sports go all through different types of you know peaks and troughs and you know and all new categories come up and then half the guys from the open that would have carried on as open then jump into classic. The short guys do 212. The sport changes the sports evolved. It's not the same as it was 5 years ago let alone 2030. So, you kind of kind of just got to go with the flow and you know and sometimes there's years when you know um you know we get those dream lineups at the Olympia and the Arnold and there's sometimes when there's a few people missing that we wish were there and maybe if they were there would have been a different outcome. But um you know um I just I I I do I do think though I think maybe it's a way of Brandon saying hey Dorian just just calm it down and maybe just be a little bit more respectful because sometimes I think you can it's great to have this I don't give an f attitude of you know uh you know they can you know it's great to say what you think and you feel and you want but sometimes you know you can actually you don't want to it's not about hurting people's feelings but it's a bit like I don't know it's like saying okay then if uh Lee Haney had done in 199 199. It's like Brandon. Now, if if Lee Hane had done the 1992 Mr. Olympia, you know, who would have won, Dorian or Lee? You know, and then if most people said, "Oh, Lee, Lee, Lee," then maybe Dorian would be like, "Okay, you know, you feeling I'm feeling a bit bit upset now." But, uh, I don't know. It's um, yeah, I'd love to see him. I'd love to see it face to face in a podcast to see their feelings, you know, because >> Yeah, that'd be my dream my dream podcast with those two going at each other. But I do I stand corrected. So I assume because the Arnold UK is usually held right after Arnold uh USA in 2022 wasn't held until September of >> Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Hang on. Of course. Yeah, because it was after Texas because he did Texas and then he was doing the Olympia and then he was and then at the last minute because wasn't George Farah working with him or something at the time. >> Yeah, George was his coach originally. >> Yeah, George said, "Oh, he's doing it." And I was like, "Oh." Because it was very last minute thing him jumping in. It was signed I think it was six weeks before or after one of those the impure Texas and I was like I remember the excitement of when they you know we found out that Andrew was going to be doing the LGK. remember just the the interest was insane, you know. That's that's probably when I started getting the idea for doing the tour because I thought, you know, the popularity and and the draw and the pull on this guy is insane and and this was a newcomer as well, you know. So, this was like when Ramy first came along and, you know, won the New York Pro 2013 and that's all everyone is talking about, these these sensational newcomers, you know, which obviously all gets all of us fans excited. So, just so people know, that was Andrew Jack won. Patrick Johnson, is that right? >> Yeah. >> And then James Hollings was third and I guess uh Martin was down fourth that year. Like set >> I I think Martin was fourth or fifth. >> Yeah, I think he was fourth >> because I remember he was really he was really disappointed. I remember like really I mean like like I like really disappointed. I think he honestly thought he was going to come in and win it. Um, and that's when he I think it was because of that show that's why he decided to take the year off and put the size on because you know sometimes sometimes you know you and I know sometimes like a knockback where you like Martin thought he was going to come in and maybe get first or second and qualify for the Olympia and it's all in his head planned and then it kind of doesn't it doesn't sort of come to fruition. It kind of sometimes it can really help these guys because sometimes you know they go away they lick their wounds and then they're like right the plan is I'm going to take a year off come back and I'm going to go up to another level and that's exactly what he did. >> I mean I think in almost every case where a bodybuilder has come back dramatically improved it's on the heels of getting their ass kicked. >> Give me give me give me two best examples and I bet they're the same ones in my head. Well, Ronnie in was it 2003? He came back after getting beat by Gunter that year. He came back phenomenally and destroyed everyone have happened if he if if say Ronnie hadn't done the GNC show of strength. Would would he have showed up like he did in 2003? It's unlikely. >> Of course not. >> So that was a good thing. That was a bad thing that happened to him where he probably thought his life has ended and then look what look what good came out of it. That shows you the That's why I like the mentality of these these guys like Ronnie and and well, I'm sure you'll mention some others of that, you know, they take a knockback and they just they turn it they the ability to sort of take a loss and not have it completely destroy them. >> Yeah. Marks Max Muscle. What's up, Mark? Max, that's another great example. Cutler got beat by Dexter Jackson in 2008. >> Yep. >> Uh rightfully so. and he came back with the with the little fauxhawk working with honey rambot in 2009 shredded out of his skull and that's where all that's where the quad stomp picture comes from. So yeah, he was just that's too >> there you go. I mean it's it's thing is I think that's I think those are the guys that long after their careers are over. These are the ones that um these are the ones that uh they earn the most respect over time like in 10 20 years you know when all the influencers at the expose have kind of been forgotten about. You know people people remember not just the eight sandos or the four sandos for for Jay and Ronnie but they remember what they came back from. you know, like how many bodybuilders have come back from injuries and I mean like Flex Wheeler in fairness, you know, he's when he when he broke his neck and you know, you'd have thought, okay, his career is over. I mean, there's so many different things that, you know, like they're the real they're the ones that separate the the great bodybuilders from the absolute legends. >> Yeah. I mean, Branch Warren won the Arnold Classic six months after a full quad tear. and me and anyone else out there who has torn a quad, a full quad tear that needed re surgical reattachment, that is just mindboggling. It's ridiculous. But anyway, let's keep going. >> Leone Levrone 93 when he tore his pec. I mean, you would have thought his career was completely I mean, when you actually hear the story from him because I spoke about it. I was with him in um in Amsterdam in the summer and he told me that story again and just to be reminded of it from from the horse's mouth when stood right in front of me. We were talking about it walking through the um the mall next to this airport where we landed uh cuz I bumped into him. I did expect to see him and he told me that story again. It was fun. I think it was actually might be in the cab. And um yeah, it was uh it was amazing to hear like he thought I was like mental like when Zack Khan tore his quads and he said the first time he he actually filmed it of the first time of him getting under four plates on the Smith machine squat and he said he said that wasn't a physical thing. He says because I've lifted that a million times. He said it was the mental >> Yeah. >> You know the PTSD from >> 100% >> you know. Yeah. Yeah. So, sorry. I just I love hearing stuff like because I think that's what that's where bodybuilding becomes truly inspiring. >> Absolutely. All right, let's keep it going. We've got Akim Williams, the beast. Not getting a lot of buzz. Aim, although >> he's a very consistent guy these past few years and he's still huge huge dude. See what he's posting. He usually posts pictures with the rock tape around him. Yeah. How far along? This was two weeks ago. So, that was six weeks out. >> Look at the arms. >> Yeah, his front double is just ridiculous. >> I love how >> he looks like a short guy proportionally, but he's like he's 510 or 5'11. >> He does. He looks like you could you could you could think he look he was a 212 there. >> Yeah, I think it's because his head is a little on the larger side, but that's a real thing. Your head size proportionate to your body makes gives give an illusion. >> Do you know what? Do you know what I love about Akim? It's like he's another one like um couple of times with Dexter and a couple of times with other pros and you think okay they're on the slide now. I just love the fact that he's um I think we've just forgotten about it because he's done it so many times. I mean, especially in the last couple of years where I honestly thought he was he was done. And in the last couple of years, you know, he won um when he uh when he, you know, he did well Romania and he's he won Spain and you know, to see him to see him come back, especially after all those like the shoulder injury, like my my shoulder now is bloody killing me now. >> And you just think, my god, these bodybuilders are because what did he say he was pressing? >> Did he say Oh, yeah. Because he said um that month he just shoulder pressed 200 pound dumbbells. >> Yeah, I think >> he did. And then he had the car, he said he had the car crash. He said, "No, cuz we we spoke about it Romania. We went shopping." And he said uh he said, "Yeah." He said I was um he said training was going the good shot. Get rid of that one. Um he said that um yeah, he said his his training was going the best it's ever trained. He said he said that week I just shoulder pressed 200 pound dumbbells, no problem at all. And then he reeled off some other numbers that were just absolutely mindboggling, like superhuman strength, like you know, like strongman type strength. And then he said he had the accident. It just shows you again, you know, when we're talking about setbacks and, you know, like bodybuilders, bodybuilders like Hakee, you know, they they're they're they're mental beasts, these ones, they've got it upstairs, not just not just in physical attributes. I think that's the difference between the the bodybuilders, good bodybuilders, and then the true legend is like I said, not just their ability to overcome, but um the fact that they've got probably more control over their over their minds and their, you know, the the sort of the power of it than than just what they do physically, which, you know, they might be genetically blessed for. So, that's what um that's I think that's the difference between the true Olympian legends. >> Yeah. I mean, I was I was watching his training in the year or so after the surgery. He had a back injury, too, from that car accident. Um, he was he had to be so so careful with the things he was doing for a long time. He wasn't doing the crazy dumbbells for anything like that for a while, but >> he's back to it. He's he's a warrior. Biggest >> he's awesome. He's awesome. And and the thing is, even just the fact that he's getting invites to the Arnold and he's still winning the occasional pro show once a year or whatever, he's still able to make a good living from bodybuilding. I mean when did he when did he start then Akim because it's not it's not particularly Wait he's using what what um what year did he start competing like when did he start making an impact? >> Uh let's see I think he turned pro back in 2002 sorry 2002 2010 10 or 11. Um >> yes he's up 14 15 years now. I mean that's anything over 10 years if you can still be successful. >> I love AI. It tells me everything. Uh oh. Okay. We won 2013 the North American Championships. So, >> oh okay. >> Pro for 13 years now. >> Pro debut was 2014 Chicago. >> Anything over 10 years, Ron, is a real blessing. And if you can still and and also to still be, you know, hanging in there, winning shows, you know, making top 50 at the Olympia, still got sponsors backing you and your people are still following you and the engagement's still there. He's kind of um Yeah, he's you kind of and he's a guy that you want to be it's easy to be happy for guys like that because he's he's a decent guy and he's a badass bodybuer. >> Yeah. I mean the guy's been top six in the Mr. Olympia. That is rare rare territory. >> Twice. Twice. >> Twice. Yeah. >> And I and that year 2020, go and have a look at the uh the the finals of the Olympia and tell me that he doesn't have the best side shots up there with Ramy. >> Oh, I I always loved his side try. His side his side chest is nuts. >> Oh, it's crazy. It's just uh he's like I said, he's he's one of the guys that he's you put on the easy to root for list. >> All right, it's Nick Walker time, everybody. Yeah, buddy. All right, so Nick Walker obviously an underdog because Hottie Hottie and Andrew are the favorites, but you know, if you want to root for an underdog, I think Nick Walker is your man. Uh he's been getting heat for how he angles himself during these >> selfies. Yeah. From me. from me. >> No, you're not the only one. But I mean, who's going to take a selfie that makes himself look worse? Come on. >> Well, do you know what, Rod? I was just thinking I was thinking, well, in fairness, Giles, you know, because because all the times I have a little angel and a danger, a little angel and a devil on my shoulders and I'm always thinking like, you know, there's always because I try think is when we're doing this, we have to try and be fair and show both sides. So when when I'm thinking something, you know, I've got the opposing view, which is probably likely to come from you to say, well, like you just have them. So, like I do think like well he's not going to post one where he looks thick waisted, is he? >> Here's uh this is one that's it's kind of an illusion because his feet are turned out, but I don't think there's any manipulation in the photos here. Nick showing his quads and unfortunately you can't stand with your feet spled that angled that far apart on stage. It would look silly. But I think he has brought up the quad sweep. They look better to me than they've ever looked. >> Yeah, hope so. I mean, I'd love to see him with um and I mean thing is they're all doing what they can the best they can with the genetics they've been given. Um and you can only do the thing is you can do wonders if if you know how to train and we like I said we've seen many times where bodybuilders have look at when they said that Phil Heath had narrow clavicles. He did but he just he just basically um put a plan together where he got his shoulders and his back so big and thick and wide that you don't notice the fact that he's got narrow clavicles, you know. So, I mean, at the end of the day, we can say that um um the genetics are always going to win out, but look, Dorian Dorian didn't have better genetics than Flex Wheeler or Kevin None or some of these other guys, you know, but he he just he just basically not just I wouldn't say worked harder because it's hard to say, but whatever he did worked better for him, enabled him to be the best he could be. >> Yeah. I mean, Nick has done so much with people go back to the picture of his first show, which was really misleading. He was natural and he was severely overded. So it's it was no indication of his future potential. But I agree, you know, he's not as genetically gifted as some people in terms of shape and structure. That's that's not even an argument. But good lord, the he's playing to his strengths and mass and thickness and density. And look at this guy. This is >> Yeah. Freak. >> All right. this this shot and the side chest was very very impressive because I don't I honestly I don't like his side chest on stage because I think his chest looks overpowered by his shoulders and his arms. So for me as a bodybuilding analyst I'm you know I'm sort of I'm like a judge I'm attracted to the floors not the strength. So whereas some people would say I absolutely love that shot on Nick because his arms look so freaky in my mind I'm thinking well I don't like that shot because his chest looks small. So, you know, it's not small. It's just that, you know, like you get um you get some physiques that um like say uh Lee Haney, torso dominant, where the chest of the back, but the arms and the legs don't quite match the chest and the chest of the back. Or you get guys like Mike Matarazzo who are shoulders and arms dominant, but a weaker chest and back, you know, and then you get and then you get somebody like the Samson stuff who kind of like more evenly developed. And that's kind of what you want really. But um but but Nick for me the end of the day we're trying to achieve the most perfect version of him. I really like this shot. I thought this was a beautiful shot and I know it's probably carefully chosen and you know and like you said he's going to pick the best ones. He's uh he's going to get it when he's looking his best. You know he's not going to do it when he's probably just trained. So he's probably got an amazing freaky pump and he's probably just banged a load of carbs with some bloody insulin or something. So he's full to bursting, you know, because he's, you know, I can imagine when he trains, I imagine he just he's one of those I bet it's impressive to watch, you know, to I'd love to get a training session just to see him like training arms just be transfixed by those crazy arms of his to see them just going >> Well, if you watch if you've seen any of his uh his training videos, he's one of those guys that pumps up quite a bit. So from the beginning of the workout to >> Yeah. >> 20 30 minutes in, it's it looks like he's put on 10 20 pounds of muscle. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's funny when um like you talk about um Body Boys want to look their best in their in their update photos. I remember the only one that ever looked worse was Jamie the Giants. >> That's right. >> And I remember Jamie the Giant and he said, "Well, Charles, I used to do," he said, "Because I've got a busy day, so I ain't got time to do the set this up, set that up." He says, he said, "I used to do them because he used to call them the [\h__\h] house pictures." He had because he had this old house with an outside toilet and he used to do the photos every morning. Fasted at like 6:00 a.m. in his backyard. Yeah. >> You know, and he obviously had no pump, but he's probably busy on getting the kids ready for school or whatever. And you know, he just he just that's how he did that's how he sent them to his coach. But those are the ones he also posted. But um it was funny because he got he kind of got so much [\h__\h] for it and then he started posting them differently with this black you know those those things that pop up that give you a black background a fold up thing. You see a lot of bodybuilds use them, you know, they're like they can be they crunch down, you know, which is, you know, which probably most coaches insist upon like, "Okay, get this camera because I want to be able to see your check-ins properly on, you know, this is how you do the lighting. I do it at this time so it's controlled so it's uh so I can see any differences." And I remember I went I went, "Now, Jamie, I said, Jamie, what the hell have you done?" I said, "You look like you put about 30 pound of muscle on." And he says, "No, J." He said, "I've just started taking the pictures right after my training sessions." I said, "Jamie, it looks like a completely different bodybuilder, mate." I said, "Jim, you look like you did 10 years ago compared to He said, "It's just a pump, J. It's just a pump." He said, "That's" He said, "I do look different through the day when I've had four meals as opposed to when I'm fasted flat as a pancake and in a rush, you know, and outside in bloody freezing cold temperatures." I was like, "Oh, well, suppose that makes sense." >> Well, I mean, it's it's I I I like when people look so much better on stage than they did in their update pictures. >> Doesn't happen very often, though. Doesn't happen very often. It's usually qu it's usually the other way around unfortunately because listen if picture of yourself if you're gonna make yourself look worse and post that come on guys >> see that's that's a good question I'd love to actually how many bodybuilders would be honest if you ask them the question given the choice would you rather look great on social media all year round or it or would you like to forfeit that and just look good on stage for that one day for those few hours >> once a year? What is more important to you? Is it looking good on stage or is it looking good for your followers all year round? Which is better and why? >> Well, if you're uh just a social media influencer and you don't compete. >> Not talking about that. Not talking. >> Okay. So, we're throwing them out the window. Obviously, the stage is what matters. Stage is what matters. You want to win. You want to win. >> You think you you'd think that. You'd think that. >> You think that Nick was off bad as last showing with no coach, probably worse. I think he's gonna I think he's going to look better than he did at the Olympia personally. >> I I'd be very excited for that. >> Yeah, because I mean this, like I said, he was I think he was a little a little puffy, a little watery looking here, but you know, this wasn't a horrible look. It just wasn't uh it wasn't enough to push for the top top three, four like a lot of people had hoped he would because she wasn't that bad at all. Come on, look at that. >> I hate this video. I I when you I couldn't believe it when he showed it to me because every other video and photo I saw from the Olympia he looked 10 times better than this. So when I saw this one I was just like I don't like this video because he I thought he looked really good at the Olympia. I thought he looked really really good. Um I think um but this video I mean you know I think there's more of an argument for uh Brandon beating him Brandon Curry in seven. >> Oh yeah. So, this was a 2023 Arnold where he took second behind Samson. >> It's nice. >> I'd like to see a look a lot closer to this, >> which I bet was 20 pounds lighter than he was at the last Olympia. >> You know, re be realistic now. How what do you think? Okay. Do you know what he weighed at the Olympia? >> I don't. I believe he was about 265. If anyone in the chat can correct me, they know for sure. >> Okay. So, he's 265. I mean obviously I mean because it's over two days he's probably gonna his weight's probably going to change maybe three four five pounds over that weekend. So let's say 265 you want to you think he's about 245 here. >> Yeah I believe he did go lighter for that Arnold. I I think it was a it was a strategical thing where they him and Matt Jansen as coach they were they pushed the condition harder than they tried to in the the past few shows. It >> his X frame looks more pronounced because when he does this um re because I love his rable bicep. I love his rear lat bread. But he does if I'm just looking here, his legs are quite wide. So it actually because he's got fantastic calves as well. He in here because he's gone lighter and his waist actually is smaller because sometimes guys will drop 20 pound but they just look 20 pound from everywhere. >> See? Yeah. Yeah. Samson. Yeah. It's like he But here I think he actually has brought his waist in and he looks more X-framed, more V-shaped. And for me I much pref like you said I agree with you. I think this is a much better look than that he brought to the Olympia. And like I said, it's 20 pounds lighter. So again, we've tried got to try and get through, you know, the fact that heavier isn't always better, especially when you're under 5'10. Let's be honest. >> Absolutely. And he's his his height is debatable. I think he's somewhere between 5'6 and 5'7. People were saying 5'8 and you know, I was I'm already under 5'8 and I've stood next to him in the past couple years. He's shorter than me, but he's probably about 5'6 and a half, guys. I think that's he might be 5'7 on tippy toes or something. I don't know. I >> I I think there's um there is a tipping point. I think there's a limiting factor when it comes to guys I think under 59 to be fair. Well, let's say 510. I think there is a point where bodybuilders start to look worse the heavier they get. I think there there is really a maximum I think maybe it's not even to do with overall body weight. to do with muscle per square inch because like I was also I mean I was also looking at pictures of um Lunsford from the 22 Olympia when he got second to Hadi and his waist was it looked dramatically smaller. The physique wasn't wasn't hugely different from when he won the Olympia. In fact, I thought his waist looked thicker when he won the Olympia, Derek. >> But for for me um that look was more striking especially when he did that remember when we were there. I said when he did that front relax and he hit that front or bicep, it got like a real big audience response that I don't think happened the same in 23. Maybe it's because people had seen, you know, the gains he'd made and it wasn't like anything new. But for me, but for me, I thought um I thought that small, but then again, Samson came with his waist a lot lot smaller at the Olympia last year. I mean, it was drastically smaller, but because he'd lost size everywhere else, it wasn't it wasn't as impressive. Yeah, I I would love to see Nick dial it down, come in lighter, come in tighter with a better frame because he's got he's one of the few people that has so much muscle mass he can afford to lose a little bit and it actually would help his overall shape and make I I think he'll place better. I think he has a better chance of winning if he does that. Hypothetically, Ron, hypothetically, if Nick came to you and said, "Okay, um maybe not full coaching, but um Ron, would you guide me the last six weeks? Would you do it?" >> I'd be like, "10,000 bucks up front." But yeah, sure. WOULD YOU? WOULD >> NO, SERIOUSLY. Knowing the responsibility because you know, if that went well, you know, say your coaching would then explode, but you know, if it went wrong, you'd be you you'd probably have to leave the country. >> True. True. >> You think about it. But if you really think about it, imagine if he said, "Ron, last four weeks, last six weeks, or even the last two weeks, I need Would you?" And if you, you know, and I'll publicize that I'm working with you. Would you take that gamble? >> I would if I were more in tune with the chemical side because I I think the top coaches are pretty much pharmacists at this point. They they know the ins and outs of every little thing. But I would just be there to make sure he didn't come in with the big thick blocky waist. That would be my only contribution to his uh peaking, I guess. >> Hang on, hang on, hang on. Maybe he'd come to you because you're less pharmaceutically, you know, like look at look at what we've just spoke at the beginning of this episode about uh Andrew training with Kamal because it's it's less scientific. It's like all the scientific, you know, the all these different techniques and fancy this, fancy that, and this training style, that's kind of out the window. Andrew probably went to Kamal because he's not that way inclined. What if Nick came to you and said, "Look, guys, I'm just I'm fed up of being a science experiment with this drug and that drug, and I I don't know what the hell I'm taking from one show to the next. Ron, I want to come to you because I want you I just want somebody with a good eye that can just, you know, and also just keep me keep me sort of calm and sort of focused and on track because it's not just about telling them what to take and how to take it, you know. It's um it's about there's other aspects as well to to being a good coach and also you know just um giving them peace of mind so they can come in come in basically at their best. >> I'll do it Charles. I'll do it. >> Okay. Just sort that is that 22 look it was good. I mean I remember Lauren just going absolutely bananas whenever Nick came out because I was I wasn't quite on the Nick train at this point but after seeing him at this show um it's like when I saw Andrew the first time when he got eighth in this one I was like oh I get it now. >> Yeah. Um because I kind of he does have awesome stage presence and I imagine the show promoters, you know, like Arnold and Brian Powers, I bet they're absolutely buzzing that they've got Nick in the show because he does he does bring a good energy and he's not and he's not like um he doesn't have like some guys they have that kind of aggressive stage edit and they're kind of dicks with it as well. They're kind of they they're annoying, but Nick kind of he's kind of cool with it. I quite I quite Yeah, I'm definitely It took me a while to come around, but I definitely came around to the old uh the old Nick train. I wish he would give me an interview, but at least he said no thank you like a gentleman. He was polite if he responded. >> Wonder why he gives it to some and not I wonder why he gives it to some and not others. It's weird that >> I've seen him I don't know if I ever I don't think I ever said anything really bad about him or you know I >> I'm complimentary when when I think he's uh looking great and when he's not I I note that. But I have no idea. But yeah, I've seen him on some smaller channels. >> I don't know. Do you know Do you know what I think? Do you know I think the biggest obstacle for guys like ourselves who work in the media or whatever you want to call us now. >> Yeah. >> I think the biggest issue is other people stirring the [\h__\h] taking things out of context. People who want to cause problems for us. Someone that really like we think is our friend but is actually behind the scenes saying, "Yeah, Charles, give you that interview, but did you see the way that he said this?" Or, you know, and like something that just other people other people causing problems. I think that is actually because we, you and I, we are professionals. We've been doing this for decades. We know. We know what we're doing. We know when we're being sneaky. We know. We know. Do you know? >> So, you talked about you talked about intent and we never have ill intent toward any any of this. >> Yeah. But if somebody starts questioning your intent and saying, "Yeah, but okay, Charles did this and Don said that, but what he really wanted to do, what I think he what he was getting at, I think he wants to, you know, f you up in this situation or that situ." I'm telling you, I think that's where a lot of our problems come from. any problems that we do have and you know all of a sudden having a good relationship with someone then all of a sudden it goes completely wrong and you're thinking and you know you're scratching your head thinking what did I say when did I say it like yeah it's like honestly because sometimes I mean I've literally set myself crazy thinking why has that person all of a sudden gone frosty towards me it's like and then you then you realize actually down the line it's probably just because somebody's just been stirring the stirring the [\h__\h] and stabbing you in the back when they're you know I call them the smiling knife >> smiling you know, the smiling knife, the one who's like, you know, like your best pal, and then you know, as soon as your back's turned, if you're a fly on the wall, you'd just be in disbelief. >> Yeah. Well, let's move on. I don't want this to be the Nick Walker show. As much as we got other guys, >> we have other guys. Let's look at Rafa because Rafa took off all of 2025 to make improvements. And uh Well, there's his legs. Legs look pretty damn great. I don't know what that is. So, that's Is he in Vegas now? Yeah, I guess he's in >> Yeah, he's in Vegas. Yeah, I spoke to Neil. I spoke to I spoke to Neil Hill about him yesterday. >> So, he's training at uh Dragon's Layer, >> why he's putting this on there. I don't know who those people are. >> Uh but let's see the latest updates from Rafa. So, here's his legs. Legs were always good. I never had an issue with Raphael's legs. >> Yeah, >> that's a distant a distant shot. >> I was at his pro debut. Could you believe that? In 2017. >> That was like everybody's prodebut, wasn't it? >> I don't know. mentioned that I went to a show called the 2017 Samarino. I don't know if I've ever mentioned it. >> Uh several several times, but was that was that also Hottie Chupan's pro debut? >> Uh open. Yeah, it was. >> Yeah. And I mean he won he'd won Portugal in 2018. He beat Nicholas Vuude Vu and then um Yeah. And it was a bit of a shock because he did the he did the open. He should have won that as well. No disrespect to Cedric, God rest his soul, but um Cedric was amazing, a huge fan. But um Hardy was just sensational that year. My god, it was just everyone was freaking out. He was so good. But so was Raphael because he was first call out. He was 24 years old. He was first called out in his prob. He'd been a junior 18 months before. I think he put something like 30 pounds of muscle on in 18 months. First call out with Brandon Curry, Haddie Shupan, Cedric McMillan. I mean that is just um um Tim Besheime. I mean it was like a 30 strong lineup. And then imagine that you get first call out and you got you end up getting eighth place but you know which can happen you know remember when Brandon Curry 2017 first call out at the Olympia after the year before not even being placed uh first call out and then getting eighth place in the Olympia. So because like people think first call out that means you're automatically in top five but sometimes it isn't. >> So I'm gonna I know I should be the [\h__\h] but I'm going to make you I'm going to put you on the spot. Is does Raphael look improved uh since the last time you've seen him? Do you see do you see some improvements? >> Well, I know about the the the stomach issues he's had, so I'm kind of just happy that he's looking good. >> I I'll be honest. I don't expect any significant improvements. I just want to see him back to as good as he was when he left off. For me, that is a win >> because he's he's had a real problems. He's had he's been through a lot of stress. Uh and I'm just that's the reason I was messaging Neil. I said, Neil, I'm so happy to see Raphael back, mate. I'm so glad I'm so glad that he he's back because obviously he he won in um Romania the last time I went to Romania in 24 when he beat Akim just beat it was very close between him him and Akim they looked fantastic um and then I was all excited for Raphael because he looked amazing in in um in Romania and then obviously what happened with the stomach problems and you can imagine behind the scenes with sponsors and you know expect expectations and the Brazilian fans that are just they're just you know they're so dedicated to their guys. Um, you know, that would have been massively disappointing for especially when um because I think Rafael was eighth in the 24 Olympia. Was he 20? I've got eighth as 24 Olympia and then he didn't make the 25 Olympia because obviously the gut issues. >> The fact that he's just the fact that he's managed to come back is I'm just happy for that. Um I'm looking at these pictures and videos and I'm not seeing Yeah, the legs look incredible. His legs are always incredible. It's like that's just a but the upper body, he does look like he needs probably another good six months to really start. I mean, yeah, he looks great, but he looks like he needs more time back in the gym. So, um because I'm battling with with him for fifth place with Brandon Curry, but um that's kind of where I've got him sort of fitting in. But, uh I'm he's doing the Arnold. He's doing the Arnold UK. Um I feel like he might be peing for Detroit. >> Okay. I've just got a feeling it's it's one of those things I don't think about. It's just something that just automatically unravels in my head. And for me, I reckon we'll see the best version of him. Plus, what what Neil was hinting at because Neil sends like five, six minute voice notes and he really No, he does because he really goes into Nick's um Neil I think Neil like me because we're the the bodybuilding nerds that he could really go into detail about and I'll really listen. You know, I don't he's not the sort of person because otherwise most media people whatever or friends in the industry will come from they want sound bites. They want body weights. They want something sensational to say he's 30 pounds heavier. He's >> Yeah. >> You know, he's this, he's that, he's, you know, he's going to win this. They want something short and sick. With Neil, you get the breakdown detailed, you know, sort of like to most people be probably absolutely mind-numbingly boring, but I find it really interesting. So, I I reckon from what he was hinting at, I think we're going to see a pretty good version. Um, I think we're just going to be happy. I'm going to be happy just to see him back on stage at the Arnold. Same with the Arnold UK, but I think Detroit, I reckon I reckon deep down secretly, um, I think they're looking to peak for one of those later shows because he's not going to be top three at the Arnold, either Arnold, let's be honest. Especially if he especially if he's trying to fight to get back to where he was. Um, he's going to be trying to he's going to make his appearance at the Arnold, which is good to see him to get him seen back up there. But I think he's going to be looking to really uh put his um foot on the gas. I think for one of the latest shows and I I reckon it'll be Detroit or one of those around there. >> Yeah, I mean that makes sense because this Arnold it's a it's a very very tough lineup. Uh he's not beating Hottie. He's not beating Andrew. I don't see him beating Nick or Martin. >> So you're looking at like Yeah, that was when was this four days out from uh >> that's See that'S4. >> Yeah, that's that's um that's a that's a top 10 Olympic guy there right there. That that was a great look at that. To be honest, he was one of those guys that was so aesthetic and such a pretty shape and the nice narrow waist and the flat. You just think, is he ever going to be big enough to kind of, you know, beat the guys that have got more than just aesthetics. Um, and then slowly but surely, he just added a little bit of tissue, a little bit. I'm so glad he had Neil because Neil's the sort of person that would have gone along with that approach and really that would have really been in alignment with what Neil wants from his athletes, you know, because he's he's not one of these guys that say, "I've put 30 pound on Raphael Bundown and you get up on stage and he just looks like a bag of [\h__\h] you know." >> Yeah. >> So, um I um yeah, I just uh like I said, I'm just going to be happy to see him back to near how he looked at um Romania because I'm not expecting improve Raphael. just hoping to see as good as Raphael as we last saw if that makes sense. Because those kind of things with the gut and stuff like that, it's not just a matter of, you know, you tear a bicep, you know, you know, you've got 12 weeks till you can do this and do that and you know, it's a it's a healing process. You can work around it, but with something complex like the gut, you know, there's a lot of stuff that you got to reset and like apparently was down to like two, three meals a day. >> U yeah, he was really like it's a real complicated and it's a really drawn out process. you know, when you're a bodybuilder, you just, you know, eating, eating and training is the fun bit. That's the bits where you just want to go all out and go all in, you know, and it's uh so he was probably like really really um just wanting to get to it, but it's you said, you got to be so patient and I can imagine he's been through I can imagine he's really been through it actually because just hearing Neil's voice when he mentioned the the the Raphael's gut issues was it sounded stressful for Neil. So, I can only imagine what it's been like for Rafa. >> Yeah. Well, let's move on to Hassan Mustafa. >> Yeah, >> Hassan big big guy. He had I interviewed him last year and he had put on like another 20 pounds of muscle. Not sure he needed 20 pounds more muscle, but uh yeah, this was a look when he won uh Vancouver a couple years ago. He was doing four it took him four shows to get his Olympic qualification, but he got the win finally. >> Good. >> And I don't see a lot of current updates. >> Yeah, this was three days ago. It's just training stuff. big thick guy. Wish me the best. >> He makes it look effortless, doesn't he? Being so big and round and thick and full. It's like almost like it's it's almost like it's easy for him, you know? He's just he's just such a monster. And I I I really like Hassan as well. I think he's a really really good guy. I think he's a really good soul. I like his wife as well because I've interviewed um him a couple of times through her and uh they she made it a very enjoyable process actually. Like because sometimes it's a bit awkward and you can't get any flow going when you've got somebody translating. But she actually added to it which was really good. But look at the like I said I always call that kind of muscle voluuptuous like a chest and biceps. You know it's just voluuptuous. It looks like it's just hanging off the frame like I don't know like one of those Belgian blue balls. >> Voluuptuous sounds like like a full figured gal lady. >> Yeah, that's what I mean. Like voluuptuous muscle, you know. It's uh it's just that's the only that's the best way I could describe it. I'm so sorry. >> No, I don't I you know I don't see him fighting for a top spot in this unless >> I don't know a miracle happens. I like the guy so much, but I have to call like I call him like I see him and I don't think someone's going to do well. I'm not going to sit here. >> I think I I sorry. I think secretly one thing I'm kind of hoping for is that when these guys after the Arnold, you know, the ones that keep going after the Arnold trying to get the qualification, they're not going to do two preps. I hope that kind of I I'm gonna say it now. I hope that once they get the qualification, they shut it down and then let somebody else try and qualify because there's a lot like Mo Foda here. There's another good guy that really I want to see in the Olympia and I don't want to see them prepping and dieting all year, you know, because they've got to try and fly here, fly there, fly everywhere because, you know, so and so's won four shows or like Nathan Dasher or Z has just scooped up three or four of the wins. I'm really really hoping that they give the other guys a chance. So, I mean, I know that's that's what I want has no bearing on it, but um because I want to see there's some guys, like I said, like Mo Ferto I really want to see in the Olympia. >> Yeah. And I think Mo is gonna he's going to surprise a lot of people. The Arnold. I think I think he's a top five guy at the Arnold now. >> Top five. >> I think so. I think so. >> Okay. So, >> I'll say it right now. Top five. >> Do you know what? Do you know what? Actually, you've got me thinking because I'll be honest. I've got my top four pretty pretty decided. I think unless one of them messes up or I think it's pretty much them versus everybody else. But for me, the real battle for this show is actually the battle for fifth. Now, I've got I had kind of Brandon and Raphael, Brandon Curry and Raphael like really fighting out for top five. But you know what? I think with what I've been seeing from Mo Fer because I've been speaking to Patrick Tur as well because that's his coach. I think um I think Mo's going to be significantly improved because of what I've been seeing, hearing, reading, you know, just picking up on. I think there is a bit of a buzz around Mo at the moment and I think I might have to agree with you. Um I've got fifth fifth that fifth spot, you know, which is like at the next stage of the of the competition, the next tier of guys. Uh which also those second tier guys are those one those are the ones that we also want to see qualify as well because the first four undoubtedly are going to qualify. I I don't see I don't see that becoming an issue. But those next guys that we want to see and I think Mo I think you might be right, Ron. I mean, I'm I He was kind of not on my radar. I wasn't thinking about him. And then I started seeing these update pictures that he's been posting. >> Bigger innings. He's bigger. He's bigger. >> He's bigger. I mean, these uh Well, he did that comparison. This post here really tells the story. It was >> Yeah. >> Three weeks before Dubai Pro 2025 versus five weeks out from this Arnold Classic. And >> bigger, more detailed, every every improved in every aspect that you'd want to see. Ron, I think he's um potentially I've been saying it for like eight years. I think he's potentially a Hadti 2.0, but he's like Samson was in 2022. You're like, he's got everything, but has he got it what it takes to go to the next level? And then boom, Samson did what he needed to do to go to the next level. I think like that. I think Mo Foda is a um I think he's the same. I think he's one of those guys that has potential to go to the level of a hadi and be a first call out at the Olympia at the Arnold. I think the potential is there. So for me to see, you know, these kinds of improvements and these updates and you're like, "Oh [\h__\h] he's kind of he's getting my attention there because he is really really he's really leveled up here." So if what we're seeing is true and it's not just carefully selected whatever AI, well, I'm not saying AI, but you know, carefully selected. Okay, I'm going to look my smallest in this one and my biggest in this one. you know, this one's slightly closer or whatever. This one had a pump. I didn't have a pump because there's so many different variables. I mean, I know we're we're putting them side by side and whatever, but it's there's so many different things that can that can, you know, alter the way our brain perceives it. So, uh yeah, I think um Okay. And so, fifth, you got a call out with Brandon, Brandon Curry, >> Raphael, um and Mo Fo. Do you think Mo will take it? >> Yes. >> You think be Brandon? I I I hate to say it, but yes. Yes, I think so. >> Okay, good. Okay, that's it's possible. It's possible because what we've been seeing >> got to go on a limb sometimes. >> But then again, what we've been seeing from Brandon, mate, I mean, he's just he's shocking. He's shocking. Every single time he comes back on stage, when you think I'm not expecting, the last person I'm expecting to shock anyone after all these years at this stage in his career is Brandon Curry, but he keeps doing it. So, it'd be interesting to see the the newer guy like Mo Foda coming up as the the Brandon. You know, it's going to be interesting because, you know, the different stages of their career. It's going to be it's going to be a good call at that one. >> Last but not least is your 2022 Mr. Olympia champion, 2024 Army, USA and UK champion Audi Chan. So, everyone's I'm not even gonna get into the politics. It's We're not here. We're not here for that, guys. >> No. No. But the good news is he's got his visa uh approved. He's all set there. So, no worries at all about him getting to the show. Um he has not been posting updates and I assume it's with everything going on. He's, you know, he's got a lot to deal with and maybe he's just shutting things down social media wise and trying to keep his head down and do the work and and come in at his best because at his best is incredibly hard to beat this man. >> Where is he now? Is he in Dubai or America or I >> keep hearing Dubai but I haven't seen any any updates that would indicate. So when so this was that's his son. So that was >> how many kids he got? >> I think he has three. >> Oh wow. >> Kids got a full mustache for 10 years old. >> He's got good shape and he kid shape. >> Oh yeah. He'll be he'll be good. Look at his dad. I mean Yeah, but it doesn't it doesn't always necessarily mean that the the kids can have good genetics. I mean, you've seen one of Arnold's sons, he's like, you know, this doesn't necessarily mean it's always carried over. >> Oh, it doesn't. I mean, my my son does not have the genetic. I didn't have great genetics for size at all, >> but I I'm I was not a hard gainer like I thought I My son is a hard gainer, so >> there's another another of his kids. But yeah, I wish we had something more current of Hottie to show you, but >> he has not been very active on social media or his YouTube channel as you might expect with everything going on in his country right now. >> I feel bad for him, mate. I feel bad for him. I've not I've never been that I kind of I'm not a hady hater by any stretch of the imagination, but I actually put AI had a couple of little I know we want to talk about politics, but we I feel like we do need to address it slightly. There was a couple of things I posted last night actually and it was a long long comment and I was like guys you don't know what pressure that guy's under you know as in because the how can I put this um like with what's going on over there you know things are more complex >> than do you know how do I do I do I leave this >> I think none of us can really comment on it because we don't I think outside of Iran very few people understand the complexity of everything that's going on in that country right now, >> you know, people are quick to jump on him and say he shouldn't he should be more supportive of the uh the people who are against the government and he shouldn't, you know, they're accusing him of being supportive of the government. It's gone back and forth all over the place. I just I just think sometimes if he's if he's that public a figure um and you know you're talking about businesses, family, friendships, you telling me that he's for him to speak against that would I personally feel would put not just himself but his family, his friends and his businesses, everything and all his interest in danger >> because when the government is literally slaughtering people on their own streets >> um are you telling me that at least at least one of those people that were gunned down weren't somebody that he knew or was friends with or you know so you're telling me obviously he's not going to bloody support that. So I just think sometimes guys don't look at things so simplistically and so black and white because you've seen a screenshot of what he's got on his phone. I think people sometimes they jump to conclusions. They get from A to B without realizing there's a lot of complexities here because you know you know he is significant. He does have influence. So for him it would be suicide. That's basically what I'll say. I think it would be literal suicide um for him and very very dangerous for him to speak out against you know the regime because end of the day we take for granted uh what we live in you know UK and America we you know we live in a pretty free society. >> You know we can say things pretty much without getting worse in the UK. You can get arrested for bloody tweets now. >> Yeah. >> Um yeah it's ridiculous. It's getting it's giving, but there's not it's still nowhere near the extremes where if I went and protested in in town, I'm literally not going to get the police sticking a bullet in my head. I mean, that's what happens though. >> So, so for Hadti, like I feel like I feel like they should be a little bit more supportive and a bit like, okay, you know, we realize that, you know, your situation is different from me, Mr. Joe Public, you know, over there because it's a different world. It's a different world. So, and I don't like the way that the bodybuilding politics things mixes because he's not a politician. He's a bloody bodybuilder. So, just let him get on with it. support him. Don't add on stress because I mean we've seen bodybuilders do amazing things under very very stressful circumstance when you find out in their personal lives they can be going through absolute hell and then you find out they've done it whilst on a prep and you just think wow it just shows you the mental fortitude that some of these pros have. Very very impressive. So I just hope that it doesn't affect his um I mean like there was no doubt in my mind that he he wasn't not going to compete. He was obviously going to compete. there was there was no way they were going to not let him compete because somebody on Instagram some fellow countryman has has a has an idea in their head of who he support who had he supports and who he doesn't. I think that's really unfair. I think that's really people are so quick to judge and and um what's the word I'm looking for? and uh condemn, >> you know, with um when they know zero like I mean can you thank God we've got courts that's what I can say because the court of public opinion especially with social media and the way that it spreads like wildfire and the and also the the mob like mentality the way that people can jump onto something and then they just basically say right that's exactly how it is and that's exactly what's going on here and it's like no no you just you know and thing is it's not like caddy can go online and start talking about certain things because he would it'd be suicide So, I just I just hope um I just hope he and who would want to imagine if he got up got up there on stage and he looked really bad and and then you find out that the stress of everything was the cause, the root cause. I think that would be really really I think it would be a really sad day for bodybuilding if that happened. So, I just I'm kind of it's hard not to root for Haddie in this one. Um even though my boy Andrew is going to take the lot. I >> tell you what, I mean obviously I'm rooting for Andrew, but I'm also rooting for Heidi because >> Yeah. Yeah. He's going through some He's going through a lot right now with this with everything. For him to come in at his best, which I think he will, but if he shows up at his best with all this going on, I think we all need to give him a standing ovation. >> Yes, >> basically. >> Thank you, Ron. Yeah, I'm glad. See, I'm glad that people have the ability to like at least critically think for more than five seconds, you know, because like just people judge things by their own standards sometimes. And I think um you know because we're from a different world that he's from. I mean that's that's absolutely for certain. And somebody said doesn't it show you how much he does love his country? The fact that he's still living there because you know the fact that you know all this I mean if that be me as soon as this stuff started happening on the streets. You wouldn't see me for dust. I'd never go back to that country ever again. I'd literally say to my family pack a bag guys we're off. Yeah. >> I'd be I'd be I you know I wouldn't tell anyone. I wouldn't because I'd be fearing for my safety. I'd just be booking a flight and say I'm going to see my sponsor at EAN. I'm going to see Honey Rambo. I'm going to go chill for a couple of weeks and you you wouldn't see me for dust >> and I'd be applying for asylum or something. Do you know what I mean? I'd be I'd be I would honestly it would because that's >> Yeah. >> You know, especially when you got family members to think of and your kids are there and you're thinking, "Shit, this is I'm putting them in danger by taking them back really." So, I I I have no idea why he's still over there. I understand business and family and stuff like that, but you know what I mean? I I'd be relocating in a shot. So, um I hope he's all right. Um, and I hope that um, because I read the I read the the thing and I'm thinking, God, this is this that was that's hard to understand. It's but you can see that there's real anguish there. There's real pain. And um, imagine that on top of a prep. I mean, some guys, they can't, you know, like some of these pros, they can't even, you know, when you talk about their hamstrings, they can't cope with it. They block it. You know, you know, they all, oh my god, I got turkey instead of chicken today. Oh no. You know, they like some of these guys, you know, they are a little bit soft. So then you get someone like Hadi who's going through this and you know like you said he does deserve a standation if he wins because of you know I think it's we'll probably never know what's really going on as well. So that's another thing you know that kind of I empathize with him for so um good on you had I just I think you there's a lot of pros that would have just pulled out you know something like that something serious that going on in their country there's a lot of pros that wouldn't have even hoped of making it to the stage with something like that going on no chance. I just want to look at a couple of the classic guys because there's a whole slew of them and we've been going for quite a while. So Mike Summerrfeld obviously is the favorite. This is the latest update. Some people think he looks behind because this is this is typically how he looks at 12 weeks out or more. And we're here. >> How many weeks out is this one? >> This is posted four hours ago. So this is four weeks out. >> Uh yeah, looks good. Body looks Yeah, body looks good. I mean, he's he's consistent. It's we've never seen Somerfeld come in out of shape. So, >> uh >> yeah, it's it looks like his legs are rock hard, but the upper body looks soft. >> Yeah, I mean >> it does. No, hang on. That rear of a bicep that can't be four That's not just now, is it? >> Uh it was posted four hours ago, >> Ron. That looks bloody eight weeks out, mate. Six weeks out. That's Yeah, >> I don't see Let me see if I can find another anything that would confirm or deny this timeline. >> That would have me worried. >> Well, this was 20 hours ago, so >> But Ron, can I bring Can I address the elephant in the room? >> Go for it. >> What is going on with this hype thing? Because I know cuz he cuz like obviously what we saw there was the p video you showed the other week of um Mike at the Olympia when the height was what he thought it was. I mean, it was a totally different bodybuilder. It looked like a it looked like a top 212 like first call out 212 guy. >> Yeah. >> But if this is how he's And then obviously then he I think he did pulled a bit of a miracle, you know, at the Olympia for what he did with the losing the weight. I he looked obviously not like the same summerfield that we were expecting and hoping because of what he had to go through with the height and the and the drastic weight loss, which is absolutely lethal in itself trying to achieve, you know. So, hats off to Neil and Mike for, you know, taking it on the chin and basically, you know, dealing with that physical and mental stress, but his upper body here looks small, soft. Um, this is not I mean, maybe it's just really I'm hoping it's just really bad lighting, but thing is maybe maybe he's just maybe the body's just tired. Maybe going into this was was a mistake. Um, I I don't know. I I I I'll be honest, I can't draw a proper conclusion from what I'm seeing here. Um because the just purely for the question mark of what the hell is going on with his height and what is the you know because does he even know what he what height he's actually going to be or I mean and if he is just say he gets heighted a certain way how long does he have to drop 8 pound or 10 pound or whatever it is. I mean I just I'll be honest until this hype thing was sorted I wouldn't be doing any more shows until that was ironed out with the pro league. Not just for him but for everyone because this whole hype thing now is a bit of a mess. I'll be honest and I felt like it was brushed under the carpet after the Olympia. So I mean remember we spoke about Hadi in 2019 not knowing whether you can get to the Olympia and you're going to be prepping 100% you know all in if you if you don't even know till the last minute you're actually going to be allowed to compete etc etc. It's the same with this with the height and the weight thing mate. So >> I think they hid they hid him shorter at the last Olympia. So I think that's where >> he knows he's not going to get heighted any taller than that. And I don't know. I don't know if they're are they still gonna keep getting height measurements on these guys or was that their final height at the Olympics? >> I don't know. To be honest, I was expecting them to come out with something after the Olymp. But like I said, it just all been brushed under the carpet. So, what does do the athletes know something that we don't? Have you spoke to any of them that have said, "Oh, this is what's happening and this is how we safeguard because I know that Neil will certainly have a have a game plan if like if they'll have a best case scenario plan, a worst case scenario plan, and then maybe maybe or maybe they're just doing a hope for the best scenario plan because that to me is um I think is if that's all going on and they still they still don't have full clarification. I mean, is he going to be prepping all in and all, you know, all in to try and I just I think this is I don't I think I I feel like you need to interview one of them, mate. >> Oh, I would love to. Maybe Neil. >> Neil. Do Neil. Neil. Interview Neil. >> I I'll get Neil on because I'm curious. That's a good That's a great idea. Thank you, man. >> Give me If you need his number, I've got it. I'll send it to I'm sure I'm sure he won't mind. Um he messaged me this morning actually. He sent me a really lovely message actually. >> Um too. >> Yeah. Because we stopped talking for a couple of years because I made a comment about Bonac years ago and he blocked me apparently because I didn't know because I messaged him about something and he said, "Jars, do you know what?" He says, "Um, I'm so he" He said, "I can't even remember why I blocked you." I think you said something about William. It really pissed me off. He says, "I'm sorry I blah blah blah." We So anyway, we because you know me and Neil have been good friends since the 90s and he said um and then anyway he said we're kind of he's kind of glad that we've reconnected you know because like we we we get upset over silly things you know and I do I mean I've done it over the years and you know I um who did I block? I blocked I blocked Shawn Ray when I was in hospital. I don't I don't even remember why because at the time I was on so many medications I had this heart surgery. I was hallucinating and I remember freaking out one day because I think Sean was trying to ring me and apparently I was apparently my heart rate was going ding ding ding. I was I don't and I have no idea why. I think I was in just a complete like you know I mean I was look what just happened to me. I was I I have very little memory of that time. So like then I blocked him and I think I blocked a few other people and I've got no recollection why. So obviously just in a distressed state but um going back to Mike this is not this is not this is not good. Um, you know, I I I I don't I'm not going to say he's not going to be in shape because Neil knows what the hell he's doing. Neil is an incredible coach and Mike is Mike's a machine. I if he looks a little bit off in the upper body right now, uh, I'm not worried about it. >> He looks a lot off, mate. He looks a lot off. >> I mean, people are talking, but that's what we do. We talk. >> But yeah, I I think he'll be okay. >> He looks flat and small body, mate. He looks flat, squishy, small. It looks it looks like his body looks tired to me. But then again, I don't know when this was taken. I don't know about the lighting and stuff like that, but for me, these two or three things you've shown me on the trot, I I I would expect him to be looking better. But hopefully this is a case where it's not translating in this footage, but when he gets on stage, he'll look absolutely sensational because like you said, he's so consistent and he's so his conditioning in the last couple of years because thing is remember he was ticking along at like a top 10 Olympia guy, not necessarily even been a pro show winner at that time, you know, maybe smaller pro shows, top five in medium level. Um, and then all of a sudden when he leveled up with his condition, it took him to a whole new level and he nearly beat Bumstead. I mean, he actually, you know, got a couple of first place. That's huge to go from seventh, eighth, ninth, you know, to be then nearly beaten the king. That's a big confidence boost. So that was that was when Summerfield really arrived as a as a as a competitor, as a classic competitor. So he's not going to want to slip back, you know, he's not going to want to slip back. So um and I know that Neil will be watching him, you know, very very closely. Otherwise, they would have like they would have pulled him out the show or or, you know, for whatever reason. So, I don't expect to see Summerfield going backwards like um you know going back a few years just just you know without without without sort of Neil and Mike taking action. >> Fair enough. All right. Well, >> was good then. >> Summerfell looked he looked incredible there. That was that was a great show for him. >> I I like him. I think he's a real he's a real character. When he turned pro and he was doing like cartwheels on stage and and then he did the guest pose, he dressed as a fairy and all this kind of wacky stuff and he's got the eccentric beard and the cool hairstyle. He's a real he's definitely he's a real asset to the the category and I don't know you I mean doubt he'll ever be I mean Bumstead was an anomaly you know for every like an anomaly you get every 20 30 years in the industry not just classic >> so but um he is he is incredible he is incredible um beautiful physique >> all right well let's see who else has a chance so the other he was the 2025 Arnold Classic champ and this was the 2024 Arnold Classic 24 24 >> 24 So yeah 24 and 25. We haven't had the 2026 show yet. So >> 24 he won the Arnold and the Arnold. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Just like uh he won just like those are the years hottie won those shows. >> U so you know there was a lot of speculation that he was he was done with classic. he was going to go into open, but thankfully for the classic physique division and this Arnold Classic, he's hanging in there still in the classic division and he's very very consistent. This was two days ago. Look at that. Look at that tissue paper skin he has. >> Yeah, he does he does very very good updates. I mean, he knows how to pick the right photos and and show elements of the physique that uh what was the one was it was his front delts. All his front delts were straighted, which you very rarely see. Um, but um, it's funny. Do you know what? When I when I like like when I did the tour without with Wesley in 2024, getting bookings for him was so easy. >> And then it's funny how you just drop in places at a at a show. And it's funny how your stock it's like it is like a stock market. Your stock rises and falls. >> And it's it's it's crazy. That's why I always say when the guys, you know, um, I always advise the guys say, "Look, when your stock is high, you need to be doing tours. you need to be doing this and doing that and promoting yourself because this is you know when you're when you're you don't do it you know in in when you're sort of when everyone's forgotten about your everyone's on to the next big thing. So um but um personally I would love to see Wesley I would love to see Wesley come back and just smash this one. I mean I would be because I know how much it hurt him last year and his wife um how much it hurt them sort of slipping you know and I know what it means to him. So, uh, I would, um, and he took a lot of shot online as well. And he he handles it really, really well because he's a very, very classy guy, Wesley. I really like him. And I really, and I like his shape. I like his physique. And, um, I just hope his legs don't flatten out because it's not a case if he doesn't have legs. It's just that when, you know, in those last bits where he just to cut weight, it always always like like Andrew, I've seen Andrew's legs three, four days out from the Arnold in the Olympia, and they look full and round like they did in Romania. And then just in that last that you know with the with the last manipulation those last few days you know they hold it hold it hold it and then just right at the very last minute they it sucks it off their legs and their legs look like they've gone backwards but uh so I'm just hoping he manages to hold on to the legs the hams and he he gets that fullness right because you know when he's really on he's very very hard to beat. >> This is so reminiscent of Arnold Schwarzenegger >> that pose that he does. Wow. All right. Well, like I said, not going to go through the entire lineup. We're just going to mention the biggest name in the classic physique is definitely Sam Solic. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, the kids the kid's on fire. He's he's training hard. He's coaching himself. He's looking diceed. Condition's not going to be issue. And I think uh before I was thinking last he he'll be a sure bet for last place, but now I think just condition might carry him over a few people. He's made some He's made some significant improvements. I know he's given us little flashes, but you and I know the standard he was at when he, you know, when he competed last year. >> Yeah. >> Um I mean, I think I'd have beaten him in my first show. >> Yeah. you know, and and the thing is it paid off because he took a huge, even though he probably was aware of how good he was, he took a huge gamble by going and doing, you know, one of the most prestigious and most respected ways of getting a pro card at the Arnold, I'm Amateur, like Andrew Jack did in 22. You know, it's like I'm gonna if I'm going to do this, if I'm going to get last place, I'm going to get last place at the Arnold. Do you know what I mean? I kind of like that attitude. It's like um I mean I mean you know we've seen first time as better than that but I think what he's been doing in his physique I think he's really he's really taken it seriously. I think I think he's maybe now seeing himself perceiving himself as not just a an influencer with a physique that just loves to train and I think he's evolving. >> I genuinely think he's evolving and I think he's actually starting to develop a physique that even if it doesn't get last place it's definitely going to look like it belongs up there and I think that's what's important. >> Yeah, I agree. I mean, he's you can't change your your bone structure and your muscle shape. That's just immutable. But, uh, I I think he will be getting better and better. He is a young guy and he's working very hard and I I I suspect he'll eventually hook up with a coach. I don't think he's going to go his entire pro career, however long that may be, without a coach. Uh, but we'll see. We'll see. >> So, so how how do you think 2026 will go for Sam Sulle? What's your prediction? >> That's we're in this is that that's this year. Uh, so I think he'll make he'll beat a few people. I I can't remember how many there were in the division. He'll beat like three, four, five, maybe six guys in this. I don't see him top five. Mike Cox just says he thinks top five because it's not a deep lineup, but some of these guys I've seen what they look like and the shape and the structure. If they show up in any kind of condition, they're going to beat Sam. And that's it's just reality of of bodybuilding, class physique, whatever. It's people have better genetics. But, uh, I think he'll do this show. I think he'll probably do he'll maybe hang out and do Detroit, maybe New York. I mean, if I were him, >> why not just hit a bunch of shows this year for for the heck of it? >> He's kind of got nothing to lose, is he? >> Right. >> Because he's he's already got the invite to the Arnold Classic. I mean, even if he places last, it doesn't matter. As long as he looks good, he's not going to lose anything. Like, he's not going to lose any followers or any respect because I remember Rich Kaspari was has done a complete 180. And I like it when people do stuff like that. He's like, you know, the real bodybuilders don't really see this guy as a proper bodybuilder. He's an influencer. And it's like spit on the floor, you know? Like I kind like I kind of am really. If I saw some guy in the gym with a tripod in and you go like, "Oh, that's so he's an influencer. Is he competing?" No. No. He doesn't even train his legs, you know? I kind of like these are the kind of guys I want to kick their tripod. I just I have disdain for these human beings, you know? But but like someone like Sam, like he's kind of I mean big deal. He's earned Charles's respect. But it like I kind of get what Gaspari I kind of get what Gaspari is saying because I'm like yeah Greg Gaspar young kid doing well 23 24 making money good on him you know I'm happy for him but then when he competed and I was like oh [\h__\h] he's actually won and he's you know and he's coached himself and you know like like I did you know it's like I kind of I can relate to that. I can connect with that and I'm like actually this kid is pretty cool because he's you know like I said he doesn't turn up with an entourage. He's not really changed. He seems to be keeping he's just a young kid. Let's just sit let's just call it and say it what it is. He's a young kid that loves bodybuilding, loves getting big, loves, you know, chilling with his cats, and he's living he's living his best life. And I I mean, how can you hate on the guy? I don't I don't understand when people are even remotely critical of this guy because he's just look at this. This is this was us at 1920, Ron. I mean, you know, through our 20s, he's just he happened just happened to have a camera and he's just documenting and he's making bloody great money doing it. In fact, I'm trying to get a hold of him at the moment actually because um I want to set something up for him. So, um I'm just literally it's on my my work list today. Yeah. Ask about Sulle. So, um I really, you know, because I want I kind of I I like him and I think I could get on really well with him. But, um you know, he's just he's just, you know, it's Yeah, I think he's awesome. I think he's awesome and I just um yeah, I think he's I think he's pretty much I think he's he's a better than a worse influence um than like he's better than he is for for the younger guys coming up than he is, you know, the worse guys. You know, he's not just rambling on about gear all the time. And you know, he's uh yeah, he's cool. I like him. I like him and I think he's I think it's good that he's doing this show and and and I'm rooting for him. >> All right. All right. Well, before we go, because we've been going for an hour and a half, uh we you told me there is a brand new open show happening this fall. It's 25th October. >> It is the 365 Grand Prix Pro in Slovakia. >> Yep. >> Kosich Kosichi. I don't know. My Slovakian is a little haven't spoke Slovakian in quite a few years, so I'm a little rusty, but uh I never spoke. >> Well, I was introduced to because I know Peter Pick from the um the CEO of the the BLS show. Well, he's becoming like a European Olympia. I mean, we don't even talk about that show. Um, he's been friends with Martin Gajnak, who owns a chain of really, really upmarket gyms in Slovakia called 365 Fitco. I think they're up to about last check was like eight or 10 or something. And he's always open, every time I speak to him, he's always enthusiastic. He's only a young guy in his 30s. And he's always opening new gyms. I mean, these are these are beautiful gyms um in Slovakia. He's really kind of leveled it up. And um under the tutilage of Peter his friend, Peter has encouraged him to take on NPC and proleague in Slovakia because obviously the the big who's the biggest Slovakian name in bodybuilding? >> Griezo. Yeah. So obviously he's part of that you know the Scitec team and everything. So um Pete Martin has basically set up regionals and you know and and uh he's announced his first pro show. The open pro show will be two weeks after EV left. So obviously they're going to be co-promoting together. Um and it looks to be taking off. He looks he's been getting great numbers. Um I mean he's a really he's the one who picked us up from um remember we um the flight got cancelled. We had to fly in the next day with Ronnie in 24 and we had 45 minutes to get from Vienna airport to uh Bratislav where the literally the local radio and the TV were waiting so Ronnie could sign this wall and then we can come back to a a room at the Sheran Ballroom where we had like 400 people in attendance and trade stands and everything and then literally ready for Ronnie seminar. >> Wow. >> It was it was absolutely incredible. It's incredible. I mean, this guy really, he's a classy guy. He really pushes the boat out. He likes to do things properly, very very successful, hardworking entrepreneur, kind of self-made guy, you know, and um so yeah, so he's um he's basically doing his first pro show. He's doing open and it's going to have open. So I really really want to get as um as many guys, if any open pros are watching, I'm telling you this this show will be run to a very very high standard. This guy really does care. Um, and it be it will be to the I think it's going to be the same sort of standards in terms of production and care of the athletes as it is at the EVs because they're directly involved as well. >> So, I would definitely recommend anyone thinking of attending, you know, competing. Uh, also like I said, the regionals as well. You've got the regionals in May. So, um, you know, and, uh, I will be at that regional in May because I will be taking a certain Mr. Jacked. >> Oh, Andrew Jack, maybe. >> Yeah. Yeah. Spoiler alert. Yes. So, but yeah. So, basically, you know, um and I I had, like I said, if I have a good experience working with someone, you know, I'll work with them again and again and again. And um and Martin is he's into his supercars as well. He's the one that because I don't like the fast I don't like the fast driving, especially on the back. And Ronnie was sat in the front and Ronny's just like completely not phased as this guy is just down there, you know, he's got those super carcass, you know, the silly horsepower and all that. >> He'd get along very well with my son-in-law Musa. He's uh >> Oh, yeah. for >> Lamborghinis and, you know, all kinds of supercars. He's he's a he's a big afficionado of these 250 mph cars, which >> I took a ride in one and I was I was all set. I said, "I'm good, man." We took >> I don't understand how some people can be like, "Ronnie, can be di just with the shades on, chewing gum, like not eat very physically relaxed, and I'm in the back like literally messaging Lawrence saying, "Kiss the cats. I love you." It's like I was [\h__\h] myself. I was terrified. So, um, yeah. So yeah, yeah, this will be a really, really good show. And imagine I imagine Krisel will be competing in it. I'd be very shocked if he wasn't. I think he'd at least be No, he'll definitely be competing. I mean, I can't imagine him guest posing if he's going to be doing the Olympia because Kris has obviously qualified for Olympia, won the British. >> Yeah. So guys, info on that is at npc.slovakia. >> Yeah. >> Check it out. All right. Boy, we've been going for a while, Giles. As we are want to do. >> I haven't even I've barely touched my work schedule today. of um >> I got let you go. You got a lot of you got Andrew Jack tours to put together. You got other tours in the make Dennis Wolf and so forth. So >> appreciate you taking the time GS. Of course >> the um the UK tour is all locked in and loaded now and I'm about I think I've got three four countries on now for the Andrew Jack international because after the UK tour Andrew does FIBO. He's got some commitments for Scitech and then he comes back. Um, and I'm fly I haven't worked out the the the order of countries yet, but we've just added uh Prague. EVLS people on board. >> Um, Slovakia has just been added. Um, and I might have uh it looks like I've got another one um country I just mentioned actually to come board and then I think one and then whatever gaps are left looking to either fill in Asia or I'll probably fill with UK dates because some people were disappointed when the the UK tour got uh fully booked. So >> yeah. Well, that's great. >> Very excited. Very good. And I'm trying to get something with Sulle and some other people and um looking at some others as well. So I'm just um I'm busy as well. Busy as hell at the moment. So um and uh also there might be some mini tours in conjunction with the Euro Muscle Show. And the names I don't mention the names if I've told you, but until those things are signed on the dotted line and they are promoted. Um I'm I can't tell you how excited I am to to to say these names out loud because there's levels. There's levels, Ron, and then there's levels. Well, I so um >> you know a couple of the names and I'll be quiet, but let's say your jaws will drop because it's beyond our sport. It's it's it's much much bigger than bodybuilding. What >> So, and the thing is it adds it adds even more credibility to what I'm doing with the Olympia Allstar Tours with the with the bodybuilders because bodybuilding is always going to be the main core of what I do. >> But, um you you know, you're always looking to expand and look into different demographics. It's like when I was at Universal Show and I interviewed Eddie Hall and um uh what's his name? The strongman guy. The current strongman. What's his name? The Canadian guy. >> I know who you mean. I kicked over. >> Oh god. Why can I not remember his name? The current world's strongest man. >> We're not we're not strongman f. We don't follow the sport that well. That's why. >> But also it shows you how um you know when you've been interviewing for years and years and years, you only have to do minimal research to really be able to pull off a good interview and actually you know know your stuff, you know. So, it's all that all those years of global muscle stood me in goodstead. >> Absolutely. All right. Well, thank you, Giles. Of course, follow Giles on Instagram. And anyone who has a contact for Sam Sull, like a real contact, hit Giles up because he wants to get a hold of Sam for tour. And uh guys, if you're on the replay, we usually don't do this live. We did it live. So, feel free to drop some comments. Please do. Like, subscribe, share, do all that good stuff. Appreciate you watching a live a rare live episode of Power Hour with me and Giles Tiger Thomas. We'll see you right here next time.