What's up everybody? We are just five days away from the Arnold Classic. Today we're going to be talking about who could possibly break into that top four if somebody's off. We know the top four is Andrew Jack, Heidi Chupan, Martin Fitzwwater, Nick Walker. are in no particular order. These are the four that we've been talking about since that list was announced well over two months ago. And now we're so close. We're going to try to figure out somebody's going to be fifth place. So, one of these guys I'm talking about is very, very likely going to be in fifth. There's a poll in the video there if you want to vote on who you think. But let's start taking a look. I think my most likely candidate is yes, Brandon Curry. So Brandon has won the Arnold Classic not once but twice. 2019 and 2022 he is a two-time Arnold Classic champion. He is a 2019 Mr. Olympia champion. And yeah, his Olympia placings have slipped a little bit in the past couple years. He's finally been out of the top five these past two Olympias. However, he looked damn good at this last Olympia where he got seventh. So much so that many people thought Brandon Curry was rightfully deserving of sixth place rather than Nick Walker. Looking at this, the one thing that really stood out to me was Brandon's legs, which have been much maligned over the past few years, actually ever since he started competing. They're better. They're better, I think, than they've ever been, which is crazy because he's 43 years old now. This is not an old man, but 43 in bodybuilding, especially for a guy who's been a pro for uh it's close to 20 years. It's not a full 20 years yet. I believe he turned pro in uh 2007 or 2008. So, he's not quite there yet, but it's been a while. He's he's been in this game longer than almost anyone else in this show. Actually, if I look at the lineup, I think he is the one who's been a pro and competing for the longest. So, Brandon Curry would be my top top choice. And I'd be surprised. I know I say I wouldn't be surprised if he's top five. Now, Milos had him in his predictions beating uh he he had him in fourth place, I believe. Let me check that. It was on Beyond the Stage TV. They they did a collab with me after I did the video. And where did they have him? God, they post a lot. Okay, so Oh, that's Lee Priest. Lee Priest has Brandon in fifth. Now, where did Milos have him? Ian Valier also had him in fifth. Wow. Okay. Ali Blah was talking about Fouad's open. Fouad had hottie, Andrew, Nick, Martin, and again Brandon in fifth. Oh god, they beyond stage did a lot of coverage on the first fit model contest. I didn't do any coverage. I'm the worst. I believe Milos had him in fifth as well. Did he have him in fourth? It's hard to It's hard to tell because they do so many. I'll just go to my Instagram, guys, because I posted as well. He had him in fourth. He had him in fourth. So, who else who else has a great chance? This guy, Rafael Bondo. Now, we'll look at the updates of these guys in a moment, but focusing on some of the better looks. This was Raphael at the 2024 Mr. Olympia where he was in the top 10. Remember that Raphael took all of 2025 off of competing. He was dealing with digestion issues, digestive issues that him and his coach Neil Hill were working on to figure out and fix. And apparently they have. So Raphael Bendo could very, very well slide into that fifth spot. He could beat Brandon. What do you think he does here? I don't think there's a single dark horse. Well, there's only 10 guys. The only way someone makes the top is four is if one of the four candidates coming off severely. I agree, but we we still have to have a number five. What's up, Monica? Martin Fitzwire, Nick Walker, what's up? Think big. What's up, Jack Hottie for the win? Yeah, I agree with that. But Raphael Berno, if Raphael can whip himself back into this condition in the next few days, uh the last updates I saw, I wasn't loving his condition. He was sick during his prep and it took him a while to recover from the illness and then regain everything that little bit of lost muscle condition that he lost while he was sick. So Raphael definitely a candidate. What about this guy Akim Williams? So this was at the Arnold Classic in 2024 which was won by Hadti Chupan. Akim has been uh he was top five in both the Arnold USA and UK that year. And they were good lineups, man. They were not crappy lineups by any means. He was also sixth place at the Olympia a few years back. I think it was 2019 or 2020. He's been up there, guys. He is He's a deadly competitor. He's got some amazing shape, symmetry, plenty of mass. We do knock his back development a little bit. It's really just the fact that his lats insert so high. However, that's that's one area. I'm not saying he's going to win the show, guys. But could he slide into the top five? Could he? It could happen, guys. It could happen. Akim is no joke. When he's on, when he's 100%, he's tough to beat. That he could beat a couple couple guys you think are definitely beating him. Brandon Curry is going to surprise. I mean, I don't know if it's going to be a surprise because so many people now have him in their top five predictions. We were just looking at some of the predictions. yet still I think it could uh it could be it's not it's not crazy to think if one of these four guys that are our top four something happens or I don't even know I don't know for sure that Chupan is in the USA we keep hearing reports of it we haven't seen one post of course he's kind of hiding out uh maintaining his safety and anonymity wherever he is hola Mexican from Mexico Nick bring all time best. Good afternoon, Iron Warriors. Nick will win. Okay, I love I love the fact that Nick's fans are so uh passionate. That's a great thing. Last guy we're going to look at uh from unless you guys have other ideas. This is my other dark horse. So, this is Muhammad Fod. This is how he looked in summer of 2024 when he won the Chicago Pro. He was also second at the Tampa Pro right around that time. FOD has put on some very good size since then. And if you look at his updates, we'll go to those in a minute. He has made improvements in size while maintaining that beautiful shape condition. He's been in he's been stage ready for a couple weeks already. I'd say about three weeks if you go look at his Instagram. We we'll take a look in a minute. But I think FOD has a very good chance of sliding in there. Again, somebody's got to be fifth, right? So, who will it be? I don't see Rafa making top five. Well, if we go I want to see what the poll is doing. So far, 62% of you believe Brandon Curry will be the dark horse. Raphael's got 12%. Akim's got 12%. Muhammad Fod's got 12%. Which means I think only a couple people have actually voted. Fod looking phenomenal. And uh this is not even the way he looks now. These other guys haven't really made improvements over the past few years. Uh, but FOD has. FOD is younger, originally from Egypt. I think he lives in Dubai now, but he is on the rise. So, we'll go back in a second and look at any recent updates. Uh, Curry Curry is the one who posts the least amount of updates out of everybody, but he did post one that uh a few of the outlets were going on and on about. What's it say? is screwed the Iran situation. If he's in Dubai, he won't be able to make an airport was bombed and shut down. Yeah, that I saw that. I was like, well, first I said, well, Iran's bombed. He can't leave Iran. But he's we we've known he's in Dubai for a while, but supposedly last week and a week ago, we got bunch of reports he was in the US, although there's no confirmation. He doesn't want people to know where he is. So, he's not posting pictures or videos or anything like that from wherever he is in the US. I I just hope he is in the USA. All right, so let's take a look, guys. Some recent updates if we can. So, this is Brandon Curry. That is an old Arnold. That's an Arnold from couple years back for sure. What that say? Do not count him out. Real OG bodybuilding TV. That's uh is isn't that Kamalian Armani? I believe it is. Seeing the flesh hasn't left any stone unturned. Okay, so those are his story updates. This was the most recent physique update. Now, granted, it's not a full body, but I think you can see there the condition, even though we're only seeing parts of the upper body, not even the back or anything, but look at that. Look at how look how vascular and strided the shoulders and the arms are. If he's equally lean everywhere else, and I suspect that he is, Curry's Curry's a veteran. He's been doing this for a long time. He knows how to get in shape. Let's look at the abs, the seroratus. He's not even really flexing there. I guess he got bored. He could very, very well. Top five is it's I wouldn't say it's guar. Nothing's guaranteed, guys. However, he's got a very good chance, perhaps the best chance of any of the four guys we're really talking about here of making that top five. These were still shots from the most recent Olympia. And again, you can see the legs. The quads are better here than I remember them. They're not enormous. They're not big Ramy quads. They're not neckilla quads, but they don't need to be. They just need to match everything else. And I think they do now, which is crazy because this guy's 43 years old. Typically, you do not see bodybuilders making gains in their legs past 40. You see them losing some of the mass and fullness in their legs. Brandon looking damn good, though. Damn good. These shots show he's not missing a thing. No back shots, but he does have a very, very good back. And we know he's got this beautiful shape, symmetry, structure, and enough mass. He doesn't need to be 300 lb on stage or anything like these guys. Oh, I still am I still running this? Jeez. Oh, that's the video. Streamyard. Yeah. What do we got to say, guys? So, what do we got to say? Did Howdty get the UK visa? Not sold on photo. Did Howdty get the UK visa? Do not know. Do not know. Goku, do not know. Uh, he's in the USA as far as we know. I think Brandon is going to surprise a lot of people. I think he'll finish fourth with a chance to finish. So, if he finishes fourth, he's got to beat either Hottie Chupan, Andrew Jack, Martin Fitzwwater, or Nick Walker. So, who does he beat after watching Brandon Marian's arguably best version, second best version. I believe he got some quality gas left in the Tennessee tank. Yeah, he's not done. Now, the Olympia placings, yes, they've gone down a little bit, but he's he's not done. I think Hott's in safe place. I I hope so. I mean, I'm rooting for the guy. Martin, Nick, and Hottie are the most consistent. Could Andrew lose to those three? It the you know, I saw the photos of Andrew last week, and uh I don't see any anybody beating him right now. I just don't. Um, could it happen? Of course. Anything can happen in bodybuilding. There are no guarantees. Nobody's guaranteed the win at this point. Nobody's guaranteed a top three or four placing. If anybody screws up or if some sort of calamity befalls them, food poisoning or who knows, someone gets even getting like a a cold or a flu at this point can have an impact. Totally agree. Says big Mike Cox. Howdy could live with Ron Harris till this all blows over. Yeah, I mean, we do have a spare bedroom, but I'm all the way up in the Boston area. I'd like to see Brandon in the top three, of course. You know, we're always rooting for the people that no one is thinking are going to do much at the show. I always love to see when somebody shows up at the contest just looking incredible and that person was not being talked about much at all. Nobody was really hyping them up or had them in their predictions and yet they they beat a bunch of big names that we did have in the predictions. It's happened more times than I can recall. Do you remember my wife Paula Suzuki? She won the women's overall nationals. I do remember Paula Suzuki. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. She was a very good bodybuilder. I mean, who could forget the name Suzuki. I used to have a Suzuki motorcycle. Dirt bike. Dirt bike. I didn't have a street bike. It was just a dirt bike for the woods. Is he still in Kuwait? We had reports. We've been getting reports that he's in the USA, but he's laying low, as we say. He's he's keeping a low profile and not posting anything that would give anyone uh any indication of where he was in case someone wants to come and find him and hurt him. I don't blame the guy. Oh, thank you, John. Tell her hi back. Yeah, I remember Paul. Paul had a kickass kickass back. Yeah, I remember that. Mike's Mike's a bigger fan of women's bodybuilding than I ever was. I was a fan back in the day, but Mike followed it a little more closely than I did. She was in the front, his lower legs from behind. Are you talking about the calves? talking about calves without Andrew uh uh Brandon, I should say. No one's ever really lost a show for not having great calves. Yeah, Paul Suki. She was she was pretty damn good. Who's Brandon work with after part of ways with the auction gym team? Good question. Brandon can beat Martin and definitely Nick Walker. He's capable. So, that's a good question. Who's he working with? I don't know. Does he have anything in his uh No. No. Does he tag anybody? Who does he tag in his pictures? Nobody. I I assume he has a coach. I don't know though. Who is coaching Brandon? Does anybody know? Internet, do your thing. I mean, you guys figured out where that gym was. You figured out it was in uh you figured out it was in Dubai, so you're pretty damn good. Some wacky exercises. All right, so we took a look at Brandon's most recent updates. Let's go to one of the e other guys. Let's go to photo because photo is to me. This is old old photo pictures. That's old. That's from a year and a half ago. That was when he was prepping for the Italy Pro back in 2024. Yeah. But that's a great show. The lighting from below, it's just it's killer when you're in great shape. So, he's bigger than this now. this this version of uh Mo. We were kind of critical of the back thickness. So, let's see. That was winning Chicago Pro. It was a good look. I mean, he's got a hell of physique. A lot of people compare his physique to Heidi Chupons. I do see some similarities. So, this was a week ago. He's being coached by the great Patrick Tour, who did work with Keon Pearson for the last two Olympias. they're no longer working together. But these are some crazy shots. He's had people accusing him of AI or somehow enhancing the the foot the pictures, which I don't I don't think was happening. I think these are legit. I think this is how he actually looks. Photo is uh very very good. That's an impressive shot. The front lat I go back to it again because look at the striations in the shoulders. stripes striations across the chest, not just the top, but all the way through the bottom. You'll see those a lot better when he hits the most muscular. Yeah. I mean, this is a very well put together physique. A lot of dense, conditioned muscle, great quads, shoulders, arms. I mean, the only thing we were pointing out before that was less than ideal, those gold dumbbells, was the back. Here he is in Dubai. These are all training training clips. That's B News June. That's the muscle hut. Uh I don't This might be old. This might be old cuz muscle hut I don't know if that's in Dubai. I don't think so. Hard to say. So I don't know if this was actually a two week update. I think he's just showing us how great he is at posing now. You have to be a good poser to do those kneeling poses on the ground. You have to have some grace, some coordination. Otherwise, you're going to fall on your ass or fall do a face plant and look like a dope. But yeah, very, very impressive. The one picture, these are this is a great comparison from July 2025 on the left to late January 2026 on the right. So, this is about a six-month difference. Look at the back. The back is significantly wider and thicker. He's definitely gone to town on that back. So much more thickness in the lat spread. He's just a bigger, better version. Look at that front double. That is a killer front double. And this is the pose everyone's going freaky about. It was that crab. Look at all that. Look at all that muscle. He looks phenomenal. He looks phenomenal. So, could he crack the top five? He would have to beat the four the top four guys that we've had in our most of us top four now for months. And he would also have to beat Brandon Curry, Rafael Bendo, and Akim Williams. If he's going to get the fifth place spot, I think it's quite possible. I think that I I had him in my fifth place predictions that I did uh when I was doing my prediction show at Milos because I I flip-flopped my placings around a few times. I keep changing my mind. You know, we don't know until we get to the show. We don't know what's going on. So, that was Modota. Uh let me run through all the rest. These were these were five weeks ago. So, these were six weeks out these shots. Very very impressive. Okay, next up. Uh we didn't even talk about Akeim, did we? Yeah, we did. Yeah, we looked at the video. Let's go to his Insta. His updates to me are never that exciting. Only because it's typically from a distance, that green turf floor. I wish you would stand a little closer to the camera, but this was a week ago. You could see he was getting he was getting there. His glute glute stirrations are starting to peek through. Look at how strong this guy was two weeks. Two weeks ago, which was three less than three weeks out. He's Is this going to be a rack deadlift with six plates? I believe it is. Yeah, he's doing rack deads with six plates. Amazing. the Brooklyn Beast. Uh it was a collab video he did with some buddies at the gym. If you go further down his Insta, we don't really have too many uh too many physique updates to go by. Eight weeks ago, that was pretty pretty smooth, but that was nine weeks out. But he's just showing you the back, which is again much more maligned for AIM page. You got to go way down to get uh competition photos and videos, but he does have a bunch. He's got to go way down the page. Look at that. Look at this. This is a big dude, man. He's got a lot of mass. That was That was total offseason right there. He's in New Jersey. Some shots from the Arnold 2025. This is last year's Arnold. Think he had some other ones there. This was Yeah, this was 2025 Arnold. I think that's the one we were just looking at. I'm not sure because he did it in 2024 as well. Just a big big guy. Big frame, tons of muscle mass, but he does have small joints. I'm talking about like the uh the elbows, the wrists, the ankles, the knees. Those are the joints that really affect how the muscle looks. Because if you have a huge muscle, but you also have huge joints, huge wrists, elbows, and knees, it's not aesthetically pleasing. I mean, these strong man competitors, most of them have huge, huge joints. They're big guys. They have a ton of muscle mass. Some of those guys are over 400 pounds, but it doesn't look the same as it does on the bodybuilders because their joints are so much bigger. I call them clunkier. I know that's probably a probably not a nice way to put it, but clunky clunky joints. The chat is uh I think it takes time to Oh, there we go. Let's see. I got it. It the the chat will usually freeze for a couple minutes and then there's a bunch of them. So, my guess would be Nick and Curry. Imagine first and second. Imagine if Nick won and Curry was second. Wow. Do you remember the Dorian Ace podcast a long time ago? Charles, I think. Yeah, I remember. I miss MD2, man. Believe me, all world leaders are being taken out. What? What? What the heck? What are we talking about now? How you think the overseas event is going to be for fans of Hadith Theo? Well, the Iranians in the USA, I've been checking my Facebook and Instagram, and they seem very, very pleased about what's going on over there in Iran. Uh, the Iran, the Iranians who were able to get out of Iran. Some of them probably never even lived in Iran. They're just Iranianamean. and their parents escaped Iran after the revolution in 79. But overwhelmingly positive responses from the Iranians, Iranians, I think Nick does Detroit. Well, let's look at the timeline here. It's one week away. If Nick doesn't win the Arnold and he would have to beat obviously Hottie, Andrew and Martin, all those people to win the Arnold. It could happen, but if he doesn't, he still needs to qualify for the Olympia somewhere. Detroit is one week away. I I'd say yeah, he does it. He does he does Detroit. He might even do it if he wins the Arnold. Do Detroit and then uh Arnold UK is until the end of the month. It's four weeks apart. Remember in 21 there was any noise about Jay Cutler. Yeah, Ronnie had been I think ninth place the year before he won the Olympia in 90 99. So yeah, people can make these big big jumps. It's all about It's all about improving when people show up. Improved. Real del exercise on his side. Yeah, it was weird. Curry hottie left before he got killed too. Is he moved away from any religion to a neutral country? Yeah, I don't think he was I don't know what his plans are and I don't know if and when he's going to say anything regarding the situation, but I don't think he's going back to Iran, guys, like ever. Um, I hope he got his family out, got got them out before all this craziness started because even though they're they're bombing military targets, obviously there can be collateral damage and people can get civilians can and do get killed in these situations. So, I hope his family is safe. I hope uh that's not an issue. Think the situation is going to cause to move. Yeah, I think so, too. I agree. A certain chemical look to his muscle that doesn't look right. Well, they're all on chemicals. I don't know who you were referring to. I don't know who was on screen when you made that comment, but what about Nick Walker? I think be a solid third or fourth. Yeah, I mean, we're talking about the underdogs now. The the top four has been pretty much solidified in the minds of most of the fans in the media people, the critics, whatever you want to call us, YouTubers. Uh top four in no particular order. Hottie, Andrew, Nick, Martin. But we're talking about who's got the best chance of being fifth and who has the best chance of cracking into the top four if one of those aforementioned guys blows it somehow. Nick placed fifth. How do you think that'll affect him mentally? Well, not well. I mean, he's not going to be I don't think he was uh he can't fire his coach because he's coaching himself because after the Olympia where he took sixth, he did fire his coach, but uh he can't do that this time because Heidi second, Andrew Thurby because he'll be soft. We'll be doing more Arnold stuff as the week goes on, guys. If you're not already subscribed to the channel and don't ever don't have your notifications on, please do that. Aloha. Aloha. If you ever come to Hawaii, yeah, I'd love to I'd love to go to Hawaii again. I was there for three days back in 1991. Honolulu, that was it. I was there for work. It's back is like Paul D. I think you're talking about Akim. We're gonna go to someone else's gonna show Ron Harris around Hawaii. Hawaii. Akim Williams reminds you of Burle Fox the 80s and 90s. Did Burle make it into the 90s? I don't know if Burle made it into Yeah, I guess he did compete a little bit in the early early 90s. I think by then he was out of the FB. I think he was competing in like Wobba or something. Did Burle have a better back? I'm not sure that he did. I'm not sure that he did. Burle was a murderer. Yes, he's out of jail now. He's He killed He killed his fiance and her mother in a dress shop that the mother owned back on the island of St. Kits over 20 years ago. Smay would be would be a good I'd love to see SMAV try bodybuilding main bad guy seems to be a dead already outcome. Yeah, as far as I told Kamani Kamani Kamini I don't know how hot he's going to have his handheld eye on AC USA again no photo for me the guy Mo Fod yeah I I'm AI'm AI'm a FOD fan. I think the guy's he's on the rise. He's getting better and better. Judges don't care about geopolitics. No, they do not. They absolutely do not. All right, so we've looked at Curry. The only guy we haven't looked at is Brandau, and I want to see if there's any new new updates from Raphael that show him leaner because he is getting lean, but a couple weeks ago, I was really, really worried about this guy. Okay, quad workout, his last quad. So, this is his quads. his quads yesterday at one week out from the show or actually six days out because remember guys they're being judged this Friday night. Arnold Sports.com is the website where you can register for the free free live stream that they're doing. It's not pay-per-view. It's 100% free. Thank you Brian Powers and Arnold Schwarzer and everyone else who made that possible. I love free. We will be doing a watch party on this channel Friday night. I'm sorry. Friday afternoon for classic judging. Friday evening for classic finals and open judging. And of course, Saturday night for open finals. It's old. This was two days ago, but uh it's not an update. Rafa, this was posted three days ago. Yeah, he's definitely shaping up fast. I still want to see little better condition than this. Uh but Brazilians have assured me in many many comments that don't count him out. He gets in shape very fast at the last minute. They've seen it many times before. Uh there's been a few bodybuilders that were like that where I was very worried about them looking at the way seeing how they looked a few a couple weeks out, but then they pulled it together. So Raphael looking better. looking better. This was uh three days ago. Again, I don't like to see anything looking soft in the arms there. Look, I see a little bit of softness, little bit of softness in the lower abs, the very upper quads there, the the rectus forous where it ties into the hip. I want to see all that just super shredded. personally. It's him and his uh beautiful wife and lovely daughter. Always always rooting for the family guys out there. Yeah. Can he pull it together in time? Does Does he have what it takes to pull it together in time? Brand is great because of his age. I mean, he's actually he's only a couple years older than Andrew Jack. Andrew is 41, I hear. I don't know. I keep hearing different ages. I think he's 40 or 41. And Samson is just turning 40. Has he already turned 40? It's right. His birthday's around. Foxy. Wow. So, Bert Fox, Foxy is back in London with the 92-year-old Albert Beckles. Oh, so Beck's Beckles left LA. I thought he was in LA. Have I seen the latest Martin update? Uh uh I can't. No, I I He's blocked me a long ago. I mean, the updates that I see are usually on other people's channels. Like, let's see. The last update I saw, uh they're blocked, too. Beyond the stage, I don't think they have it. RX had it. RX had it. I don't think he's blocked uh he hasn't blocked Dave Palumbo yet as far as I know. I've been blocked. Tons of people have been blocked by Martin. Where was that update? Okay, so I mean this was nine days out. This is the most recent the most recent footage we have of Martin that I know of. Maybe there's something newer that I can't see because he blocked me and he just posted it. But I'm not like I'm not overly thrilled at what I'm seeing there. I don't see the pop in the muscles. He looks really flat. Then again, who knows? It's kind of in the shadows. It's kind of blurry. It's not lot It's not a lot to go on. It's not. So, I don't know. Don't know, man. Don't know. Arnold sports. Just upload the screen while we talk. Let's see. Kindly do a live session explaining the best package ever brought on the Arnold Classic stage. Uh yeah, I don't know if I'll do it this week, Kalia. That's a great idea. Thank you. But uh don't know if I'm going to get to it this week. This is uh the Arnold week leading into the Arnold. So not sure it'll happen. You're taking the ages. Alles is 95. for the year. There's been there's always been dispute about how old Albert Beckles is. You know, I'm really the Arnold people, they have their [\h__\h] together, which is why I wonder why they didn't redo this graphic once they found out Tonio Burton wasn't in the show. I would have Ronnie Coleman 2001 Arnold Classic. There have been a lot. I mean, we could when I do that live eventually, we can talk about it, but there's there have been some great Arnold Classic winners. 93 98 Flex Wheeler. Yeah. 2001 Ronnie. Yeah, I don't think you get too much push back on those. Cala Martin chest looks soft to me. Yeah, everything looked kind of soft and flat and yeah, I was not impressed with what I was seeing there from Martin. Do I have anything else to Martin? I don't think I do. I have him in Prague. I mean, if if Martin shows up looking like this, the way he looked in Prague, he could win the damn thing. But what I just saw, which was nine days out, uh it doesn't give me much confidence that Martin's gonna look like this. Granted, he was lily white, no tan. It's in the It's at the edge of a like a sliding garage door type of thing. So, who knows? Uh you know, I'll be I'll be even though he hates he hates Charles. I'm sure he doesn't like me. He called all the media people trash. I'd still be happy for anybody, including Martin. Anybody who wins this thing, all these guys work so so damn hard. And to finally get $34 million, somebody's going to walk away with $750,000. That is astonishing to me. And uh yeah, I'll be happy to see somebody pick up that big big check. It would be pretty intense. Uh see how the poll is doing. Okay, now the poll has 51% for Brandon being the dark horse, 31% for Mo Foda and Ake Rafael had 12% of the vote so far. Akee down the bottom of the lead war with only 6%. Interesting. All right, some more comments, guys. Smart and thin skinned and translating to the real thin skin. That's a good quip. Good quip. Especially for somebody I'm imagining English isn't your first language, so to be able to make good jokes in in English. Good on you, kid. Boss Outlaw just released a YouTube podcast. Martin on it. They both sound very confident package bring Well, yeah. I mean, everyone's got to be confident. And you know what? He could be bringing his best package ever and he could win the show. I would never say he can't win. That's crazy. Martin Fitzwwater winning the Auto Classic. Dude, the way he looked at that last Prague, if he could look that good or or better than that somehow, of course, of course he could win. Tony was getting invited to Ohio. No, he was invited back in December and at some point during the prep about a month ago or maybe it was six, four or six weeks ago, somewhere in that around then, uh he made an announcement on his Instagram page that he would not be competing in the Arnold Classic. him and his coach decided not to do it for whatever reason. It's a little wonder Martin didn't last long training with Branch. Yeah, Branch was his coach for that first Texas Pro in 2022. I remember because I was there and I interviewed them both together and uh they seemed like they were working real well together, but uh it didn't last very long. That was the only show they ever worked together. I was actually surprised that Branch took him under his wing and was coaching him because, you know, I didn't even know Branch was coaching. But, uh he did a great job. Martin looked great there, but Interject was just, you couldn't beat Interject. He was just looking crazy, guys. Crazy. What else we got, guys? What else we want to look at? Let's see if Anthony Williams has any new updates. He's my true true dark horse because nobody is nobody's expecting Anthony Williams to do much of anything. If that guy makes top five, people are going to be shocked because look at all these guys we've been talking about. He would have to beat he would have to beat all of them to get into that top five. We got any new updates, Andrew or Anthony? No, it's shoulder training. Yeah, I mean, if if I was a week out from the Arnold or less, I'd be posting everything with my freaking in a tank top at least. Yeah, this is guy to watch. I don't think he's gonna make top five this time. There's only 10 guys. He's already made everybody made top 10, but uh could he could he pull into this show and beat some of the these big names we've been talking about? I don't know, man. The back is the one area that I I want to see a lot more improvement in. He needs more back thickness, but the shape is there. The width is there. He just needs to fill in. Look at And you can see the lower lats. of that the lower lats are thick as hell. It's just that area which is really the it's really the lower part of the trapezius muscle because your traps go all the way from the bottom of your neck to halfway down your back. I don't know if you guys all realize that. Think Wes is going to top Mike this year. He's looking sick. Yeah, I I want to see Wesley has not been showing the legs, which obviously that's a red flag when somebody doesn't show the one area that people are most concerned about. This is Wesley. There he is. He's some slop. Look at that. Yeah, I am I'm a huge fan of Wesley. That muscle detail. People love to see that. What these guys eat. So this was the latest update. No, no, that was 102 weeks ago. This is when he won the Arnold. He won both the Arnold USA and UK along with Heidi Chupan as he did in the Open back in 2024. And the legs there. Yeah, to me they're a little light. Somerfeld's legs are they're much better than my than Wesley's. Absolute unit. Someone says it's a hell of a physique. Could he could he beat Mike? Of course he could. Will he beat Mike? I don't know. I don't know. That's the million-dollar question. Will he be able to get past Mike? Very good to beat Andrew. He's the only one showing improvements. Yeah, it's it's uh it's going to be interesting. I mean, we'll we'll have we'll know for sure when these guys finally walk out on stage Friday night. We'll know who's going to be the favorites. She posted of Dennis Wolf for 2014. look super he downsized. Well, he got in great condition, but no, he wasn't down in size. He looked pretty damn great for that win, the 2014 Arclassic win. Okay, that was the only We're only seeing the shoulder and the arms in these pictures, but gez, look at that. Look at those splits between the bicep head, the brachiialis, the outer head of the tricep, the lateral head. Is that his wife? What is she saying? Do not touch family man. I don't know how many kids here. One kid, two kids. It's a beautiful physique, man. It's a very classic physique. I think any of the guys who were fans of bodybuilding the 70s and 80s who became disillusioned, disgusted, whatever with uh the way the open bodybuilding went, the directions it went in terms of rewarding more mass over shape and symmetry and things like that. Uh they got to they got to love Wesley Vissers because Wesley is that's about as old school as it gets and he would have been fit right in in the 70s and 80s in the open. You know there was no classic physique back then obviously. Here's some great shots. Got the sepia tone. So detailed. Yeah, I'm a big big fan of Wesley's. He's a good dude too. Good businessman. Good family man. I mean what what's not to like about this guy? RX is sliced and diced. We have arrived to be classic. Look at that. That's freaking great. That is great picture. See compared to Barry Demay is more dense for a better condition than Barry was. Yeah, Barry was pretty lean though. Don't get it twisted. Barry Demay was in great condition back in the day. Yeah, we're talking 40 years ago. Arnold see looks more like Lou Frigno was brutal. Arnold has no filter. Think Wes is going to retake top place. Two kids. Thank you. His wife owns a Jimmy Trains at a few with real muscle on the shoulders. Yeah, there's no oil in there. You can see the the stripiness in those delts. There's nothing funny going on with those delts. I know we've sort of digressed. We've gotten away from talking about the open guys. Something like young Lou Fero. There's a resemblance. He's He's a better looking guy than Lou was, I think. Don't have to say no homo now. Look at that. The way the lats just hang. They jut out with that little waist. Yeah, that's real muscle, guys. There's no there's no PMA. There's no synthol. There's nothing wacky in those shoulders or arms. It's 100% legit genuine muscle muscle mass. Oh, was he already in Columbus? 2026. Is he already in Columbus? That was early. That was a week ago. No, I think he's just doing a video as him making himself look like the Terminator arriving. That's clever. Yeah. So, those of you who've seen the Terminator, and if you haven't seen the original Terminator with Arnold, I am back. If you haven't seen uh Terminator, what are you waiting for? There he is in the red light district of Amsterdam. Just kidding. I don't know what the the deal with the red lights was there. That is a beautiful shot. Look at those shoulders. Look at that. That's Look at that. That's crazy. That is crazy. Wow. Yeah. That's the wow factor. When you look at a picture, you go, "Wow, this guy looks Uh, judge the body, but I'm not a fan of Mike's mouth. He He actually remind I think he reminds me more of Arnold's physique than Luignau. Honestly, you Barry came into be absolutely peeled. Yeah, he was. You're right, Dave. It was 1988. That was when the Mr. Olympia was held in Los Angeles, California at the Universal Amphitheater next to Universal Studios. That was the only time in Mr. Olympia history that I know of where everybody did a public weighin and everybody was lighter than they said they were in previously. I was like 6'2. Uh I heard 63. I've also heard 64. 63 seems to be the consensus. He's already in Columbus. Yes. Great. Mike the baddest look was awful since he got properly hided. Well, let's not make this all about Wesley. Let's take a look at Mike. It's only fair. Mike the Badass. Where are you, Mike? I guess I haven't looked at his page in a minute. Mike the Badass Summerfeld. So, he posts a lot of updates. This was yesterday. Getting a lot of uh video content. This is probably more for his uh supplement deal than anything else. What the heck's going on with all those plates? Oh, it's it's Mike talking to Mike. Giving some training info out. He still looks pretty impressive to me, guys. Oh, is that the Arnold coat? The Arnold jacket? No. I don't know. All right. So, I guess these are the most recent updates, but yeah, I do see I do see he's not quite as full as he was a year ago when he was able to be much heavier. I think it was like a 10 pound difference, something like that. 212 to 192. I think he has to be like 198 now where before he was able to be 212. So, yeah, you're going to look a little smaller, but he's still got plenty of muscle. He's still got beautiful shape and structure. Clint, was that what that thing was called? That something was called Clint. There he was winning the Arnold last year. I mean, that was a hell of a look. Yeah, he was he was heavier than he should have been, but I don't fault him. I I fault the people who are measuring him. He didn't measure himself. So, how can you blame him? You know, athletes will take advantages. They will take advantages when they can. This was last year when he won the Arnold. Says 63 Wesley. Okay, I'll take that. A picture of Raone the other night. Not sure if it was on his page. Yeah, he's not in the show, so I'm not going to look. Arnold had bigger and thicker bicep and chest than Wesley. See resemblance. Wesley had a better back and quad than Arnold. I mean, if Wesley put on another 15, 20 pounds, I think he'd the resemblance to Arnold physique-wise would be more prominent. So, Charles Claremont, of course, I remember Charles Claremont from the UK. Charles was very good in the IFBB Pro League. I don't think he was ever uh given his just. He did win a couple shows, but he had won the NAVA Pro universe a couple times, and I I think they held that against him. Back in those days, if you came to the IFPB from another organization, it's they they held it against you, the judges. I don't know why. That's seems ridiculous. It's like you left them and you're you're with us now. 202 was Mike's cap. Thank you. So, that was the original lightweight division before 212. Thank you, Kane. I'd like to see Sam Sullen top eight. There's 12 people in classic, so he has to beat He has to beat four of them to be top eight. 9 10 11 12. Yeah, he's going to have to beat four guys. I didn't see four guys that Sull was capable of beating when I was looking at the the full classic lineup. So, it's a long shot. I'm not saying can't happen. And I, you know, I'm rooting for Sam. I'm not a huge fan of his actual physique. I'm not. The shape and the structure, the flow doesn't really do it for me. Uh just like I look at Nextzilla, Ruby Mascara, I'm like, "No, no, this dude does not. Things just don't flow." So Sam doesn't have that gifted shape and structure that most of the guys in classic do, but he's a hell of a nice kid. He prepped himself. He's gotten into great condition. So yeah, I'd like to see Sam do well. I would like to see Sam crack the top eight. I'd like to see him beat at least somebody. I don't want I just I just don't want to see him dead last. It could happen. Somebody's got to be first and somebody's got to be last. But Sam's a good kid. Uh humble, hardworking, doesn't seem like he's got an an ego. doesn't seem arrogant like some people with the success that he's had might be. So yeah, I'm definitely rooting for him. Okay. If Sam would make anywhere near the 12th Well, he's 12th already. Kenne, there's 12 guys, so he's already the worst he could possibly do is 12th. Remember that the Arnold the Arnold divisions are much smaller than the Olympia divisions. It's invite only and they cap it. They cap it at a certain certain amount of people. So 12th place, he's got that locked up. That's the worst he can do is 12th because there's only 12 people in classic. But could he beat some people? Why not? Why not? He does not post full body updates like ever. Everything you'll see, he'll show you his legs or he'll show you his upper body, but he won't show you everything all at once. Of course, on stage, you have to see everything. You you can't hide anything. We're looking at Sam Sullic now. Upper body. Yeah. See the waist. It's It's not a huge waist, but most of these guys in classic have very tiny waist. That's just your bone structure. He's super lean. He's got a great midsection, but the waist it's it's not as dainty as what we see. Good back. It's not tremendously wide. Great delts. Yeah. And I would like to see a posing coach. I would like to see him work with a posing coach. All right, guys. I'm going to wrap it up. Take one last look at the poll. See how that was doing. All right, so 54% of you have Brandon Curry as your dark horse. 11% Raphael Brandell, 5% Akeem. Not too much confidence on Keem. And Mo Fod Mohammed Fod at 30%. Okay. All right. Cool. Cool, cool, cool. Okay. All right. Well, we got one more comment, guys. Thank you. All right, guys. So, thanks for watching. Keep it uh tuned here. Keep your notifications on. We'll be doing more content all week. We'll be doing another power hour, another Meatthead podcast. Who knows what else is going to be on there. So, that is it, guys. Arnold Classic week. Get excited. It's happening in five days. Free live stream. I'll be doing a live watch party with Big Mike Cox and Joll Thomas and we're going to have a really good time. I hope you guys can join us Friday afternoon for the classic judging, Friday evening for the classic finals and the open judging and then of course Saturday evening for the open finals. That is arnoldsports.com to register for the live stream which is free and you'll still be able to watch it here with me guys. So that's it. Appreciate you guys watching and we'll see you next time.