What is up, guys? It's Friday. It is now exactly 6 weeks till the 2026 Arnold Classic. $750,000 up for grabs for the open winner. Classic. I think they're getting a h 100red grand, maybe more. or it's a big big payday. So, I thought we could go through take a look at the competitors posting updates, see how the guys are looking and I am only really concerned today with open bodybuilding and classic physique. So, if you go to the Arnold Sports website, uh one of the pinned posts at the top has this picture of the list. Now, Tonio Burton we know is gone from from the list. He is uh no longer going to be competing. He's still on this graphic and on the list, but just so you guys know, he is not there. You see on the on the right, he's there, but no. So, I'm going to go in the order that they're uh presented here on the Instagram for Arnold. First up is Anthony Williams, who won the Arnold Classic amateur last year, just like Sam Sull won the pro last year. That was six weeks ago. That was a long time ago. Coached by John Dwey. So, this is how he looked a year ago when he won the Arnold amateur. And I got to say, he's one of the better Arnold amateur winners. Uh, in terms of everything, just overall shape, size, condition, that's a really good physique. Uh, a lot of the guys winning the amateur I've seen over the years weren't really ready for the pro stage. But this guy, Anthony Williams, a train, a train for Anthony definitely is. See if we can get some updates. Okay, so this is yesterday. Here's how Anthony was looking as of yesterday. Six weeks out, you can see the glutes are coming in. I find that guys seem to get in shape sooner these days than they did in in years past. I think that's attributed I attribute it to the fact that guys stay leaner in general. You don't see as many people bulking up and getting really sloppy and out of shape like we used to in the offseason. Most guys realize that that doesn't do them any favors. they're not going to gain any more muscle just by piling on a ton of unnecessary body fat. So that's that's yesterday. That's how he was looking one day ago according to this post. That's training. That was a week ago. Uh I think that's actually a shot from last year's prep because it says throwback hashtag throwback. Okay. Ah there we go. All right. So these are very very recent fix pictures. This was posted a week ago. Good shots. Great shots. Coach, completely removed cardio and lower my overall daily step count. Really going to focus on putting that extra output into my sets. Yeah, he was looking fantastic there. That's Anthony Williams. All right, maybe look at one more picture of him. Yeah, there we go. That was two weeks ago. So, yeah, he's he's very good. Very good, man. I'm uh I'm confident he will uh I don't know how well he'll do, guys. We'll see. We'll see because it's a tough show. It's a tough show. You see that they keep it small. Tonio Burton not on the list. Now we go to Andrew Jacked. Uh Andrew, this is the closest to an update we had. This was 5 days ago. And we just saw that one lat spread there for two seconds. See if he does anything else. No, I think he just wants to show you the the clothing brand controlled insanity that he's representing. I think that's what it is. Yeah. Uh, this was a day ago. Doing some rope curls. Yeah. Conditions kind of hard to gauge obviously because all we're seeing is shoulders and arms. But boy, look at those arms, man. I had him in that video I did a few days ago about the the best arms in the sport right now. And some people like it. What's up? your mom's foot flip. Guten to Guten Hobin. I don't know what time it is over there. Andrew looks insane right now. Will it be free streaming, Jack? Not sure, but it's been free for the past three years in a row, which leads me to believe that awesome tradition will continue. I believe we will get a free stream. Uh that's not confirmed, but I do believe I'm confident that we'll get a free live stream. Hope Andrew can win it. Oh, I mean, can he win it? Obviously, it's always free. Uh it hasn't always been free. It was it was you had to pay for it up until I think four years ago was the last time you had to pay. No, it wasn't always free, but it's been free for the past few years. And I I do think you get bashed online. Yeah. I've noticed you you can't get too fat and sloppy in the offseason now. The fans the fans will be really upset. So there's a pressure on these guys to stay lean just for their their social media content, their Instagram, their YouTube. Yeah. Andrew Andrew never posts full body update pictures. I I can't remember the last time he ever did that. In fact, I don't think he does. There we go. Look at that. But he is the favorite along with Hottie. We'll get to Hottie. He's so freaky. Yeah. I mean, nobody looks like that. A big complaint that the old-timers used to say is these guys now all look the same. If you saw them in silhouette, you wouldn't know who's who. I I beg to differ. You wouldn't even need to see the head on Andrew Jack. You you'd know immediately that was Andrew Jack. And you could say the same for a lot of these guys. Sounds crazy, but you know, elephant in the room. I don't know if he's got anything in them or not. I have no idea, but I mean, a lot of guys do. Uh I don't know. I'm not really sure last time we had to pay for it. It's been a while since we had to pay for the stream. I know the last at least the last two years. I know that for a fact because uh I covered it. I I did a a watch party showing everything. Look at that. So, there's a tank top. At least he's uh showing a little bit more. Now, you got the traps popping out. He is uh he's the favorite physique of a lot of people in this world right now. You nobody looks like that. Those really round bubbly muscles. He's a tall guy with long arms and legs, which we we've seen domination the sport for the most part for a long time of shorter guys with shorter limbs. So, it is a breath of fresh air to see a taller guy. There's the back training for Andrew. Back is an area that's really come up on him. His back was it was not a strong point a couple years ago. He turned pro four years ago at the Arnold Classic amateur 2022 and his back was okay. It wasn't great and it's getting better and better. I think training with Kamalgari last year definitely gave it a boost. put some put some new thickness on that back and he's just learning learning how to contract it better. And I think that's that is the key to back growth. Obviously, you got to have good genetics, too. But feeling and squeezing the back when you're training it, especially when you're an arm dominant guy with monster biceps like Andrew, it's not that easy for people like that who have these awesome biceps to learn how to really make the b the back do the work and not the biceps to pull with the lats and try to take the biceps out of the movement. And he's really doing a fantastic job of that. I think some rows spending a lot of time on Andrew because he is he is a favorite. He's a heavy heavy favorite here. Again, I I'd be very surprised if someone other than Andrew or Heidi won this. Not to say that Nick and Martin don't have a chance. Of course they do. Between the Arley Olympia, the Arnold is way more enjoyable to watch. Proach me free. Yeah, I agree, man. Because I I've I've said this before. I have I have no reservations about saying I don't want to watch all the bit all the all the divisions. I'm not that interested at all in uh you know the figure bikini wellness now they have fit model fitness I can watch just for the routines but the fact that the Arnold has limited the divisions they've they've really streamlined their event really oily he needs to win the Arland Olymp we could be we could be in for that could be happening Charles is very very certain Charles Thomas over in the UK my buddy He's very very confident that Andrew's got this got this in the bag. So that's old. All right. I don't want to just focus on Andrew. We got a lot of other guys. I don't want to make it seem like he's the only he's the only the only guy in the show. So going on down the line, we go to H. What happens? I can't go to Martin. Oh, so sorry. Yeah. See, he's blocked me. Martin Fitzwwater. Uh, I would show Martin if I could, but I can't. I can't show you guys. Yeah, I wanted to sports. Yeah. So, I I I went to his YouTube and there's no there are no updates. Uh, so maybe you guys can tell me because you you guys aren't blocked. Martin hasn't blocked you. So, tell me how he's looking. I'm sure he's getting getting in great shape. Martin's condition has been pretty damn great for quite a while now. All right. Right. So, we now go to former Mr. Olympia champ from back in 2019. And he is AI believe he's a two-time Arnold champ. He said four time. Wow. He didn't win that four times. Okay. I think he means he's counting other Arnolds, not just the USA. I think he's won the USA Arnold twice and he probably won uh like in Brazil or a couple he won out of the country another two times. So, this was a week ago. It's an ad for Chic, so I don't know for sure if this is new footage or not. Can't tell you. Uh, he looked great at the last Olympia, though. I mean, I I had him ahead of our boy Nick. I had him beating Nick Walker. Yeah, Brandon doesn't put a ton of updates on on his Instagram either. This was this the last one. Yeah, this was the last Olympia. So, this is back in October. But Curry's still in the running, man. He's still hanging with the young guys. He's in his 40s now. And he's been a pro for a long time. I want to say it's it's got to be close to it's at least 15 years he's been a pro. He's been a pro for quite a while. And he's still hanging on. still beating a lot of the younger guys, which that was nine weeks ago. All right, it's safe to say we're not going to see anything really full. Any recent updates from Brandon, so we're gonna move on. Moving on, guys. Moving on. Brandon Hakee the Beast. Now, Hakee did drop a little bit at the Olympia. Uh did not make top 10. Remember, he had been as high as sixth place before in the Olympia. Hakim Williams. He's won some shows. He's got some great poses. It's just the back shots are really where things fall apart for him. That's where he loses shots to the other guys. But from the front, from the side, Akeem is really, really good. Look at that. That front throw bicep is just a thing of beauty. Aceto is coaching Andrew. Yeah, that's true. Yeah, been I think he's been his coach since 2023. I think 2022 or three. I know George Farah was coaching him before. Jalice says Martin winning now. Jalice says Andrew winning the Arnold Classic and the Olympia. What did you do to poor Martin? Well, I went on power my show Power Hour that I do with Giles Thomas and we we addressed how Martin yelled at him and called him out during the poseown of the Prague show right before he was announced as winner. Uh it was just very unprofessional and you know didn't didn't approve of his behavior and for that he has blocked he blocked Giles and he blocked me. Think Arnold could ever take the Olympia. No, I mean, um, the Olympia title is always going to be the one that people really, really want. Martin isn't showing much from what I've seen. Okay, good. Now I don't feel so bad. Uh, let's see what Martin what we have for anything recent. Yeah. Okay, this is four days ago. So, Akim is very consistent. Uh, last few years, he's been incredibly consistent. Look at that double double bicep of his. The only thing I would like to see better, so he's not as lean as some of the guys we're looking at, but I don't think uh for a minute that he's not going to be in shape when the show comes around. Some guys are they're super lean ahead of time. We see guys right now that are almost ready to step on stage. Like we get to Sam Sullivan Classic. He's he's about ready to go right now. So Akim, you know, he's not out of shape. He's got six weeks to go and this was four days ago. So he had closer to seven at that point. So I think Akim will be fine. Akim has been consistent with his conditioning since like 2018 now, so he'll be okay. Don't worry about Aim. All right, moving on to our boy Nick. Nick Walker. Okay, this is three days ago. And yeah, the waist looks so so small in these mirror shots. He's able to keep it very, very tight. Flat midsection controlled. Looks like he has a great Vtaper. Uh, I just don't know if that's what we're going to see on stage. I hope so. I've said that I want to see a more streamlined, more streamlined Nick Walker. I want to I want to see him back closer to the way he was looking two, three years ago uh when he had a when his waist was smaller. He his overall size, his overall body weight was less, but uh the Vtaper and everything was just so much more pronounced. I like that look a lot. Akim always looks good. structure is amazing. His lats, so he never had great lats. They've always been really really high and they've just never matched the rest of him, which is unfortunate because he's got a hell of a physique. Said he's won he's won about five or six shows at this point in his career. He's been top five in the Arnold a few times, been top six at the Olympia, he's been top 10 a couple other times. Young guy sport appears much value for the historical legacy. Oh, let me tell you though, the bodybuilders, all these pros, they want to be Mr. Olympia. They want to win the Arnold, too, and they love the money that the Arnold gives. 750 grand for first place. I mean, that's unprecedented. They're creeping up to a million dollars. I think that they'll probably stop at a million and maybe next year they'll bump it all the way up to a million. Uh I was surprised if the Olympia didn't match them and and do 750 or even Well, they were already at 600, I should say. So, last year the Arnold was 500. I'm sorry, 2025 the Arnold was 600. And the Olympia was 600. Olympia had already been 600. They didn't bump it up even though after the Arnold announced they were they were bumping it up to 750. Uh I've never seen the Arnold bump up the prize money and they don't need to because they're he's already $150,000 ahead of the Olympia. So it's there's really nothing. It's it's not like uh he's got to compete with them at this point. his 2021 look would win again. Yeah, I mean he looked freaking great. So I have queued up I have him in 2023. Uh this is 2023 when he said he pushed the condition pushed the condition too far and lost some size and fullness. He ended up taking second place to Samson Dowy here. Andrew Jack was in third. This was a really, really good look for him. I like this look, this 2023 Arnold. I don't have the 2021 Arnold uh ready to go, but he looked really good here. And of course, this was the Olympia in 2022 where he was third place in the world. 2022, he was behind Derek, I'm sorry, Hottie, Hottie Chupan, and Derek Lensford. And then it was Nick Walker in third. So, that was a really great look, I thought. If he could bring those looks back, I'm not saying he's going to win. I'm not saying he's going to beat Andrew and Hottie and Martin for sure, but uh he would definitely have a better better chance of winning with that look than with this look. Also, I'm very glad to see that he grew his hair back. I don't like the way he looks bald. He's got a good head of hair. He wasn't losing his hair, even though I heard he thought it was thinning. I didn't see that. I I saw really good hair as it should be. He's still in his early 30s. I know some of these guys have gone bald younger than that, but uh this was not a great look. I I wasn't I wasn't thrilled with this look. He's too big. Too too He gets blocky when he's too big. I think I like to see him more streamlined. Thank you, Kalian. Appreciate that. Uh current generation is thin skinned. Oh, I see Milos posing video. No posing video with who? Milos posing himself or Milo's posing someone else. Stomach is flat. Yeah. I mean, Nick coaching himself and uh I just hope he brings in that that streamlined look. That's what I want to see. I want to see a nice Vtaper. He's never going to have a small waist, but his waist can be smaller than what we saw at the last couple shows. Like right now, it looks like it's smaller. It looks like it's smaller, but these are that's, you know, that's a very selective shot in the mirror. It's not the same as a stage shot. I'm very curious to see what he looks like on stage. That kite machine is stalled. 21 was his best. That was five years ago. Uh, well, he won the Arnold in 2021, but he did take third in the Olympia in 2022. I mean, that's top three in the Olympia. That's very, very elite status. Not many guys ever obviously placed top three at the Olympia. He looks stupid without hair. Yeah. I mean, if you can grow hair, grow your hair. That's what I always say. Why would you shave your head bald if you can grow a nice head of hair? He looks better. He looks younger. The bald the bald look just didn't It just didn't do him any favors. It wasn't a good look for him. We still look good before the show. Yeah. Day of the show is all that counts. Milos did posing video day after day. Milos posed with who? You still haven't told me who he was posing with. Arnold Classic stack lineups. Oh yeah, the Arnold has had some incredible lineups. Couple more with Nick. Nick's legs looking good. Sweep actually looks a little better here. Of course, you can see his feet are turned all the way out if you look at the feet. So, you can't stand like that on stage. You can't have your feet that spled that angled when you're posing and stuff. But so they're not going to look like that on stage. But they, you know, he's done he's he's he has brought them up a little bit, I think. Here he is uh pimping for is Wolf Wolfpack. I don't know. Dark Sport. Not sure. Yeah, he's popping the pecs there. He is a big dude, man. He is a huge huge guy. There's a great shot. King of gains. That's what they call the goon lighting. That's some really good lighting right there. Really good lighting. Milos posing video. Milos. But I don't want to see Milos posing. What are you talking about? Here matters a lot. Milos was by himself posing from the mirrors. Oh, okay. Well, that's got nothing to do with the Arnold Classic, so who cares? What's up, Melvin? Thanks for joining us. All right, so that's Nick Walker. Let's take a look at the next guy on the list, Rafa. Rafa Bernal. So, there's legs again. He took off all of last year to make some gains because he wasn't quite big enough to be beating everybody and now he wants to beat everybody. Those are kids and his dogs, I guess. That's a podcast. Looks like he's keeping things under wraps, too. Interesting. Yeah. Okay. Well, there we go. That was two weeks ago. He looks a little bigger and fuller. It's not a dramatic difference, but definitely actually I don't even know if this is an old This might be an old old shot. Almost time again. Yeah, I think that's from I think that's from a previous previous prep, which means I don't think we have anything current with uh Raphael. But here's how he looked the last time we saw him. Yeah, that was Arnold 2024. Yeah, he's got a great physique. Rafa Rafael, really great physique. Very good shape. Classic type of shape on an open body. All right, let's keep on going down the list. Getting through these guys. Hassan Mustafa, big big dude. That was Vancouver Pro when he won that. I think that's the year it took him. He was doing show after show until he won. He finally won. I think it was the fourth show of the season for him. Yeah. When he's when he's really dialed in, he can beat a lot of guys. If he's a little bit off though, he's structurally he's not as gifted as a lot of these other guys and that that does hurt him. He looks pretty damn great here when he won that Vancouver. The thing is is um he put on another I think it's like 15 pounds of muscle after this. Uh when he competed last summer, he was too he's getting too big where he looks blocky. thing about these guys that are able to put on a ton of size. If you don't have a small waist, if you have a wider waist, which he does, he doesn't have a bubble gut. He just has kind of a wide waist and his clavicles aren't super wide. So, it's easy for someone with that type of structure to look blocky. Of course, when he's super shredded like this, you don't really notice. It doesn't It's not a problem. It's his daughter. Family man. I gotta I gotta appreciate that. That was four days ago doing some curls. He looks tired. He's one of the biggest guys pound-for-pound in the sport. Originally from Egypt, Hassan Mustafa. I think he lives in Montreal now. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That was a week ago. So, we're hoping Hassan streamlines it down. I'm hoping he streamlines it down a little bit. gets a little bit leaner than what we saw last summer. See any more info on Jason Low? No, unfortunately. I didn't want to mention that because it's it's sad news. It's not pertinent to this video. And um you know, it's it's a very very tragic thing what happened. A 38-year-old great guy for anyone that knew him loved him. He was he was just universally liked. He was a likable guy, friendly, smart, funny, really generous with his time. He helped a lot of a lot of upand cominging guys, free of charge, I might add. I heard a lot of stories about how how helpful he was. So that's Hassan looking good. Nick is using more and more goon lighting these days. Oh yeah. I mean it's Milos looks great. I just it we're talking about the Arnold Classic competitors and he's not one of them. Ronnie Coleman package is the best ever in history. The Arnold Classic. Yeah, I would uh I would agree with that. Rafael will likely be the same size before on stage. A little too small. He has to have put on a little bit of size. Rafael. Rafael. No, he has to. Hassan structure with wide hips stick joints leave him exposed compared. Yeah, I don't think he's beating he's not going to beat those guys. I really would be incredibly surprised if he beats those guys. All right. So, that was Hassan. We're almost done with uh and on the list it says Muhammad Hassan, but we call him Mo Mofod. Really good physique. That was a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. That's some serious goonlighting there. That was winning the Chicago Pro in 2024, I think it was. Yep. Here we go. That was that was yesterday. Look at that. Photo Mo FOD is really good. Patrick Torres's coach. Patrick was coaching Keon Pearson. He's coached a lot of great athletes. Photo looks fantastic there. Look at that. That is a great shot. Very full and round. And the the details are all coming in. Great lat spread. I I wish his clavicles were a little bit wider. That's the only thing I would improve on if I'm, you know, if I could. But lord, look at that. That is a big dude. All the way big dude. Energ 95%. We take him home. Yeah, but he's he's been 100% lately. Come on, Ryan. Do predictions for Ohio. Oh, we'll be doing them. Not yet. I mean, it's too soon, man. Too soon. Trust me. I'll be doing prediction shows. Come on. What else do you do on YouTube? Predictions. We'll be doing predictions. Six weeks out. I want to see how these guys are looking closer to the show. Six weeks out is not the show. And that was two weeks ago because he didn't do the bicep. We didn't see the bicep pose in the other shots. But look at that. Really nice high peak biceps. Those tries dropped nice and low. Lats popping from the front. Really good shot for him. Look at that side chest. Nice and full. Nice full roundness to the muscles. The ham drop there on the side shots. Really good. Very impressive. And the back still not a strong point, but it's not off. It's not bad. I think it's gotten it's gotten better. Couple years ago when he won Chicago, he was getting a lot of heat for the back, but it's definitely better than it was then. Yeah, photo is very very good, man. Bob predicts Nick fourth place. Uh, I'll let you guys know when we get closer. I'll let you guys know for sure. All right, that was Photo. And last but not least, Hottie. Now, I don't think Hottie's going to have trouble getting here as other people seem to have think. Uh, the visa that Donald Trump uh he suspended all the visa applications, but that's for people who are trying to come here to be a citizen. It's not for people coming to do business or compete in a sporting event, which Hottie Hottie is doing those. He's he's coming here to to win the Arnold Classic again hopefully. We know he won it in uh 2024. He won the Arnold USA and the Arnold UK. Back-to-back wins. There is with his son. Son's already got a full mustache, of course. Uh what does concern me is the political situation in Iran right now. They're on There's his son. Look at that. They're on the verge of a civil war. Uh the people are protesting and being shot in the streets by by the soldiers. Uh what is this? That was eight weeks ago. I think that was a a parade or something. That's not political violence. So this is eight weeks ago. So we know he never got out of shape. He stayed very very lean after the Olympia because I think he already had had it in his head the plan to come and do the Arnold Classic again. So yeah, who won it last year, guys? Come on, man. Help me out. Uh, wasn't Samson. Oh, it was Derek. Derek won it last year. Yeah. So, Audi looks great. I just I don't know if they might shut down all the airports or something. He might have to they might have to smuggle him out of Iran. Andrew is going a bit overboard with the oil and delts for Martin's look with everything port. Well, I would love to show you Martin, but he has blocked me. But apparently, from what you guys tell me, he's not showing much anyway. So, Heidi Chupan, 2024 Arnold Classic champ, former Olympia champ, 2022 Mr. Olympia, looking to come back and win this again and get $750,000. So, good luck, Hottie. Good luck. All right, let's look at classic. First on the list, we got Wesley Vissers. That's an old That's old. So, I'm not going to That's how he looked when he won this in 2024. He is an Arnold Classic champ. He also won the Arnold UK. All right. This was five hours ago, so this is very current. Yeah, Wesley's condition is never never in doubt. He's he's a big dude. He's about 6'3, maybe 6'4. Uh there were there was speculation he was going to go to open, but that has not happened. Seems to be very happy where he is in classic for the moment and hoping to beat Somerfeld. Oh, there we go. That was yesterday. So, that's an old school old school, you know, vintage gym. Vintage at vintage is part of his company name. and he's very respectful, very uh does a lot of tribute homages to the old school guys. Like that's an old pose. That's an old Arnold pose as he that was one of Arnold's signature poses right there. Looks awesome. Lat spread. Look at that little tiny waist on him. What he's going to do here? Just show us his shirt. Yeah. And this was He's got such thin skin, man. I I love the the detail and the separations that you see with Wesley. It's a very clean look. Not saying he's natural or anything, but that skin is like tissue thin. Some of these poor guys have what I call seal skin. Wesley does not have seal skin. He's got nice fresh healthy skin. Look at that. I want to see the tries. I want to see if he does any uh the pose. You do some back poses. Yeah, you can see the frustrations in the triceps when he's hitting that. Look at that. Oh, hot is in Dubai. Okay, great. Uh, let's see. At this point, Iran, US look like they're going to go HS. So, well, four weeks ago. Okay, that's great. So, if he's in Dubai, he doesn't have to worry about getting out of uh getting out of Iran. So, good. That's good news. I I wasn't really worried. Mr. Fan Wesley's physique like actual modern. Yeah, he was. Look at that. Look at the separation right there. It's it's it's definitely one of the physiques where you you know we complain about guys like Lunsford that the arm is just a blob. There's just no detail at all. And then you look at guys like Wesley where you can see every little fiber every little fiber of the of the biceps and the triceps and the chest and the delts. I love seeing that. I love seeing all that detail. All right, but I don't want to make this just a Wesley show. Let's keep on keep it moving. Menagate Matias Menagate Picioli, otherwise known as Menagate Pro. So, this is old, I'm sure. No, that was uh that was him at the last Olympia. Not a huge guy, but look at that shape and symmetry and everything. He's really got everything except a little more size would probably help him out. I don't know how close he is to the limit, but that's the only thing I would like to see is this physique with maybe 10 20% more more fullness, more size. That is it's a beautiful physique and he's very very adept at presenting it. So, I'm just going to keep watching this and then I'll go and look for some He's probably got some Look at that condition right on the glutes are all in. Back could be thicker. Could be Could use some thickness in the back. But look at that nice deep vacuum. No bubble guts. Okay, he's won some shows. That's legs. So, we're not going to see any physique. Only showing the legs. Okay. Managate. Managate. Yeah. Okay. Well, we know he's going to be in shape because this is two days ago. See all the separation between the arm muscles there. Delts looking nice and strided. No full body posing though, huh? Okay. What was this? How old was this? That was a week ago. Okay. Beautiful shape. Look at that. The waist looks photoshopped on this guy. John, can you count with Dr. Scott Stevenson? Yeah, let me write I'll have to write that down. I'm not going to remember that. Okay, hoping V's legs improved enough. Well, we didn't see any leg shots. Wesley to regain the title. Just about if he's on the list, we're going to get to him. But that's Menagate. Managate looks really good. There's a better lit shot. Nice. Look at that taper. That's a crazy crazy taper. Beautiful pose, Managate. All right, keep it keep it moving, guys. Sam Sullic. Okay, so I do actually have some video. So, here are his legs because there was some some criticism last year that uh he did turn pro at the Arnold Amateur, but a lot of people said his legs were not ready for prime time. Uh I do have some some video of him that I taped off his YouTube. So, this was posted yesterday. Get rid of that comment. So, here was Sam uh a couple days ago. He showed the legs on Instagram. He doesn't uh doesn't show them in these videos, but we know what they look like. I just I'd like to see a whole body posing picture or video, but uh he's very selective in what he shows us. Why is so popular? Uh, he's just really down to earth and he makes these videos. It's all the same format. There's no fancy editing. He's driving to the gym. He trains. He hits some poses at the end of the workout and then he drives home. Sometimes he does eating videos, but that's that's the format for the vast majority of his videos. Uh, but he's just really relatable. The young guys relate very well to him because he's he's one of them. you know, they they they see somebody who has that real passion and drive and love for training and bodybuilding. He's prepping himself, which I think is really cool. Do I think if Sam comes in diced, uh, can he win? No, he can't win. I'm saying it right now, he cannot win. He could could break top five or six if if a lot of the better guy guys with better structure and shape are not in shape. Uh, Lat says he said in his video, "I've never been this shredded." Yeah, that's my next video. I'll show you off what he trains. He trains him. His leg works to be quite since squats. Well, that's not much of a leg workout, is it? His last video shows the legs. Those pictures from the video. Okay. Well, we saw how good the legs looked. Yeah, like a role model. Just like a broken all top five, not winning. No, but I mean top five would be awesome. He has no expectations to win. He has none. Sam structure is an ideal one for classic. No, he doesn't have an arrow and flare. He doesn't have the best shape and structure. He doesn't. He's got a good amount of muscle and he's going to be shredded. I have no doubt in my mind he's going to be shredded. Here's a video we put of his lats. Okay, so that was, you know, this is six and a half weeks out. This is how lean his lats already were. Christmas tree is fully in. Lat shredd. He just doesn't have wide clavicles. It's structure. Your bone structure is 100% genetic. There's nothing you can do to change your bone structure. He wasn't gifted with a great bone structure. He looks fantastic by himself. Uh when he's up there with some of these better classic Zeke pros, he'll be exposed, but again, he's not he's not predicting a win. He's not he's not for one minute saying he's going to beat guys like uh Wesley or or Mike Somerfeld. He knows he knows he's not that good. He knows where he know he's sticking in his lane. He's a very good amateur who turned pro and you know I give him props for for making this his pro debut because it's a it's a tough lineup and he's he's going to have a hard time. All right. So, that was Sam Sullic. Let's keep it moving. Show some other guys. Somerfell, Mike the badass. All right. How recent is this? It'S-23 hours, but I bet we're not going to see posing. Nope, we're not. All right. So, this is two days ago. There he is with his coach, Neil Hill. See glutes already coming in. Striations in that long head of the tricep back there are evident. Somerfeld won this last year, so he is the defending champion. Granted, he uh he was heighted a little taller and he was able to be heavier last year than he will be for this Arnold Classic. Uh but he pulled it pretty well together at the Olympia even though he had to drop something like 12 pounds in the last 10 days. So, I do anticipate he'll be better here than he was at the Olympia because that was a last minute push to get all that weight off. And he's not he's not waiting till the last minute this time. He's giving himself a little more time to to get things right. It's just an it's a beautiful physique, guys. It's a really beautiful physique. Somefeld, he's way covered up. Quads. Yeah, his quads looked his quads took a hit at that last Olympia because I'm sure they had to do so much cardio the last two weeks to drop all that weight. They look like they're filled out again. Glutes nice and strided. It's a butt contest. Okay. All right. Look at that. Freaky freaky. That was six days ago. Yeah. I mean, he's to me he's a classic. He's classic shape, but he to me he looks like he could do very well as a 212 if he ever decided to try it. I bet he would do extremely well because he's got great shape, structure, he's probably going to give up a little bit of mass to some of these guys, but not a whole lot. All right, Andrea Moly from Italy. It's an old old picture. That was six hours ago. So, a little bit on the narrow side across the clavicles, but great condition for six weeks out. Here he is posing with Ramondino. Not a bad guy to hit some poses with, right? Our current physique Olympia champ, classic physique Olympia champion. That must be his girl. That's some banana bread. That was six days ago. Looks like a young dude. So time is on his side. That was uh that's got to be an old shot. He can't be that lean right now. Yeah, that's an old shot. next up on the classic physique lineup, Paul Canoe. Can you lift? Can you lift? Of course I can. Uh so that was two days ago. Also has really good shape. Those legs look really light to me. a little worried about those legs. Let's see. Yeah, they're not awful, but uh that was his first pro win in 2024. Legs are look look a little light to me for Paul, but I wish him the best. Any more updates? There's a good one. That was two days ago. So, here's Paul Canoe hitting some shots in the gym. definitely belongs in classic. He's got that type of shape and structure. But yeah, I'm a little worried about those legs. Okay, keep it keep it moving. Phil new. great legs. I don't know why those shorts are so high on him. My dog. Not really sure where he's from. I don't want to assume China. That would be that would be quite a ridiculous assumption. Now, another ridiculous assumption is Asian guys usually have awesome legs and the back is nothing special. Let's see if he can disprove that. No, there's not much thickness going on there in that back. Damn it. I wanted to see more. Now, he's not as conditioned as some of these guys, but you know, they still have six weeks. The show's not tomorrow. They have a whole month and a half. I'm sure him and his coach have a handle on things. I haven't seen anyone who looks, you know, way out of shape for six weeks. There's a good shot. Ultraflex Fitness. It's not the Ultraflex that uh Not the Ultraflex that I go to. No, that's in California. Okay, he's in California. And that was four weeks ago. All right, let's keep it moving. Keep it moving, guys. Just a couple more guys to look at. Gabriel Zankanelli. Zunkanelli. This was one day ago. He's very good. Those nice flaring quads. This cameraman needs to get get a better better vantage point. Looks like there's things in his way. Gabrielle Zankanelli. Looks good. Looks good. Nowhere near as lean at all as some of these guys. As you can see from the back, he's got he's still got some fat to go there for sure. But he's got six weeks. Got six weeks to dial it in. Too dark. So, we're going to move. There's a lot of classic guys. Ethan Gohari. Well, there's there's Ethan from a long time ago, I think. So, here was him posing last year. I think that's I think that's Texas Pro, it looks like, from the staging, from the light. Yeah, that looks like Texas Pro from last year. They had the black backdrop with the stars. I thought that was pretty cool. Do we have any updates from him? Not really, huh? This is the most recent one. All right. Well, this was a week ago. Yeah. Narrow. Narrow across the shoulders. That's not a great thing. Ethan Gohari, eight weeks out in this. He was 107 kg, which was 11.6 kilograms over his weight cap. I'm missing all your comments probably. See, Sam leaned out too quickly. May have trouble holding on the size. Sam had similar likes to Wesley. Someone likes Wesley. Hope he can work on his posing a bit. Someone lives in Germany. Not rooting for Summerfeld at all. Think he'll defend his title. I think he's he's my favorite to win. Somerfeld for sure. I mean, he just took seconds to Raone Dino at the Olympia after having to crash diet and dropped like 12 pounds in 10 days. So, yeah. Yeah, you're right, Kala. Most fans don't understand the genetic component. I don't know what classic is. I think it's 100. Yeah, I agree. I think it's 100, which is obviously much less than 750, but it's more than Olympia pays. Why German just like Mike so much? I don't know. They think he's fake or something or I've heard some some strange strange answers to that. Okay, that guy must be Iranian because he was praying for Iran. Jorge Erera, two-time Olympian, top 12. This was six days out from the Olympia, I'm guessing. Yeah. Okay. So, that's not recent. That was the last Olympia. George Herrera. Know what show this was? Was that the Olympia? Looks good, man. He looks good. Great conditioning. I love that stage color condition. Nice physique. I mean, so these are guys that like most of you have never heard of. Most of you I've never heard of this guy. He'll beat Sam. If he looks like that, he'll beat Sullic. He's got a better structure and everything. Do we have anything recent? Any recent updates from him? I guess that would be it. Oh, he's in Mexico City. Okay. Yeah, he looks like he's dialing in. He's looking good. Looking good. That's Jorge Erera. Era almost done. Vahid Badpi profile isn't available. Did he block me? Maybe he did. Maybe he did. Oh [\h__\h] Did Vaji block me because of uh because of Martin? I assume anyone else that's blocking me is because of uh Martin. All right. So, this is Kim Angel. He's got four pro wins. He's done the Olympia twice. Look at those legs. Nice and dried out. Yeah. Nice legs looking fantastic. This was two days ago. Show them from all angles. Is this recent? Okay. Recap Sima. No translation. Nope. No translation. Uh, if that's recent, he's looking fantast. Okay, I guess this is Reese. If he looked like that at seven weeks out, geez, he's stage ready right there pretty much, right? Geez, look at that. Looks great. That was eight weeks out. Yeah, he is. He is lean. He is super lean. Kin Angel. All right. So that's the lineup, guys. Why Germans like Mike so much about Paris trying to put a classic Bible? I agree. Childish behavior to block people. I agree. I mean, I I've only blocked people when they were really rotten. like viciously said some horrible things about me or my wife or my son or something. So anyway guys, that is those are the updates for all the open bodybuilding and classic physique competitors going to the Arnold Classic. We will be doing predictions and so forth as we get closer and closer to the show, but that's it for now. Have an awesome weekend, guys. Appreciate you watching.