What's up guys? Ron Harris here and we have another Post Olympia Pro show coming up this weekend. This time it's going to be happening in Poland. Poland doesn't have the star power that these past couple ones have had, but there are still some really good competitors going in. So, I want to run down some of the top names looking for that 2026 Mr. Olympia qualification. First and foremost, my favorite to win this. Even though he did not place at this year's Olympia, he has been top six before and two years ago he was top five at the Arnold and the Arnold UK. Talk about Akim Williams. Akeem when he is on he is deadly. uh at the Olympia. Tough times sometimes, but this is not the Olympia. This is not the Arnold. This is a show with a easier lineup. Um he has a history of qualifying at these post Olympia shows. Um I don't uh I don't see a huge problem with him winning. We do have some other guys who I think could push him. And one other guy I think has a very good chance of possibly beating him. we'll get to in a second. But Akim Williams, very, very strong competitor, big guy, tons of muscle, really great shape, side poses are almost unbeatable. His back shots are his only real weakness. He does have high lats, doesn't have the greatest back development compared to some guys. However, the rest of physique is pretty phenomenal, and his back isn't awful. It just never quite developed to the point of those tremendous legs, pecs, arms, you know, certain shots of his, his front double, his front lat, his side chest, his side tricep, just knockout shots. He is a big guy who gets into a great condition, very consistent the past couple years. Uh, who do I think has the best chance of beating him, possibly getting this? Uh, let me bring up his IG. talking about the youngster, the 28-year-old from Spain, Joan Pradesell's. So, let's take a look at him. Share screen. He stunned this past weekend. Uh, he was fifth at the Prague show and he was third at the British Grand Prix. Yeah. So, that British Grand Prix was a that was the first I'd really heard of him and I was very impressed. Uh, but this Prague show, uh, I still thought he could have could have beaten Keon Pearson. I was so impressed with this young guy. Just everything you'd want. Mass, shape, structure, condition. That frontal bicep of his is a knockout shot there. Look at that. That is tremendous. So you guys are saying so far. Hey Rod very good evening ab I'm trying hold on Abijit Nanda Polish Pawa yeah that was Ivan Puttsky the pro wrestler Poland show will have stream I don't know uh I will put up the the website for the show is ifbbrop.compl so that is that is the official website. I haven't looked to see if there's a stream. I won't be getting that particular stream. I got some things going on this weekend, so I'm not going to check it out. Uh Akim should win this on paper. Yazionic. But this guy here, Joan Pradell's from Spain, he's the one guy I think could upset the apple cart. Um I mean, he just beat in Prague. See, he lost only to Martin Fitzwwater, Samson Da, uh, Michael Crezo, Krzanic, and Keon Pearson. And during the judging, I really thought he had Keon. I I really thought he was fourth place after the judging. What's up, Zionic? Hello, Donald Pump. Samson's not doing it. I suspect I suspect Samson might show up in Romania the following weekend, maybe. I guess he still hasn't made the announcement, but he could take on Andrew Jack. And I know he wants to beat Andrew and show everyone he is still the better bodybuilder than Andrew Jack. Of course, that will remain to be seen. Go to some other stuff with this guy. I am so impressed with this kid. I said during my coverage of the Prague Show, he's going to be winning shows very soon, and I think it could be as soon as this coming weekend. Oh, that's an old shot when he was a kid. Yeah, these are shots from this kid playing Growing Up in Escazellas for picture. So, these were like years past when he got a picture with Martin John. There he is with Samson a few years ago. And now he's obviously on their level. There he is with Keon. That looks like uh not really sure what gym that is. I think that was in Yeah, there he is in the pose down or the posing at uh the Prague show. Here's with Kiso. Yeah, there's a really good shot in with Samson. I'll go back to the Go back to the Look at that. That was really cool. Uh there's a live stream. It's There is a live stream. It's 20 euro. 20 US. Oh, so the euro and the US dollar are the same right now. It's not bad. 20 bucks. This guy definitely going to upset the apple cart. John BCIPB Pro Poland YouTube channel might have the stream. That's good. Free is always best. I love free. I got my Exorcist shirt on again. Oh boy. When will Christian Volski make his return? Yeah, I know. He's really good. He's Polish as well, right? All right. Well, that is John Predell's. I am super impressed with him. There he is with Martin at the show backstage. It's a shot. I mean, he's he's young. He's a diamond in the rough. Uh Jawan, there he is with Samson. They're going to hit a couple shots together. So, here he is with a Mr. Olympia champ and a 212 Olympia champ crashing crashing the party. [laughter] You can see the the the enthusiasm this young guy has for the for the sport. He's just getting started. He's just getting warmed up. There he is getting his trophy. There he is with the uh the rest of the top five from the Prague show. Joan Prael's Martin. Yeah. But let's look at someone else. Uh, another guy I think has a potential to win this would be Ali Edward Carbo. So, he was third at the Yoka Proger Germany show behind Urs and Quinton. These are not the greatest. These these shots are off from the side and you know I didn't see a lot of it's not even him. I didn't see a lot of uh video footage of him. Um like when they were doing the individual video coverage of various guys, but look at that. He is a very very formidable competitor. I know that's just a gym shot, but you can see the fullness, the roundness of those muscles there. Here's all the supplements. got the whey protein on his shoulder. Uh trying to find some competitive some some contest stuff now. Here we go. Here's some stage shots of Ali. Very complete physique. A big big dude. You can see that massive delts, quads, quad sweep is incredible. Big fan of that guy. Besides Mr. Olympian Arnold Classic. Oh yeah. Mr. R will always be most excited for Halloween. Oh, hell yeah. Oh, I'm more excited for Halloween than any of those things. Sorry to say. I was a horror fan long, you know, 18 years before I knew about bodybuilding. Put it that way. Everyone's criticism. Joanna came in their backs a week. So, this will be interesting. Yeah. I mean, that was the case with uh at the German show, the Europa Pro in Germany. Urs Urs and Quinton were the top two and neither one of them has great back development. So, it came down to other factors. obviously is a unit. We're talking about Ali Edward Carbo. When does the show in Poland started? It's both days. If you go to that website that has all the information I'm getting that protein, I want that look. Ali's definitely a guy who can win. Absolutely. Also, favorite old and new horror flick. Actually, Friday, I think I'm going to go off script and do a whole live show about asking what your favorite scary movie is because you know what the heck I think Ali will win. He he definitely could win. Aim could win. John Predell's could win. There's actually a couple more guys. Wish Sergy Dunl was doing this show. He's a huge monster. They like horrors. What's your favorite horror right there? The Exorcist dude. I mean to me that's like the only horror movie. I've seen it about 120 times. [snorts] Spy Joe reminds me of Mike France from the 90s. I agree. Kion. So Ali Edward really really good. Uh we can't do horror movie watch alongs. I'd get YouTube YouTube is really uh strict with uh copyright infringement. Like I did a whole video called The Exorcist messed me up and I had a bunch of clips from The Exorcist in it and I got demonetized like immediately. I'm surprised they didn't shut the whole video down, but they just demonetized it. Meaning I didn't make any any money off it. Do you like scary movies? So, but we'll do that's Friday. Let's stick to the Let's stick to Poland Pro. My grandfather did come from Vorsa. So I do have some Polish Polish ancestry. Another guy from Spain want to check out is Pablo. So Pablo I have him here. Pablo Lope I think his full name is Martinez. Or is that the other guy? No. Pablo Lopez Munoz. John Predell's. I thought his last name was Martinez. So Pablo is really good as well. Here he was at the British Pro. Uh where did he place at the British Pro? Pablo was fourth. Fourth place. Solid competitor. Also looks like a young guy. Pablo is uh look at that crossrations and the tries. I like to see that. And this this show the lighting was just was not great. Um so these shots aren't even as good as they probably could be. I bet if we look at more shots from other shows. Oh, what's this? I don't know what contest this was. Was this an old? No. I'm not sure what show this was, but Pablo Lopeos. Oh, that was British Grim. Pretty, right? Because there he is with Creo, who won. Uh, John Pardell's here's Pablo. And there's Sassan Herat who was second. He was runner up. So yeah, he was in that mix with the British Grand Prix. He was top top four. I can't read my own damn writing. He's very good. He's very good. Next up for you Deutselanders there. We got to get to uh we got to get to Roman Fritz. Hugely popular guy. Only 117,000 followers. I bet his YouTube has way more than that. I know he's very very popular. Germany's Roman Fritz. This guy competes and is always in shape. Oh, that's it's not a posing video. They they always trick me by putting the the posing in the thumbnail. So, this is the most recent update from a couple weeks ago. Great proportions on this guy. Nice deep muscle separations on Roman. He's had both hips replaced if I'm if memory serves me correctly. What little memory I do have. Day one. Let's go. 259. He said offseason day. >> [laughter] >> But he keeps competing. So apparently Roman Fritz is not in an offseason. Uh what was that? I don't know when this was translation. Unza. I don't know what that means. Your mom's flip-flop. Help me out. You're my You're my authority on German German stuff here, dude. Excess is based on true case. Uh, it was actually Maryland. It was actually Maryland. Just outside of Washington, was it? Uh, no. What's that little not Maryland? Uh, it was in that area. You're right. The boy was possessed, not girl. Hocus pocus. Yeah, very scary movie. It's a website. Couldn't find the athletes list. The athletes list is on. I'm going to amend this. Yeah, guys. So, I'm gonna I'm gonna edit this. If you ever want to see the lists for shows, uh, it's usually out every Monday, every Monday evening before any given contest. [snorts] They will have competitor lists on Okay, this one. Uh, oh, what happened there? I didn't update. Okay, there you go. Yeah. So, ifbb.com. No, I'm sorry. It's IFBB Pro. [laughter] IFBBPRO.com. My bad. Let me fix that because I think that takes you to the elite IFBB elites, which we would not have that information. So, the competitor list for all the shows, schedules for everything for the whole year. Those are always onbpro.com.bpro.com. You can always find always find the list for the shows. See, to get around it, you would probably have stream on Discord. Yeah, apparently everyone goes on Discord or Twitch or I don't even know what these things are. Discord Twitch. I'm old. My son knows. So, here he was, Roman posing at the This was the Europa Pro in Germany. He's hugely popular in Germany. Clearly, he speaks German. Uh I think his YouTube channel is is very very popular. All the German speakaking YouTube channels for bodybuilding. The views are enormous because apparently the the Germans are pretty hardcore bodybuilding fans. Okay. My favorite horror movie is Nick. I know you're of East European heritage, Irish descent. No. No. Not everyone's uh from Ireland. So my dad's side was uh purely Wales and England. My father's side. My mother's side was Eastern European. Um my mother my grandmother on that side came from Ukraine uh which was part of the Soviet Union back then. Um actually it was she left right before the revolution a few years before the revolution. So it was just Russia. Uh and my grandfather her husband was from Poland. They actually met in the USA sometime around like 1920 or something 1915. Anyway, who's winning? I think Aim. I think I can his head looks huge. He does have a big head. Maybe it's the ankle. Pablo has been in the game for 12 years already. His body from the front is beautiful. His back has always been a problem. That That's like a That's such a cliche. There's so many guys where the back is like the one weak point. Roman's offseason is everyone's prep. Yeah. Paste link in chat. Link to uh Okay. IFBB Pro. I don't even know if that'll work, but I'll I'll try. So, that's where you get all the contest all the contest links. The links there to the to the different websites for the promoters, the the competitor lists. Yeah, Roman's on the list. Yep. Your mom's flip-flop. Roman is competing. He He can just jump into any show because he's always ripped. So, I'd say after US, probably Brazil is definitely Germany when it comes to bodybuilding, which is pretty nice. What about Iran? Iran's got a pretty big big following. So Roman, yeah, Roman's always in shape. I I've seen him I've only seen him compete once or twice, but he was shredded. He was shredded. That was eight weeks ago. Pretty much all the updates look the same because he's always ripped. He's always in shape. That's that's his offseason. He he looks like this. And then I think he can he can get ready for a show in two or three weeks if he wants because he's he's so lean. He stays so lean all the time. Roman Should I try to read that German? Should I really? Should I mess with it? No. language. Germans murdering it. There he is getting stretched. So Roman, that's Ronnie. That's not Roman. This is Roman's progress, I guess, over the years. He's showing us. That's him when he was a little little boy. A little whippers snapper, as we used to say. Yeah. So Roman looks great. Another guy. We got some more guys in this all the way from Italy. Please welcome. Where is he? Oh, we got two really good guys from Italy. Let's start with uh Roberto Buenomo. I'll give him a follow. So, Roberto Buenomo was in the Tsunami France Pro show where he took third. So, he did very well. Uh there are some good shots. That's both those are both him. [gasps] Solid competitor, very thick. Look at those pecs, those quads. Great conditioning. I mean, third, you don't take third place in any pro show without being pretty good. There are shows with stronger and weaker lineups, but you still don't you don't This is uh nine hours ago. This is what's he doing there? Morning check-in while fasting. The race is really close. I focus and will do my best to bring my best condition ever. Check matino mad. I can't I can't read I can I can read Spanish. I can't read Italian. But Roberto Buenomo looks really good. Oh, here he was from the tsunami show. Let's take a look. Solid front double buy. Great quad separation there. Yeah, I don't I don't see him winning this, but I could definitely see him in the top five. I mean, he was third in France. France wasn't Did uh Did Urs win that one, too? Urs won the German show. Did he win the Is that what he won? Tsunami France. Oh boy. Who won? Tsunami 2025 Tsunami France pro bodybuilding results. Stay signed out. Oh, Sergey Donnov won that. Okay. Quint was second and Roberto, this guy was third. So, yeah, that was Sergey Donnilof. Sergey Dun Donnilof won that one. And Roberto Wanomo here, he was third place. Good look. I have to stop saying fantastic. I've been saying fantastic way too much lately. Everything, everyone doesn't look fantastic. But Roberto Womo looks really, really good. I always like seeing thick pecs because there are weak backs and there's a lot of weak there's a lot of weak chests out there. I see a lot of guys who just have these massive shoulders and arms and the chest is kind of thin in comparison. Another guy from Italy. Where is he? We're talking about Andrea Prey. Andre Prey. So, I don't think he's I don't want to say he was overlooked at these shows. This was the Illy Pro. I think we're looking at right here. Uh but I've seen some shows where I didn't understand why he didn't place his place better than he did. Prey, he's very good. Let's get get back to you guys before I get too far behind. We never had Olympia. We have so many legends. German. Uh yeah, you've Germany's given us a lot of great competitors over the years. I think muscle. That's me. Akim should trim his beard. It blocks his upper body. Yeah, I think beards are fine if you keep them nice and short. I don't know why anybody would have a thick bushy beard. I'll put him up for a second after. To be honest, I don't think Iran is what people make it out to be. [laughter] I don't want to talk speak poorly of Iran. I mean, their their bodybuilding fan base is pretty pretty hardcore. It's cliche think every Boston native is of Irish. There's a lot of Italians in Boston. There's a lot of Irish. Um, but you know, over the past couple decades, it's it's become more oh gosh, a lot of other places. We got a lot of Haitians. We got a lot Cape Verdians, Brazilians, ton of Brazil, a lot of South and Central Americans in Boston now. What's up, Blue Ring of Fire? Your German actually isn't that bad as you think it is. I understand a bit of what you're saying. Yeah, it's one thing I never took. I always There's a few languages I kind of wish I could speak, but I'm just too lazy to learn. He's saying Selena all the time. We're talk probably talking Dan about uh Roman Fritz there. No, I I I suspect that's just his metabolism. I don't think he intentionally, someone can correct me, but I don't think he intentionally stays that lean all the time. It's probably I have known people that were just super lean. This was eight hours ago, Prey. So, you can see he's in shape. His butt is shredded. Oh, was there more were there more pictures there? Yeah. Just a black and white version showing the wheels. So, the legs have kind of been the knock on Andrea Prey that they don't match his upper body. From the side, they look great. Uh, and from the front, the only reason they don't look that great is because he's so wide across the back and the shoulders. Oh, look at that conditioning, though. That was yesterday. Wow. He looks great. Yeah, Prey's definitely He's He better get top five in this. See, the quads, if you didn't see how thick and wide that upper body was, those quads wouldn't look bad. But when you when you compare them to the that upper body, they're just not quite there. But look at that conditioning. Look at that. He's got really good back development. Prey coming. I mean, Roman. Yeah, I knew you meant Roman because he's the only one I know that stays shredded like that all the time. I guess there's a couple people look short. Uh I Presley's not short. Pressy's got to be about 5'11 or 6 foot. I hear most of these pros to be honest. You know what? I tell you, I probably don't prepare for it. Uh I only like there's 10 or 12 other guys on this list. I'm not even going to mention because I don't know anything about them. And I could be very surprised at how good they are. Uh when when the time comes, I mean, I've been surprised a few times this year where people I didn't even have any knowledge of, didn't know that they were good, and then I saw them at the show, I'm like, "Wow, I really should have had this guy in my preview. He's really good." bodybuilders from Spain are doing great these days in pro shows to recent predominantly soccer and few Olympic sports. You know, they've had a lot of good guys in 212 and in classic and in men's physique. Uh now they're starting to get more open bodybuilders than they did in the past, which is really cool. Who else we want to show? Let's show uh the best guy, the highest ranked Polish competitor competing. There's a it's in Poland, so there are some Polish pros. Uh, where'd I put him? Damian Keel. Oh, I thought I had him here. Damian Kuffle. Where are you? Damian. Okay. I hope he has an Instagram. Damian Patrick. No, we want Damian Cuffle Kufell. Here we go. Damian Cyan Kufel, which is So here he was uh the 2023 Olympia when he was competing in classic. So he's moved up from from classic physique to open. There he is with some guy named Bumstead you probably have heard of. This is a while ago. That was I think that's when he got his pro card. Oh no. Classic Zeke Pro first place. He was winning. He won a He won a a show a couple years ago. Looks like 124 weeks ago. Can't really read what what show that was. Okay. So, this was Let's get some translation going here. So, that was his open debut. Yeah, that was Prague. Yeah, he did his open debut last weekend. Just a few days ago, I should say. It's only Tuesday. So, his open debut was uh three days ago in Prague. and he got ninth place out of 29. So that's really good. Ninth place uh for your pro de for your debut in the open category out of 29 guys. So that means he beat 20 guys. Conditioning on point, great quads. Yeah, he looks really good. Scion fitness freaky is uh from Dragon Ball Z. He doesn't even look old enough to be a Dragon Ball Z fan, but I'll give him credit. So many pros. Oh, I mean, sometimes I get uh chastised or talked down to for not knowing about this or that pro. There are so many pros now. When I was starting out in the sport, you literally could know every pro because there weren't that many of them. There were like maybe 70 to 80 pro men in the world, 50 to 70 pro women in the world, and they were all bodybuilders. There were no other divisions. So, it wasn't that hard to know who everybody was. Now, good lord. He won Germany and Italy. Uh, who we talking about there? Are we talking Oh, is that uh Ursa talking about? Yeah. What is Quinton doing now? He's been second tons of times now. I assume he's just taking an offseason. He's finally shutting it down and he's going to make some improvements. Hit me like button. Gratzi. Gratzi. You know, my wife was actually in Italy. Um, she left on my birthday or the day before my birthday, missed my birthday. She was there with her two sisters and four other four other women and they were there for 10 days. They went to Rome. They went to Milan and Naples, I think it was. So, they were they were all over the place, but I definitely want to get back there. I do as well. I think it' be smart for Sam to do Romania. It's a qualification you Well, Samson doesn't need to qualify. He's qualified for either life or five years by being Mr. Olympia. So that seems to be a matter of contention. We'll put aim up one more time. What the heck? Cuz I do think Akim he's he's my favorite to win this. My My money is on him. Do you think using insulin for weaker body parts? I wouldn't know. I mean when I use insulin I just got fat. [laughter] Who that is? But with a name like that he sounds like a bum. Sebum. Yeah. Title pro meant a lot. If someone's a pro, you know them. I mean, I don't want to say that uh being a pro these days doesn't mean jack, but I mean, when you only had 70 or 80 pro men in the world and there was only one division, of course there was a lot more prestige. It's like, say there were only, I don't know, say there were only five Bugattis in the whole world. If you had a Bugatti, it would be like, wow, holy crap, there's only five of those in the world. But if there's 50,000 Bugattis in the world and they were $100,000 instead of three million or whatever they cost, it's not as big a deal to own to be something that's more plentiful. Put it that way. That's all. You worked at MD. You cover the women's divisions also. Starline not as not as well. I mean, we did cover them to a degree, but not much. We we really didn't because the interest was mainly in men's open bodybuilding and classic physique. So, we did devote most of our coverage in the magazine, on the website, everywhere to uh to the men's divisions. What's good, Ryan? How's up? I mean, you're welcome. The entire 90s, the lineups, the NPC Mercedes are so stacked. Oh, dude. I mean, [clears throat] like I said, I remember I [snorts] wasn't at that 91 nationals that Kevin Leone won, the heavyweights and overall because there were no supers back then. But just in Kevin's class alone, you had he beat guys that year like Flex Wheeler, Ronnie Coleman, uh Bob Ticker, Matt Mendenhal, Edgar Fletcher, Rory Little Meer. It was it was Chris Cormier was in that class. That was just one class at one amateur show with the online persona saying AIM Olympia was in the best package because his Arnold in my opinion was better. I think that I still think the best Aim has ever looked was that time he took sixth place at the Olympia. Go to his some of his updates. Aim. Most of his updates are just him posing in the gym. Oh, there's a good one. This was from What show was this? Oh, that was the Olympia just a couple weeks ago. Three weeks ago. Two and a half weeks ago at this point. Yeah. So, this wasn't this 2025 Olympia wasn't the the best oim I've ever seen, but still looks great in these shots. Again, yeah, the back shots, that's that's his weakest his weakest pose, his rear lat spread. He looks so much smaller in the rear lat spread compared to those side and front shots. Rear double's not awful. Not awful, but that side chest of his, I agree. He should trim that beard. I'm not a fan of that beard. Oh, what's this? Oh, there we go. Love that front double bicep on Akim. Polish scouts pretty good. Yeah, pass a section. Yeah, they messed up his back. Oh yeah, Akeim had AI think you're talking about Aim. He had a car accident a few years back. I think it was like three years ago. Back was all messed up. Shoulder was all messed up. Jo got to head out. Appreciate you watching, bro. It is five hours ahead, six hours ahead in Deutsland. And then we're having daylight savings time. We're falling back. So, we're going to move the clocks back an hour. So, then there's going to be another hour difference. So, UK is 5 hours ahead of me now. Where Giles is, it's going to be six hours. And the mainland of Europe, the rest of Europe is going to be seven hours ahead of me. Like when I talked to uh Dr. T over in Greece, he's going to be seven hours ahead. Reminds me of Burle Fox. I came better said wheels. Both incredibly strong though. Yeah, Burle was Burle's chest to this day is probably the thickest one of the thickest set of pecs that's ever walked this earth. Oculus CH from 2014. Yeah, he's he's been doing this a long time. He is a veteran. He is a veteran. Okay, another Jaws and Milos live. I don't know. I don't know if Milos would ever do another show with me. I mean, he was very upset. Very upset after that. Uh because I used I can't remember if it was the title of the of the video or the the picture of him like screaming I used in the thumbnail. He didn't like it. He just didn't like the way he was portrayed. Which, you know, I got to I got to I got to try to get some views, man. [snorts] I got to I mean, I don't do the clickbait stuff like coach Greg Ducet. uh a week before the Olympia, he made he put out a video called Mike Somerfeld is out of the Olympia exclamation point. I think it got like a million views. And Mike was not out of the Olympia. It was total clickbait. Uh but he made he made thousands of dollars off that one video. I've never made thousands of dollars thousands of dollars even in one month of doing like 20 30 videos. So clickbait works. I'm I don't I don't really do He shouldn't be upset at you. He is though. You remember he was really upset at Xavier from desktop. You know, he's an emotional guy. He's passionate. I get it. I like me a lot. I would love to have him back on. I love how many time Josia to hang on during the live stream. Thank you, Dan. Appreciate that very much. So refreshing after muscle discourse movement. Thank you. Yeah. I mean, I'll just briefly comment on that. The uh [snorts] the whole issue about Steve Weinberger taking a phone call at uh at the judges table. So if Jim Manion or Tyler Manion, which are really the only two people that are above Steve in this hierarchy of the IPB Pro League, Jim being the president of the IPB Pro League and and uh Tyler being the vice president, if they wanted to make sure somebody won, I don't think they would wait until right before the announcement [snorts] to call Steve and say, "Hey, change the scores. We want to make sure Martin wins." I mean, Martin I don't think too many people were really complaining that Martin won. I thought Martin looked amazing. Best Martin Fitzwire we've ever seen. Samson looked better than he did at the Olympia where I had Martin beating him anyway. But I thought Martin looked even better than he did at the Olympia. And to me, he was a rightful winner. I still could have seen Samson winning just on the sheer mass. He was a much bigger guy. U the condition wasn't awful, but Martin just he he crushed it. He crushed it. So anyway, I don't think there was any any uh politics or funny business going on there at all. Great job as always. Thank you, Jack of all trades. Appreciate it. Greg, you said is Rosio Rosio Donald Biden. Doesn't look good being on the phone. Oh, absolutely. He shouldn't. I don't know if it was a like a sometimes you have like family emergencies going on. You have to be available to people. I don't know what the I don't know who was calling him or who I don't know what the circumstance was, but I agree. It's a bad look for the head judge to be on the phone at all at that time. It did look bad, but I don't think it was related to the contest at all. He says it wasn't. And I know a lot of people would say, "Yeah, he's got to say that." Believe Limp was a case of Martin did knock out Sam Prague. He was undeniable. Yeah, the first time. Anyway, guys, I'm going to take off. Uh I'm going to go walk walk my dog. You know, I walk my dog twice a day every day. He's a big big 80 pound pit bully. Needs a lot of exercise. So, for the information on the show, uh there's plenty of information. PL and of course ifbbro.com is where you can always get competitor lists, schedules, the results of different shows. The scorecards are on there, tons and tons of info.bpro.com. So that is it. Appreciate you guys watching very much and I will see you the next time. Hey, got to remind you next next show is tomorrow night at 7, [snorts] a Prague Pro breakdown, which I know it's kind of late to be doing that, but I have Jose Raymond, the Boston Mass, joining me on the Meatthead podcast with Big Mike Cox. Jose Raymond has one of the best eyes in the sport as far as analyzing and breaking down physiques, why this guy beat that guy, what this this athlete needs to do to improve. So, getting his take on all that is going to be really cool. I appreciate him doing it for me. Ah, this is not me. This is this is not me on a fake account as commentator. I'd love to do a live stream with Giles. I would love to, man. I would love to. But anyway, guys, thank you so much for watching and I will catch you tomorrow night, 7 PM Eastern on the Meatthead podcast with special guest Jose Raymond. Check it out.