What's up guys? Ron Harris here for the Ron Harris Muscle channel. And before I get started, please if you like these videos, hit like, subscribe if you're not subscribed, and share. Now, talk about Samson Dao, the 2024 Mr. Olympia champion who lost his Olympia title and dropped down to fourth place because he listened to the critics which you know isn't always a bad thing and dropped dropped 20 pounds from his normal stage weight. Um this is how he looked at this Olympia 25 Olympia. This was Samson at 280. Now granted he's still an impressive bodybuilder. He still was fourth best in the entire world. However, this was not the Samson that we had seen the year before with 20 additional pounds of mass. We had hoped that the uh coming down to a lighter weight was going to give him an extra level of condition that we'd all been hoping to see, but it turns out he was just a little smaller with the same condition. Nothing like this. This was the 2024 version of Samson winning the Mr. Olympia, dominating the Mr. Olympia at 300 pounds. Now, numbers are just numbers. That's all they are. Just a representation of how much weight you carry in this world. But they do they do mean something to bodybuilders because if someone is typically competing at a weight and then shows up drastically lower than that normal weight, unless there's a huge increase in condition, it's really not worth the difference. However, Samson has released updates. He's been he's been really good with updates. He went on a mission after that Olympia to not only regain the size, which he had regained some of it in Prague a couple weeks later, but he is up to an all-time high body weight now of 340 pounds. Looking like what most of us would need chat GPT to accomplish. He is so full-blown, so big and full looking. Uh this was the most recent posing update. Want to show you that the back which he had lost a good amount of fullness and thickness in the back. The back is better than it's been before. Look at that beautiful big Kane Corso dog down there. Great dog. So this is the biggest Samson has ever been. Uh the midsection does not seem to be blowing out and he doesn't seem to be slowing down. I think he's going to go for 350 or more. I think he's just going to ride this till the rails fall, the rails come off, which means he could go theoretically, who knows, 350, 360. Who knows when he's going to be big enough? But I'm asking you guys, is he big enough now? Does he need to be any bigger than this? This is pretty pretty freakish looking. I think this with conditioning would beat Derek, would beat Hottie, would beat Nick, would beat Martin. I mean, the the fullness is just out of this world. So big. This is a guy who's six foot tall or maybe a maybe a smidge under six foot. 340 pounds. So right now, he is the heaviest of all the Olympians right now. Heavier even than Andrew Jack who's got a couple inches in height on him. Uh Nick Walker. You could argue that if Nick was the same height as Samson, he would probably be as heavier, if not heavier. But doesn't matter. Samson is is what he is. He's six foot or a touch under, 340 pounds, just looking absolutely massive. And I think personally he's got all the size he ever needs. And I'm never even going to complain about the condition. All he needs to do as far as I'm concerned is bring back that condition that he had when he [snorts] won the 2024 Olympia with the size that he had there. Those two things combined because he was beating everyone back then anyway. Um, but what do you guys think? Let's go to the Let's go to some comments. We got a couple. Let's [clears throat] see. Yo yo, what's up, Mickey? Show us today. Thank you. Thank you. Anything going for Muscle Contest Japan? I wasn't even aware about that. He'll be back even better. He only lost to Martin Andrew because he was downsized. Uh yeah, well, he didn't he lost to Martin in Prague. That's right. He didn't lose him at the Olympia. I I actually thought, as much as some of you guys think I'm a Martin hater, I think Martin should have beat him at the Olympia as well. Yeah, let's go back. Let's take a look at that some of that footage. So, this was Simpson versus Martin in Prague or Seventh Century. Gained probably a little more than half of the size. I think he was uh I think he was well was way back over over 290 at that point. Your mom's flip-flop, what's up? Yeah, he's qualified for life. your mom's flip-flop. He doesn't need to re-qualify for Olympia. He is an Olympia champion. Uh even if you're in the Yeah, obviously top three qualifies and he wasn't in the top three, but as an Olympia champion, just like Brandon Curry, Brandon Curry doesn't need to keep re-qualifying even though he doesn't place top three at the Olympia anymore. He is uh lifetime qualified as Mr. Olympia. That is wild. Yeah, the 340. If his waist isn't blown out, why not keep going? Yeah, that's a good point. I mean, obviously, if we saw his midsection getting bigger and thicker, blockier, chunkier, taking away from that that silhouette of his because he has got one of the greatest silhouettes I think we've ever seen in bodybuilding. Uh, let's go to this one. I'm going to go back to uh I'm going to go back to the posing, the current stuff, not the old posing stuff. Yeah, look at that. [clears throat] 340 pounds. This one he just keeps hitting the double bicep over and over again. And there was actually people were speculating about that bicep on the right which would be his left bicep as in is it why is it look like it's bruised? Is it a bad injection? Did he tear it? I don't know. Is he jimmying up? Is he got PMA? That's that's a new thing. PM everyone everyone supposedly has PMA in their muscles now which I find hilarious because I I seriously doubt more than more than a few people have that stuff in there. Yeah. Let's hope he comes in full. Well, I think it's safe to say hard house, we're never going to see him come in smaller and flatter ever again. I think that was a one-time experiment trying to achieve a level of conditioning that we were all pushing the fans, the media people, the critics, we were all complaining for the past few years. We want to see Samson shredded, dry, grainy. He tried that. It didn't work. He came in smaller and he didn't look any bigger as far as I'm concerned. I'll go back to the Olympia. Go back to that footage from the uh comparisons for the Olympia. So, you can see how how much smaller he was than normal. The legs were way down. You could see the back. Even even in these front shots, you could see the back was down. And he had to settle for fourth place behind Derek, Hottie, and Andrew. Uh this was the smallest version of Samson we had seen in a couple years. That's like the size he was two or three years ago when he was coming up trying to get bigger working with Milos still. Let's see. We got need more forearms. D he's not going to none of these guys are going to work their forearms because nobody The only people I ever see complain about it are uh some fans here and there. I don't think I've ever heard Tyler Manion on his assessment of physiques after the shows say, "You know what? This guy needs to work on his forearms. Diet down something that's just fish diet. Uh yeah, well he's eating he's eating the way his coachwife tells him to. Jack give a weight number after we see what his stage weight is and conditioned. So if he won the Olympia at right around 300, I think he might have said he was 304 305. Guys, correct me if you're huge Samson fans and you know the exact number, but I I don't think he would ever need to be much heavier than that. That was the look that beat everybody. Anyway, if he's put on a couple more pounds of solid new lean muscle tissue at almost 40 years old, which is pretty impressive, I gotta say, uh, if he can do that and keep all the lines and maintain the condition, then yeah, go for it. He overdi the last time. I agree. Melon melancholy bodybuilder says his back. Yeah, he's never had like an awesome. There's only a few people that their back makes you go, "Wow." You know, Derek Lens for being one of them. I'm sure there's a couple others you can think of, but there's not a lot of guys who turn around. He's like, "Geez, look at that back." The YouTube videos. He's bigger now. Uh, yeah. Well, I'm looking I'm showing I'm showing stuff from his Instagram, which is just a couple days ago. Can't imagine he won't regain that title. Well Well, Jack, the people who have something to say about that are the hottie fans, the Sam the Andrew Jack fans. Uh, Derek has fans, believe it or not. He's got plenty of followers on Instagram, so he does have a big big fan base. And the Nick Walker and Martin Fitzwwater fans, they have something to say about that, too. They they all believe their their guy is going to win the Olympia this year. He just overdied like a dummy. Yeah, you know, that's easy. It It's It's funny that his wife didn't have the final say in the cardio, but I think that's actually common with with clients and coaches. It's not uncommon for them to do either more or less cardio or eat more or less than what their coach is telling them because in their hearts they truly believe they need more conditioning or they need to be fuller or something gets in their head, stuck in their brain that makes them makes them really not listen to their coach 100% because in their hearts they believe they need some aspect that the coach doesn't feel they need. It's going to make it hard for them to get the conditioning to win again. Uh, I don't know, Martino, if he was getting fat, and this is by no means fat. This is 340 pounds, and you could still see very clear separation in the quads. You could still see all his abs. He's got separation between the the delt heads. A little bit going on in the arms. Yeah, it's funny how he doesn't, you know, his biceps aren't much more detailed than Derek's, but I don't hear too many people complaining about it with him. Nick Walker fans should go silent. They won't, though. Hey, you know what? That's good. I'm glad that Nick has fans that are so dedicated, so loyal to him that they believe he's going to kick everyone's ass. I mean, that's a real fan. It's not always realistic because if anyone believes that their favorite guy can't be beat, well, they're in dreamland because everybody can be beat on the right surfaces. So, this was 2024 when he won when he won the Olympia up against and look at the size. Look at how thick and massive, dense. So, he's bigger than that now. But look at that. He looks literally twice the size of Hottie. Hottie is probably about a 235 240 lb man, but Samson there was probably a little over 300 lb. And clearly he's a good six inches taller than hottie. He towers over him. It's not just a a contest of who's taller and who's heavier, obviously, but you can't help but be impressed when you see someone that big, that tall, that big, and he still has really good shape. Now, granted, yes, the condition was not spectacular, but it turns out that when he goes for that spectacular condition, he doesn't end up getting it anyway. He just ends up coming down in size. So, I don't think it makes sense for him to uh to play the conditioning game, as we say. Samson already 40 years old. Uh, it's coming up soon. It's not yet. So, Samson data birthday. It's coming up within the next couple months. Let's see what I say. Samson Dow birthday. Okay. March 11th, 1986. So March 11th, a few days after the Arnold Classic this year, he will be 40 years old. He's still 39 for another couple months. Uh a little little over two more months. Feels like he's putting on size too fast. Yeah. I mean, that would be the concern. Um but you know, I I I look at the weight. I look at the midsection. I don't see a gut. I [clears throat] don't see anything resembling a gut. Let's go back to that. Let's double buy, which I've shown a zillion times. Tells that fireworks. All right. He does seem very very uh obsessed with the scale, which you know what? I get that. We've all been there. Uh especially when we were all start That's kilograms. [laughter] That was when he was 339. He's put a pound on since then. That was a week ago. Yeah. No, I get it. I I get the I get the whole thing about liking to see the bigger number on the scale. I was chasing big numbers on the scale for years and years and I'm just a you know compared to Samson in the world of bodyling I'm I'm a nobody obviously but even him even Mr. Olympia is pleased to see an extra pound or two on the scale. You know I think his offseason weight just a couple years ago was 300 pounds when he was working with Milos. [snorts] He was he was competing just a few years ago right around 250 pounds 250 255. So he's put on about 50 pounds of muscle since he hit the pro circuit which is astonishing. Uh you know it's not because he's an older guy. He's not old by any means. Uh he got into he got into bodybuilding a little bit later than most of his co cohorts. So when we say that oh no he's almost 40. It's not [clears throat] like he's been competing since he was 16 or 18 like a lot of these guys have. He didn't get into it till he was in his late 20s. So, he's still fairly fresh, fairly young in the game compared to a lot of the guys he's up on sharing that stage with. I would say he needed more size when he won the O in 2024. Yeah. I mean, I I I think that look was so impressive. >> [snorts] >> He was the biggest guy up there with shape, with decent conditioning. You know, Hottie was more conditioned than him, obviously, and there were few there were many, many more guys on that stage in 2024 that were more conditioned. But the Olympia or any contest, it's about a total package. He had the total package, size, shape, structure, conditioning, the best blend, the best combination of all those factors, all those attributes. And that's all he needs to do is bring that again. And I would never ever count this guy out for winning an Olympia again. I think we have a very another very exciting Olympia coming up. Obviously, they're all exciting. But Samson could get his title back. Headti could get his title back. I mean, he won the he won the the finals. He beat Derek in the finals this year or this past year. I guess it's already a past year. Uh, you know, Nick Walker still has the potential to win it. Derek could win it back. His dog should pose on stage as well. Those Connie Corso are they're a beautiful dog. It's like 150 pound dog. It's a big big boy. It comes out of stage weight. We all know about Greg Kovac. Yeah, I was actually talking about Greg Kovac last night on the Meatthead podcast. We were talking about we started talking about uh me, Big Mike Cox, and John Olivia about how we got into lifting. And then I just threw it out there. Who's the biggest most impressive guy you ever saw? I I threw out there Greg Kovac because I remember being at a gym where he was doing a video shoot for for Muscle Tech at the time. This was probably mid 90s. He was 400 410 lbs something like that. Horrible aesthetics, huge gut, but the sheer mass of the guy was ridiculous. It's like you were standing next to a mountain of a human being. He was so massive. But no, Kovac never had any kind of shape. He was he was awful compared to these guys. 2024 Samson beat 2025 Andrew. Ah, somebody should do I wonder if uh superset man has done one of those blitz mashups. That's a good question. Stage weight just come in shapy. Do I remember Akim Alrech? Of course. Hey Marks Max Muscle. Yeah, Akim was in the first Mr. Olympia contest I ever went to the 91 Olympia in Orlando. Akim was very good. Um you know he had some flaws to the physique. I don't think his arms were ever that great. He was shape overall shape and structure wasn't wasn't that aesthetically pleasing, but he was a huge guy and he he got into really good condition. Yeah. Shape. Martin G. Phil Sam feels threatened by the improvements that Andrew is bringing, so he wants to beat him on size. Yeah. I mean, we were talking Giles and I have been talking for a couple years. You know, Andrew has the potential to get past Samson one day. He certainly had the genetics. We knew that. It was it was only a matter of time that Samson could be caught slipping and someone like Andrew could get past him. Now, Andrew didn't beat the 300 pound Samson data. He beat a 280lb Samson doubt. Can he beat the the normal Samson or the This is going to be a better a bigger than a bigger than usual Samson that we're going to see later this year. But Andrew might be bigger himself, too. Andrew might be making improvements. He should be Samson 24 beats Andrew 25. Yeah, probably. Yeah, Markx, it it looks like if we go back to that it's Max. Why do I call you MarkX? You're not a Marxist. Yeah, if we zoom in on that that bicep shot, it does look like to me like he tore it. Obviously, he's got darker skin and that sort of but you could that looks bruised. That looks really bruised to me. I'm going to keep it on there. So, look at that arm on the right. His left bicep. Yeah, that looks bruised. Now, a tear, as any of you who have had a muscle tear know, there are there are grades to the tear levels. There's a minor minor tear. It's called a pull or strain, and then you can have a full tear where it's off the bone. This is nowhere near a full tear. I don't know if it's even a partial tear, but that is bruising. The color is it's very discolored compared to that arm on the left, his right arm. So, I don't know if he tore it and he certainly hasn't come out and said, you know, most bodybuilders will not talk about injuries unless it's unavoidable. It's something that it's impossible to ignore or deny because they know if they say they have certain injury, the judges and everyone else, they're going to fixate right on that area immediately when they take the stage and they're going to look that look at that as an excuse or a reason to to score them down a little bit. But yeah, that looks bruised to me. VIP in the chat. Marks. Max. Yeah, Markx. Max. It's Max, right? Is it MarkX? I don't know. You can [laughter] correct me, man. I don't want to get your name wrong. But yeah, he does some amazing work. He's got a Faceless channel. He doesn't put his his ugly mug like like I do up on the on screen for you guys to see. Always wants to chat with you, catch you lives. Thank you, man. Appreciate it. Appreciate you being here, man. You've got a great channel. Uh yeah, that does nothing. Some Pmama cannot fix. So I guess Pmama is most useful when you have a muscle tear that was never repaired like uh that Fabriio coach, the guy who coaches or trains, not coaches, he's he's a trainer, coaches Ramondino and Horse MD and a a bunch of the top Brazilian athletes. He uh he documented it. He was not denying it. He had a pec tear with a big dent which if you don't get your pec tear repaired you have this big dent in your chest like you could put your fist in it. He used the PMMA the little acetate balls plastic balls to fill in that gap to fill in that area that was gone which you know he's not competing or anything. He's just walking around trying to look swole. So he's not cheating. He's not taking any money or titles away from anybody by doing that. But everyone is up in arms about uh PMMA being used to build fake muscles and that's why certain people are winning and it's this whole Mark is my actual name. Ah perfect face for [laughter] what's that say? There's there used to be a DJ. No, there's a guy on YouTube. He does like red pill videos. The Joker. This bald dude with glasses. He says with a voice for a face for radio and a voice for something. I can't remember but it was hilarious. But yeah, people watching don't even know. A lot of them are like, "Radio? What's a radio? [laughter] What's radio?" Satellite radio. You have one, if you drive a car, you have a radio in your car. You probably have like, you know, satellite satellite radio playing all your favorite serious XM tunes. [snorts] Yeah, I'm not going to dwell on his bicep, but that does look face only a mother could love. Yeah, my mother my mother thought I was quite handsome. But you know what? I look like I look like her and her her husband. So, of course, she's going to say that. Uh, what else we got? Put some training with Samson up. Man, he is he is looking beastly, man. This is a chest movement, I believe. I think that is. Yeah. Look at that. Is that him? No. Somebody else. Who are these other people? No, that's Samsung. Can't really see him in there. He's got all his uh sponsors equipment in there. Looks like some great stuff. And I don't know who else he's working out with. Who else he's got in his private gym there? That's his own. He's got his own private gym which is fully stocked which is the dream of every meathead. Look at this dog. I got to put that. That is a beautiful dog. Beautiful puppy. Look at that. I'd put that on a t-shirt if that was my dog. It's Marina with the dog. I know we're not talking about his dog, but you got to appreciate that dog. Kane Corso. That is a beautiful animal. Beautiful. I'll put this up. This was the 24 Olympia. Again, I'm gonna leave that up. So, so far, this has been Samson's best best look he has ever brought to a stage. October 2024, coming up on a year and a half ago, uh, when he got that title that every bodybuilder dreams of, and you know, he lost it, but he wants it back. So you look at the conditioning here. It's not spectacular, but it's it was good enough. Together with everything else that he had, the size, the shape, the structure, the conditioning was good enough. You know, when you have plenty of everything else, you can you can lack a little bit, a tiny little bit in some other area. You know, if you have crazy condition, shape, structure, and all that, sometimes you don't have to be the biggest guy. You understand what I'm saying? It's it's all about the total package. And that's what the judges have the very very difficult task of trying to figure out. Size obviously there. I think refinement and structure from Adam more to something that keeps pushing to be controlled. Yeah. Zion see the shape is is a concern but I mean look at uh look at how he looked when he went down in size. The shape was was not as good. Now that he's bigger even at 340 I think he has better shape. So this was 280 at the Olympia back in October. Uh, I I don't like his overall shape at the smaller body weight. He's not as full. He's not as round. So, he doesn't have that same beautiful shape. I I like look at this when he came out for the Olympia 2024. Uh, I honestly think Giles has said this, so maybe I'm copying Giles, but to me, he looks his very best when he first comes out there. Just that shape, that silhouette, the traps, the shoulders, the the X-frame, everything is just crazy. Does he wrestle? No, he doesn't wrestle. People in Brazil are dying from PMA. And some people PMA. Yeah, that's awful. For cats, sorry. That's okay. That's why we always say you can either be a dog person or a cat person. I don't know too many people that are both. Tried watching Simmons cooking a Oh, Samson's YouTube. Every video starts with cooking a 14gallon plastic box full of chicken. Wow, that's a lot. PMMA. Yeah, I I'm sure it's awful for you, man. What's up, Donald Pump? Many girls dying in Brazil from renal failure. Not anal failure. Renal, that's kidney failure. Sentity to be at least 450. You would be disappointed. I mean, that begs the question. If he's 340 now, if he really wanted to keep going and pushing and eating and blasting tons of gear and stuff and insulin, how heavy could he get before he started to get a big gut? I bet he could get to at least 350 and he's only 10 pounds away from that. I mean, he could do that. I bet he could put another 10 pounds on, let's say, in the next two months if he really wanted to. And and most of it would be muscle. He'd probably put on a little bit of body fat along with that, but I think it would be mostly mostly muscle. 450. But yeah, it's funny you say that because I was kind of thinking how heavy could this guy get? I mean, he has a obviously he's got a big big frame. He's got a frame that can carry a lot of weight. So, I wouldn't be overly shocked if he could get to like 360 because he has the frame to hold it. you know, smaller smaller guys with lighter frames, they they just don't have the framework. It's like you can't build a house on a small foundation, but he's got that big foundation. I mean, look at this. This is crazy. And we've seen guys, I mean, in terms of like sheer mass, you know, Nick Walker's uh a half a foot shorter than this. He's as big. Maybe you could even argue that he's bigger and freakier in some ways, but for a guy who's six foot and 340, this is like, you know, this is like a linebacker or a big pro wrestler, except that he's got the beautiful aesthetic shape that we like, as bodybuilding fans, we like to see. Where is he going to? He's going a seminar, Planet Fitness, Nigerian Lion. Planet Fitness. I hope that's not the same Planet Fitness chain that we have, but I bet it is. Yeah, I don't want to see all the stuff where he's got a shirt on because then you can't really tell how big he is. RIP to that guy. [snorts] Makavelli Motivation. Yeah, they're Makabelli's putting They do those great compilation videos, montages, whatever you want to call them. Very inspirational stuff. Look at the size of Sam. He's filling filling up that whole frame quite well. He's a big big guy, man. Big dude. But is he does he need to be bigger? I guess that's a question. So [clears throat] that muscle mass on the body, anal failure. [laughter] Yeah. Well, Starline Giles is saying he looks most impressive when he first comes out. He looks He's not saying he doesn't look impressive uh when he starts posing, but I agree. When he first comes out and you just see that silhouette and that shape, it's it's just astonishing. I wonder if he's got anything like that here. He probably does. Look at look at where he was. When was this? This was 2018. This was his pro debut. Look at that. So, he has done all that in seven years. That was seven years ago. A little over seven years ago. And he was probably like 240 pounds. Look at that. Hard to believe that's the same guy. And he's already a pro here. It's not like this was when he was just starting out competing. But Samson was baby Samson back then compared to what he looks like now. He certainly put on a ton a ton of size. Yeah. I thought he was gonna I thought he was going to have the uh the bigger stuff there. What's this? There he is with uh Joan Pardell's. Joan Purdell's from Spain. The young guy. Huan. Huan. I'm not saying Joan. That was very nice of him to to share this share the pose down with him. Uh what's this was Prague. So this was Prague a couple weeks ago after it was pretty good how it was is interesting to see how fast he was able to regain what he had lost. He didn't get everything back in time for Prague, but uh it was pretty close. It was pretty close. This was Prague as well, I think. Yeah, that was some good footage. Uh his legs came down. Usually a sign of atrophy as you age left. Well, the legs came back. Um if you if you notice these recent foot the recent stuff, uh his legs are they're back. There's no Don't worry about his legs. Yeah, it's true. As as men age, they do tend to lose some size in the legs, but that's usually for guys who have been bodybuilding for many many years. And Samson's still kind of new in the game, so he still has plenty of time before his legs go on him. They they're not they're not showing any signs of going away anytime soon. Anal failure. Yeah, that muscle mass beyond the body, though. [snorts] I mean, it's it's going to be interesting to see how much bigger he gets and, you know, what he looks like this fall because I don't think we're going to see him on stage until the Olympia. I don't think he'll do a warm-up show, although you never know. when he won the Olympia, he did that Paris the the pro show in Paris a couple weeks before. That was a big shock. Video way too black. Oh, the one from Prague Dark. Yeah, the road to 400 now. He better low health. He better not go to 400. That's There's no way in hell he needs to be 400 pounds. No way. That is way too heavy. Stress in the heart increases exponentially. He's clean. Yeah, I mean I'm sure he's doing what he can to mitigate the risk. You know, he's he's got Marina, his wife, is coaching him, so obviously she's looking out for his health and well-being, too. So, they're probably doing everything in their power, you know, maybe blood pressure meds, different kind of things, metformin, different things that they that you can take. I'm I'm not as well verssed as some of you guys might be to avoid the damage that can be done. But still, yeah, it is putting a lot of strain on the heart just on all the organs when you're carrying that much mass. It's it's not so different from being morbidly obese. Obviously, those are people that are eating completely unhealthy food and not exercising. So, it's not a not a great comparison, but you're still straining the body and the organs and the system as a whole by eating way more food than the body really needs, which, you know, does does any does anybody really need like 500 grams of protein a day and 2,000 grams of carbs and 200 grams of fats? Probably not. But, I'm guessing that's where he's at. He's probably right around something like that. Uh Melvin at a bowl game in college football. Yeah, I don't play I don't I don't uh I don't follow football. Didn't judge told him he needs some size. Well, the jud Jack I think the judges told him that. Yeah. Which I don't think he needed to even I don't know if he actually sought out the judges opinions or or feedback I should say, but it was apparent to everyone that he came in too small at the Olympia. uh that that package that he brought to Olympia, [snorts] you could look at it right here. It just was too small. It's it's the size he was a couple years ago before he started winning everything. And it just it wasn't enough. It wasn't enough to get past these three. Uh now, he's been beaten by Derek and Hottie before, but this was the very first time he'd been beaten by Andrew Jacked. And Andrew was looking better than he'd ever looked in his life. And Samson was looking worse than he'd looked in quite a while. So yeah, I could see why Samson is on this mission to get as big and heavy as possible. But you know what? He knows what he's doing. He's a grown ass man. He's almost 40 years old. He's got his wife in his corner keeping him uh hopefully keeping his head on straight, keeping him from doing anything crazy. No, it's not Huan. You said it right. It's Juan. I keep getting different people. Well, I had someone from the same town in Spain message me with a voice message to to tell me exactly how to pronounce it. And they said, "Juan Huan, like, ha." But whatever. It's J O. Do you think too much cardio can? Oh, absolutely, Melvin. Absolutely. Uh, I've seen so many guys lose a lot of size and fullness in their legs the last few weeks before a contest when they were doing two hours of cardio a day. It's just it's overtraining. You know, your your legs can only take so much. You're training legs once maybe twice a week as it is with heavy heavy weights and then you're going to beat them up on a step mill or running on a treadmill or something. Yeah, absolutely. Few years of being that size ain't that big a deal. He'll be fine health. Yeah. Yeah. Brent, he hasn't It's not like he's been carrying 340 for years and years. [snorts] And um you know, I don't know if he's going to take a health phase at some point between now and the Olympia because he's deep in the offseason and still maintaining pretty good condition obviously as you can see. But will he decide to at some point back off on the eating and the gear for maybe a month or six weeks at least just let everything rest and reset, clean out, clear out before Olympia prep because he's not going to have to start Olympia prep till July, August, September. probably like July actually. No, I think the Olympia is earlier this year. Yeah. Yeah, it is. Olympia is actually coming up earlier this year. It's not October. I know this because I'm going to Australia in October. I was really worried I was going to miss the Olympia. So, the Olympia is happening September 26th is the Saturday, the finals of the Olympia. So, the Olympia is back to being a September show this year for those of you who haven't looked into that. foreseeing is bad. Yeah. I mean, the people that live the longest are lighter, smaller people. Uh, you can Google it. It's a fact. Big, heavy people do just they don't live as long. Think about the last time you saw a guy who was like 6'4, 300 lb or more who was over the age of 70. You usually don't, but you'll see a lot of very old, short, skinny guys, uh, who probably didn't eat tons and tons of food in their lives. It's it's a stress on this the whole system when you eat all that food. Your digestive system is working harder. It's boiling, bro. It's not going to be healthy. Oh, I mean, yeah, clearly they they try to be as healthy as they can, but there's no healthy way to do this. And, you know, there's there is natural bodybuilding. And the guys are much much smaller and they're definitely healthier because they're not pushing the gear and they probably don't eat anywhere near as much. But most of us like to see the freaks. I like to see the freaks. I I appreciate natural bodybuilders. I competed naturally for years. My son's natural. I respect the hell out of natural bodybuilders. But given a choice between watching natural bodybuilding and enhanced bodybuilding, I'll pick enhanced bodybuilding every day of the week. Every day. He was skinny. His abs was on display. Like 24 was bigger. Yeah. Derek's back is so wide, big and yeah, Derek. It's funny how people think Derek sucks. He doesn't suck, guys. He's won the Olympia twice. He's won the Arnold Classic. He doesn't suck. Sorry. Hakua, you talking about Huan? It's Hakua. Hakua girl sames. Chew on. So now it's Chewan. [laughter] I'm just gonna I'm just going to call him uh Praell's young Mr. Praell's. And then I don't have to worry about how to say it. His name is pronounced with a J. That'd be Jan. See, I've never heard any Spanish person with a like a name like Jose or Juan say Jose or Jan. It's Juan or Jose last name Jimenez with a J. It's not Gmenus. Why can't bodies be healthier though? Because it takes a lot of different drugs in no small amounts to produce extreme exaggerated amounts of muscle mass. Natural bodybuilding can be healthier, but the guys are much smaller and most of us don't want to see that. It's just not as interesting. It's like that old thing about going to the going to the zoo. Do you go to the zoo to see squirrels [snorts] and dogs and cats, stuff you can see in your own backyard, or do you want to see lions, tigers, elephants, bears, giraffes, these big big crazy big animals that you can't see anywhere else? Tough guys, I know much time left. Yeah, I think we're we're looking at the the last few years. I don't know. Andrew just started competing in 2022. So even though Andrew's 40, I think he's got a few more years than people think he does. Super freak. Super. I love that song. Rick James. You know, Rick James, I think he wrote that song about Linda Blair who was he was dating at the time. Linda Blair from The Exorcist. Well, they have to overdo it, unfortunately, because you can't really be moderate or cautious at that level because all the other all the other guys are pushing things pretty hard and heavy. though they have to. How heavy was Marcus Rule at his biggest? I don't know how heavy he was in the offseason. I know he was about two 280 on stage and he was about 5'11 close to 6 foot. I don't know how heavy he got. Obviously, he must have been over 300. He was probably like 320 330. Hakuan Brazilians keep pronouncing R as H. The Gracie family. Yeah, I I speak halfass Spanish. I speak zero Portuguese. So that language is a mystery to me. Total mystery. Hickson Gracie, not Rickson. Why would you Why would you pronounce an R like an H? That doesn't even make sense. Juan Joan. God. Well, I know how to pronounce Samson. How's that? Samson doubt, everybody. Samson data. Yeah. So 340 with abs with muscle separation and a hell of a handsome Kane Corso dog there. Is the dog's name Samson, too? No, I don't know what the dog's name is. Uh, but he's trying to get this back, guys. He wants to get this back. Will he get it back? Oh, he's he's not going after this this year, though. He's not getting that Arnold Classic title back this year because he's not in the show. He's definitely definitely not competing in the Arnold. And we'll be talking more about the Arnold as we get closer to that, obviously. But, uh, yeah, I think I'll show you one more one more clip before I take off. And that was from the [snorts] the last Arnold Classic where he was look pretty damn good. I thought is it AC top three when he took second place to uh, I'll do this one. I like this one. I like the low angle stuff. So, he was second place to uh Derek Lunsford here at the Arnold Classic almost a year ago now. It was a really good look for him, but getting beat by Derek is, I think, what pushed him and Marina to decide we're going to have to be shredded. We're just going to have to be inside out peeled for the Olympia. uh because basically Derek beat him on conditioning and he came back uh to the Olympia 20 pounds lighter than what we're looking at here, but with no increased conditioning. He just was a smaller version of the same guy. So chasing conditioning, going for that ultra shredded look is probably not ever going to work out for Samson. Player strengths, his strengths are that beautiful structure, shape, and of course mass. He's definitely one of the guys who combines those those factors to the best out of anyone in the world at this time. And in 2024, he was deemed the best in the world. So, could this be could this be the key if he comes back bigger? We shall see, guys. We shall see. I'm stop sharing. Yeah. All right. Put one more picture of him up uh while we get this out of here. I think he's just talking about his uh equipment there. Samaran is his his sponsor. Yeah. Yeah. We'll just leave this up while we close this out. Let's close this out, guys. Few more comments and we're we're out. Got some Dana. Having a dog named after yourself would be a flex. I just bought supplements and Wesley promoting expect 20 pounds of muscle. Yeah, Donald Pump 20 minimum. Absolutely. [laughter] I don't want to keep chaining the finishes out from bronze, gold back, bronze. Ah, can't make up their minds. Can I pronounce Andrew Jack real names? Yeah, it's Chinedu. Chinedu Obea. Obea. Yes, Chenedu. I know Chenedu. That's easy enough. I think it's Obi Ka. I'm going say it's Oba or Obea. One of those two. Obviously, Nigerian language is very different from English, so I don't know. All right, guys. Well, that's it. I think I've talked enough about Andrew, not Andrew, about Samson Dada. If you're watching this on the replay, let me know in the comments. Is Samson data big enough now at 340 that he does not need any more muscle? Or do you think it's in his best interest to keep pushing, get even bigger, maybe get up to 350, 360, something crazy, something we've never seen before? 360 off seasonason and he can still see some abs, some muscle separation would be insane. If he can do that while keeping his midsection in check, why not? All the best to him. It's bodybuilding. So, let me know in the comments what you guys think. Of course, like, subscribe, share, do all that good stuff. It's been my pleasure speaking with you guys and I'll see you tomorrow on a new Power Hour episode with my man Giles. Till then.