What's up everybody? We are now just a little over five weeks out from the 2026 Arnold Classic and I was on the fence about Putty or Andrew. Who's going to win this show? I am now on team Andrew all the way. I have drank the Kool-Aid and I am certain Andrew Jack is going to win. Uh here's one of the things that that convinced me. This was a comparison that uh Nick Miller put up. You've seen this picture I'm sure posted in other places. Andrew Jack as he appeared at the Olympia versus six weeks out from the Arnold. So this was taken last week I believe. the picture on the right definitely bigger and that's all Andrew really needed if he could be just a little not that he wasn't big enough he was a he's a big dude but who's beating this who's beating this is Nick Walker beating this uh is Martin Fitzwwater beating this is hottie chupan beating this I say no I can I'm confident now I would even bet money on it I'm not betting privately with any of you guys don't get any crazy ideas but I believe that he is getting better all the time whereas I Don't think Hottadi Chupan has gotten any better in years. I don't think he can get any better. I think he's great. He's amazing. Hottie Chupan. He's Mr. Olympia for goodness sake. He's Arnold Classic Champ. But he's been as good as he's ever going to get for quite a long time now. Whereas Andrew, we are seeing improvements. We're seeing real improvements in Andrew from day to day. And Andrew is first, second, and third, says Mike Cox. Yeah, I drank the Kool-Aid, Mike. Comparison picks. Uh, what has he been eating? I don't get crazy on pre-cuts, but I mean, once I saw, and another thing is Andrew almost never never posts full body progress picks. It's so rare of him to do that. This tells me that he's super confident. Now, you could see by the the floor there, that's at my 40 gym in Tampa. He's in Tampa now. He came to Florida at over six weeks out from the show to finish out his training camp, if you want to call it that, with Kamal Garnney. Kamal worked with him for the Olympia. He also worked with him for the Romania Muscle Fest and we saw the differences. I'm going to show you some comparisons that Superet Man did. Uh let's see first uh if he has enough SEO to fill shoulder w how do you know Nick doesn't have anything? I'm not saying Nick does have anything in his arms or shoulders, but how do you know for sure that Nick doesn't? Would you bet your life that Nick Walker doesn't have any oil in his arms or shoulders? How do you know? You know, it's it's easy to throw stones and accuse people, but how do you know for sure that uh that that Nick doesn't? I mean, I don't know if he does or doesn't. I don't know if Andrew does or doesn't. Somebody can be Martin. He's done it before. Um yeah, I mean, I'm not I'm not writing I'm not saying it's impossible that that Martin can can win or that Nick can win. It's possible, but I am very heavily heavily favored now with Andrew. Uh I haven't heard anything about being done. However, he has not been posting. He hasn't posted in like 6 weeks, which is very, very unlike him. Uh, I do believe he's in Dubai now. So, he's not in Iran, but his family, I believe, is still there. Iran is it's basically in a state of I think they're on the verge of a civil war again. They they've had all kinds of issues that country over the years, but they're shooting the civilian the government, the fundamentalist government is shooting the protesters in the streets. Thousands of them have died already. It's it's bad over there. >> [snorts] >> Camala is kicking his ass in the gym. I want to show that in a minute, but heard Hottie won't be able to go to the US long source regime in Iran. No. Um I know that a lot of his fans are turning on him on Hadti Chupan because he is not coming out and saying anything against the fundamentalist regime in Iran. You know, they want him to to support the the people who are I don't know what you call them. I don't think he'd called them revolutionaries or anything, but the people who are opposed to the government, they're they're expecting Hottie to say something in support of them, and he has not done that. I don't think he's come out in support of the government either. He's just trying to stay in his lane and focus on being the best bodybuilder he can, but his fans, you know, with everything that's going on, their country is being torn apart right now. It's it's in a state of massive unrest. They want him to choose sides and they want him to come out against the government. He will not do that. So, a lot of Hottie's fans are turning on him for that reason. I don't know if Hottie can get here. Yeah, I'm not 100% certain. I know the visa situation is is uh bad for anyone who wants to come here to live, but I don't think it's been affected for Iranians who are coming here to do business or or compete in a high level athletic event like he is. So, I'm not uh I'm not certain that that would that would impede his ability to get here. Nick does feel it would be his belly. Lol. Wamp wamp. Give a thumbs up. Thank you, man. It doesn't cost you anything to do that. Give it a like. A little thumbs up always helps. All I want is a battle top three. I don't care who wins for Martin. I mean, all three are capable of winning. And Hottie's capable of winning. Of course he is. Of course, Hottie. I mean, Hottie was winning uh the finals at the Olympia a few months ago. He's won He's won the Olymp Yeah. Iran is in it's in a rough It's in rough shape right now. That country. Uh, if he can't make it, I don't know. I mean, I like someone correct me if I'm wrong, but I I believe he's in Dubai. So, it'll be a lot easier to get to the USA from Dubai than it would be if he was still in Iran. He's beaten Andrew over and over. How's it feel? Nick Rock will do well. Yeah, we're going to get to why I why I'm saying this though because I I do have uh I do have my my reasons because I believe that Andrew is getting better, particularly when he trains with Kamal Gardney or Kamal's training him, I guess you would say. He's making improvements. He made improvements between the Olympia and the Romania Muscle Fest that he won, which I'll show you in a minute. How do you get Shredder? His legs are getting smaller and smaller. Yeah, like I said, is not getting better. If anything, he's starting to get a little bit worse in in that aspect. I mean, his legs never had that that mismatched look before. Nick the Brick. Martin is the dark horse. Yeah, I don't think there there are too many people aside from Martin's hardcore fans who are really predicting a win for him. He Andrew Martin, Nick. Okay. Okay. Well, you have you have Martin beating Nick. The Nick fans aren't going to approve approve of that. People in Dubai come without any problems. Yeah, we have no issues. The US and Dubai are in great great relationships. All right. So, I want to show you some uh some comparisons that Super Set Man did on his YouTube channel. So, here we go. So, on the left is 2024 Texas Pro. In the middle is 2025 Mr. Olympia. On the right is Romania Muscle Fest 2025. So, you see the difference. Uh, I think that the lighting was it's it's not equal, so it's kind of hard to tell, but you can see that Andrew was significantly bigger and fuller in Romania, which was only uh a couple weeks later. What was it? A space of Where's my calendar? I know I should have had this ready for you guys. How much time elapsed between the Olympia? So, the Olympia was October 11th. Uh, Romanian Muscle Fest was uh November 8th. No, I'm November 9th. So, that was only, see, one, two, it was three weeks. That was a three-week difference there from the middle to the right. Three weeks between those shows. Now, he was crisper. I'm not going to say condition was equal. He was crisper at the Olympia, the middle shot, but on the right, he's definitely fuller. You see it in the legs, in the quads, particularly in the front shots, but you can even see it in the side leg shot there. The the hand has a little bit more drop and sweep to it. Uh when we get into the next pose, you'll see the back difference. So, we know that he can put on size, and he did that while still prepping. So, here's the back shot, the back, the rear double bicep, I should say. And the back has come up significantly. I don't see a massive difference, but you could see the back is a little bit thicker. And that was in three weeks. And you can't make a huge improvement in three weeks time, but he did he came in at 296 pounds on the right. That's what he was when he won Muscle Fest. I believe he was a little under 290 at the Olympia. So, it's probably somewhere like 7 to 10 pounds fuller [snorts] with a little bit loss in condition. I'm not going to I'm not going to say the condition was exactly the same. Here we go with the rear lat spread comparison. So, he hits the shot differently uh now than he did in the past. He doesn't he didn't open up as much in the past. I think he was trying to show more thickness, whereas now he's capitalizing more on that tremendous width that he has, but you can see he's definitely on the right. The the the tricep is the biggest difference in how he hits the shot. He now hits the pose in the traditional way, the way that their judges like to see where you can see the side leg in the middle there at the Olympia. The judges want to see the side leg in your side poses, side tricep and side chest. So, that's not what they want to see. It's a beautiful shot. Um, you know, it's it's really old school. It's kind of like a lot of the uh the guys in the 70s and 80s would do that pose, the side tricep. You can see the massive difference. Oh, I went right away to that. So, here we go to the going to go to Okay. Aban thigh. That's a killer shot for him. A knockout shot. You can see there at the Olympia in the middle in the red trunks, the legs were crisper, drier, but they were down in size. They were a little bit flat. On the right in Romania, they're much much fuller, much fuller looking. Uh we'll get to the most muscular in a second, but yeah, here's the most muscular. And look at the difference between the middle and the right. Uh just three weeks between Olympia and Romania Muscle Fest. It's a tough shot. I I think he wins all the front poses. [snorts] You know, Nick's got crazy biceps. The thing is, Nick doesn't have much of a taper. Uh, unless he's somehow able to bring back that streamlined version, which would be a lighter version of Nick Walker than we've seen in a very, very long time. He doesn't have the the Vtaper at all. He's never going to have a Vtaper like Andrew because he doesn't have that structure that Andrew has. Let's get to some of your comments, then I want to go to some uh some Instagram stuff. Yeah, Hottie is pretty old. No, age isn't a factor. I I think Hottie's younger than Andrew. Andrew is uh I think Andrew is 41 now. [clears throat] Let's see what the uh let's see what AI says about that. How old is Andrew Jack for? It says about 41 years. So no one's really sure. And I want to say Hottie's late 30s. How old is Hottie Chupan? He's 38. Okay. So Andrew is definitely older. But think about this. Hottie has been a pro for about 10 years now. Uh I know he was competing in the 20 in 2017. Giles saw him there. So I think actually I think he turned pro around 2016 or 17. Andrew, four years ago today, Andrew Jack was still an amateur. Four years ago today, think about that. Four years ago today, Andrew was prepping for the Arnold amateur, the 2022 Arnold amateur in Columbus, which he won. So, at that time, nobody knew who he was except people have been seeing him on the Larry Wheels videos. And look at him now. He's a favorite to win the Arnold. He's one of the favorites to win the Olympia. He did it in such a short time. He conditioning carries him. If Heidi makes it on stage, he probably won't be at his best because the chaos in Yeah. I mean, I I'd like to think that he can have tunnel vision and focus 100% on the prep, but you know, he's got a gym. He's got a gym in Iran. He's got his family there. It's it's his country. He's got tremendous national pride and with everything going on there, I don't know how he can how he can focus on the show and that doesn't affect him. I mean, maybe maybe he's so mentally tough that none of that's going to going to impact him at all, but it's it's hard to imagine. Andrew can't mess up the peak. He's peing pretty well lately. Chris Aceto and him seem to have the formula down. Hottie turns the chief. People want him to lose. I never thought I never thought the Iranian fans would turn on Hottie, but it's happening and it's politically motivated. Andrew winning. Yes, that's what I say. Ghana and side shots his weakness. Yeah, they're only two shots though. And um you know, we'll see what happens. Nobody's perfect all around. Everyone has bad poses. Yeah, we've never had 100% perfect bodybuilder ever. Ever in all these years. Andrew side poses are much better because he sits more on his leg. He's he's improved the side poses a lot. They're a lot better. It's coming with time. Let's go to some posing from Romania while we were looking at the comments. Okay, Phil's prime didn't have any weaknesses. Uh, he didn't. Yeah, I mean, all you could really say was his shoulders weren't tremendously wide. Like, look at how wide those That's a bone structure thing. Andrew has very wide clavicles. Phil Heath never had very wide clavicles. They were just average. He built a ton of muscle on his shoulders and his upper back and he made himself much wider. But the structure, the actual framework was not that wide. Whereas Andrew so much more gifted with the structure just the framework that his parents or God or whatever you want to whoever you want to give credit to gave him into his abs and thighs is crispy. That is his that's his one of his money shots where I don't think anybody really beats him right now in the ab and thigh. I think that's his pose to own. Phil was lights out. Yeah, Phil Phil Heath was incredible. There's there's no doubt. Phil was mostly Yeah. I mean, Phil was uh seven years in a row, Mr. Olympia. You don't you don't win the Olympia seven years in a row for unless you're pretty damn great. I think Nick will play second. Very possible. GLP may have messed Nick up. I don't know what missed. That's a good question, Mike. I don't He was He looked like he was just a little spilled over. I have no idea of knowing, but I it looked to me like the carbup went a little too too too much in the direction where they should have probably stopped the carbs at some point, but they kept loading. I mean, I don't know. Andrew is 40. Thank you. Age is always a factor certain time. Yeah, but you got to think of training age, uh, competitive age. Some of these guys who are 40 or 41, like let's just say, let's just say Andrew's 40, let's call it 40. A lot of the guys, the pros who are 40, they've been competing since they were teenagers. They've been they've they've put their body through a hundred different contest preps. Andrew is not Andrew is not like that. He has only done I haven't added up the shows. He's probably only done about a dozen shows in his whole life. Something like that. So, this was the Olympia. Yeah, this is the Olympia where he took third place. That was a great great look for him obviously. Back to your comments, Andrew. Easy win. Phil is my favorite Bible. Yeah, Phil was Phil was amazing, man. He was You don't app We didn't appreciate him while he was still competing. I think most of us Most of us appreciate him a lot more now that he's been gone for a few years. Andrew, easy win. Andrew is 41. I just heard 40. Phil's 2011. Yeah, I like even in 2010, Mike, when when Jay beat him and everybody booed, I thought that was a pretty amazing look. But 2011, Andrew beat everyone. It was a god amongst men and he's pushed now ages on his side. Well, I think his body is still fairly fresh. You know, we don't have any torn muscles, loose skin. Uh he hasn't been on crazy amounts of gear for 20, 30 years like some Well, 30 years a long time. Some of the guys he's competing against have been on gear for much much longer than him and they've been through a lot more contest preps. Roden won at 44. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. 40 is not what it used to be. 40 used to be pretty much the end of every athletes career in any sport. You were just too old. You were an old man. But bodybuilders at 40 now, we see them doing we see them winning shows left and right. Uh let's take a look at how he looked at uh Romania versus Yan Yoan. This was a great look for him. Again, that was up several pounds from the Olympia. K Andrew is my favorite. Yeah, he's a lot of people's favorite. A lot of people thought he should have won that last Olympia where he was third. Phil was narrow. Midsection was not the best. Hey, what's up, Marks? Well, the midsection was fine uh in his earlier pro career. Toward the end, it was getting a little bubbly. A little bit bubbly. Bubbly in a bad way. Not bubbly like a nice round full muscle. And he's going to look huge next to Nick and Martin. Thinking Brandon could be top four. That would be If Brandon could be top four, that means he's beating assuming Hottie makes it. He's got to beat either Hottie, Nick, or Martin, which you know, it could happen. Shawn Ray was Yeah, Shawn Ray was pretty damn great. Mark Smax Muscle, great channel, guys. Check him out. No. Anyway, yeah, abs and thighs is it's it's a lights out shot for him. Basic Olympia next five years. Yeah, he's young. He's 27, I think. He's a young dude. Andrew's still new to competing, right? He's he has not been doing this that long. He's a youngster in the game, you could say. And that would be accurate. Romania again. Maybe I'll show the Olympia top four. Yeah, here he was at the Olympia up there with Derek Hottie and Samson. That was a great look for him. Of course, he took third place. He beat Mr. He beat the reigning Mr. Olympia, Samson. So, someone already said Rhoden was Sean Rhoden was 44. 44 when he won the Mr. Olympia. The oldest man to ever win the Mr. Olympia. Ian. Yeah, we're not talking about Ian right now. Sorry. Romania look blew my mind. Andrew Real's a little too jimmyed up. Well, I I I'm not commenting because I don't know what Andrew does or doesn't do in terms of oil and all that. Bren should have beat Nick at the past Olympia. I agree with that. I had I had uh Curry, Bren Curry in sixth and I had Nick in seventh at that Olympia. His legs look huge my 40 pick. Yeah, his his legs have come up because people used to give give him crap about the quads. He's bigger than Samson. Well, Samson's like almost is 346 now. So Sean's 43, so he's now he's he's younger. 43. Okay. Well, he was he was up there anyway. And who casual suspect? You guys are brutal. Same age as Chris Dickerson wrote was a couple months old. Thank you. Yeah, I I remember seeing that they put like 43 years and eight months versus 43 and two months. So, it was a it was an it was a matter of just months. You're right, Max. You're totally right on that. Even bigger Sams may have an issue with Andrew. Yeah. Let's go to uh I want to go to some of the current stuff. So, let's go to the Let's go to, as old people would say, the Instagram. So, let me get rid of this. Let's me change this. Hang on a second. Share screen. All right, let's take a look at his Instagram. Uh, his stage weight was 296 at the Romanian Muscle Fest. I believe he was [snorts] something closer to two 285 to 290 somewhere in that range at the Olympia. So, he was a few pounds up uh from the Olympia at the Romania Muscle Fest 3 weeks later. I did see a little less condition. He wasn't as crisp, but he was definitely bigger and fuller and fuller and rounder just worked so well for him. So, that's the tour he's doing with Giles. You can see up there he lives Tampa, Florida. He's in Florida. He's he's in Florida prepping for the show and that's where he prepped for Romania and for a lot of the Olympia too. He stayed with uh stayed in Tampa area and trained with Camalo Garnney and we all saw what happened. He jumped up after taking fifth place in the Olympia two years in a row. He made the leap into the top three. And here he is with Kamal. Kamal putting him through the paces there four days ago in Tampa, Florida. Yeah. I mean, everybody can train hard in their own, but I think with a great coach or training partner or trainer, whatever you want to I don't know what you technically call Kamal. [snorts] He's his trainer, just his good friend who's who's helping him for the show. But everybody everybody has the capability of doing more with someone else pushing them past their limits. Because the great thing about a trainer or a coach or whatever in the gym with you is you don't ever know exactly what's coming next. If you're training yourself and you know you're doing a drop set, somewhere in your brain, you can sort of hold back a little bit on the on the set before that because subconsciously you know what's coming after that. But when you have someone training you and you never know what's coming, you're never prepared. So you your brain doesn't do that. It doesn't doesn't start trying to conserve energy or or effort. Andrew is big and gets very detailed guys size. What's up Raymond? Andrew is top three in the world right now. They only lose the arm if he starts guest posing doing call. Well, I mean, uh, hottie is still a threat. It's just I I really worry and you know, I like hottie a lot. Uh, but he's going he's going through some stuff now. His fans are turning on him. His country is on the brink of a complete civil war. Uh, it can't there's no way it's not affecting him psychologically. You know, imagine if America's in a bad state now, but imagine if we were an actual civil war. I can't imagine that. Momentum is on Andrew's side. It almost just pop different. Yeah. Nobody looks like Andrew. Nobody. It's a very unique look. I've been following bodybuilding since 1987. Uh the the Olympia and the pro shows. And I've never seen anyone that looks like that. Built like an action figure. It's a very very unique look. What happened to saying a good tall body will beat his short builder? Yeah, I don't I don't believe that's always true either. Uh the best man wins whether he's 5 foot tall or seven feet tall. 7 feet. So yeah, I don't I don't think that that's always true obviously because Andrew was a good tall bodybuilder at the Olympia and he got beat by two good shorter bodybuilders. So if that statement was 100% accurate, Andrew would have won the Olympia and he did not. Brother, if you're in the gym, witness muscular man talk down feeling for you. Would you report or not? Uh I would sure yeah [laughter] all right let's go some more. So there's Kamal putting him through a putting him through a leg day and Kamala is his secret weapon. Kamal is is the guy who's really helping Andrew put on a little more size which you know what else could he do? He needed to bring up his back. His back is getting better and I think Kamal has had a lot to do with that. Kamal working with him for the Olympia and the Romania show and now for the Arnold. Uh I need a little more hamstring. I'm sure they're working very hard on that. And his strong points obviously the structure, the shape, the shoulders, the arms, just that crazy X- frame that he has. They're only going to be more and more dramatic, assuming he keeps that small waist as he gets bigger. So, look at that. So, yeah. Does he have stuff in the arms? I don't know. But they look pretty damn great. I mean, they the shape still looks round. It doesn't look lumpy, distorted. So, I'm not saying I wouldn't bet money or bet my life on the fact that there's nothing in his arms. I wouldn't bet that any of the men on at this level don't have oil in their arms and shoulders. I don't know that any of them are free of that stuff. I mean, the ones the ones who do it very well, how would you know? You would not you wouldn't have any idea. So, that was that was a week ago. Look at that. Look at those tries. Ridiculous. So, I'm getting so much FOMO because my triceps are, you know, the shark took a bite out of my right tricep, of course. [snorts] And uh I never had I never had even both of my triceps at my biggest wouldn't have added up to one of Andrew's triceps. This guy is he's he's a unit as you guys say. He's a specimen. Perhaps able to improve at this age. Yeah. I think uh McBride I think it's because he's so young in the sport. Like I said these other guys who are 40 who are competing like Samson's actually isn't started kind of late in life too but typically with someone uh who's competing at this Olympian Arnold level in they're in their 40s like Brandon Curry. They were competing back in their late teens 20s. They've been training hard for 20, 30 years. They've been using gear for 20 or more years. Andrew is still new. Again, I keep saying this because it's important. Four years ago today, Andrew Jack was still an amateur. The only show he'd ever done was there was like a little local thing in Dubai where he got up on stage uh with Matt and everyone's had the COVID mask on. It wasn't like a real show and he he won that. It looked like it was held in someone's like a little function hall or something. Uh, dude, we're not talking about this stuff now. We're talking about Andrew Jacked Kamal shows just change your training can make a difference. Yeah, everyone thinks it's drugs, drugs, drugs. I'm sure drugs make a difference, but training, changing up your training, uh, if you've been doing the same style of training for a long time and then someone someone trains with you or trains you and gets you doing something completely different. It's such a shock to the system. How can your muscles not not react and respond to that? And your biceps don't even relax. the bottom of his curls. Well, yeah. I'm not going to argue that they're 100% real because I don't know if they are or not. I'm not going to I'm not going to stand up for them in that sense because I don't know. I don't know what's in those biceps or triceps or what isn't in them. Let's go back to that. Where was it? Okay. Uh he's not he's also not extending. He's not lowering the weight all the way, but they don't look perfectly flexed all the time. I've seen some people who do the synthol or whatever to the point where the bicep always looks like it's it's hitting the peak like it's perfectly flexed even when the arm is straight down. I don't see it elongate much. But then again, you see he's not going all the way down. So again, I'm not arguing saying he has he's got nothing in his arms because I don't know. How would I know? But it it does whatever he's whatever he's done or not done, they they look reasonable to me. They don't look ridiculous. That rear delt though. People talk about genetic lead. This is what it looks like. He was just some dude in the gym. Yeah, Mike. I remember the the Larry Wheels videos back in 2022, 2023. No, I'm sorry. 2020 2021 uh when Larry was over there at BU's gym and training with Andrew once in a while. And I was like, "Oh my god, this guy's never even competed. He looks better than 99% of everyone in the world that does compete. Imagine if this guy got serious about bodybuilding and started to compete and then you know what?" We saw what happened. March of 2022, he started competing, turned pro, and won the uh Texas Pro, won his won his pro debut a few months later. Uh took seventh or eighth place the Olympic because he was very sick that year. I remember I interviewed him the night before and he was he sounded awful. Andrew Sme, we're not talking about that. We're not [laughter] I'm sorry. I if I was doing like an Ask Ron where it's just random [\h__\h] I would talk about whatever, but I want to stay focused on Andrew here. He's overrated, says Ronald Gay. Another Ronald. You know, our name Ronald was at its peak of popularity around 1940, I found out. So, yeah, almost almost 100 years ago. It started going downhill after that. If any wins Olympia, I think he'll win multiple fear wins one. Yeah, that's what Giles thinks. Giles thinks he's going to win the Arnold, win the Olympia, and hang on to the Olympia title because we haven't had a multiple Mr. Olympia winner. The last guy that won more than one Olympia was Rammy and he only won two. So think about it. We've had Phil Heath was seven Olympia wins. That was uh his last win was seven 2017. 2018 was Sean Rhoden. He only won once and they never let him compete again. 2019 was Brandon Curry. He's hasn't won it again since then. 2021 was Rammy. 22 was Hottie. 23 was Derek Lensford. 24 was Samson. 25 was Derek again. So, we haven't seen a really dominant champion with a like a dynasty, a string of wins. I wonder if Andrew could be that guy. What's up, Breie? How are you, man? He's just going to get better and better. Yeah, that's it. I mean, he's he's 40 years old, but he's getting better because he's still young in the game. He's not someone who's been training for many decades and juicing for decades, and he's still kind of fresh and new to all this, relatively speaking. I mean, uh, like Nick Walker's been training longer, I think, than Andrew Jack has. He's certainly been doing gear longer. AJ will not win. Well, Elvis, we'll see. We'll see. Arms are the one thing I can't get to grow. Yeah, tell me about it. McBride, [laughter] your preach, you'recomp I'm right there with you, man. That's like the one thing. My biceps are okay. My triceps just would never never grow. Quads grew, chest grew, traps grew, delts grew, back took a while. Look at the back on Andrew now. Uh, but my arms never got the memo. It was It's very sad. Boohoo. Boohoo for us. Andrew is a major Olympic problem shapewise. Size comes up a lot of space when you think stage. Yeah. If you ever see Andrew in person, like if you ever actually stand next to him, like I remember the first year he won the Texas Pro and I was backstage trying to get an interview and he was talking to someone else and I was just standing behind him and I couldn't get over just how wide and how massive this guy was. It was one of the biggest bodybuilders I've ever seen in my life. And I've seen Delet Nasser, Kovac, all those people. You just need to work on a stage routine. That's getting better. His stage presence is getting better. It's still not amazing, but it's he's got a lot more confidence now up there. And did anyone has a cheat code in life? Definitely Andrew Jack. I think he the super soldier serum. That was uh Captain America, right? Der would have loved him. True. Well, Steve did love him. We put him on the We put him on the cover mic right after he won the Arnold amateur. before he had ever competed as a pro, he had turned pro, but it was very rare. We didn't do that often at MD, put uh put amateurs on the cover or people who hadn't done anything as pros yet, but I remember the article was called, "Call me Mr. Jacked." I wrote that one. Body looks fresh. Exactly. They were insanely strict training form confusion. Give me zero. Oh yeah. The people, Doug, who are obsessed with perfect form. I've yet to see one of them that looks impressive. Uh, a lot of these science-based lifters to me, they barely look like they work out. So, I'd rather loosen up the form, move some real weight, do the basic exercises like all the best bodybuilders have done, and have a [clears throat] have a better physique, personally. Who comes in second? Uh, I I'd say hottie. I'd say hottie. Jamie, it's freaking back, dude. I mean, it's Is that nuts? Look at that. We got more back stuff. Yeah, I mean his arms whether or not there's anything in them, they're freaking great. They look good to me. [laughter] So whether or not they're 100% does the word natural even have any uh should we even has have any business being used in this in this type of a context? MI40 gym is that that doesn't look like Kamal. I don't know who that is spotting him, but it doesn't look like Kamal. Uh we don't want to see hypers. That's a boring exercise. Here we go. some cable rows. I do that. I do that before I start. Why? I don't know. [laughter] It feels right. PMMA Andrew the plastic man adventure. Well, it's always PMMA. Why can't it just be synthol? I need to train with Kamal. Uh I need to go back. I need a time machine McBride to when I was like in my physical prime, which I'm way past. I'm 56. I'll be 57. That ship has sailed it. I'm fine with it. Um, I could have been a little bit better if I had better guidance, used more drugs, but I wouldn't have been much better. I wouldn't have been, you know, I'm not in the same species. Like most of us here, Mike's Mike's got better genetics than me, but none of us have genetics on the level of uh of Andrew, of Nick, of Martin, of hottie. Those guys are they're genetic freaks. Your thoughts on judges voting being compromised? Compromised by what? I don't I don't really know what you mean. Which next would you take, Ronnie or Andrew? Andrew, because now I get to be six foot two. Yeah, they're both freaking great. Quite a question. Is that Ronnie? Obviously. No, I I actually went with Andrew because it's it's a more aesthetically pleasing physique, meaning that, you know, he still looks athletic. He doesn't look uncomfortable. Ronnie at his biggest, he looked like he could barely move. He didn't look functional. Andrew looks like he could still play a sport or something. Not not that he can, but if he really had to. Actually, doesn't he still do some weird stuff? That's kind of like CrossFit occasionally. He was really into that CrossFit type of training right before he started competing. Audi is not competitive. It's like Andrew's height. Yeah. 6'2, man. Wouldn't I was 5'8 and a quarter at my tallest. I'm down to 5'7 and a half now. So 6'2. 6'2 and jacked with a small waist sounds pretty freaking great to me. I've given up at Seth. [laughter] No, I haven't. I haven't given up on I've given up on improving on what my best was. I'm not going to be any better. Let's say I compete again at 60. I'm not going to be any better at 60 than I was at 35, 40. There's no way. You know, I've torn muscles. I've had a shoulder replaced. This and that. I'm just realistic. And it's okay. I'm a damn YouTuber now. Who cares? Chances are Well, Nick is his own coach. Nick is his own coach. So, we'll see. I mean, he didn't like what uh I can't remember his coach's name right now. Is it Justin Jacobe? Whoever his coach was. Uh I And I'm sorry I'm not remembering his name right now. I know he does the Unrackcked podcast and everything. Uh but I I think Nick learned some lessons from that peaking for the Olympia that he's going to avoid making those same mistakes again, if you want to call them that. Yeah. if you don't have great genetics. But then most people look at it like this. Well, I don't have great genetics, but I can at least be bigger and leaner and I'd still have the same structure and shape, which for most of us is far from ideal. But you can re you can rationalize by saying at least if I put on enough muscle and get lean, I'll look good enough to the average person where to my own satisfaction where it's worth it. There is a way to be better on it's called trend. Uh, well, trend is how I lost I am convinced that trend is what caused me to lose my hair because up until 45 years old or so. I'm 56 now. Up until about 45, my hairline was lower than it is now. I had a nice I had no bald spot in the back. I had a beautiful head of hair. Then I started getting into trend around age 45. I had dabbled. I used it a couple times, but I'd say from 45 to about 53, I was using Trend probably for three or four cycles of it a year. I was using it a lot and my hairline went it started creeping up and up and the bald spot got bigger and yeah, and the only difference with the drugs I was using was more Tren. Kyle, thank you. Kyle. Kyle, what's his name? Kyle something or other. I know he's a good dude. I just I I can't remember his name right now. Who's this close to hot gives Mr. Lynford problems? Who's condition close to hot gives Mr. O Lford problems competitors? You think Andrew does Pittsburgh? Uh, I don't know. It's It's kind of late. Peak is individual timing for two days. I don't know what he'll do after this. I think it it'll depend if if he doesn't win the Arnold, which I think he's going to obviously. That's why I made the video. Um, I don't think he's doing shows purely for the money. He's got a good sponsor. He's an engineer. He makes good He makes great money without this sport, without anything to do with this sport. He is an engineer and he doesn't need this sport financially. So the prize money and the sponsorship money and all that, it's a nice nice Kyle Wils. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Cardio do your competing run to stay in shape. Uh when I was to stay in shape or to get in shape, I would do up to an hour and a half, sometimes two hours a day, which was too much. Uh, I still do 30 minutes five days a week right now. Plus, I walk my dog. Fast walks twice a day. Those walks are 35, let's say, 40 minutes on average. So, two fast 40-minute walks a day plus five cardio sessions in the gym. It's a lot. Let's keep going, Andrew, though. Yeah, that's I think this is just uh advertising for this clothing clothing company controlled insanity. Yeah. So, here he is. This is Tampa. He says Tampa, Florida. I want I think that's Beu's gym, though, because the plates I've never seen the plates that look like that anywhere else. I think he he might have posted this. Yeah, that's that's Dubai right there with the gold dumbbells. That's not Tampa. Yeah, you can see right there. That's that's Bino's gym for sure. Yeah. See, he stays covered up so often. Usually, he is covered up. So, for him to be posting a full body a picture in posing trunks at six and a half weeks out, that just tells me his confidence is skyhigh right now. It has to be. I'd rather have incorporated more steps than cardio. I mean, I want to do both. I I'm at a at a point in my life where, yeah, I want to be I still want to be a bigger than the average dude in the gym, and I I want to look good. I still have that vanity, but I want to be healthy, too. And I want to live. I want to live to be 75, 80 years old, God willing. You know, I mean, that'd be great. My My dad passed at 57. We see bodybuilders. Poor Jason Low passed away a few days ago at 38 years old. Way too young. Much much too young. So yeah, I want to do as as much cardio as I can without, you know, I I don't like I don't enjoy cardio, but the walks, walking the dog, obviously that's I'm giving him exercise and I'm there's different scenery, so it's not it's it's it's a lot more bearable than gym cardio. So Bob Chick talk about dangerous movement, basic straight bar bench presses. I agree. Everyone that's ever torn a pec that I've ever heard of over the years, it's been the barbell bench press. My current weight, uh, 213 to 215 at 57 and a half with abs. Any truth? Uh, well, if Dave hasn't said it and Nick hasn't said it, I don't know if how we'd know if it was true. I don't I don't know if if Nick needs anyone to oversee his drug protocol. I think he's been doing gear long enough that he knows how to do it at this point. Walks where it's at. I love my dog. Did run. Yeah, I am on TRT. I'm on I'm on more TRT than a lot of you guys want me to be. A lot of guys get upset because TRT can vary wildly. Some guys are only on 100 milligrams a week. Most guys are on 200 milligrams a week of testosterone. That's TRT. That's a very standard dose. Some will push it a little more. I'm at 250 a week. I feel a lot better with just a little bit more. And I do 100 milligrams of Deca. I do that shot once a week. So, it's 350 milligrams of gear total a week, which is not true TRT, but I get my blood work done. I just had blood work done. Everything looked great. Uh, hematocrit was a tiny tiny bit over. Creatinine because I hadn't I had just trained the day before was a little high, but uh all my triglycerides were great. My blood pressure is perfect. I do heart scans every year. Every September, I see my cardiologist. We do a stress test on the treadmill with the EKG. We do a an ultrasound of the heart. Um, and I do a calcium score every two or three years. So, I stay on top of that. Why the DECA? It's just for the joint lubrication because I have those old creaky joints and I have arthritis, you know, low dose. [laughter] Even if I was juicing, why do you care? You know, if you're if you're hating on people to juice, go ahead and juice. You It's your life. You can do whatever you want. You you you're I always say you're a grown ass adult. You can go take steroids. You can snort cocaine. You can shoot heroin. You can do whatever the hell you want. It's your life and your body. And if you're not affecting anyone else, who cares? I just need to keep his waist tight. 100%. Why the deck for joints? No, I don't take anything for my joints. I used to take a joint complex. The only I I shouldn't say that. I do take the the collagen protein powder. I mix that in my coffee twice a day. Uh collagen It's called, you know, people take collagen for their joints and this is like in a powdered form. It comes in a big tub at Costco. Did I get it? See, Deca, stop taking for people. Stop talking for people you don't know. [snorts] What's a DECA for the joints? Well, some people would say that's a massive dose. Other people would laugh and say that's a bikini girl dose. It's Everyone's got their own opinion. And I'm really I've been doing my best over as time goes on as I get older to stop really worrying what other people think so much because who cares you know at the end of your life I think you're going to realize all of us that you spent so much time and energy worrying about what other people thought and oh no what if they don't like me or you know what cares you're never going to get everyone's approval never no it didn't help the shoulder had to be replaced it helped for a while that and the cortisone shots I was able to keep training for a very long time with a destroyed left shoulder joint. Completely eroded. The arthritis had the the top inch of the bone was the humorus was gone. It was gone. It was just ground away like, you know, someone took a freaking [laughter] a file to it over years. No, I don't do any peptides. None. No peptides. If somebody wanted to sponsor me and give me peptides, I'd use them. But no, I don't use any. I tried I did the BPC-157 when I was recovering from my quad tear. I used it for about eight weeks and I didn't notice any difference. I think I healed exactly as fast as I would have. Other people have used that in TB-500 and they swear by it. I don't know. For me, it it it didn't make didn't seem like it made much of a difference. Let's keep going. Andrew, he's doing a lot of lunging. Yeah, that's B New's gym. Yeah, it's not too exciting to look at the leg training, is it? When he's all covered up. What's going on? It's your boy Andrew. Not sure we Yes, sir. He always says yes, sir. Oh, there we go. There's some That's an odd movement. That's like a shoulder. It's like a It's like a shoulder press. That's a weird one. That's That seems like it would be a pain. The estus is getting set up. Wonderful. Oh my goodness. Call the steroid police. [laughter] [sighs and gasps] Yeah. I mean, uh, Dr. T, Dr. Fulatos, he had his grandmother at the time, she passed away. She was like 106 years old. He had her on a very small dose of Deca, and it helped her. No, no, Anavar. I'm only on a test. I I'm I get it. I do my TRT through a company, Frontline Alternative, and it's a legitimate company. They're not drug dealers. They don't give you Anavar. Um, any any TRT place that gives out Anavar, I think, is a little shady, a little a little sus. as you young people say because that's not you don't need Anavar for TRT. Yeah, just watching Cal Cali Muscle just had another heart attack. You know that's that's a guy who God's like really looking out for because he already had a massive heart attack. I think he went back on the juice steroids after that which some people will never learn. Credit particular said could issue with the shoulder. Oh no, it was just wear and tear. It's probably genetic too, God of Frog because I have a younger brother, Steve, who's three years younger than me. And eight weeks almost to the day before my shoulder replacement, he had his left shoulder, same shoulder replaced. He did work in construction for a few years. He worked on the big dig project in Boston. For those of you who know what that is, it was one of the largest uh construction projects in human history. Uh the big dig. But lifting, he's never been a lifter. He certainly didn't train for he hasn't been training for 40 plus years like I have. So, no. I mean, going back, I probably wouldn't have trained as heavy sometimes. Like, I used to do shoulders were my thing. I could do 315 behind the neck at one point for for 10 reps. I could do great reps with 120s, but then I would be stupid with dumbbells, seated dumbbells. Then I'd be like, well, let me try the 130s or the 140s. And the form was [\h__\h] I was leaning back and I wasn't going all the way down. And I wonder if going way too heavy at times. Can I do freee shoulder press now? uh very very light and I'm not even I'm not even interested in trying to go heavier on those. Uh I'd rather use a machine. I actually use a machine where so this is like a regular grip where your palms are facing forward. I have a lot less stress on the shoulder joint when I do a neutral grip. Hands facing each other. So I use a shoulder press an old I carrying machine with a grip like that. Andrew's training is pretty weird. Well that was in Dubai. Make a lot of appearances too. The rear adults are the craziest ever. Do neoprene waist trainers? I I Well, it's taking out water from your gut, from your waist. I don't see how anything around your waist can make your waist smaller. I just don't show me the science behind it. Uh, I did PRP on my scalp twice after my hair transplant, which was supposed to help the the hair grow back a little better in that area. And I I only did two treatments and then I sort of ran out of money. I lost the job with MD. So I wasn't didn't want to spend more money on the PRP, but no, I never did it on uh on any of my joints or anything. What I had was severe osteoarthritis, my shoulder. So the bone was gone. If the bone's gone, there's really nothing you can do. You got to get it replaced. Side question range of motion is a big question. No, it wasn't the range of motion that was weird. What you're seeing was I was leaning forward. I was letting the front delts get into the movement where instead of leaning back and really isolating the chest, I was letting the shoulders come in because I was going stupid heavy, which in retrospect it was it was it was a dumb thing to do. But uh my chest is is pretty great even now at 56, even though it's not as great as it was, but chest has always been a very very strong point for me. Have you noticed reduction size going freeways machines? No. I mean, I I was my shoulders were at their biggest years ago before the arthritis took away the bones and when I was juicing a lot heavier. If I upped my drug uh doses, if I went on a lot heavier drug cycle right now, I'm sure my shoulders would be a little bit bigger. Um but I have no interest in doing that. I mean, I I competed for 24 years. Yeah, McBride, I went to Eastville, Turkey. I went to now Hair Time, the same place that Hottie Chupon went. same place Chris Bump said and Ian Valier went. I was very happy with them. Doesn't make a difference between training machine and free weight. Uh I I think you do get better results with free weights personally because you have to work so much harder to keep them balanced. I think they force the muscles to work harder. But machines certainly work as well. For anyone to say that machines don't work as you know I mean you see even Dorian was one of the most massive bodybuilds of his era and he used a lot of machines in his training. Uh he used a lot of hammer strength machines for back, chest. Uh David Henry, if you guys know he was, he was one of the greatest 202 and 212 bodybuilders of all time. Uh he used a lot of machines, almost all machines, you know, plate loading machines in his training. So anything, any type of heavy heavy resistance is going to work, I think. Doesn't make a difference. You train a machine? No, I don't think so. So, what else we got with Andrew? Yeah, man. Andrew is my pick. I'd be very very shocked if Andrew doesn't win this this Arnold Classic. Again, we're looking at one more time Super Set Man did this great comparison on a recent video. That's Andrew Jacked uh 2024 Texas on the left, 2025 Mr. Olympia in the middle in 2025 Romania Muscle Fest just three weeks later. So, you see from middle to the right, that's a three-we difference. He got much bigger and fuller, particularly in the legs. Uh, obviously I think he just came in fuller. He wasn't going for his same level of condition, I don't think. Just want to see if he could grow and get better in that short amount of time, which he did. So, I'm very confident that the changes and improvements he's going to make uh that he has been making in the past couple months leading into this Arnold and he's going to keep keep making improvements [snorts] training with Kamalgari there in Tampa. I'm convinced that's what's going to push him over the edge and be able to beat Chupan. And if he continues, which I believe he will, he'll be back he'll be back in Tampa for Olympia training camp again, I think we're going to see uh more improvements from Andrew at the Olympia this year. And I think he's he's a very very strong chance to win the Olympia. We'll see because, you know, Samson's getting bigger. Samson's no joke. Hottie's still a great champ. You got Nick Walker, Martin. You got a lot of other You got the best in the world still out there. But I mean, I think Andrew's got a as good a chance as anybody to win this Olympia. Derek, of course, I'm not I can't leave out our reigning Mr. Olympia that most of you guys a lot of you guys don't like for whatever reason. I'm not sure why you hate the guy's gut guts so badly like he's some evil person. He's not. Yeah, poor. He gets so much crap. It's unbelievable. Uh who's top three? Top three at the Arnold. I think I would go with uh Andrew Hottie Nick. I think that's my top three. Assuming Hottie is okay and he makes it. I mean, we might get the information. We We might find out any day now that Hott's out of the Arnold for whatever reason, just because of what's going on in his country and everything. There's so much so much [\h__\h] going on over in Iran right now. It's unbelievable. So, I don't know if that's going to if that's going to knock him out of the show or not. I hope not. I I don't want Andrew to win purely because Hottie isn't there. I I hope he beats Hottie at his best and that will cement his reputation and his stock will go up because we'll see what he's fully capable of. Gyno surgery. I didn't know they did that there too. They do a lot of teeth like veneers, dental work, uh like a fraction of the price. The hair transplants and the and the fake teeth are a fraction of the cost in Turkey that you would pay in the USA. Glad you're done juicing, Ron. Oh, I mean, I I just wanted to live. I I saw too many guys my age, uh, roughly my age in the in their 40s. Guys over 50 who insisted on staying big, they died because you can't keep juicing forever. Eventually, eventually you will have a heart attack or you'll go into kidney failure or something. You'll die. And I I don't want to die, man. We're gonna We're all going to die eventually. I know. But I'd rather live a little bit longer. I'd rather live to be 70, maybe even 80. Who's in Arnold US? Oh, go to the Arnold Sports. Go to the Arnold Sports Instagram page. They have the full list up. Arnold Sports. Andrew getting a lot better rape. Side pose is just awesome. Yeah. [snorts] Your top four is Andrew, Hottie, Martin, Nick. Yeah, I think a lot of people have Nick beating Martin and a lot of other people have Martin being Nick. Obviously either one of them is capable of beating the other guy under the right circumstances. Any one of those guys could win theoretically. They're all capable of winning and tight heads. Awesome sight. Verity Clink does everything symbol. Yeah. Okay. Thank you, Ron. Yeah. So, what else we got from Andrew? Yeah, that was while he was still in uh Dubai. It's where he lives. Dubai city. rear delts. Do they look weird when he gets there at the bottom? It's hard to say. He's not that. It's easier to spot jimmied up arms and delts when people are really, really lean, I think. And again, I don't know what he is or isn't doing. I have no idea. So, I would not sit here and speculate, but uh I do think I go this one shot of Andrew that my favorite shot of him. He's posted it many times. I think he's got it up there. It's a front double bicep shot. There it is. Yeah. To me, that's the greatest front double bicep shot in the world right now. Right there. Pronounce Andrew's given name. So, I call it out the Arnold Chenedu. Chinedu Obea. Chenedu Obea. Just say Chinedu. Chen. Chenedu. Very common name. Kamal has changed Andrew's life. He certainly had a very strong impact on his physique. I hadn't seen Andrew's back getting much better, honestly. It it I didn't see much changing in his back for the past few years. I know he's only been a pro for four years bar. Not even four year, a full four years, but when he started training with Kamal last year's Olympia, I saw a change. See train too nutty either. Yeah, that front double bicep's crazy. I mean, if I could draw the perfect front double bicep, I think that's probably what I would draw. Maybe I'd make a little more quad sweep. Yeah, that's a that's just an insane shot right there. It's crazy, man. Back to back to this one. Yeah, I want to go back to that comparison shot because that's really blowing my mind. That's Nick Strength and Power put that up on his Facebook. So that was Andrew at the 2025 Mr. Olympia last October, which wasn't that long ago. That four months at this point. October, November, December, June. Yeah. So that was four months ago. Uh versus six and a half weeks out from the Arnold on the right. And geez, so much bigger. Clearly, he's not 100% in contest condition, but he's not far off. I mean, look at the look at the seratus there. Look at the cuts in the quads. He's probably only 10 pounds off contest condition there. So, I think he's going to be significantly bigger bigger and better at the uh at the Arnold Classic with Hottie doing the Arnold have a chance to win it. Well, he does have a chance because like I said, Hottie Hotti Chupan is an incredible bodybuilder, but he has not made any improvements. I defy you. I challenge you. Tell me how hot has improved in the past few years. He came on the scene, everyone talked about that 2019 Vancouver Pro win, which was almost seven years ago, and he's done the Olympia a few times since then. He's been Mr. Olympia. I don't see any I don't see any improvements with hottie. I I just see the same the same great look over and over again where Andrew is getting better. Andrew is getting better and better. I want to close this up by going to Hottie's page because I am a fan of Hottie and I have nothing but respect for the man. So, let's go to that. I think it's fair to give his uh five minutes here. So when was that? That was 161 weeks ago. That was this is the last thing he posted four weeks ago. Government for the people. Okay. So I guess that was supporting the uh the people's uh protest or dis disillusionment with their government. I don't know. But this is the last physique thing we saw. This was four weeks ago. It was his son spotting him. And I guess this is Dubai. I think he's been in Dubai for a while. So maybe he's got his family with him. Maybe he's got his because he has three kids, I believe. I think he's taking his family out of Iran, which I would do too at this point with uh what looks like a civil war where, you know, the government troops might start just really going to town on their own citizens. I wouldn't want myself or my family in that situation either. But I don't know if any of you guys know what's going on with Hottie. If has he got his family out of Iran, too? Yadi's fantastic, guys. I'm not taking anything away from this guy. Here's his son. Son looks great. That was five weeks ago. Is there a translation from the Farsy loading? Swear to your iron border. I swear to you, hopeful peaks. I swear to you, I don't know what he's talking about there. Until my I will give my life for you. I'm Honey, you're right. I think that's just uh he's professing his faith to Allah there. I believe that's what he's doing. Yeah. Yeah. Guys, Hott's a great bodybuilder, great champion. That was one of his returns. I just think Andrew's Andrew's stature helps him. His structure and the fact that he's improving that that's why I believe even if comes in at his best, I think I think Andrew is going to take him this time. And if he does that, I think he's a favorite for the Olympia. But yeah, I take nothing away from Hottie Chupon, guys. Hottie's incredible. What was that? We get to see more posing. Drinking a shake. He's got his kid on the machine. Family man. I got to respect that. Gotta respect that. All right, some closing closing remarks from you guys and then we'll call it. We'll call it how physique has peaked. I agree. Yeah, we say that all the time where hottie hottie was good enough to be Mr. Olympia a couple of times when he didn't win it for sure. Uh 2024 Arnold versus improved. He hasn't got better since then. Last time with the bother lost me realize slow down. Well, I'm glad. I mean, I don't want anybody to die. I don't know you, but I don't want you to die because of gear use. You know, there's life. There should be life after bodybuilding. You can't stay big and juiced up forever. I mean, the body just can't take it. That's why we don't you don't see anybody looking like Heidi Chupan that's 70 years old. Why is that? Because if your body would have would have quit on you by that time, you would have had organ failure, heart disease, kidney failure, something's frontal crazy. Do you have a certain look? No, it's the same judges, different shows, but they all the same judges and the same criteria. There's no difference. that the athletes have it in their heads that well the Arnold likes this because Arnold himself Arnold's not a judge and Arnold has zero influence on the judges. The judges they do whatever they want to do. They don't care if Arnold's a promoter or I don't know The Rock is a promoter. They're going to do what they do. That's otherwise they're they have no integrity. Nick Front is crazy. Wa you tighter. His arms are ridiculous. Oh yeah. Nick Nick Walker is his arms are probably the best. It's him or Kriszo. Him or Kriso has the best. Hope Nick hasn't blocked me yet. Why would he? I don't know. I mean, it's only fair to give. Yeah, there was some there was some question as to whether he's altering these photos to make his waist look smaller. I hope not. I hope we actually do see a small waist. Yeah, his legs look pretty crazy there. If that's I don't know if that's if those aren't photoshopped. [laughter] [gasps] Then his sweep is definitely impot. Yeah, we'll just keep it on there because his legs have come up quite a bit. Nick Walker, give him I'll give I give I give everyone their dues, guys. Whether whether I have issues with them or they have issues with me or whatever, it doesn't matter. I'm just talking about physiques. Why would he have to hide? Oh, I don't because talking about the political situation in Iran. The country is like on the brink of a civil war. Good. Nick versus Martin. I think we will see a good one. Andrew Mus Prime. Bonak. Very bubbly. He's got a way better structure than Bonak though and he's, you know, eight inches taller. Nick can control his waist better. Can't actually shrink his structure. Tough IBB coaches. I don't know. It's hard to say. I'm not I'd have to think about it. I'm thinking about other stuff right now. Andrew looks the best. Nick is a weirdo. Come on now. Nick legs don't match his upper body. They're getting there. Nick take his picture with Savian like those Instagram models. Accentuate the curves. How tall is Hottie? Hottie's about 55 I believe. 5'4 5'5 because I've stood next to him and I'm not a tall guy, but I was I was a few inches taller than than him. And I'm at that time I was probably already shrunk down to 5'7 and a half. All right, I think it's time to call it, guys. We've been going for an hour or so. Yeah, we've been going for over an hour or so. I think it's time to call it. So, appreciate you guys all watching. Uh, if you're watching this on the replay, this was done live. Drop some comments below. What do you think? Is Andrew Jack unbeatable at the Arnold or is it going to be hottie, Nick, Martin, Curry, somebody else, let me know what you think. This is a sport of opinion. Everyone is entitled to their own opinion. It's a very subjectively judged sport. Stay warm. It's going to be zero degrees tomorrow, Mike. And we're getting another 6 to 12 inches of snow Sunday on top of the over two feet we just got over the past few days. Anyway, thanks it. Appreciate you guys watching so much. Stay warm wherever you are. Stay frosty, isn't that what we say? And I'll talk to you guys later.