What's up guys? Ron Harris here and hope you're having a great Sunday or Monday if you're in Australia. And I want to talk about this new picture of Erskalchinsky that was posted uh on his Facebook page, but interestingly enough, not on his uh Instagram page, but still this is going viral. And I want to get your opinion from you guys, especially those of you who know about altering photos in Photoshop. I want to hear from you what you think. Is this legit? So, here's the picture. And Earth looks massive here. Shoulders look like bowling balls. Arms look like they've blown up. But people are really calling attention to, especially around this shoulder, how the lines are wavy and warped around that shoulder, which I think you can see here. Let make sure you can see it while I'm talking about it. Yeah. So, is that legitimate gains? are these gains that he's made or is this particular photo been has it been manipulated to make his shoulders look even fuller and rounder which is odd because Urs has tremendous shoulders. Shoulders have always been a strong point. Now he doesn't have the widest clavicles but he's doing what anyone in his situation who has average clavicle width should do which is build a ton of muscle mass on top of those shoulders. That's what Phil Heath did. And look, it got him to seven Olympia titles. First comment. Whoa. Mirror shot. Yeah. So, for those of you who know about who have done photo editing and Photoshop or whatever other apps can be used to enhance a physique in a photo. I'm curious. Kion, what do you got to say? What's wrong with you? Lean. Yeah, I had dinner. Uh, my son and I went to a dinner last night that my client hosted. There was 24 people there and I got to sit next to Lee Haney and then on the other side of Lee was my son and the other side of him was Linda Murray. So that was 16 16 Olympia titles there. It was pretty cool. But we're talking about Earth and um show you another picture because yeah, it's it's questionable there for sure whether that's legit. That was uh obviously the last the last Olympia I think this picture's from, but he looked the same at all the shows. Shoulder looks about the same here. And this is an unedited stage photo right here. So, I'm I'm wondering there. And this this doesn't look like there's anything. You could see the machinery behind him there on either side of Earth. Doesn't look like anything's wacky's been done. I think he really is this big. Uh there he is with the Trend Twins. That's again the again the the shot that we're shot that we're talking about. This is the question book. The shot that's in question, the photo. And you know, of course, this is photoshopped. Yeah, it's it's weird, Barry. I I tend to think it is, too, because of all those wavy wacky lines there. However, I'm just wondering why why would he do that to just one picture? Why wouldn't you just do that to all your pictures if you if you're trying to pull the wool over people's eyes and and fool people? Go back to the original photo. Look at the machine. It's warped. Uh the original photo. Uh, which photo you're talking about? One of these training shots. So, maybe mean this one. I don't see anything looking warped there. Those maybe a little bend to that. Everything looks okay on this side. Well, I'll tell you what. I'm going to show you a video. Let's see. I don't think the picture Photoshop meets the filter. The lighting can do great favor here. Yeah, this one. I I I have no question about that one. That looks 100% legit, that shot. It's this one. It's this one. But I'm going to play a video that was uh he posted on his YouTube a month ago, and it was in Vienna, Austria, where he was there with Martin Fitzwwater. both were visiting their coach, Stefan Kinsel, the boss of Outlaw, at the same time and did some posing at the end of the video. Now, does look like he's making some quality gains to me, even though he's staying so lean. It's It's insane how lean he's staying, honestly. Uh, I just I wonder if that's his his genetics because if this is as lean as he's going to stay in the offseason, for most people that would hinder the gains because most people would have to restrict their calories and do a fair amount of cardio, not just like a basic maintenance level of cardio to maintain condition like that. But maybe Urs does have a faster metabolism because he's probably back up to around 270 or so. Don't really care how looking in the front though. We got all those French shots. Hey, he's going to show his back here in a second. Here we go. No back, no glory. So, let's take a look. Let's give him a chance here, guys. I always like to give people a chance. Lat spread. So, looks about the same. Now, it is getting a little thicker. He needs to fill in that midback. That's where the thickness really needs to go. And again, it's he's got these tremendous shoulders. They're so full and thick and round. 3D delts, as we say. chest looks really good. It It makes it hard to compare his back, I should say, the back has a hard time comparing to those other body parts around it, which we've seen this with many many bodybuilders before where the back sort of lags behind everything else just even slightly. Yeah, you can see there he doesn't have the most the widest clavicles, but as he continues to build mass on top of those delts and that upper back gets wider, he will get more of a vtaper than he has now. Let's see. You seen the recent updates from Sam Sull? No, I have not. All that matters how he looks on stage. Look at income stream influencer. Oh, yeah. I mean, he looks great. He's he's doing very well. Uh Sam Sull I know what his shape and structure I have seen. It's been like a couple weeks since I've I've seen updates, but I know what he looks like. Crazy detail in his back. Sam got that Christmas tree on point. Uh well, maybe we'll go to him later. We'll see. But just want to remind you what uh Urs looked like just a couple years, not even a couple years ago. This was October 2024. So, this was about 18 months ago. his last appearance on stage as a classic physique pro where he placed third behind Chris Bumstead taking his sixth and final for now title and uh Mike Summerrfeld. So you can see the improvements in size. This Urs is so much smaller. This was a 228lb Urs. The Urs Kachchinsky who won the shows in Italy and Germany was 260 pounds. I'm sure he was right around that for the Olympia as well. I don't think he gained a ton of mass in a couple weeks or anything, but that was a substantial increase. We saw his stage weight jump up over 30 pounds from October 2024 to I think that first show, I think the Illy show was July, maybe it was August. So, still we're talking less than a year. Now, that wasn't all newly gained muscle. He'd been dieting away muscle for the last couple years as a classic Zeke pro just to make the weight. He'd been losing probably a good 20 pounds of muscle and now he has free reign. He never has to worry about that ever again. He can be as big and freaky as he wants. And this is this is the current version or the the most recent version of Earth we've seen. Uh the same version we saw. This was the Europa Championships. That was that the Italy show or the or the Germany show? Not even sure. It was one of those two. They were only a week apart anyway. But yeah, so much so much bigger now. Hope Urs can fix his missing calf. Yeah, he does. There's something going on. Some sort of injury or nerve damage. Something's going on with that calf. It clearly didn't stop him from winning those shows. You missed out on your last comment. What was it, Kenneth? Oh, he looks unusually pale in No, he always looks [laughter] He always looks pale. If you've ever seen him in the offseason, he's a he's a very very light complexed individual. Kion, he's not uh like Dennis Wolf, very very pale like Dorian Yates. Uh James Hollings said is probably the greatest example of the the current crop of open pros who is very very light-skinned. Yeah. And you you tend to see it with the guys who are lighter hair, like blondish or reddish hair, especially Mike Sfield can make a better open pro than he's way more complete. Well, I like his structure and his shape better. Uh Mike Mike has wider clavicles. Uh just a just a a more gifted bone structure. So if he was getting as big as he wanted to be, he would be better. He's pale than red. Yeah. I mean, if he was beat red, I'd be very concerned about his health. Kion, I mean, that would be if he was red, that would be usually an indication of high blood pressure. So pale is better than red. Watch that blood pressure. Absolutely. They call blood pressure the silent killer because unchecked untreated blood pressure for extended periods of time will extensively damage your kidneys. And a lot of bodybuilders who have gone into kidney failure did so because of untreated high blood pressure that they they never did a thing about. They never checked their blood pressure or they might have known it was high and did nothing about it because they liked they like the drugs uh the androgens that cause so much water retention. And it typically will raise the blood pressure. Wear white. It's normal color. Yeah, he always wears knee sleeves, new legs, hands. That way you got nerve damage calves. I don't think uh knee sleeves would give you nerve damage in your calves. Maybe if they were like super super tight or something, but I've never heard of nerve damage as a result of tight knee sleeves or tight knee wraps. That being said, I never liked knee wraps. I wear knee sleeves, which are obviously much looser. knee sleeves to me were just too constricting. It didn't feel right. Uh it was it was hard to move. Didn't like them at all. Let's hope your knees warm. Yeah, that's all. Knee sleeves don't do much. Knee sleeves, they're they're not that tight unless unless maybe you need a size extra large and you're wearing a medium size medium knee sleeves. They're which would be probably take you 10 or 20 minutes just to get them over your your knees and up toward your quads if they were that that small. But no, I don't think Niece leaves are going to do that. But going back to that, I mean, so this is a this is the most recent posing I've seen from him. Uh, go to the Instagram because I think there was something that was slightly more new, but he hasn't changed a whole lot in couple weeks, I wouldn't say. When was this posted? Oh, that was six weeks ago. That was a while. Yeah. So, the what we're looking at is the newest video footage of Earth uh physique full physique shots. Anyway, yeah. So, back to comments. Are we live? Yeah, we're live. Anytime that you can talk to each other, chat on this, the chat only comes up in the live stream. Otherwise, you can, you know, you can always leave comments on any videos and I always go back to the comments and respond. But the chat is different because we're all here together and we can we can talk in real time rather than just getting back to comments an hour or a day later or something like that. But uh I'm gonna go back to that picture and I'm really curious to know because a lot of you guys you have experience. Well, I'll wait till this is over. A lot of you guys do have Yeah, that's Martin. So the the reason they're actually in Vienna, Austria here, and this was about a month ago, and that's where Stefan Keenel, the boss of Outlaw, who is the coach for both of these guys, that's where he lives, and they were both make made the trip out there at the same time. I don't know if they planned it or it was just a crazy coincidence they were out there at the same exact time. But yeah, so this is this is what's in question is how wavy the lines are with it's a mirror shot. So it's probably there's probably a mirror behind him. So you're getting one of those multiple reflection infinity type of effects, but still you wonder why he doesn't have any weird lines. But you see how warped and wavy those lines are. So I don't know anything about how to I don't know how to manipulate photos at all. It's funny when people have occasionally accused me of doing it. I say, "I don't even know how to do it." Honest to God, hand on the Bible or Quran or whatever you want to put your hand on. I have no idea how to Photoshop. I'm sure it's not that hard, but I've I've just never learned. I don't even know how to edit, guys. Which makes me a pretty pretty lackluster YouTuber, right? You should leave the beard look good. Yeah, I think the beard looks good on it. Makes him look a little older, which is fine. I think he's only 28 now, but it suits him. Some people the beards do not uh do not make them look better. They're a detriment. But I think in hers he pulls it off well. And I think he kind of has a baby face without it. Nothing wrong with having a baby face. But I don't know. You want that uh manly mature look. I think the on him a beard is a better way to go. See how he looked again without the beard? Yeah. See how much younger he looks without the beard when he shaves his face clean. similar to my I have a son-in-law, my daughter's husband, and he typically has a beard. Uh, occasionally he will shave it off, and to me, he looks five five or eight years younger immediately with the beard off, but I don't know, the both looks, it looks, it's a more cleancut look with the shave, with the fresh shave that he has there. And a lot of the guys, a lot of the bodybuilders will have beards in the offseason only, uh, come showtime, they'll ch they'll they'll shave it. I remember the last few years Dexter was competing, he always had a beard. It was perfectly white silver because he was getting up there in age. He's my age. Uh but even the night before the show, you'd see him at the meet the Olympians or the Arnold meet and greet thing and he would have the beard and then the next day at the show he'd be clean shaved. So, it's kind of a seems like it's been kind of a tradition for a lot of the competitors to keep a beard just up and the very end up until they get on stage. They'll shave it the night before probably, you know, between pro tan coats or getting spray tanned or whatever it is they're they're doing for color. I injected my legs with some [\h__\h] test. Is he on prep for Arnold? No, he's not on prep for anything. That was his go back to that. That is his offseason condition. I mean that is incredibly lean for so this was a month ago or so. So we're probably looking at early to mid December here but still that was a good two months after the Olympia. Most bodybuilders would be significantly fatter two months after a contest. But that condition is very very close to what the contest, which is why uh all these times when he said he was going up to 270, which he had been doing for the past couple years as a classic physique competitor, 270 in the offseason, and I never saw him, but people were telling me, uh, you know, he's actually pretty lean at 270. I'm like, yeah, right. Because I know he had he had to get down to 228. I'm thinking how much how lean can he be if he's more than 30 pounds over contest weight. But they were they were actually being truthful. There's the back because that's what everybody wants to focus on because that's the area that he really needs from the front. He's devastating. Side shots are good, too. Back shots are the one thing where that that's why he didn't make top 10 at the Olympia. Actually, I don't think he was even top 15, right? Was he? [snorts] It's because you have to have a pretty complete physique at the Olympia level. And he still needs a little more back. But he's young and he's growing and I have no doubt he's gonna get himself a back. What are these emojis? I don't even know what those are. Cookies. Clean shaven and stubble over beard always. How tall is uh it's a good question. People get mad when I ask AI, but I think he's I want to say 5'10. How tall is Kellachinsky? AI says 5 foot1 or 180 cm tall. So 5'11, which coincidentally was Lee Haney's height and Dorian Yates height. Yeah, it's a good height. 5'11 actually I think it's probably the ideal height for for pro bodybuilder for an open bodybuilder because once you get over six foot, there are some guys like Andrew Jack who look amazing over six foot, but there's not many. Usually guys who are over six foot have longer limbs, longer arms and legs, so the proportions are a little bit off. Uh, and if obviously if you're too short, sometimes you'll have a short torso like William Bonik and Kai Green had or you have shorter limbs. Ideally, you never I always say this, you never want to be able to look at a guy on stage and without any anything to reference or compare it to to say that guy looks short or that guy looks tall. Because an ideal bone structure, you would never know looking at that person by themsel if they were five foot two or six foot two or somewhere in between because they would have that ideal proportions of torso, arms, legs, everything just the right proportion of length to each other. 5'11. I mean, it's a tall guy to me because I'm I'm sitting here at 5'7 and a half. Kenne, you always got to rub it in my face. You're 6'2. You just you lucked out. You hit the lottery. Either 5'11 or six. Not sure now. Yeah, we all get shorter as we age. Like I have a younger brother. There was five brothers in my family. We're all still alive. Had two sisters. Anyway, uh none of the brothers were over 5' n. I was only 5'8, 5'8 and a quarter at my tallest. A couple of the brothers are shorter than that, like 57, 5'6 even when they were at their tallest. Uh but my younger brother was 61 and 3/4 in his 20s. He's down to like 6 foot and a half inch now. And I was, like I said, 5'8 and a quarter and I'm down to 5'7 and a half now. So, I've lost threequarters of an inch in height since my I don't think I started coming down to like my mid to late 30s. I'm 56 now. Yeah. All depends on how people put together. It's all about the proportions. Absolutely. So, again, I'm I'm reaching out and asking you guys who do know about photo manipulation. Looking at that photo, I'm just curious what you think. I I don't have an opinion one way or another because I know nothing. He doesn't look any bigger here than he does in the other pictures. So, I don't think it's photoshopped. I don't He doesn't look like Let's compare it to some other shots. Let's go back. I didn't go back the other way. What else does he have on there? So, that was recent. It's dark. I mean, he looks about the same size in all these shots. There he is. Is a Luigi Berlin Classic. Okay, he's going to be guest posing at the Berlin Classic. Ein eine and Balena. That's what President John F. Kennedy said famously. Yeah. I mean, he's got a fantastic physique. Urus, I again, I I've said this before and I'll say it again. I prefer Urs as an open bodybuilder. I like his physique a lot better, bigger and more filled out because he kept the shape. He kept the waist almost as small. Uh but yeah, he's looking he's looking so much larger and thicker. You know, I I knew he had this in him. I knew that if he didn't have to go down to the body weight that was mandated for classic physique pros, he could probably put on a good amount of weight because he's young and young guys, you know, your prime growing years, I think, are 25 to 35. Obviously, teenage years and early 20s are great, too. But I see a lot of pro bodybuilders make their very best progress between the ages of 25 and 35. 35 is usually the absolute prime. Typically, that's just an average. For most pro bodybuilders, they're at their absolute career best around age 35. Let's see. The mirror also looks weird. Looks smeared out. See, Terry Pel some of the craziest portion of you never know how short he was unless you're standing. And he was short. Terry, I almost had him in. I was going to do class best classic biters of all time part three, but the views on part two were not even half of what the ones on part one were. So I'm like, eh, nobody's going to watch them. I'm not going to make any more of those. Jack says, "I swear I was 6'2. I'm 18 and 43 and not that tall." Oh, I don't think anybody, Jack, I don't think anybody's as tall at age 43 as they were when they were 18. I think we all start losing height. I've heard some good explanations. I guess there's fluid in in the in the discs between our spines that we we lose as we age. And I don't know if there's anything you can do about that. So your spine actually gets a little bit shorter because that those discs that are in between them, they lose some volume because they're losing water. And so your spine shrinks down a little bit and thus you're going to lose height because uh that's the only explanation because your bones, think about like your leg bones, your femur and your tibialis and all that. Those are bones. So bone cannot shrink. It's basically calcified. It's like a rock. There's no way your bones are ever going to lose size. So, you know, the ends can lose a little bit of size from arthritis from the ends rubbing up against each other, bone on bone, but your your limb length doesn't change over years, but your spine does apparently. Look like there's some AI filter on top. Looks smeared out. The mirror looks weird. Yeah, I agree. I'll go back to that shot. Trend twins. Uh, who did I I won't say who it was, but I I I spoke to someone who had an interview lined up with the Trend Twins. I don't because I don't want to He didn't put that out there, so I'm not going to put it out there. And uh they stood him up. They just didn't show up for the for the video chat. So, I'm not even I wouldn't try. They're not gonna they're not going to talk to me anyway. Leave this up. Yeah. Any more comments? Yeah. So, yeah. I don't know cuz it doesn't if if this was manipulated, he doesn't look that much bigger than in the other shots. He looks a little wider though. It if anything, maybe something was done to make his shoulders wider. I'm not even sure how he would do that, but then again, I'm a [\h__\h] when it comes to this stuff. Donald Trump, my president, how can he grow at the same time he shredded? Great question. Great question. But apparently, he's got that type of metabolism where, [snorts] and I've seen this, it's it's rare. most people, you know, we we really it it boggles our minds as human regular humans because these these guys are like superhumans. They're genetic anomalies. They're I think they're as different from you and me uh as say like an average height guy who's like 5 foot n is from someone who's 6' 11. Those guys are very very uh rare. Someone who's 6' 11 or seven foot, but they're out there. They do exist. I've seen a couple of them walking around over in my lifetime, but there it's rare. You don't see many seven foot people. I don't think I don't know what the stats are, but there's probably more probably less [snorts] than I would say I'm going to take a wild guess. I bet there's less than 500 legitimate 7 foot or taller people in the whole world. Uh, he's not shredded. He's pretty freaking lean, though. He's pretty freaking lean. A bulking Dorian gut. I think I think a lot of bodybuilders are getting away from that old school mentality of bulking up and getting really heavy. Not so much for health reasons, although some of them are probably doing it just because it's healthier to to stay a little lighter and leaner and not put on a bunch of body fat and get really really heavy. But I think the social media aspect, the fact that they have to constantly put out content, photos and videos pretty much every day, if you want to be a big big presence and have, you know, work your way up to that elite millions of followers level on on Instagram or Tik Tok or YouTube, get all those followers, subscribers. You need to put out a constant stream of content and they expect you to be in shape. They don't want to see you with your uh uh in a tank top with blubber and you know no muscle separation, no veins, none of that. They want to see the cuts. They want to see the station. And we see so many people that are influencers that don't compete who stay extremely lean all the time. So I don't know if Urs is doing it on purpose with any of that in mind or if he's just one of those few freaks, metabolic freaks who stays very very lean all the time. We'll see how good he can be in the open class. Well, Jack, I mean, he won his first two open shows. Granted, they weren't the strongest lineups, and there weren't uh, you know, top 10 Olympia guys in those shows, and he didn't do well at the Olympia, but he had only been competing as an open guy for less than a month uh, two months at that point. I mean, he had only done two open shows, and, you know, a year before that Olympia, he'd been 32 pounds lighter and had been third place in the classic physique. though he's just getting started as an open guy and I think he does have the potential to be a really really good definitely a top 10 Olympian guy. I think he can do that this year but beyond that I think moving forward he could be [snorts] you know a top five guy eventually if he thickens up that back substantially. Uh and the arms need to come up a little bit too. The arms aren't they're not awesome. They're not bad, but they're going to need to be a little bit better because you're going up against guys in the open with insane arm development. You know, Andrew Jack, uh, Samson, Nick Walker's arms are ridiculous. We'll be talking more about Nick in the coming weeks. Don't worry. A big gut at that. Talking about Dorian, how big his gut used to be. Tastel is a compressed version. Yeah, they they did have similar looks. It's the craziest genetics ever. You're taller now than ever. Well, you must be a young guy. Uh I mean, nobody's getting taller after I don't think after age 25 or so it's it's medically scientifically possible to get any taller. But that being said, a lot of guys stop growing in their mid to late teens, and a lot of other guys will continue growing. Uh, I know I put on after age 18, I put on about a quarter inch, which isn't that much, I know. But, uh, I I know I graduated high school at 5'8. And by the time I got my first physical, maybe three years later, I wasn't going to doctor as a kid. I was I was 5'8 and a quarter. Add some synthol to the spine, just some water drops, some saline solution, you'll be good to go. [snorts] Satellite to my grade with the height I stand. Well, you could look at it that way, Calen. Or you could say the only people who stay who go to their grave young and tall are the ones who die young. So you don't want to die young. You want to live a nice long fulfilling life. So it's it's a it's a fair trade-off to lose a maybe an inch or two of height if you can live to be I don't know 80 90 years old. A long fruitful life as we say. You'll save money on the casket. Always look on the bright side. That was a For those of you who know Monty Python, Life of Brian, that was a really, really funny song. Always look on the bright side of life. You don't even know the Trend Twins. Well, they're huge on social media. Millions and millions of followers on Instagram, millions of subscribers on YouTube. They're very, very well known. Those twins, we expect you to be in shape. I stay lighter and leaner for both of those reasons. I don't aesthetically like because as soon as I start to gain extra weight, it goes right to my face and I have a puffy round face. People say, "Ah, dbol." And you know, I haven't used dbol in years and I I'm I plan I don't plan on ever using an oral steroid again in my life. Uh but just aesthetically, I don't like the way I look when especially when you're not a big guy, and I'm not not a huge guy. Huge guys can pull off a little more of a puffy, bloated look because they're so big. People say, "Well, he's a big bastard." But if you're a little bit on the more average side as a bodybuilder, you know, average in terms of compared to these guys, you know, I'm not that size. So leaner looks better on me. Show us your pictures. No, I'm not going to do that on Earth video. The advances in all training and train nutrition ability pharmaceuticals. Yeah, I I think the gut I think the gut comes from obviously we know GH and insulin have a lot to do with that. uh overuse of those two things as well as just overeating in general because I got a gut myself. I did use GH later, much much later. I didn't use GH till I was like 50 years old and I only used it for about three or four years while I was getting it for free and for a little while I was buying cheap generic kits off somebody locally. But I I got my gut without GH and without insulin from just years of overeating and stretching out the the stomach lining and the the intestines grew. Yeah. I mean, just just overeating all the time. I think that's one way the uh Men's Physique guys keep their waist so small is I don't think they ever overeat. I don't think they do. I I I don't follow men's physique that closely, but when I have talked to them and I've been around them, it [snorts] doesn't seem like they they put down disgusting amounts of food every two hours the way most bodybuilders do. Uh because most men's physique guys, especially once they're at the pro level, they're not looking to get bigger or much bigger at all. Maybe a couple pounds, but they're not looking to get, you know, we hear bodybuilder like Urs probably has the goal of getting on stage at about 275 eventually. He was 260 these last few shows that he did. uh the Italy, Germany shows, and the Olympia, he was right around 260 for all those shows. I bet he wants to be closer to 270 the next time he gets on stage. And I think he will be. I think ultimately at 5'11 he might be 275, 280. Who knows? He's still young. Now I got to ask how old he is because I think he's 28, but I don't like to be I don't like to be inaccurate. How old is Erskinsky? He is 27. Wow, he's only 27. Wow, he is young. Goodness. Uh, as of January 20 26. Oh, so April 30th, he'll be 28. He's still only 27. Wow, guys. So, talk about be talk about time being on your side. dbol Harris. No, I don't like that nickname. I like Ron Harris. Urs in Thailand now. Yeah, I saw that. Like to get over there one day. Escaping the German winter, I suppose. I mean like all the all the Americans from cold places and they all go to Florida. [snorts] Florida is just uh they call them snowbirds. The the people that they they winter they spend the whole winter in Florida and go back they don't go back home to their cold climate until things have warmed up a little bit. Dennis James is in Thailand. Is he in Is he there now? [snorts] I know he lived there for many years. So I didn't know if he was there now. He used to live there in videos working. [laughter] Yeah. In fact, I think most of the guys at the Oxen gym in Kuwait that were changing weights, they're either Thai or Filipino. They they just have them to change weights for the pros when they train. Look at that. We'll look at this one more time and I'm I'm going to go soon. So, this is uh the latest posing update. Full full body posing. He'll take his pants off eventually that we have from ours. Chest looks really thick and round and full. Delts look great. The delt width does not look it doesn't he doesn't look as wide across the delts here as he did in that picture. Then I'm wondering if it's photoshopped or not. The thickness looks about the same, but somehow I don't even know if it's possible to photoshop yourself and just make yourself look wider across the shoulders. If that's possible, maybe that's what's going on. I'm not sure. That's why I'm asking you guys. You guys are a lot of you guys are younger and you know all about this stuff. It's funny. last night. Uh so I was sitting next to Lee Haney. He was on my left and then my son Christian was on his left and Lee was having issues. He does that cameo uh service where you can you can pay a celebrity or yeah celebrity any type of celebrity from sports or movies or say or music I don't know to give you a shout out basically. He was having trouble accessing the requests for it and he was losing money because people were trying to get shoutouts and trying to pay him and he couldn't get it. son sat there with him on his phone for about five minutes and helped him figure it all out. So Lee was very very grateful. These kids, man, these kids today, like some of you guys are young. Some of you guys, you grew up with that technology and social media and you're so good at it. Those wheels on earth, those quads are great. I love Look at that quad sweep. So full and round, but yeah, he does need to be wider, man. And then there's nothing he can do about the clavicle width, but as he continues to build more shoulder width and upper back width, he can offset that uh and create more of an illusion, a better vtaper, I should say. Yeah. I mean, he looks great. This is crazy that this was this is offseason. Well, Dennis is there for three months. I reckon if the US Germany has produced most of Mr. Olympia competitors in history of body. Yeah, Germany's put out a lot of great bodys. and Austria. Never make a pro, but I have a couple of guys changing ways for [laughter] Move that pin. Yeah. Why would he photoshop himself? I don't think he did Photoshop himself. I I my I'm wondering if somebody did that. They photoshopped it and sent it to him because it's on his Facebook page, but it's not on his Instagram. [snorts] And obviously more people go on his Instagram page because Facebook is it's not as popular as it used to be, obviously. And the younger the younger people don't even go on Facebook anymore. It's all Instagram. If you're under 30, you're probably never you've never been on Facebook in your life. You never will be. Uh they came to the Worcester area, which is about 50 miles west of Boston. They did a they did a seminar on contest prep and posing and things like that uh [snorts] at a gym called Guaranteed Fitness. It's in Spencer, Mass. Yeah. which is out even further past Worester. So, they were out there for that. And that's for the dinner. We had the dinner in Worcester. So, Worcester's a it's one of the bigger cities in Massachusetts. It's not as big as Boston, obviously, but it's it's pretty pretty good size city. [snorts] So, okay. Well, think I'm going to take off, guys. I think that's enough. Uh we don't know if this is uh shopped or not. He looks great. And we do have a bunch of unshopped photos to look at. Mr. Misting and Jay Color. Uh, so Jay is actually from Sterling, which is uh a rural area. I'm I think it's about 10 miles outside of Worcester, which like I said, most of us, if we live in a suburb that's around a big city, we just say we're from Boston or Worcester or Springfield because if we say the name of where we're from, people go, "What's that?" If I said I'm from Waltham, Massachusetts, people go, "Huh?" And Walam is about 10 milesi west of Boston. So I always used to just tell people, "I'm from Boston." They go, "Oh, okay. Tik Tok. Ah, I'm not on Tik Tok. [laughter] I don't have Tik Tok. And I wouldn't do that. I wouldn't uh I wouldn't disrupt the dinner by trying to film content. No. I mean, that to me that would be just overstepping. Far as Springfield College from Boston. It's about two hours, at least two hours, two and a half hours west due west. It's much closer to the border of Connecticut. It's way out there. Uh, but if you go there, you'll be pretty close to Six Flags, which is a great amusement park, a theme park. You'll be able to go there, but it's a good two hour two hour plus drive from Boston. It's it's nowhere near Boston. It's at the western end of the state. Massachusetts is not a big state, but it's long. If you know what it's shaped like, it's like an oblong shape to it. So, [snorts] yeah. So, that's where you're going to be. Okay. Uh, all right, guys. So, that's it. I just thought I'd share the recent updates of Urs. He's looking fantastic. Whether or not that one picture was manipulated doesn't matter because we've he's got plenty of video and stuff to show what he's looking like. And I think he's making really really good progress. Uh and I don't know when we're going to see him on stage again. I suspect it's going to be probably toward the end of the season like he did this time toward the end of the Olympia qualifying season I should say because he will need to re-qualify for the Olympia. I never saw Whitey, but my friend Chris Griffin the Goon, he did see him uh back when they when he was a youngster. So I never saw him. I I didn't grow up in the city of Boston. I was a suburban kid. Anyway, guys, thank you so much for watching and uh please give it a like, share, and all that. Subscribe if you're not, and I'll be back next time. Thanks for watching.