What's up everybody? Ryan Harris here with the news that the final men's open bodybuilding show of 2025 and the last chance this year to qualify for 2026 Mr. Olympia is over. The big man weekend show was won by Poland's Damian Cuffle just like I predicted yesterday. And second place went to Mark Hector from UK, Spaniard Pablo Lopezo, I spelled that Ram Munoz, it's Lopez, Roberto Buenomo from Italy in fourth, and Andre Gersner from Italy in fifth. Let's take a look at some of the footage, guys. This is from Nick Strength and Power. Thank you so much, Nick. Subscribe to Nick Strength and Power. It's a great channel. [clears throat] So, here is uh the I believe this was the final call out during confirmation round. By the way, this show just wrapped up I believe just about an hour ago, maybe a little over an hour. So, around midnight in Spain, I think they got a pretty late start. They only had two divisions, men's open and bikini, I think it was. And uh they only had 10 guys in men's open, so I assume the amateur stuff must have taken a long time. But here we go. We see Roberto Buenomo on the left there, Mark Hector next to him, the tall guy there in the red trunks, Damian Cuffle, and all the way on the right, Spain's Pablo Lopeis Munos. And Damian, uh, it was just undeniable. I I saw the score sheets. It was a perfect perfect score. Uh, it doesn't mean that Mark wasn't very good. And in fact, uh, Matt from Muscle Discord, who loves to use the chat GPT, apparently chat GPT had Mark Hector winning. So, uh, chat GPT, either you could say it's wrong or the judges are wrong, and chat GPT is smarter than the IFBB Pro League judges and makes better decisions than they do. Uh, put this banner up again with the results. I actually need to edit that and put Pablo's name. Add that P in there because that's not right that I was getting his name wrong. Pablo Pablo Lope. Oh boy. It's a tough one. Okay, we got it. So, save and results. That was one uh one clip from Nick Strength and Power. Here's another one. Uh that is Damian's posing routine. Take that banner away. So, this was your top five. Nick strength to power. Thank you, Nick. [clears throat] Uh, you can barely see the fifth place Andre Gersonner there. Actually, I don't think that's even him. I think the last clip I have to show you features fifth place Andre, but we're focusing on the top four here. Roberto was in fourth place. All the way on the right, Pablo Lopez, Mark Hector. You know, Damian, I I just I knew Damen was going to win just based on You can't judge by Instagram. I know that. But I was looking yesterday with you guys when we did the video of everybody's final updates and he was the most impressive to me. Very complete physique and he's he's huge and he's in great shape. So, how do you beat that? Uh, from the back, you could see Hector Hector needs a lot of work from the back. Mark Hector's back is not a strong point moving forward. I I hope that's what he puts his focus on terms of training in this next whenever he hits his off seasonason. I assume coming up soon. That is uh Damian's fitness Damian cyan fitnessreak. That is Damen's Damian's Instagram. So you you'll have an easier time finding it if you put in cyan_fitness rather than his name. And our final clip starts off with that. And it's just a back shot. Starts off with the last few poses. Look at that back. Damian just clearly blowing everyone off the stage with those back shots. Big dude. It's, you know, just like an Andrew Jack, the height does help this guy. It does make him stand out. He stands head and shoulders literally above the rest of the guys. He is probably a good 3, four inches taller than everybody else on stage right now. I don't think it was even close. The score sheets indicate it was not close. Uh, but if we want to take a look, this is going to go into some still photos in a second and you can analyze and scrutinize a little bit more closely. But there, look at that. [clears throat] Yeah. So, I think there was a lot there were some four man the top four man call outs. I don't think Andre Gersonner was in all the call outs here. Obviously, they they knew who their top four was and they they stuck with that. solid top four even though this was not a big show. No big names, you know, none of the nobody from the top 15 of the Olympia was in this show, but uh couple is going to be headed to the Olympia next year. How will he do? I guess we'll find out. What's up, Zionic? How's the weekend? It's an interesting lineup. Good weekend. Thank you very much. Got some good training in second, third tier guys. Yeah, you know, that's a good point. Um, you could look at this as, "Yeah, Mark was supposed to chat." GPT said Mark was going to be the winner. So, this comment here, it it's uh it's valid. Second tier guys, they don't often get a good look when they go to shows with the big names. They're usually in like the third call out or something, and they they're really getting no love. Overlooked is a is a term that some people use. I don't like the term overlooked because that means the judges just passed them by and didn't even didn't even consider them. When I see these guys that are second and third tier guys at a show like that get overlooked, it really just means the judges are focusing on the better the better guys. If someone on that sec someone who's a second or third tier guy is improving and getting better, he's going to become a first tier guy. Like Damen has that potential to be a first tier guy, you know, in time. a big big guy. Let's go to some Instagram shots from Jonathan Maro. He is a photographer over there. Does some fantastic work and he took the best shots of the show. So, here we go. This was uh the moment of victory there for Damian. Happy dude. Very happy guy. Quads. Look at those. I mean, uh, that's one thing I like I like to see is those cross rations in the teardrop. The vasis mediialis, Martin Fitzwater has some incredible detail in that area, and I always like to see that. I think this was a second place had just been announced. Damen knew it was uh probably inevitable. Maybe they had done third and second and they were just waiting to yell his name up. But look at the look at the meat on that dive. This is a big dude. Uh even with his belly sort of relaxed, he still has a flat midsection for a guy who's got to be got to be about 280 pounds or more. There's Samson Samson Dada, our 2024 Mr. Olympia champ, 2023 Arnold Classic champ handing out the awards top five on stage awards. Now we can get a look at everybody. So left to right that is Italy's Roberto Buenomo, Mark Hector from UK. Congratulations to Damian Cuffle from Poland. I did have a grandfather from Poland, so I can claim to be part Polish, part Ukrainian, and a lot of English, Welsh, and all that good crap. Pablo Lope Munoz right there. He was our third place finisher. And on the end was Andre Gersonner from Germany. So I had never heard of before this weekend. I had never even heard of Andre. Bright future ahead of him, solid physique. Uh, let's see what we have for other shots here. There's another good victory pose for Yeah, I'm so impressed with a guy who's got to be 6'2. I think someone someone corrected me, but I I'm going to say at least 61. I'm going to say 6'2 if anyone knows for sure. It's so late over in Germany. It's over It's so late in Europe. But like I said, this thing just wrapped up. It wrapped up around midnight in in Alakante. I don't know what took them so long. I can't imagine they they must have started really late. Uh there is is that with Amelio the promoter? Ailio Martinez. Clearly an emotional moment. Yeah, that's Ailio Martinez. He's a promoter and we know that's Samson Da obviously he's I think he's up to 350 pounds already. Is that what I heard? 160 kilos. So what's that? No, I think that's a little shy of 350, but still it's like 340. Uh, good job. Good job. There he is with Samson. I mean, how cool is it as a as a guy who was nobody was talking about Giles knew who he was up until we did the preview uh earlier this this last week. Yeah, it's already Sunday. I never I didn't real I didn't I didn't know who Damen Couple was. I'd never paid any attention to him. I'm sure he had been in competing in some shows that I did a little bit of coverage on, but I I didn't notice the guy. But I know we all know who he is now. And there he is. His victory speech interview. I don't know if there's a translator or how many languages this guy speaks. It's hard to say because I'm sure in Spain there weren't a lot of people speaking Polish. So, we looked at this. These are the poses. Yeah. So, I think everyone pretty much everybody looks great in the most muscular. [snorts] So, I I don't break those poses down too much. The front double. So, Mark Hector, the runnerup, I I already criticize his back. And that's what I'm here to do. I have to point out what the strong and the weak points are on these guys, or else the average person would just look at them and say, "While they all look great, I don't know how the judges make up their minds." Well, I'm sort of trying to help you figure that out. So, looking at Buenomo on the left, more overall size. Uh, his waist isn't that small, but I don't think there's much you can do about that. But if he can keep his waist small, Roberto there on the left, and continue to build that upper body up, uh, he'll be he'll be a much more formidable character. Mark Hector, uh, I want to see some more some more peak to the biceps and some more sweep to the triceps, if you know what I mean by that. You know, how they would sort of hang down, curve down. You know, they're supposed to be round. your your upper arms and the frontal biceps supposed to be a you know one-third bicep should have a round shape or peak shape to it and the tricep is supposed to be pretty substantial and sweep down as well. Uh Damian I don't have too much critique for Damian. I think he's really making the most of his his structure and you know for again for a tall guy to have legs like that. Yeah, it's something else. And Pablo really not much critique for Pablo. I would work maybe a little bit more on the the quad sweep. He's got pretty good quads if he could focus more on the outer quads. Uh I the posing looks a little lopsided in this shot. But he's a solid solid competitor. Looking at these shots, I I could have argued him in second place. I don't think too many people would have been upset if Pablo had taken second place instead of uh Mark Hector. Got to get to your comments before I get too far behind. I don't want to get too far behind in the comments. Mark is supposed to be the winner. Mark brought a completely different look tonight. Looked absolutely incredible. Tight and dry. Let me expand that a little more. There we go. Oh, don't do that one. Oh, there we go. Okay. Big Samson handing out the medals. No, I don't think Godrogs I don't think he's retiring anytime soon. He's just turning 40 now. Um, you know, he's got he's got a tough road ahead of him to win his title back, but you know, it's it's perfectly within Samson's capabilities to get his Olympia title back next year. Derek could hold on to the title. Hottie could get it back. Andrew Jack could win. Martin, you know, we [clears throat] got we got some heavy hitters in this Olympia these days. Dude is taller than Samson. Yeah, you're right. So that tell well we know Samson's about six foot but I remember if the shows uh the video the pictures I should say from Romania where Damian was fifth and Andrew was first and in the lineup [snorts] in the shots like this the the comparison shots Damen looked a little bit taller than Andrew to me. So Andrew is supposed to be 6'2. People always argue okay here we go 1035. Thank you. 62 286. Let me write those stats down. That is a big dude. So that is that is how large of a human being Damon Cuff is. He's 6'2, 286 pounds. And uh as you'll see the condition the back shots always show the best condition, but look at that. Look at the side shots on everybody. It's a great pose for every guy up there. I don't I don't really have a lot of notes. [snorts] Uh maybe Pablo here on the right could get a little bit more ham drop, a little bit more meat and sweep to the hams. That would help out his side shots. Damian's solid there. Mark Hector. Look at the hams on him, man. They're like a crescent moon. Great hams. And Roberto Buenomo. Roberto Buenomo from Italy on the left. Also nice ham drop. It's a side try. Uh Roberto Roberto, I would say, what are you doing, dude? They can't even see your tricep. I don't know if they the photographer caught him going into the pose here because if that's his side tricep, I could understand uh the judges being a little frustrated because can't see his side tricep. Hector, good try. Damian, big meaty solid try. Yeah, this must have been before everybody was settled into the pose because see Pablo's not not fully in the shot yet. He's still looking down and around. Here we go. The back shots. You know, contest are from the back, right? [snorts] Um I think Damen did win this from the back. Roberto there on the left, that's a solid solid rear double. Uh Mark Hector, I would want to see some more thickness there, but he does have really nice detail and separation. And even though his lats are a little bit on the higher side, which is probably why I'm critiquing his back is just not there's not as much meat back there as there is on the other guys because his lats insert a little bit higher than the average pro. But he can continue to thicken that up when he's got you can see the glutes were Mark brought some great condition to this show and everybody up there everybody up there really did dialed it in and I think I think you'll all agree that this rear double goes to Damian. He's he's running away with that shot right there. Probably looking really good on the right too. See I expected size by a lot more than that. Well, I mean who would you have who' you've had win? Who like I said Mark's got some some weak points. His back is a weak point. His arms, especially from the front, uh, like in the front double, they're really the bice and tries are pretty flat. They need a lot more fullness and roundness. Strongest lineup, not at all. Not even not even close to a strong lineup. No. So guys, really short. No. So if he's 6'2, uh, I would estimate everyone else. It looks like Roberto is probably the next tallest. He might be six foot. I'm gonna say Hector. Hector's probably about five 5'9", 510. And I'd put uh I'd put Pablo in that range, too. 5'9 to 510. It was uh Yeah. Again, let me know guys who you think should have won and why. Sergey France from big boys from Europe. Oh, that Sergey Donov is a was a large large specimen. Take a run back. My com might have been the zoomed out shot. Well, you know, no, it's it's a legitimate uh observation. This was not there was not one big name in the show. And on top of that, we only had 10 men in the whole line of 10. It's not the smallest show. We have had a couple. I think Toronto had a smaller open men. And I think Detroit was only around 10 if I recall, but we've had some open shows this year with [snorts] 20 20 to 25 guys, some really sizable open lineups. Usually you don't see huge lineups in open. You see them in there's so many more classic pros and men physique pros. Obviously, the women's division is like, you know, bikini and figure, uh, wellness, you'll see 20, 30 women up there. Marquez sh through the left, right. Yeah. I'm not even talking about the the discrepancy from right to left. I just see a couple things he really needs to work on because it's a fantastic physique. It's just missing a couple things. And I say missing meaning they could be better and then he would be doing better. This is a guy that should be winning shows. He certainly has the uh the capability from the back closed team. Yeah, as I said, you don't always win a contest from the back, but looking at this show, I think this show was one from the back. Damen just look at that. Look at how thick those lats are. I'm not gonna say Dorian because Dorian had more width to the lats, but you know, and L but this reminds me of like Dorian or Lunsford. You see how thick it's like two big thick ass columns of muscle running up and down his back. That would be his trapezius at the top and the lumbar spine. And the lats are actually what's on the side door side. Uh but Roberto on the left got it. Look at how wide he is. And I see what you mean with Hector. H it doesn't look that bad. The the left and the right lat like you can see one drops the left lat drops down a little bit lower than the right one. So they're they're different shapes. And [clears throat] that's not uncommon. I you know I I know I sound like an [\h__\h] using myself example, but one of my lats has a slightly different shape and it's like this. So it does happen guys. It's just a genetic luck draw unless in his case it's from an injury or something. Nerve damage. Who knows? Damian, uh I don't know if he's opening up all the way. If so, I'm I'm not overly impressed with his back width. I mean, look at Roberto on the left who's uh I'm sure he's not 286 pounds. He's a big dude. He's probably like around 250 in that range. 250 to 260, but this guy's pushing 290 Damian. But uh yeah, the way his arms are positioned, I'm wondering if he's not even opening up that pose all the way. And Pablo, good good lat spread on the right there. Hard as nails. The ab and thigh. So you can see uh Roberto has to be a contrarian and hit it that variation pose. [snorts] Usually people do that when they have thicker waist like William Bonak does that hits it that way, the abdominal thigh. But uh sometimes they just like the way it looks and they can really show the the detail of seratus and uh you know you can if you pop your leg up the way he's doing there looks like there's more volume to the thigh too. Hector hits it hits it great. He's got that space in the middle. Not as much as Keon but you could see that gap there. Damian. Okay. So he's really got two giant abs on the top. I know the ab the abdominal the rectus abdomin abdominis is all one muscle with tendonous encryptions that go across and form the illusion of fourpack, six-pack, eight pack, but he has uh unless these are two little ones at the top, it's hard to see. I guess he has an eight pack, but like one's completely blurred out. This one here uh looks like he's missing some some atrophy in one part of his abs. I don't know. And there's Pablo. And do we not get the most muscular? No, he didn't give us the most muscular. Dad nab it. But uh let's go back and look at a couple more of the shots because he took some good individual shots, too. There's Pablo. Pablo brought a really good look. He's a young guy. He's getting better and better. And that it's a really I I like just the polished look he has. the color, the the condition, the the muscle detail and separation. I mean, look at look at the quads. Look at the detail there. You could see crossstrations in what head of the quad is that? The rectus feorous, maybe. I don't know. I think that's the rectus forous. Uh, but you can see little crossstrations in there. Nice deep cuts. I don't know who this is. Somebody help me out. I have no idea. Don't know who that is. That is Damian Cuffle. Okay, I knew that. Uh, sure. Some of the guys had their names written down. Yeah. So, I can identify them. Oh, well, there's Mark Hector. See what I mean with Mark? I mean, he's got big arms, but and I don't think he can he's not going to be able to get a peak to the biceps. That's all genetic, but I think a little bit more tricep. If the triceps swept down a little bit lower because they shouldn't they shouldn't run the same sort of parallel line as the bicep. They're supposed to sweep down a little bit lower. You know, the bicep is supposed to be onethird of the upper arm and the tricep is supposed to be 2/3. And here they look to me like the biceps actually might be more than 50% of the volume of his upper arm. Don't know. Is that Gersonner? Yeah, that's Andre Gersonner from Germany who placed fifth. Uh that's Buenomo, Roberto Buenomo from Italy who was our third place finish. I'm sorry, fourth place finisher. Fourth place. Uh this guy, they call him Nola Nicola Leonetti. Is that right? Is that him from Italy? He calls himself Stallone or something on Instagram. I I'll find it for you later because he's actually pretty impressive. big dude. Could have been a little tighter. I mean, he's in good condition. I, you know, we're just looking at some guys who were a little leaner and tighter than that. Uh, I couldn't tell you who that is. I'm sorry. Good quads on whoever he is. And see how nice and peaked? That's all genetic. But you see what I'm talking about with the bicep and the tricep here. The bicep peaks up, comes up, you know, like a mountainous shape and the tricep sweeps down. So, you have a round upper arm. Could have a little more triceps. Honestly, this guy's biceps are excellent. Uh, and the tricep has really good shape, that sweep and everything, but if he could fill it out and get a little more mass, a little more volume to the triceps, that would be an even better pose from whoever he is. Uh, I don't know who that is. It's a big guy. Uh, that was uh Brian Drago. Brian Drago from the Netherlands. Yeah, Brian Drago. Uh, I think he's he came to us from classic physique, which probably doesn't surprise too many of you. Let's go to leg is the best stab size shot for Damian. I thought overall looking at these shots, the lighting looks pretty damn good to be honest. Damian have very thick waist. I'm going to put the put the posing up again so you can watch that while I respond to your comments. Dam has a very thick waist. Uh, it could be smaller. It's It's not huge. He doesn't have, you know, I hate to use Nick Walker. Nick Walker is a much better bodybuilder. There's no doubt, no question, than Damian is, but Nick's got a thicker waist than that proportion, but he has a lot more thickness and density overall, which sort of he can get away with it. Marquez shape tapers on point. Show how old he is. Uh, yeah, he's not a young he's not a young guy. I want to say late 30s, early he might, if I say early 40s, a lot of people are going to lose their mind. He won the British like 10 years ago. He's been a pro for a long time. Did Samson do guest posing? Uh, I don't think so because I think if Samson had guest posed, that would be the clip going viral all over Instagram and on YouTube shorts right now. So, I don't think he did. Yeah, that's a good point, Dave, because any one of you who have had severe shoulder injuries, arthritis, if you ever had a rotator tough, cuff tear, uh, which he had two two severe shoulder injuries and surgeries. I mean, the mass is back, but maybe that does affect how well he can hit his. And now I wonder if it affects his back training because I'm not loving Mark Hector's back development. It's it's really subpar me compared to the rest of his physique. I mean that would that would help him out a lot. I mean Damian look at Damian next to him is just crushing him in the back poses. Uh these are these are people those are people that Okay, go back to that some more shots. We'll go to this one. This another round. Yeah. Uh I did see AJ had on his page the top two routines. So, let me go to that top two guys. Posing routines. Of course, it's going to be Instagram. It's going to be iPhone footage, but uh we get what we get and we don't get upset. So, here we go. All right, let's get rid of that. All right, so let's start off with your winners's routine. This is Damian Kufu. Kuffle. I bet it's Kufel from Poland. Yes, I said my grandfather was from Poland, but that guy died 10 years before I was born. Never met him. Uh, so I never learned any Polish or any pronunciations of the names. But solid solid dude here, you know, to to be honest, is this guy going to do any damage at next year's Mr. Olympia? Uh, I don't think so. I would say unless he makes vast improvements overall like he gets way bigger. It keeps his waist small. Yeah, he wouldn't he's not going to The Olympia is is a whole other ball game. Uh and this is not a top tier show. It's it was a small lineup. Not trying to take it anyway. Congratulations this guy. I'm very happy for him. Uh and he looked fantastic and he's going to the Olympia. Um but it's going to be it's going to be a little tough at the Olympia. All right. So that is Damian's routine. Let's take a look at your runnerup Mark Hector here. I had Mark on the Ronline Report, the the interview videos I do probably about four or five months ago. Really cool guy, you know. Of course, I commiserated with him about the shoulder injuries and surgeries. Yeah, because I think I was only a couple weeks away from getting my shoulder replaced when we did the interview. So, he didn't have his joints replaced. He just had repairs. I think he had torn cuffs, torn labum, something like that. Very, very common lifting injury. All right, that's Mark. But he's got a really great flow to the physique. Thick guy, good shape, gets condition. He's been in shape like all year. Giles had a tour with uh Terrence Ruffin way back in the when was it? I think it was [snorts and sighs] maybe April, May. Anyway, he he guest post, you know, they were doing these appearances at the gyms all over the UK and um they went to the gym that Mark trains at and when Terrence got up there to pose, Mark got up there right there next to him, posed alongside as a as guest poser, and he was he was in pretty damn good shape back then. He was very close to contest condition at that point. All right. Who is this? Well, this is another this is a different version, a different iPhone clip of Damen Koful, the winner. Yeah, I I'm guessing, you know, the quality of the this quality of the iPhone is is not like a 4K video dedicated video camera. It's pretty good. him, but he looked he looked leaner in the other shots. So, I'm going to chalk that up to the lower resolution on the iPhone because it looked to me like he was in pretty good shape. Really good shape. Kind of an awkward poser. Kind of clum kind of clumsy poser. I would work on that. That's one thing. Doesn't hold the poses. You know, people like to get a good look at the poses and he doesn't let you do that. Look at that. That is a brutal brutal attack of mass right there. His crab most muscular. I actually like both both of his most muscular version varieties uh equally. He's wide dude. Yeah, good job. That was Tamian. Who else does he have? Oh, Pablo. Okay, this is your third place finisher. Pablo Lopez. Yeah, he brought it. That is nice tight conditioning. flat, small midsection. It's a very aesthetically pleasing physique. You know, I'm sure he's way over the limit for classic. He's probably like 20 to 30 pounds over the limit, maybe more for his for his height for classic physique, but that's the type of shape, the type of physique that uh a downsized version would do very well in classic. But he's doing so well in open and I I have a feeling he did he come to us from classic? Giles always tells me these stories and I forget who he's talking about by the time I do these wrap-up videos days later. But Pablo, very impressive. Beautiful shape on this guy. Beautiful shape. And uh he's hit a few shows, post Olympia shows, and he's been very consistent with his condition. All those I wonder if he has that same coach, Francisco Spine as uh who are we talking about from Spain before? So you just want want to show. All right, that was Pablo. We did Mark Damian. This is Damian backstage. They got a little backstage pass. Whoever this is. Let's see if he speaks English. Curious. >> Impressive backstage. When you see you in the arena, when people think bodybuilding, impressive, this is the body we we think big, huge, good-looking, healthy, just like you were in classic. >> You went to bodybuilding. >> You had a big name for yourself. >> People was very impressed with this physique. >> You come to Spain. You were one of the favorites coming, but you delivered. >> What's the question? >> You were in the fourth place, then third, then second. They put you in the middle. You got bigger. You got better. You got harder. Whole thing was better. How did you feel when they said you are going to the Olympia? >> I don't know. I don't know what I say because I'm I'm shocked, you know, but I'm very happy and I promise my uh competition and start in the Olympia is uh very good and I look uh better than now and yeah, I promise. Ah, it's incredible. Um, you're going to the Olympia, huh? >> In your first ever open season. Yeah. >> And now you have a full year to prep >> for the Olympia. You have like nine 10 months of preparation to make the Olympia. And you're the first Polish athlete since 2013, I believe. >> Robert Povski. >> Yeah. >> This is very impressive. This is This is historic what you did today. >> Yeah. Yeah, make a history. >> Say something in Polish. Some to the Polish people and you and your most muscular. >> You got to see the most most muscular before you go. And guys, >> there's a new freak. Dom is going to the Olympia in his first ever open pro season. Congratulations. >> Yes. Thank you. Thank >> first of all. >> Good stuff. Good stuff. Wow. Okay. Yeah. Um, good job, A. I gota just make a note there. AJ did does a great job going. He goes to so many shows, AJ. So many shows. Leave that up while we take some final comments because, you know, there's not a whole lot more to say. Alrighty. What do we got, guys? What are we talking about now? Did AJ ever compete? No. You know what? But I want to give him credit because um I think I've never I've only met him once or have I even met him in person. AJ was he's always been a very big bulky husky tall guy, but he was carrying a lot of body fat when I first knew him when when he met Giles and they started doing their their Global Muscle MD Global Muscle podcast for muscle development YouTube channel. And he ended up losing recently I don't know within the past couple years he lost a lot of weight. Uh he's obviously training very hard and he's got a pretty damn good physique and he's a big he's like 6'4. He's a big dude but compete I don't believe he ever has. Mark is 1987 not all. So 87 25 35 38 right. Yeah I mean it's not young but it's not old. It's it's a really good age. you know, the I think we're seeing guys now in their prime in their 30s and more more of them in their mid to late 30s than the early 30s. We still have guys like gez like Martin's not even 30. Uh Derek Lunsford, he's like 32. Nick's like 31 or something. A lot of there's there's still some young dudes up there. Yeah, Mark has a Mark has a really nice shape and shape and symmetry and it's a pretty much prettier physique than Damian's. And I don't know if you just caught that if you were listening, but Damian was a classic pro. This was the first year he did open. He must have gained a [\h__\h] ton of muscle in that time. It is incredible. Yeah, Mark has a pretty pretty tiny waist for a guy that's he's got to be somewhere around 250 up there. You should get AG on your show. That's a good idea. It's a great idea, actually. Yeah, I couldn't have him on Meatthead podcast. See, I'm making note of it because he's in Norway, which is like six hours ahead of me, and I do that at 700 p.m. I like to keep the time. Yeah, I like AJ. I want Pablo Women. Needs a better back. His back's not bad. I think he just needs a little more overall size. Little more. Um, he's got a good amount of size, but with the beautiful shape that he has, if he could keep that that waist exactly the same, I'd want to see a little more quad sweep. You know what I mean? But if you guys know what I mean by outer sweep, you see see how that round arc shape, we're looking at uh Damian here hitting the crab. So the the leg that his it's facing us on the left, it's his right leg. That round bow shape to it. That's what you want. That's sweep. [snorts] Mark Ter. Was he robbed? Robbed how? Because he shouldn't I don't know what scenario you would have him beating Damian and Damen Damen had him dead to rights today. Um, Mark needs a better back, little more triceps. Uh, beautiful shape. Absolutely. I don't think he needs to be bigger necessarily. Uh, the president of YouTube, Donald Pump. What's up? What's up, everyone? Drew Joyce. Any women in Big Man? Uh, yeah, actually, I'll go to that in a second. I mean, I'll go to some pictures. Big Man, the same level of importance as New York Pro. No, not at all. No. No. So, a rough obviously the Olympia and the Arnold are the two big big shows. They're on a whole other level from all the other shows. Then you have some big money shows that get the big names. That would be uh the New Pittsburgh Pro Show, the Dubai Pro, and the New York Pro. New York doesn't have the same money as the other two, but it's a very prestigious title. It's Weineberger show. They all want to win the New York Pro. Uh so those those would be one level. And then after that you have like Texas, Tampa, uh you know, Toronto, then they're all kind of on the same level. Take any in, you know, if you go to the IFBB Pro, IFBBRO.com website, they have all the rules broken down uh with the new point system, which doesn't it's not something that applies to the OpenMen, but in the other divisions, it does. And that it shows you how they how many points they get for placings in each tier show. and and that website on fpbro.com um when they're talking about the point system you will see which shows are they consider top top one two three and I don't think there's a fourth tier I think it's three three tiers of shows but they break it down that way so you can get an official what they consider the league itself considers yeah sweep you know it's if you have great sweep on your legs you can have pretty your legs don't have to be that big to have the illusion of much more leg mass in fact Jay Cutler I always bring this up because it's it's so interesting. He said, "You know, my legs never measured as big, anywhere near as big. They were they were a good couple inches smaller than people assumed they were, but I had those I had that sweep. He had a tremendous outer quad sweep." Jay Cutler, you remember that that famous thigh stomp picture? That's like the most famous picture. MD had it on our cover twice. Uh just wanted the title. Oh, no. The big man is just a it's a gym chain, I guess, in Spain and maybe Portugal, too. But definitely it's a gym chain in Spain. Uh I don't know what other countries and they're the main t the title sponsor and that's why they get their name. I don't know why they just couldn't call it Big Man Pro, but they decided to go with Big Man Weekend Pro. Prague is up there now for sure. It was Yeah, it's to be in that top. So, if we're going to say there's three tiers, and I don't know exactly what the IPB considers, but just roughly, we know the tier one shows, the Olympia and the Arnold, like if you take if you place top three in the Olympia, you're automatically qualified for next year's Olympia. Um, not the case with the Arnold. Only the winner of the Arnold goes, I believe. Correct me if I'm wrong. It might be, but I think I'm right on that one. So, that's one level of shows, level one or tier one. level two tier two shows. Those would be the ones with big cash prize like $100,000 or more which would apply to the Dubai Pro which is like 140k to win that. Uh Pittsburgh I believe was 100 even Dubai Dubai and well New York Pro even though I as I said it's I think it's 30,000 for the for first now. So it's not on the level financially of the other ones as far as uh what you're winning but it's very very prestigious. So, everybody's won New York Pro. I mean, oh man, Ronnie won. I'll try to stay more recent with you. Like, Phil Heath won that. Uh, [snorts] oh, Branch Warren, Nick Walker has won it three times. Um, God, it's it's it's a it's a show everybody wants to win. Just put it that way. Empro last year had like 30 athletes in the show. Made top guys in the open men. I mean, I don't remember too many top guys. That was the show. I think you're talking about the Emperor was the one that was two weeks before the Olympia that Samson won. I don't remember it being like overly strong past the top five or six guys, but um you know I didn't I don't really remember much about that show. Hold the arms of the Olympian except for the judging show. Well, that that's a fair point. That's your that's a that's your opinion and I don't know if the judging is any different honestly. It's the same judges guys. It's the same judges at both shows. So if it's Manion's judging, they're all, you know, they all technically work for Jim Manion, the president of the IPB Pro League. So yeah, the judging. Yeah. And because people will say, well, the Arnold is judged differently than the Olympia or this show, these judges at this show, they went more for No, it's it's all, you know, there are more than seven judges. There's I don't know how many 30 40 50 judges IPB pro league judges that go to all these different shows all around the world throughout the whole every weekend during the contest season. Um but you'll see a lot of the same at the Arnold and the Olympia. You'll see a lot of the same people because those are the two most prestigious shows. So the highest ranked or guys with the highest seniority, those judges you'll tend to see uh you know the veteran judges that have been there. Whereas at some of these smaller pro shows, like I bet I wouldn't even know who a lot of the judges are, but you know, uh Steve Weinberger, Tyler Manion, Sandy Rali, uh I don't know all the judges, but it's it's mostly the same people that have been doing judging all the Olympia for quite a while. It's uh who does it? Ma Ali is often Olympian judge, I think. Uh Fibo does have a show. It does. It didn't always. I think there were a couple years when the Fibo show in Germany didn't have a contest. Uh, but it usually does. Like we had it this year and Andrew Jack won. People were complaining because he didn't he didn't get into 100% condition for that show at all. I would put him at like 85 to be generous. Maybe more like 80 of his very best, which is what he brought to the Olympia and to the Romania Muscle Fest. Uh, yeah. senior judges are in the YouTube comment section. Oh, I didn't know that. But yeah, I mean it's it's it takes a while to become a a proje to to to start out in judging and I don't know if it was always this way, but now because not that I've really looked into it. I don't have the patience to be honest with you guys. The patience or the endurance to sit there for, you know, it amounts to like a 12-h hour day of just staring at people and, you know, taking notes and and trying to do trying to make some tough decisions that, you know, everyone's there's no way everyone's going to be happy with. So, give it up to the judge, man. It's a thankless task. The only people who are ever happy with the judges and have nothing to [\h__\h] about are the people who win and the fans of the people who win. A lot of other times, you know, because it's a subjective sport and there are close calls, there gonna be a lot of circumstances or cases where it could have gone either way. It was that close. Like this this Nick Walker uh and Derek at the Pittsburgh back in the spring, they both deserve to win. They were both damn good enough to win that show. They were on a level that was higher than everybody else on the stage with them that night. And they both look amazing. And it was it's it's unfortunate. um that only one guy could win, but you don't you can't have ties in bodybuilding. So, that's what we had. Uh Derek squeaked it out by a point. If they bring in new and impartial judges, no. No, I don't think I don't think judging changing the judges would do up the Olympia. There's nothing that can be done that's going to really make the Olympia way more popular than it is now. And I'm not saying that out of negativity or being a cynic. It's just this is not a sport that can ever really go mainstream. It doesn't appeal to people and you can't you can't make people like something they don't like. Um I've been in sports bars in years past when bodybuilding was still on TV. ESPN had the show that I worked for for many years, American Muscle, and they they had other contest coverage and things. So there was occasionally there was bodybuilding on ESPN, ESPN, too. And I can I recall at least once and maybe it was twice being in a sports bar when it came on a bodybuilding show uh segment on on ESPN and people just at the bar where THEY UNIVERSALLY WENT, "AH, CHANGE THAT [\h__\h] GET THAT [\h__\h] off." They they did not want to see it. So they switch it to like literally any basketball or football game or something like that and and it gets quiet and everyone's okay. People just get back to normal. They don't want to watch B. Flip a coin for the winner. >> [laughter] >> I guess it I guess it's some No, they've never they've never do that. But that would be funny. We owe it to Ben Weider. I'll tell you, if Ben Weider couldn't do it, no one can do it unless the Olympics on their own just decided, hey, you know what? Remember that bodybuilding thing that that guy Ben Weider used to come around try to talk us into every year? Remember that? Let's let's give them a What the hell? I mean, we got so many lame stupid sports in the Olympics right now that are nowhere near considered sports. Why not? Why not do that? Winter Olympics. Yeah. I mean, it wouldn't matter, right? [laughter] Or we could do the summer Olympics and assuming it didn't rain, they could have they could do it outdoors with, you know, the Olympics, they could afford to have to have it lit nice. During the during the daytime, you'd have sunlight, so that's going to be kind of bright. Uh, but at night time, they could really make a they could light it just like any stage. would just be outdoors. The Olympics, you know, the the money they have, the budget those TV the production crew has, they could they could do a kickass coverage of that. It's 50/50 Derek wins every time for whatever reason. Well, I don't know. No comment because I don't know if that's I don't even I don't know if that's true. It's it's it's once you get to the top two or three at these at the Arnold Olympia, these guys are so close to each other. You really there's so many times at this look at this last Olympia if Andrew Jack had won the Olympia obviously some people would have been upset but I think a lot of people would have been happy with that had won the Olympia you know a lot of people that are upset or got upset after Derek won you know they would have been very happy with that and then you know Derek Derek did win and Derek's got a lot of people that like his physique too believe it or not they're not as loud as the people that don't like his physique but Derek does have a pretty substantial fan base I mean the social media numbers are pretty impressive. If you check them out, [snorts] bodybuilding on ice. Uh, like the ice capes. Yeah, like Disney on ice. Disney on ice. That's what I was trying to think of. Talk day Samson gaining weight. Yeah. So, it said he was 160 kg. So, you know, I can't do that math in my head. No good at math. So, Samson is times 2.2. He's 352. [laughter] I think that's the weight that he he had stated a two or three weeks ago. That's the weight that he was going to get to. If you recall, it went around all the the media outlet pages, you know, like who was best bodybuilding, bodybuilders without borders, all that stuff. Anyway, yeah, Samson hit his goal. Yeah. Let me go back to uh go back to some footage while we're talking because I'm I'm gonna wrap it up real soon, guys. Don't worry. Okay, so here's a call out. Let's see a couple more comments. Yeah, I was gonna say how what did he weigh like when he posted that two or three weeks ago? I think he was already 330. I think he goes he gets back up to because he said what do he what was he like two 280 at the Olympia. So I bet within I think he said within like four days he was back four or five within a week I know he was back to 300. So, that was a pretty quick re rebound regain of the weight and then he kept going and going. Yeah. Huh. Interesting. Uh, let's put that up. Your results one last time, guys. Hearing results. Poland's Damian Cuffle, winner of the 2025 Big Man Weekend Pro and qualified for the 2026 Olympia. Second place in the blue trunks there, Mark Hector from the UK. Fantastic shape and symmetry. Nice tight waist for a guy who's carrying so much muscle muscle mass. Third place, Spain's Pablo Lopeos. Beautiful shape, beautiful classic look to him with bodybuilder size. Italy's Roberto Wenomo in fourth and Andre Gersner in fifth. So, okay. Yeah. So, I'm gonna wrap it up, guys. Got one last comment. Can you imagine getting that big brisk food? I mean, you get bodybuilders eat just bodybuilder food wherever we live. I mean, chicken, rice, potatoes, steak, eggs, fish, turkey, oats, fruits, vegetables. I mean, food's food all over the world. Bodybuilders typically eat stuff kind of plain. So, he probably just eats the same way American bodybuilders and Chinese bodybuilders and Brazilian bodybuilders, we all eat the same. Yeah. Go back. The back double was a really good pose for these guys today. We'll see. There we go. Yeah. So, okay. All right, guys. Well, that will wrap it up. That's plenty plenty of time that we talked about the big man weekend pro the results here one last time. So please if you're not already liked, subscribed and shared sharing these videos, please do that. Helps me out. It doesn't cost you anything. Uh we'll be doing uh typical shows this week. The usual suspect shows power hour with Tiger Thomas. Uh we're doing Meatthead podcast. I know who I'm going to ask him and ask him in the morning. So I'm not going to say who it's going to be yet, but he'll be joining me. Big Mike Cox. and hope you guys can join us. Every Wednesday night at 7 p.m. Eastern, we go live for the Meatthead podcast. All right, good Sunday everyone. Good Sunday. So, I appreciate you guys all watching so much. And that is I hope those of you who was a holiday weekend, I hope you had a great holiday weekend and it's back to the grind tomorrow. So, that's it guys. Thank you so much for watching. See you right here next time.