What's up, guys? We are in the new year and it's that slow time between the contest season ending uh for one year and it's starting up for the next one. So, things are a little bit slow. So, we talk about things that normally wouldn't be talking about, such as Dorian Yates was critical in some uh interviews and posts recently about Derek Lunsford, the reigning Mr. Olympia champion. And that's brought up something of a debate as to who was the better champion. Now, you're going to immediately assume because I'm 56 and I was of that era where the 90s I was at all those 90 shows, most of them anyway, saw most of Dorian's Olympia wins live. Uh you you're going to assume I'll I'll say that Dorian just smokes Derek in every single pose. Well, not necessarily. And I want to go through the poses uh courtesy of a guy named Superset Man who did some nice sidebyside edits. I want to go through the poses uh one by one, all the mandatory poses. And let's figure it out. Uh I'm going to give Derek credit when he deserves it. I'll give Dorian credit when he deserves it. I'm uh I'm trying to be completely neutral here. I like both guys. Obviously, I'm a huge fan of Dorian, but I respect the hell out of Derek, too. So, here we go. Frontal bicep. And I gotta put this up here. These edits are by Super Set, man. I did not do these edits. So, uh, this was probably looks like 94. So, Dorian had torn his bicep at this point. He only won two Mr. Olympia, Dorian, with with both biceps intact. the the the the final four of his six Olympia wins were won with one good bicep and one torn bicep that he never had repaired. Uh but still, you could make a very good argument that that one good bicep of his is still a lot better than Derek's bicep, which just doesn't have a peak. Derek's Derek's biceps are they've come under a lot of heat, but let's give them credit. Uh structurally, I like them there a lot. Now, the front lat spread, I'm going to give that to Dorian all day. I I just like the structure, the shape there. Uh I'm really not a huge fan of how Derek sticks his uh leg out like that. Um this was also I I do like the you know it's it's he gets a lot of crap for his quads not being awesome, but I think they're quite on par with Dorian's here. But I got to give this one to Dorian. I just like I just like the detail, the shape. It's just a cleaner look to it. Let me see what you guys say. Afternoon, Ron. What's up, Zionic? Derrick's back is amazing. Yeah, when we get to the back shots, cuz Dorian is known as having one of the greatest backs ever, but you know, Derek is going to be right there. Here's a different one, different comparison. And again, I just think Dorian has superior width here across the shoulders. You could see his lats popping out more from the front than Derek's. Even though Derek has a hell of a back, it's different lighting and everything, too. Off low quality picadorian HD veric. Yeah. Why compare an injured Dorian? Well, unfortunately, the injured Dorian is the one that won the Olympia in '94, 95, 96, and 97. So, it's not really unfair because he did he did win the Mr. Olympia four times. Dorian with uh with the injured bicep. But, uh I'm just going off the edits because I'm too lazy to I don't even know how to edit. So, let's start with another round here. Side chest. Uh I think Dorian's got a much better chest than Derek. Uh I just like I also like the way he hits that shot better. He really lifts up the rib cage in that old school style that the guys like Arnold and Lou Farrigigno and Robbie Robinson, uh, Ed Corny, that whole era. And even into the like Lee Haney hit it that way, Rich Kaspari, I I prefer that way of hitting the side chest. Derek hits it more modern style with a little more twist, but still you could see superior development. Um, Dorian was never known for having awesome arms either, honestly. So, we're going to take that comment down just I want to leave that side try. I'm going to give that to Dorian all day. I love his side tricep. Uh I think it blows that blows Derek away. That one pose. You know, Dorian was known to be a master of the mandatory poses. He really came alive in the mandatories. And if you look at prejudging from various Olympias, that's where he really smoked people was in the mandatories. Quarter turns. Yeah. But once he hit once he started posing, everything really just popped. Dorian Fleet dominate his era. Derek hasn't done that. Yeah, no one is dominating this area yet. Oh, there's a Limu Emu. People love to [\h__\h] on Derek. Yeah, Derek is like the whipping boy and it's they they think he gets gifts and they think the IFBB treats him so much better. But if the IFBB really love Derek as much as people think, then he would just he would have been Mr. Olympia the last like four years. He would have won it the first year he did it. He would have beat Hottie. He would have won the year. He won 23. So 22 was Hottie. 23 uh was Derek. 24 was Samson. 25 was Derek again. But the judges could have done oil baby. The judges could have done anything they wanted. So that was the side try side chest and side try. Let's get into the back. The back poses are you would certainly expect Dorian to just destroy him. Uh back lat spread. backlat spread. Ah, that's a hell of a shot for Dorian. I think that's 93. That was probably the best Dorian ever looked. I think the 93 Olympia 92 his first win in Helsinki. He's a little overdighted for that. He definitely came in fuller for 93. Much heavier, something like 12 pounds heavier. There's a different shot. Uh, but Derek has Derek has a crazy rear lat spread, too, man. You really cannot you can't fault that lat spread. It is nuts on Derek. So, I don't know, man. I think they're neck and neck on that pose. That's a hard one to call. Rear double. Uh I don't know what Dorian was. I don't know if he was between poses here in this edit that he did because he's not really hitting that shot correctly, Dorian. He's not opening up and spreading the lats. So, of course, Derek is hitting it properly. Still, I do see a little more detail with Dorian. I do like that. uh for a Vtaper for structure. I mean, that's you got the guys that [\h__\h] on Derek, they don't really give him the credit he deserves for having that structure and shape, which is entirely genetic, of course, but still, he's got a crazy X-frame. Crazy. Here's a different one. Same thing. Yeah, Derek looks a lot wider to me now. Maybe it is because he's shorter and more compact. So, Dorian was 5'11. He competed anywhere from 242 at his first win to I believe he was about 257 close to 260 at his last win. Derek 5 foot5 maybe 56. I think he's more like 5'5 240. So if Derek was 5'11 like Dorian, he'd probably be closer to 300 lb. But man, that back on him was just insane. I'm going to put that up again. put that up again while you guys uh while I look at some of your comments because we're probably talking about the back. One reason why Dorian another go buy his upper body looked better in the front last because their legs were more vertical. Yeah, they didn't do the the one leg out thing which has sort of come into favor in more recent years. People can't stand. He's one of the best buyer. I mean, come on, guys. He's won the Olympia twice. He's won the Arnold Classic. He's won the Pittsburgh Pro. He can't be that bad, guys. He can't. He's not like the elbow's not good on the current guys. Old school. Yeah, I like there's a few poses where I really prefer the old school style of hitting it. Side chest for sure. Actually, don't do Dorian. Yeah, and I was there in person and I I agree with you. He was in person. It was ridiculous. Not even close. Dorian mogs him. That's a Gen Z term. Is that Dorian in your avatar or is that you? I don't know. It's hard to say. It is close. I mean, they both have phenomenal backs. Injection cysts on Derek upper ass. Uh, I do see a little lump there, but you know what? They all Dorian injected steroids in his butt, too. So, it's not like he was natural, guys. They were all They were all on gear. They were all on gear. Uh, I'm going to keep going back and forth to these, but uh see what we got here. It's me and I'm 39. Congratulations. So, you're still youngster. You're not even 40 yet. Yeah. So, I'll go to the next one. So, the the last two mandatory poses were abandon thigh and most muscular. I give Dorian the ab and thigh. I just I like I like the way his ab and thigh shot looks. Derrick looks sort of awkward hitting it. Dorian had the arms closer in so there's no gap there in between. I don't know if Derrick's incapable like he doesn't have the shoulder flexibility to do that. Really not sure. But just Dorian's hitting that shot perfectly. Uh the abs look better. Quads look really good. The most muscular actually Derek looks thicker. He looks thicker and fuller in this shot. And the quads, the legs, everything looks bigger on Derek. That's a tough one, man. That's a tough one. Ah, I I'm having a hard time with the most muscular. What do you guys think? Dorian's got basketballs flats under his arms. Yeah, it's not about the gear. It's about how it looks. No, these are all Derek from Olympia wins or Arnold Classic Olympia from from this year. Jordan's abs way sharper. I agree. Yeah. No, Jack. None of the none of the shots I'm using of Derek. Uh well, they're all from this guy, Superset, Man, I want to give him full credit because I did not edit these. He did it and I'm stealing his footage, but hopefully the fact that I'm promoting his YouTube channel, he does these blitz matchups, which are really cool. Uh these are still photos we're looking at, but he does a lot of them where they're moving. I was hoping he had done this with these guys, but he didn't. So, I'm going to go back. I'm going to run through these one more time. The front double structure and shape. I give that I actually give this pose to Derek. He's got more of a V. No, more of an X-frame. I think Dorian's Dorian's midsection was getting a little blown out here. He's also he's also not hitting a vacuum and Dererick's hitting a vacuum. So, it's really not the same exact pose. Um, but it looks pretty damn great. Yeah, but this was again again when Dorian had torn his bicep. And yeah, I'm I'm showing Dorian with the torn bicep. That's the footage I have. Dorian did he did have a torn bicep for four out of the six Olympias that he won. So it's not like it was just a last minute thing. He won four out of six Olympias with with one good bicep and one torn. Derek gets a lot of [\h__\h] for his biceps. Again, I love the way Dorian looks in this front lat spread. If I was an artist, I don't think I could do any better than this. Coming up with like a perfect physique. Maybe give Dorian a little bit more quad sweep. Derek actually has better quad sweep than Dorian. He's got much shorter legs, too. You know, that's it's not an excuse. I mean, we people taller guys always like to say the short guys have it easy with developing legs. And maybe they have a point about that because shorter limbs are easier to fill out than a longer limb. Absolutely agree with that. What we got? Yeah, I don't think Dorian wins all the poses. I I honestly don't think he wins the the rear double. Dorian should never won that Olympia. Well, he won. Yeah, that's a be that's he looks great in that shot. Sean Rare, Kevin Luren should have beat Dorian that year. Uh yeah, I mean I can't think of too many Olympias, multiple Olympia champions that in the eyes of the fans unanimously deserved all their wins. Lee Haney 89 in Remany, Italy, he was pretty blurry and watery. 90 the year was drug tested. Lee Haney was a little bit down in size and the condition was pretty pretty off. Uh, so that's Lee Haney. Once you get into Dorian, yeah, he had the he had the one bicep torn. So back then they had a symmetry round, guys. Symmetry round. So symmetry is left to right are supposed to be equal. So if you have one big normal bicep and one that's retracted and torn, I would think that would hurt you in the symmetry round, but somehow he still always won the symmetry round. Have you seen Lee on stage? You mean Lee Haney? Uh, I think you mean Lee Haney, right? Yeah, I was at his final, his eighth and final Mr. Olympia win in 1991. That was the first Olympia I went to. Uh, and that was the best he ever looked. So, I was very lucky that the only time I saw Lee Haney was his eighth and final Olympia win. He retired on stage at age 31 with eight Olympia wins. He was 254 pounds or something with a 30 or 31 inch waist. Condition was spot-on. Yeah, he was he was a sight to see. I'm gonna keep I'm gonna keep playing these over and over again because they go by pretty fast. Yeah. So, front double. That's not the greatest shot. The shot that I have in the thumbnail was from the famous photo shoot that Kevin Horton did at Dorian's gym. I think it was six weeks out from the 93 Olympia. He still had both biceps and he was something like 265, just bone dry, but he kept pushing the condition and he ended up coming into that Olympia uh probably about 10 pounds lighter than that, not as big and full. But those black socks pictures of Dorian, that's to me that's the best he ever looked because 93 was the last time he would compete before he tore his bicep. But those shots, those black and white shots of Dorian, to me, those are obviously they're iconic. You see them over and over again. But that to me was the best Dorian ever looked. Six weeks out from the 93 Olympia. By the time he got to that Olympia, he, you know, he really pushed condition. Dorian was, he says he was flat for all his Olympia wins because he would rather be flat and very conditioned than full with less condition. He He said, "I wanted people to see my kidneys pumping through my through my back." Dorian in person. Yes. What's up, Mike? Mike Cox, my partner in crime. Tomorrow night, the Meathead podcast, we're back to our regular day and time because Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve were both on Wednesday nights, but tomorrow night is not a holiday. So, 700 p.m. Eastern tomorrow. Please join me and Mike John Livia from Seriousness and Sill Silliness Bodybuilding Podcast will be there and Lee Priest has an invite. May or may not be there. I haven't heard back from Lee yet. 94 was crazy. Yeah, I think we're looking at 90 I think this is 93 we're looking at there. I think hard to say the side chest. Yeah, man. I I don't know, man. I I I give Dorian the side chest even though uh Derek has a little more fullness to the arms, but overall I think Dorian's condition, even this low resolution photo comes through better. Plus the the chest that chest development on Dorian was was just insane. He had a great great great chest. I forot those black and white pics. They were amazing. The black and white picks with the black socks. A Ron's going over work. What's up, Dave Mai? Dave M. Dorian, a different type of density. Hard to say who's better unless you say Dorian and Pur have too many of these comments. I haven't seen Dorian. Well, I mean, it's most people most bodybuilding fans now have never seen any of these people in person. The beauty of social media and making bodybuilding somewhere access accessible and popular is that more people get to see these contests, but they're seeing them on a phone or or you know a laptop screen or something. They're not seeing it live and in person in living color in 3D like we were 94. Dorian was bad. Yeah, that's the first year he had the torn bicep. Dorian hair versus Derek hair. Limu emo and and Doug. That's right. I keep pulling these. Go to the back shots. I I would give Dorian the rear lat spread, but when we get to the the rear double, I give that to Derek. I do. And I have no uh no no bad feelings about that. Sorry. Derrick's arms look tall. His lats and his armpits also looked abnormal. I don't see anything weird with his lats there. He just doesn't have the crispness that Dorian had. Sucks to be late. What's the score? Ah, we're not keeping score. your mom's flip-flop. Yeah, I'm not scoring poses. I know that would be a probably a more interesting way to do it. The graininess of Dorian's next level versus Derek. Derek still superior to Dory. Yeah, Derek actually has better thickness and size and fullness. Again, he's five I think he says he's 5'6. I'll say let's agree with him that he's 5'6, although I think it's more like 5'5. He's about 240 on stage. Dorian at 5'11 was anywhere from 242 to about 257. So if Derek was 5'11 as Dorian was, uh, he'd probably be closer to 280 to 29 to 300 region region. Dor Derek back double is crazy. Yeah, I mean that's that's why I we can argue some poses, but I I think we got to give we got to give Derek that rear double. His lats insert even lower than Dorian's. Granted, he has a shorter torso. He's a he's a smaller frame guy. He's shorter, but just the density and the thickness. Uh, now I know the detail and graininess on Dorian is is unmatched, but man, Derek from the back is pretty freaking conditioned. Pictures look like open Derek Mod 212. Yeah. None of these pictures of none of these pictures that uh we're using of those two are are Derk's 212. These are all from either the Arnold last year or the Olympia last year. There's nothing that's uh going back to his 212 days. Dorian always said he could come in big, but always want to be ultra lean. Yeah. He said he was flat. He told me he was flat for every single one of his Olympia wins. And I believe him, you know, because he was never afraid to be flat. A lot of these guys, the current the the the the difference between the '9s guys and today is I think a lot of the current guys, they are terrified of losing any any fullness, any size or fullness. So, they won't come in flat even if that's what it's going to take for them to be super conditioned. Obviously, there are those few people that can be both, but it's rare. Pre photos much younger being the 212. Well, I I don't know. I honestly don't I didn't fact check these with the AI or anything, but I see the Arnold Classic backdrop in most of these. And he only did the Arnold once last year. So that's 2025. Derek, do you wish more fans could have seen Dorian live? Yeah. You know, I I wish more fans now could see contests live, but obviously you got to get your you got to get your ass to wherever the contest is in the world. So, if it's more than, you know, an hour or a few hour drive or if you got to take a plane, most people aren't going to do that, especially when the quality of these pay-per-views, it is often pretty pretty lacking. But still, you can watch a contest now right here in your home office on your phone, stream it to your TV, whatever. There's there's so many more convenient ways to watch shows, which is why we have a lot more fans now. But most of these fans have never been to a contest. Derek Bub. Yeah. Best of all time. Yeah, Derek. Uh Ronnie had a great double rear double fill, too. Yeah, juiced up. I I would I would say that's that's pretty accurate. If anyone can can argue who else should be there instead of those three, I'm I'm all ears. As we said, all time. Heath, Ronnie, Derek. Yeah, the rear the the rear shots. The back shots. Yeah. Phenomenal. Phenomenal. Me a handful and go back. I'm just going to keep running these until I'm done talking. Keep running. Keep running. Uh painful most muscular pose of Dorian. I know the picture where he does show it. I also give Dorian. Yeah, you know Dorian's Dorian I liked his crab most muscular better and uh superset man did not use any of the crab most musculars. Derek usually doesn't hit a crab. A pro show alive. Still love the protein smell. Yeah, guys. If if you ever have a chance if there's ever a pro show in your anywhere within driving distance, I strongly encourage you give yourself that gift. Go to one pro show. Spring for the good seats. It's going to cost you more. But I always say if you're at a show and you're more than like 10 or 12 rows back, you might as well be watching it at home. Honestly, you really need to be up close to see all the details and get a get a real good sense of what these physiques look like when they're moving. You can see every little muscle fiber as they as they transition from the poses when they hit the poses. It's so different being there live. It really is. How many Olympias does Derek need to win to have people respect him? Honestly, Jack, I don't think it would even matter. He could win eight Olympias like like Lee Haney and Ronnie and he would still get [\h__\h] on because people would say he didn't deserve it. They gave him a gift. He's their golden boy. But again, I say if they really love Derek so much, he would have won for the last four years. He would have beat Hottie in 22. He did win in 23 and 25, and he would have beat Samson and Hottie in 24, but no, the judges didn't have him down. Didn't have him that high. Back double, Derek's arms don't look bad. No. No. His bice, his arms from the back in the rear double don't look bad at all. It's the front. The front, they they just look mushy. They look like just mushballs. Yeah. You know, I don't know what he's got or doesn't have in there. So, I I don't even want to speculate. I have no idea. Never been to a show. We'll go one day for sure. Yeah. I mean, you're I don't know how far you are from is it Cologne that they have Fibo? Uh I know it's it's a it's a pro. They're gonna have another pro show, I bet. And that's coming up in a couple months. So, maybe get over to Fibo for their pro show. Samir, what's up? Jim Brick. Yeah. Samir back double. Yeah, I mean Samir looked awesome, but he was a smaller guy. I don't I think if you put him next to Phil Heath, Ronnie Coleman, Dorian Yates, and Derek Lunsford, he would just get outsized so much that it wouldn't be as impressive. But he did have a pretty damn great back. Absolutely Sam Dorian's incredible physique, sheer size. Yeah, I don't know why photos never really captured them. It's puzzling to me because I've been to a ton of shows and I've seen the pictures later and I remember, you know, back then you'd have to wait a good month after the shows were done to see any of the pictures in the magazines. And I remember Dorian Dorian's photos. I was like, "Huh, you look better than that." Derek wins five because everyone's two down. He's got he's only 31 years old. I know I taped too long. That's why we got Limo, Emu, and Doug there. My bad. I'm gonna keep running. Keep running because you don't want to just see my my face. Limo emo. He'll forget Derek won three shows last year. Yeah. People just do not want to give him credit. They they keep coming back to his arm, but you know, everyone's literally everyone's got something you could pick on. Everyone with Derek, it's just because the biceps are showpiece body part and the frontal bicep is the first pose you hit in the judging. He's going to get a lot of [\h__\h] because people will focus. They'll go right to those biceps. Samir was 183 when he won. I Yeah, I I've heard as low as 183. I've seen on the internet claims he was like 205. I think that was later. I think you're right. When he won back in 1983, Samir, I think he was only about 183. Lee Haney has a very good back. Don't think enough people pick up on it. Oh yeah, he absolutely did. He was the first, you know, Frank, the first guy with a really good back was Franco Columbo, but Lee Haney, you know, was so much taller and a bigger dude. He took it to another level. I thought back to buy more. Okay, it's fair. Pictures just anyone before like 15. Yeah, the it's it's it's sad when I see the video quality of some of these pictures because, you know, I was there and I remember Dorian looking you could see all the detail, the separation, the striations, little feathers and stuff in the quads and those don't come through in a lot of these pictures. We didn't have the the technology, the camera resolution back then. Dorian was always dry. I mean, we have the digital cameras now with, you know, I don't know 100 megapixels. How many megapixels are up to now? A lot of megapixels. Another cat dad. I see. Who's that? Oh, Mike. Yeah, Mike. Mike's got three or four cats. Derrick won his first one. They all loved him. Yeah, but that's how it is, right? If you win more than one Olympia, suddenly, we don't like you anymore. Although, yeah, even when Romney won his second Olympia, people were bitching and moaning, weren't they? I don't mind social media. Derek's best in the world. All time great. Yeah. Yeah. You don't have to go with the crowd. I mean, a lot of people I think they hate Derek because they've heard other people say they hate Derek and they're really just jumping on a bandwagon. They don't they don't have opinions of their owns. They're just sort of borrowing opinions from other people pretty much. Smear was 205 to 880. Random Bible in Chicago brain. Yeah, that was Los Angeles. You're right. Yeah, he was he was almost done. He was he did a couple more shows after that, but he was almost done at that point. I love Derek's look at the Arnold, but any other show I just like the physique look sharp more detailed. Yeah, the Arnold was his best look of last year. I agree. Pittsburgh, not so great. The Olympia, better than Pittsburgh, but not as good as the Arnold. I don't think anyone's ever going to do three shows in one year and look exactly as good at all three. There's going to be one of those shows where you probably you probably are at your best. Hunter's physique doesn't translate in picks either. Good point. Hunter Labrada. People forgot about Hunter because he was gone for one year. That's all it takes for people to forget all about you is just take one season off. And who? Hunter who? It's crazy, isn't it? Cats. I'm a dog person. I guess if I had a cat, I'd love I've had cats growing up. I We always had dogs and cats. We have 200 megapixels now. Wow. I remember when digital cameras were first coming out and I remember the Canon Rebel came out. It was an 8 megapixel and people were losing their minds like oh my god eight megapixels and I was mad because Steve Blackman bought a bunch of them for people on people that work for the magazine and I didn't get one. Flex Wheeler got one. Chad Nichols got one. Romano got one. Palumbo got one. I didn't get one. I was so so mad. Roy Calendar had a great back double. Not to mention Robbie's a great back. Yeah, there have been some people there certainly been some people over the years with great brats. But Jerk is a few that have a sandal. Yeah, I think there's only what 17 or 18. I lost track. But that show has been going on for 61 years now and there's only it's it's under 20. The amount of guys who have won it is under 20. Have I seen Moto? Uh, not recently. Dorian better than Derek. I don't see Hunter in top five Olympians. Well, he's been he's been in the top five. I think he's been in the top five twice, I think. At least once. The first year he did it, he was fourth place. I remember because uh Walker took fifth place that year and a lot of Walker fans were very very upset. Roy Calendar. Wow. He's still kicking Roy Calendarer. He had, you know what, he had an amazing chest. He was a great physique overall, but his chest is really impressed the crap out of me. It was like Burle Fox's chest. If you knew you're Rob, it's Ron, but that's cool. I went to 2001 British Grand. Oh, that was the show. Levon, Ray, Cormier, Milos, DJ. Yeah. Yeah. talking people's crowd. Notice how far back Derek is leaning in that pose. Are you talking about the rear double? I think you were talking about. Yeah. Again, I like the I I give Dorian I like his ab and thigh because Derek just looks like awkward. He looks uncomfortable. Dorian's just hitting that shot with perfect confidence. There's no gap there in between. Again, I don't know if Derek has the flexibility in the shoulders to be able to get his arms back and folded like that, but that that's the way to hit it right there. What you see you see him doing if he was in top five means lineup was weak. Uh, so what year was that, Hunter? It was 2021, I think, that he took fourth. It was a while ago. It's okay. Don't worry about it, man. Rob Brun, you're watching you're watching my videos, man. I I thank you. Whether you call me Rob Ron or Billy Bob, it's all good. Can I do an interview with Samir Bonoot? Yeah, we'll try. You know what? Tomorrow I'm getting an interview with uh and I'll put it up tomorrow. A young guy named Chad, not Chad, Max Wadssworth. He's the young 21-year-old just turned 21 a couple weeks ago in the UK. He's gone viral. He did all these posing pictures with a CPAT mask on looking like Bane and people are just losing their minds. But yeah, Samir's a good a good suggestion. Thank you. Pose for pose. I better go back to some posing before you guys get uh too antsy. Back to your comments. Pose for pose. Dorian is a better Mr. Olympia back then. NC think champion system Dorian created. Yeah, I mean we've had it's it's like anything else. I mean in any sport they'll compare people from different eras, baseball, basketball, boxing, whatever. And you know, every era had its great and there were different eras. Bodybuilding is different now than it was in the 90s when Dorian was winning the Mr. Olympia. Things have changed. Some some things for the better, some things for the worse. But uh, you know, everything changes and evolves. And it's it's Yeah, I'm looking at Dorian now and his he did not have much quad sweep at all now that I'm looking at him. Derek actually has much better quad sweep. That's why he has that what we call an X frame. X-frame with the with the wide shoulders and lats, the small waist, which Dorian has that upper body perfect. The Vtaper perfectly, but he should have should have had better quad sweep. It would have made for a better overall shape. Billy Bob, that's me. Dorian was beating legends. Oh, absolutely. I mean, I did that video on Paul Dlette shoulder training the other day and Dlette was up there with [\h__\h] Dorian Flex Wheeler, Shawn Ray, Chris Cormier, Vince Taylor, Nassel, Somati, Kevin Leone, Neil Lee Priest, uh just some crazy crazy tough competitors. It was it was a very tough era. Dorian didn't have much detail in his quads. He didn't You're right. Yeah. I mean, he, you know, he didn't, I'm not going to say it's because he didn't squat, but he didn't squat. I'm not saying that that would have made made a difference. He did Smith machine squats, hack squats, and leg presses were Dorian's go-to movements cuz he had a serious uh injury early in his career, before he even turned pro. I think it was a year before he turned pro, um he tore a hip flexor or something. He had to have surgery and he never squatted again with a with a barbell after that. And I don't know if it would have made any difference. I don't even know if Derek I don't watch Derek's training videos. I don't even know if Derrick squats with a barbell. Vince Taylor. I did him a few years ago, but I'd get him back again. Yeah. I got to make some notes, guys. So, you want Samir and Vince Taylor. Sometimes I shy away from these older guys because I think the younger generation who's most of my YouTube viewers according to the the stats on my phone are younger. I don't know if they'd appreciate it. I don't know if they'd watch it, I should say. I picked Shawn Ray over Derek down twice. Oh, Shawn Ray was amazing. Shawn Shawn should have won at least one Olympia. Derek has stand a squatty manner to give the illusion of what? Poor Derek. He doesn't have any genuine width. No, he does. He's actually very wide. If you ever see him in person like walking around, he's so wide across the shoulders and the back for a for a shorter guy. It's It's like he's almost as wide as he is tall. Uh Limo emo again. H the limo emo. More comments. If judging was like it is now, Dorian Roy. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Back then you had to knock out the champ. You could be a reigning Mr. Olympia and come in off and you would still win the Olympia. It was that way for a long time. I'd say, you know, it took a few years after after Joe Weider was dead, God rest his soul, for the judging at the Olympia to become a lot more fair because I I think he influenced a lot of the judging. Jordan has been on Dave Palumbo show since it was World War II discussion. Oh, that's when he denied that there was a Holocaust. I missed that. When was your last Kevin interview? It's been a while, man. It's been about six months. Yeah. Screw the youngsters here. We want some here. Yeah, he was uh he was actually a little upset on Facebook with me uh last week, two weeks ago because I did a video called the greatest classic bodybuilds of all time. And I didn't mean for it to be the these seven were the only greatest. I I wanted to make it a series, but I should have just called it part one, but he was upset that he wasn't in part one. I had him in part two, and I did have not made a part three because part two got half the views of part one. So, not going to waste my time. Derek is big in person. Yeah, dude. If again, Mike's right. If you ever stand in front of Derek, well, I remember like uh me and I was at the Tampa Pro. I was I was in in Tampa for the Tampa Pro like five years ago. What's up, M Andy? And um Hector had to do a shoot with Derek, Hector Mendoza for Gas. Hector was doing still photos for Gasp at the time. He was doing some work for them. And we met at this gym, Sunrise Gym I think it was called. And uh I remember just I was filming I was grabbing some random [\h__\h] for in for MDMD Instagram and just watching him um watching him walk in front of me. He looks it looked like a cartoon character. He was so wide. The back was so big and thick. And that was five years ago. He's bigger now. That was before he had ever competed as an open body. Really he was a 212 at that point. Frontal bicep shots from 97 Dorian's last Mr. row. Uh that was Thank you for uh for being able to figure that out. But it was Yeah, that was not his best World War II discussion. I mean, I I I missed it, but I believe Dorian said either there was no Holocaust or it was greatly exaggerated how many how many Jews were killed. Something like that. I don't want to get into it because I'm not opening up that can of worms, but I believe that's what is what what it was about. Can you bring Bob Paris? I was so close obscurity. Bob, no way. Bob has never granted an interview to any bodybuilding media since he retired. Uh, he's had nothing to do with the sport. He has he's very bitter. Doesn't have any doesn't have any love for bodybuilding, past, present, or future. So, I I don't think Bob Paris is certainly not going to interview with me. Put it that way. I don't know who he would interview with, but it's not going to be me. Love the stories. Yeah, brother. Yeah, Bob actually wrote a book called Gorilla Suit. Uh talking about his his life as how he became a bodybuilder. The gorilla suit was his analogy for building this persona, this big muscular body to hide insecurities and other things. And yeah, he's not he's not a not a fan of bodybuilding. Pop Paris back so much better back then. Well, we had we didn't have the LED screens. We didn't have the technology for LED screens that filled up the whole back of a stage, which, you know, probably a good thing, right? Where did Dorian say? I don't know, man. You can Google it because I I'm not I I just remember that. I think he said it on RX Muscle, one of their videos, but I'm not going to go looking for it because I don't care. But you can go look for it if you want. After I moved to Tampa, I could meet Derek very frequently as my mentor Sam Beck train. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's his gym, Champions Elise gym. So you'll be seeing a lot of Derek. It's hard to give fair comparison between generation. It's always Bob hates by now. Yeah. Mike Bob Paris not a fan. Dorian is on that experience. Yeah, I can tell you Bob if he gave any interviews it's not going to be to me. Put it that way. Not for me. Billy Bob, that's me. What's my new nickname? Flex Willer. That's better than Ron Harris. Flex Willer and Shawn Ray and Kevin Ly all deserve. Yeah, I agree. Anytime I think back to who should have had a who never got an Olympia title but should have uh you know that phrase uncrowned Mr. Olympia I always think of those three names always Flex Kevin Shawn you know they all took second place at least once or at least twice. Flex twice Shawn twice Kevin four times. Yikes. But poor Catrell do the prototype. I've contacted him before. Oh. Oh. For for a classic. Yeah. He had a very great He actually beat A lot of people don't realize this. Uh Kevin Levrone's first pro show. It was either the San Francisco Pro or San Jose Pro in 92, one of those shows. And Porter beat him. I don't think Porter ever beat him after that. And the reason reason Kevin lost is because he had never flown an airplane before. He had didn't give himself enough time between the flight. He didn't know that he would be retaining water from the flight the the cross country flight from Maryland. So he was a little watery and Porter Porter was sharp and just he he won. Derek Wayneford I met Bon about years ago. He's wide crush. Yeah, Bonak's got a really good back too. So does Guy Green was the 90s. I could have moved to Los Angeles to study at Cal State Long Beach. Yeah. Yeah. Cal State Long Beach. Yeah. I was in LA from 91 to 2000. It was a really really good time to be a bodybuilder out there. Really good time. Yeah, I I feel very very lucky that I was able to be out there that time. Guys, I'm going to wrap it up. Um I can hear Branch being antsy in the next room. So, appreciate you guys watching and those of you who are on the live. If you are watching on a replay, give me a give me a comment down below. Derek or Dererick or Dorian, who do you prefer and why? Who do you think wins which poses and why? Any comments you have about Derek versus Dorian, drop them down there. I'd like to I'd like to hear what you got to say. And I always respond to every single comment because my channel's not that big yet where I'm unable to do that. I can still interact with all you guys. So, thank you all so much for watching. Appreciate it. And remember, tomorrow night, 700 p.m. Eastern, the Mead Podcast with me, Big Mike Cox, John Olivia, and maybe Lee Priest. We'll see. Lee hasn't got back to me. Hail Dorian. All right, that's it, guys. Thank you so much for watching. I'll see you.