What's up guys? Ron Harris here and judging over in Poland for the Poland Pro wrapped up couple hours ago. I'm just getting around to it now. When Joan Prellell's, Juan Pradell's from Spain took third place at the British Grand Prix a few weeks ago and then he took fifth place last weekend in Prague. I predicted this young guy is going to be winning shows very, very soon. I didn't think it was going to be this soon, but here we are. So, here's a look at the judging, some of the judging from earlier today over in Poland. On the left there you have another young Spaniard, Pablo Lopez Munoz. You have Joan there uh second from the left in the black trunks. Next to him is Andrea Prey from Italy and of course on the right Akim Williams from the USA. The uh middle two in in all the callouts that I've seen were Juan Joan Juan Joan and Andrea. So it seems to be coming down to them by my eyes. Um, I would give it to Joan. I'm just gonna call him Joan. I know it's Juan, but I want That's Nick strength and power. Thanks, Nick, for the footage. Appreciate it. Sure you're already subscribed, but if you're not, go ahead and subscribe. Yeah, Joan just has a a great package overall. Size, structure, shape. Uh, only thing he could use a little more is back thickness. You see Andrea has a much thicker back. However, when they turn around, you will see Jan Juan has much better legs. that has been the Achilles heel of Andrea Preyi for a long time. It continues to be is his lack of quad size and sweep. He just has not seemed to be able to be improving those at all. Uh from the side, his legs look okay, but Jan just devastating compared to that. I his legs are the legs when you see the quads from the front when they turn around again, you'll see the difference right away. Not even close. Uh I am surprised that Akeem Hakee does seem a little downsized, a little flat, which is why he doesn't seem to be getting moved anywhere toward the middle. Um again, so you see they're moving the guys around, but they're just moving Akim from one end, switching places with Pablo on the other end, and they're switching Andrea and Juan, but leaving them both in the middle. Meaning that it's it's down to these two. One of these two men is going to win this and they're going to get a qualification to the 2026 Mr. Olympia. Prey has been there before. Juan has not. Uh let's take a look at some of the stuff on Instagram. Instagram has a lot of audience footage. You know, people with their phones sitting in the audience. But sometimes we get different angles and sometimes that the stuff from people's iPhones looks as good if not better. Yeah. I mean, I love Guan's Joan's frontable bicep. It's such a great pose for him. You just see the overall shape, that Vtaper, the massive peaked biceps, the quads sweeping out. Great, great pose for him. Now, don't get me wrong. I'm a big fan of Prey, too. Prei does have weak legs, though, and that's that's what's been hurting him all this time. If Prey's legs were better, he'd be winning a lot. He would have won a lot more shows at this point in his career because he's not a newbie. Andrea has been around for a while now. Janu Juan, he's a newer guy, definitely newer to the scene and a very exciting rookie. Now, this doesn't show tremendous conditioning. A lot of times when you see the high-res images, the conditioning comes through better. You can see Prey's got much better detail in the glutes and the hams, but it's not a conditioning contest all the time. Let me go to some of your comments before I look for another clip. Let me make that a little bigger. Make that a little bit bigger. There we go. All right. What do you guys got to say so far? Draw looks good today. Draw looks unreal from the front. Yeah, his back isn't awful. He He does need more back thickness. Pressy has a much better back, no doubt. But the front shots mainly because of the quad difference because Pressie has a great upper body. Overall, his upper body is fantastic, but the legs are just they take away from the physique. Smoke dog, what's up? Who you got winning? I got That's why I put put him in the thumbnail and I put him in the title. I got John Prellell is winning. I'd be very surprised if he didn't first love John's upper traps front and side upper traps. I'll have to take a look here and see if I can see what you mean. Upper traps. Take a look now. What's not to like? Yeah. I mean, man, he also needs he also needs to uh fix that rear double pose. Not loving the way he hits it. I think he squeezes he squeezes the shoulder blades together too much. They've been going back and forth between rewarding conditioner size. Yeah. You know what? There there's no Oh, Chub Muffin. I That's a cool name. It's not that there's no consistency. It's They don't reward one thing over another. It's it sometimes when guys are close it comes down to one attribute like conditioning or one guy has a much better back or better legs whereas they might be pretty close to equal or equal in every other aspect. See what else we got on a gram. This is from who is the best bodybuilder? What a great name for a Gador present in a Poland pro. Ganador I think who is the best bodybuilder is out of Spain. So Ganador is winner. They got a question mark. So that means they don't even translate. I don't know. Uh let's hope it's not Spanish. Dallas Macccarver. That's awful. There's a shot that was taken. I believe AJ took this one. AJ Kelly Robert. And I use that for thumbnail because to me that's that's his most impressive. I love his frontal bicep, but that front relaxed, you get such a such a overall impression of how great his structure is, the mass, the shape, that quad sweep, those delt caps, the vtaper, you know, somebody like KZO, if he had if he had a Vtaper like this kid, because Kiso's got a wider waist, so he doesn't have much of a V. If he had a a nice Vtaper like that, Kzo Kzo would have won a lot more shows than he has already. Uh, it's back. That's old. That's old. Seen that. Prei versus Wong. Joan. I've never seen that name. I know I've said this a couple times, but I speak halfass Spanish. I've been with a Spanish woman. My wife, she's Cuban since 1989. And I have encountered many, many, many Latinos in my time. And I've never seen that name. Joan Joan J O. I've seen AI've met a lot of Juans, Juan Morel and so forth. Maybe it's only in Spain they have that name. So, yeah, these comparisons, man, it's it's very apparent the judges, they're trying to make up their minds between the two. And and I get the fact that uh if it's a if shows a one from the back, then I would give it to Prey because Prey does have See if we can zoom in a little bit. He's got a much better back. It's thicker. His glutes are a lot more dugout. His legs don't look as bad from the back. Uh they don't look as weak. Look at that back on him, though. And you can see that Predell's, he's not opening up the back. He's squeezing the shoulder blades together, which takes away from the width. Sometimes guys do this, and I used to do it when I competed in an effort to try to make the back look thicker. When you when you crunch your shoulder blades together, you're trying to bunch the whole back musculature together, make it look thicker. But when you do that, um, you lose width because you're supposed to look wide in both of the back shots, not just the rear lat spread. The rear double bicep, you should have as much of a vtaper as possible. And if you're crunching your shoulder blades together, you're losing some of that width. Any new comments? Pardell has some flaws. Once he brings him up, he's gonna be a top finish from Future Rose. Oh, yeah. He's a He's 28. He's just getting started. It's mainly back thickness and conditioning. He needs a thicker back and he needs better condition. When he gets those two things and guys, he's he's not even close to 30. He's 28. He's got so much time to fix that. I think one solid offseason, I'm sure someone that age training hard, doing all the the gear and the food and all that, they could easily easily put some good mass on the back. I don't know why. Why are they putting so much distance between them there? The Spanish Superman culturismo culturismo Imas which is bodybuilding and more. The Spanish Superman. Akim Williams seems like he's been around forever but never wins anything. He's actually he's actually won a bunch of shows. I want to say he's got he's got like eight eight or 10 pro wins at this point in his career. But he has been a pro since around 2010. I think that's the year he turned pro. Because remember Akim has been to the Olympia multiple times. He was He's been top 10 a few times. He was sixth place. So, you don't get to the Olympia uh without winning a show. I don't think he ever got there on points. He always got there in a win. He usually does win, you know, not the big shows. He doesn't win like the New York Pro or the Arnold or things like that. He wins other shows, but they're all Olympia qualifiers. Joan could win this. Oh, 100%. He's a Catalan Valencia name only in Eastern Spain. Thank you. Yeah, I know nothing about Spain. I mean, he might I've never been there. Um, you know, obviously my wife's all Latinos, all Hispanics, they can trace their heritage back to Spain, but we have very little representation in the USA of people from Spain. We have a lot of Mexicans, Cubans, uh, Dominicans, Puerto Ricans, Venezuelans, Argentina, you know, all these other, uh, Spanish speaking nationals, but we don't have a lot of Spaniards in the USA. I guess people don't leave Spain because Spain's pretty awesome. So people leave those other countries cuz there's poverty and there's just so much more opportunity here in the US. But I think Spain, they're good. I don't think they need to leave. Akim won the show last year. Um, you're probably right. Like I said, he usually wins these I don't want to say small, they're they are smaller shows. They're shows that don't get as much publicity, but he's won, you know, he's won like the Chicago Pro. He's won some decent shows. He's just never won a bigname show. But every show is an Olympia qualifier, so you don't need to necessarily win uh you don't need to necessarily win a bigname show. Uh here's that footage from Nick Strength and Power. Thank you, Nick. Appreciate that. It's that's from the stream. The stream wasn't great. Not great. Your Spanish, my opinion is street smart rather than halfass. Well, uh it's I I picked up more of a Cuban accent because I've been around obviously my wife and her family all these years. Uh, and they their accent is very very different from, you know, the way they speak Spanish in places like Mexico, Spain, every Spanish country has a slightly different accent. Real really seasoned Spanish speakers, like natives, they can hear someone else speaking Spanish and immediately know, oh, that that person's from Colombia, that guy's from Spain, that girl's from uh, Venezuela or whatever. They they can immediately pick up Panama. You think Akim should retire? I mean, no. As long as he's still doing well, like he'll be top four here, right? There's it's clear he's not going to be any worse than fourth if if he starts placing out of the top five. And remember guys, he won a show last year and he was in the Olympia. Didn't place well. He didn't finish in the top 15. So everyone that was out of top 15, which was five guys. There was only 20 people in the show. They were all 16th place. So if he starts sliding down the ring, you see Aim right there. His back is his weak point. It's just it's just never been able to grow to the proportions of the rest of his body. His name is from Valencia. Valencia. Yeah, Valencia. I don't know much about Valenc I don't know the Spanish provinces. My my niece is actually over there right now. Ariana, she's uh she's half Colombian and half Cuban. She speaks pretty damn good Spanish. She did uh she was a foreign exchange student in Costa Rica a couple years ago for uh for a few months. She speaks it very well and she's in Spain now living there for the next I think she's there for like four months, five months. Aken's physique just isn't impressive. Dude is killing himself off just for a hobby. I wouldn't say that. I mean, he made it to the Olympia again. He's made it to the Olympia, gosh, how many times? He's been to the Olympia, I want to say eight times more, maybe maybe more than that. So, getting to the Olympia alone is something most pro bodybuilders never do in their entire careers. Most pro bodybuilders, open bodybuilders, never ever get a a win. They never win a contest. And if you look at all the people that have pro cards, open bodybuild, open open men's division, you know, because there's a couple thousand of them. Most of them are never going to win a show in their entire career. Most of them are never going to get to the Olympia stage. So, Akim has won uh I wish I knew the exact number, but I know it's at least six. It's probably more like eight. He's got he's got eight, maybe even 10 wins at this point uh in 14 or 15 years as a pro. And he's been to the Olympia, and he's been sixth place in the Olympia. So, top six in the Olympia. Not only do most people never get to the Olympia, but you know, the majority of people that get to the Olympia don't ever make top 10. They're somewhere between between like 11th and however many are left, 20 20 to 30 guys. So, for somebody to be sixth place, which he was, and he's been top 10 a few other times and he's been top five at the Arnold a few times. So, he's actually had a pretty good career. You know, not everyone can be winning the Arnold in the Olympia and placing top five in the Olympia year after year. That's that's very elite. Joan is the Catalan version of Quan. Thank you. Now it makes sense. It's just I don't know why they had to spell it like that. It's confusing for dumb Americans like me. But Adel is already as wide as a house in a good way that is. Oh yeah, Purdel's I'm a big fan of this kid. I mean, as soon as I saw him at the British Grand Prix, what was that? Four weeks ago, a month ago exactly, I was like, this kid look at tickle. I had never heard of him before. I'm I don't even know if that was his prodebut, but uh so so impressed by him. I want to go to his uh I want to go to his uh oh that's I'm on Instagram. I want to go to his Instagram page and see what else we got there from from Joan because I think this kid and I call someone who's 28 a kid. I mean I have a child who's 31 years old. She'll be 32 in April. So they really are kids to me. Oh, there's some good shots from judging that Joan has Jawan has on his Instagram. Yeah, man. Akim on the left. Akim still looks really good to me. Um, let's look at he's still got the arms, the legs. He's still got that crazy Vtaper. It's not like his physique is falling apart. He still looks really good. It's just, you know, new talent is coming in all the time. Younger guys is really really up and cominging new talent and it sort of pushes out the older talent. So, he's probably getting slowly pushed out now as all the guys eventually will. You know, there going to come a day when that's Joan. You know, it's not going to be for many years, I hope. But one day, Jones Joan Juan's going to be the older guy getting pushed aside by the new talent. But that's a good shot. The front double. There's the most muscular with the top four. Somebody's head blocking out most of Pablo. Yeah, this was probably from right behind the the judges and the photographers. Well, there's a good comparison of who's in there. Pink trunks. That's Pablo. So Jonah is in the black trunks. Andrea is in the turquoise trunks. What do they change trunk colors? Yeah. So, you could see there um Jones back again. He's crunching his he's crunching his scapula together, which is not helping the width. He does need a little more thickness. And I could say the glutes aren't like flabby or soft or anything, but Prey's got the glutes all dug out there. I still think overall I would give this to uh Oh jeez, that's a rough shot for him. Yeah, his rear his rear lat spread there is not uh not thrilling me. Could be thicker. Could be thicker. Good ab and thigh. Yeah, Akim is really hitting that shot oddly right there. Pressy looks good. Some backstage fun between the two. Okay. See what else has he got? Same as a girl. He has muscles that don't exist. I don't know if that's possible. Is he playing tennis or pickle ball? I don't know what he's playing there. He was number 91. Let's see. Let's look and see if there's any cool shots. Look at that. I mean, so that was at the competitors meeting and these end up being the top two. The contest coming down. Look at the baby feet. You can see how young he is there. That looks like a kid, man. That looks I If you told me he was 24, 25, I'd believe it. You know, we complain a lot about these young guys on gear. Oh, he's 28 and he looks like he's 50. He doesn't look any older than 28. Joan Joan, he looks like a young, healthy guy. And I know I'm I'm not saying he's not on gear. Obviously, he's on gear, guys. But he still has a a young, fresh face. series with the other guy from Spain, Pablo Lopez. Mos is it Monise? Is it Mos? I don't know. Yes. Good time series with Akim Akim. I would I would recommend Akim to trim that beard. I don't like I don't like the bushy messy beards. It's me. Oh, that's a great shot. I think that was from Prague. Is that his kid or is that him as a kid? No, young Wayne. Oh, so that was him as a child. Okay. I don't know if that was his son. I don't know if he has any kids. There's a great front latage. Yeah, that's Prague. I can tell by the the stage backdrop. You can see the edge of it there. I don't know what destras means. Nothing is more important than your potential until you demonstrate it. or potential isn't important until you make it happen. Something like that. I told you that's what I say. There he is with Martin last week. What does this tattoo say? Obsessivo. Obsessive. I think so. Here is on his bike. Don't worry, guys. Oh, there's a great shot. That's a great shot. Wow. So, these are some really high quality images there. Wow, look at that. Look at that vacuum. Look at that little waist. It's like I wish everyone could have a flat concave midsection like that. You see how it just makes everything look better. And I could see you can see the legs there. He could he could have been in better shape. He's he's not totally conditioned today either. He could be in better condition, but these are it's a learning curve. He's going to get better and better. Never too high, never too low. Oh, was that what the first thing said in Spanish? I don't know. That's why that's why I say I speak halfass Spanish. Oh, that reminds me of Don't get mad, but that reminds me a little bit of Dorian right there. Obviously, the conditioning is nowhere near the nowhere near the level of muscle maturity and detail that Dorian had. Uh, but geez, that is a hell of a front line spread shot. Great side chest, too. Yeah, very impressed with this guy. J reminds me Mike Francois. Yeah, Kian. Well, it's actually h I don't see the similarities to be honest with you. I knew Mike pretty well. I mean, I saw him compete. I think I saw Mike in almost all of his pro shows because he was only an active pro for a few years before Colitis took him out of the game. Did he not win the New York Pro? Akim has never won the New York Pro. No. No. Uh, let me show you. I'll show you. Uh there's a website that there's a website that has the contest records for people, but he stopped updating it like five years ago because I think nobody was nobody was contributing towards it. This contest by year male, let's see what he was in. Olympia 2020 Olympia. Was he in that? Oh, yeah. Here we go. So, here's Ocumus contest history, but it only goes up to 2020. So, at that point, let's see. Okay, he won at that point by 2020, which I don't think that's even full. He had won the Tampa Pro in 2016. let's see. He had won Chicago Pro in 2020 and I know he's won some other shows since that. How do you think? Yeah, because he got the Olympia in 2016 for the first time based on that Tampa Pro win. I don't think he's ever won New York Pro. I'm pretty sure he has not. Pretty sure he has not. Yeah. What's up, Dan? What are all the horror movies you decide to watch last night? Uh, let's see. I watched the 2007 Halloween, the Rob Zombie one. I watched Jason X, where Jason is in space and towards the end becomes a cyborg. Uh, that's all. Did I finish watching something else? I was kind of going back and forth between a few, but I didn't. Those are the only two that I watched all the way through. It was tough. Tonight I'm going to finish that and I'm going to watch I know Halloween's over, but I I I want to watch uh Late Night with the Devil tonight again. I I want to see that. I've seen it three times or four times. I've seen it a few times already, but I I I love that movie. I thought it was so well done. Didn't see results. Wasn't close. Well, it's not over yet. They do the finals tomorrow. Uh the finals are tomorrow, so it's close. Jones back is weak but somehow still stronger. Go back to that. See, Jones back is weak but somehow stronger than our Yeah, it's better than ours. It's just not as good as uh Andreas Pi person like Pablo the most I thought for a while. Yeah, he's he's very good. He's just sizewise doesn't stack up. He needs more mass. I'm not saying oh he should go classic. I'm not saying that. He's just not as thick as these these uh two guys in the middle right there. Catalonians typically don't associate themsel with Spanish heritage. Yeah. I mean there's different areas of Spain like the the Basque is in that part and the Castellian. There's a there's a whole ethnic group called the Bas. Uh I think they're out west towards Portugal that they're in Spain but I think they don't consider himself Spanish. I don't know. I'm just pulling that out of my ass. I don't really know. This is stuff I barely remember from your side shots really shows. Yeah. Prey's upper body is awesome. I think he's got I mean he's been to Olympia. He's won shows before Prey. He's no slouch, but his legs just they hold him back which pay the going international. Yeah, Chud Muffin. Well, you don't have to worry about the only as far as making it tougher for athletes to get there. you're talking about like visa issues and the only the only guy who was missing out because of a visa was uh Beerus Tobani and he got in. So I don't think it's an issue anymore. I don't I don't think they're ever going to leave Vegas. It's been in Vegas for 20 24 years now. I did hear they're going back to the Orleans next year though. I heard that which is crazy because Orleans is not like a five-star hotel. They do have a great arena. The Orleans Arena itself is excellent, but the Orleans Hotel is kind of shabby compared to I've never been to Resort World, this new one, Resorts World, but I see all the pictures and videos and it looks, you know, crazy. A multi-billion dollar hotel casino, but you know, they do what's best for the show. No, I don't I you know, obviously me being selfish because I'm in the USA. I like having it in the USA. I wouldn't mind if it goes back to Orlando. I wouldn't mind Orlando again. who said they're killing themselves for a hobby as a dumbass. He plays six in the world. I mean, everybody Yeah. I mean, Ake Hakee has made a living out of this for a long time. He's had he's had sponsors that pay him to to be a full-time bodybuilder. He's won shows. He's been the Olympia. He's not a He's not a schmuck. He's he's he's not a second rate bodybuilder. A Keem Williams. He's he's up there. The amount of influence take not going to retire. Joe Joe an is the best new body. Yeah, I like I said I never even heard of this guy Henry until the British Grand Prix three or four weeks ago. What day was when was the British Grand Prix? Well, it doesn't matter. I never heard of him and um he's fantastic. I'm a huge fan of this guy. Let's go another shot of him while we're talking. Look at that. Look at that. Look at that. He's not making peace with the Harley. Davis Morris. Yeah, a lot of people are still hitting the Harley. Who coaches Joan? Um, it's a good question. I think it's in his bio. Let me see. Not really sure, but he probably tags his coach. Does he tag him? Nope. I can't remember the guy's name. I think he's coached by a gentleman in Spain who coaches a lot of the top athletes from Spain. Someone will someone in the comments in the chat, let me know cuz I I know. Fran Spin, is that it? Okay. Fran Francisco Espine, that's his coach. Thank you, Pedro. Much gracias. Muchas gracias. Seeing B lights, I can see why Pablo is not challenging for first legs. The most detailed, but they look small. Yeah, I mean the Prey has light legs, too, but Preyy's upper body is much much thicker. Much thicker. What's up, Donald Pump? Donald Pump, you need to you need to free up that EBT money. Just kidding, man. Just kidding. I'm not getting into that 90s magazine cover look. And that front lat spread and his his front shots, his side shots are killer. Back shots not killer, but they're still it's not enough to take him out of the game. His coaches Franis Beam probably the best of Spain with Rahul Carrasco. The coaches Jose Manuel Munos Jan looks like DORIAN WRONG. HARRIS WRONG. WELL, if I was if I was uh right all the time, I'd lose my nickname and I need a nickname because Ron Harris is a very generic very generic name. Reminds me of Matt Mendenhal. I don't know about that. Well, has the same problem as us with the back density. The youth thing must be Yeah, I mean, we do see some people with great backs in their younger years like Derek Lunford had a great back throughout his entire pro career. Derek's been a pro since he was 24, 23, 24. I mean, he won the USA back in 2017, so that was eight years ago. I mean, he had a really good back then, and that's when he was like 195 pounds. Now that he's like 240, his back is much better. Yeah. Back takes the longest. I could say from all the bodybuilders I've known and even in my own personal experience as a bodybuilder, back was the the area that took me the longest to get that thickness. Uh it's just it does you don't get a great back overnight unless you're one of those few lucky few who's got crazy back genetics. But even if you look at older pictures of Ronnie Coleman, um his back wasn't awesome when he was first starting out as a pro. It was pretty good. It got better and better and better over the next few years. But yeah, Jonah has a way bigger back I think than you mean than Pablo, but not not than uh Andrea. Yoyo Ron seen late night delfore. Still don't get it. Need to see it again. Oh, no. I get it, Donald. I get it. I just love it. I think it's a great movie. I I love the whole concept of how he basically the main character sold his soul to the devil to become successful in late night television and it cost him his wife. His his wife ended up getting cancer and dying. Sorry for all the spoiler alerts. And then you know the devil comes to due to collect on Halloween night 1977 or 78 whenever the movie takes place. It's really well done. I mean they they really have uh they capture the the period perfectly that late '7s. He's more detail in the back pose. Dude in burgundy is thick. I should go back go back to uh the judging again. So Jerem Jim Quinn, he's better than Jim Quinn was in terms of shape and structure. Jim Jim was a blocky guy. Jim was huge. I knew Jim. I saw him compete a few times. Um, but he never had he never had a pretty structure and shape like that. Who's winning? I think this guy here second from the left, Joan Pardell's. His back is lacking though. Crazy from the front. Well, no one's complete here. No one. The only guy up there with a great back is Prey and he's got really weak legs. Uh, Akim's got awesome legs, weak back. Uh, Jan has pretty much everything except the back. And it's not awful, but it's not great. And guy here, Pablo Lopeis Munos, he just needs to be a bigger overall, I think. Warhammer, what's up? Having a sugar-free root beer and he's shock shocked at what? 88 people are far few. Come on, hit the like button. It's free. It is free. You're right. Go ahead. Xavier, what's up? I see a top five for the show. I don't know about the top five because I can only see four and I didn't watch the judging. All I saw was this clip. So, that's that's what an awful contest contest coverage person I am today. But I appreciate you hopping in here. He does seem to have some spinal imbalance or something. I saw a video you hack squigging 65 or 10. Yeah, I used to be awesome at uh leg pressing, hack squats. I was decent squatter. I wasn't breaking any world records in the squat, but I could do like 405 for 15 good reps, deep reps back in my heyday. I could do 500 for a few, but no, I was never doing like 7, 800 lb like some people. Jordan and Joan are saying each other, "No, no, they have not. They have never competed because Jordan, so Jordan this year, Hutchinson did uh Tampa, Texas, and Olympia. And Joan was not in any of those shows. He just did British Grand Prix, Prague, Prague Pro last weekend, and this show. So, I bet next year they get to stand with him. Maro is coach from Spain. I think he's from Spain. Uh I think Maro Sasi you're talking about from he's from Italy. I think that's who you're talking about. I can't live stream. I got to strike for showing a few screen caps. Yeah, that's some [\h__\h] Xavier. I mean, I got AI couldn't uh stream live for three months after the 2024 Olympia, but I was showing the live stream. Granted, it was like AI I was doing it on like a 15minute delay because I was being slick and I thought I could pull a fast one, but uh Olympia TV or their bots or somebody alerted YouTube and I got the copyright strike. But I know you, Discord, and EP09 all got strikes last week for doing nothing wrong. You are allowed to show screenshots. That's how you guys do your watch parties. Uh you you I I can't even figure out how to do it as quickly as you guys can. That's why I don't do it. I did it when I was doing it. I was pausing the stream when I did the Olympia. I would just hit pause, unpause, pause over and over again. So I never let the video roll. And I got away with it because I wasn't showing the video, but you guys are you guys got screwed over there. Sorry to hear that, man. Francisco Espin has been coaching. You also coach Neckzilla. Oh, yeah. Rubel Moscera from Colombia. Yeah, that does suck, man. I'm I I was really bummed to hear that. It must paint. Just tell chat GPT to simulate the contest. Frank Spin is Angel Calderon. Oh yes, Angel Calderon Frius, who's uh one of the greatest bodybuilders to ever come out of Spain. He's best known as a 212 pro. He's been second place at the Olympia and top five numerous occasions, but he's also won an open show. Or is it more than one? Needful things. Oh yeah. I mean, selling your soul the devil goes back to to Foust that goes back that theme goes back, you know, 500 years, but it's it's uh it still fascinates us. Jones is exactly pretty either. Uh, no. I mean, he's not he's not like I wouldn't mistake him for classic physique guy, but he's got really good shape. I mean, look at that front double and he hits the vacuum. Doesn't have any kind of a gut. I think he's I think he's got great shape. Personally, Carrasco is the best. He is the Jose coach. Carrasco guys are all fighting over who's the best coach from Spain. shitty quality video from that stream. Well, we've seen a lot of that. I mean, the worst I'll say it. The Two Bros Pro video, uh, it was free, so you can't call it a pay-per-view. It was a free live stream on their YouTube channel, but the lighting of that show was ass. It was horrible. and the stream. They set up either an iPad or a a smartphone on a tripod or something behind the the judges and the photographers so you could see the photographers and their cameras and tripods blocking the legs of the competitors on the video. You couldn't even see the full physiques of the athletes. Terrible, terrible, terrible. But it was free, so can't say I want my money back. Like press don't pump. Akim's gonna end up retiring eventually. I think he's got probably another another year, maybe two. The extra exposure he shows get because the live stream is huge. Think they're shooting themselves in the foot here. We're talking to a pair of strongest death face. Oh boy, man. I' I'd say I'd say like Samson in the in the progress photos in the last week or so before before the Olympia had the had the craziest death face a little bit with the shape. Anyone know if Hunter is doing the Arnold? Good question. So, the Arnold list isn't going to be out until mid December. We've already heard I've heard that like everybody from the Olympia, I don't know about Heidi, but uh Derek Simpson, Andrew, Martin, the the Arnold is going to pretty much be the Olympia all over again. And why not? 750,000 bucks for first prize. That is that's like FU money. We as we say in the US, that's like life-changing money. I know there are other sports where they make that much in one game or something, but for a bodybuilder, three quarter million dollars for one show will not be easy. Was that what I said? Yeah. I mean, uh I I did I didn't give the benefit of the doubt. I doubted his his first open show was going to be a success. And I was wrong, Harris, on that one. There are other guys knocking on the door right now. I think presidents finals are tomorrow. I didn't check the time cuz I'm busy. I'm out of house all day tomorrow with uh a training client and then I got a coaching client I got to meet up with. She's doing Masters USA and I'm doing EP09's live stream tomorrow night live. It's going to be EP09, he's the host 6:30 p.m. Eastern. Uh and Bob Chickerillo and me. So, we're gonna have a good time. Arnold is barely the Olympia when you go down the line as well. Just not the first place guy. Yeah, the Arnold is it. You could you could argue it's a better show. In some ways, you could you could you could argue that successfully, but everybody still wants to be Mr. Olympia. You're never going to you're never going to take that away. It's it's always going to be the most prestigious title, the Mr. Olympia. It's just it's the big title. Everybody wants to be Mr. Olympia. After that, they want to be Arnold Classic Champ. But there are a lot of guys who have won the Arnold and never won an Olympia. And you know, some of them have regrets because they all wanted to win the Olympia. Kevin Levon wanted to win the Olympia. Shawn Ray won the Olympia. Flex Wheeler. Uh, all those guys won Arnold Classics multiple times, but they never won Olympia. Finals are noon Europe time. Thank you. Uh, that's mainland Europe. So that would be six hours ahead of me. Geez. So that is 6:00 a.m. for me. Actually, we're changing clocks tonight, so that's seven hours. Yeah, we get an extra hour of sleep tonight. Awesome. Arnold Deron. What was the name of the EPO9 ch? It's called EP09. EP09, which I think he explained the meaning of that to me once and I already forgot. The prize money, the Olympia is awful when you pass top three. Yeah. I mean, even with the uh the Olympia, I'm sorry, the Arnold, after you get past the top three, the prize money drops dramatically as you keep going down the line. I'll show this one more time and then I'm going to take off too. You know, walk branch. Thing about a pit bull. If you're a good dog owner and you got a strong, healthy, active dog, that dog needs to be walked. Can't just let him sit home or run or walk around your backyard. Quick call in question Mr. Say Joan Jason or Myers. Uh Myers. Myers. I was never a huge fan of the Friday the 13th movies. I just thought, yeah, they had some cool kills and stuff, but uh I was team Michael Myers from day one because when I first saw Halloween, I was it came out when I was uh I just turned nine years old and Halloween 2 a few years later. I saw those so many times. I wouldn't say I was obsessed with them, but I I thought they were just so well done. They they they started the whole slasher genre. You disappointed me. Sorry. I disappoint a lot of people. Are judges upset condition? No. No. No. Judges don't emphasize anything. It's it's comes down to whatever is the best total package on that day. Sometimes a guy with the best total package also has the best conditioning. Sometimes he's the biggest guy. Sometimes he's got the best shape. But no, it's never there's never any one quality or attribute that's more important than others. when they when the judges sit down there, they don't have a cabal and say, "All right, guys. Conditioning is what we're going to go after." Can't find a channel on YouTube. Past uh he's there. It's called Let me check for you. Uh where's YouTube? EP09. Yeah, it's there. See guys, here it is. EP09 Bodybuilding. That's his channel. That's his channel. So, that's So, again, we'll be uh I'll be on tomorrow with Bob Chick and the channel owner EP09 live at 6:30. Uh I think we're going to do a preview of Romania, I believe. Yeah, EP9. And so Akim say he should beat Tony Olympia Brown. Well, he wants to Of course he wants to beat him. Of course he wants to beat him. Anyway, so Akim. All right, guys. That's it. The wrong Bible. The wrong of Bibling doesn't sound doesn't sound that's not very catchy. The voice of Bible sounds good. See that? All right. Cool, guys. All right, guys. That's it. Uh appreciate you guys watching. So tomorrow we'll find out who won. It's either going to be Joan Pradell's or it's going to be Italy's Andrea Prey. I'm leaning towards Joan Prell's. 28 years old from Spain. Crazy rookie season here. Very strong third place at the British Grand Prix uh behind uh Ko and Sassan and fifth place in Prague last weekend. And then I think he's getting his first pro win today or tomorrow when the finals happen in Poland. So, thank you guys for watching. Appreciate it so much and I will see you all later.