What's up everybody? This is not the Ron Line Report. It's not Power Hour. It's the Cali Pro preview. We're also going to talk a little bit about Linda Murray's bodybuilding women's vision prize situation. Yeah, I saw Mike already flinching. Joining me is Big Mike Cox. And Mike, clear this up. That is your real name, right? That is my biological name. Michael Ernest Cox Jr. My credit sucks. So if you steal my identity, you're not gonna get [\h__\h] So do what you want, guys. Yeah, Cox is not that uncommon a name. I' I've heard other people in America with that name. So yes, there's a Fletcher Cox who played pro football and there is another Michael Cox other than my father that is the attorney general in Michigan. Okay. I mean, every once in a while I hear I run into someone named Harris. It's it's rare, but it happens. Yes. Before we before we get into Kelly Pro, and I promise guys, it won't be long. And if you're watching the replay, just look at the time stamp so you can skip right past it. But I wanted Mike to comment on this because this was like the craziest video I ever ever had on my channel. Um, I'm not even going to put the volume up. I don't want to put the volume up. I'm gonna let it be quiet. But this was now I got to get past the ad. So, this was uh Milos and Giles and we were just supposed to talk about like New York Pro and a couple other things and I'm the idiot that brought up the comments that they had in the comments battle they were having in IG over good veto and whether or not he should do Pittsburgh and it just went insane. Milos Milos went off. Called him a stupid mfer. He called him an idiot. He called him a liar. Go. Uh so, what were you thinking, Mike? Were you cringing or were you loving it? You know, the the drama guy in me loved it. Um, and it's funny because Milos did the same thing with Bob on DJ's podcast. They got he lost it. But the thing is, Ron, it's just Giles agreeing with Milos. Um, I think Milos got stuck on that one comment, that one phrase. But it's an opinion, right? This this whole sport is a sport of opinions. We all view things differently. we see things differently. Um, and Giles is an expert like you just you said he's been doing this for since since we have, right? Since the early 90s, right? So, Giles knows what he's talking about. He's got a hell of a resume. Um, he knows physiques. Um, he gave his opinion about Good Veto, right? Um, I was in the of the opinion that, you know, Good Veto should have done the show. I thought he should have done it. I think he should do every show if he can, right? Um, that's just my opinion because this is a business. Um, you're here to make money and there's going to be life after bodybuilding. But for me those to go when you when you start throwing insults at people during a discussion, that means you don't really have a a point to stand on, right? Um, I've had discussions with Chris Goon um about politics and it's been a very civil discussion. No, we never raised our voice. Now, that's how that's how debates go, right? You can't get pissy about that because I I get Milos's passion and I love that and he's a legend, you know what I mean? But you got to calm that [\h__\h] down, bro. It ain't that deep, man. You know what I mean? Like there's room for all of us to the table, right? Um and you know, Milos did every show, too. He did every show, right? Maybe and and maybe that's where he's coming from, right? To stand on stage and he did mention going on a European tour, not making money. I get that, right? I get it. But, you know, I don't know. And I said that to me, Los. I said, I think you're coming at this from your exact unique perspective that you did 71 shows and you got your ass kicked by, but you by pretty much everyone because that was a hell of a decade. But he stood next to Ronnie, Dorian, Shawn, Kevin, Nasser, Rule, on and on and on. All the best guys of the era. So, I get where he was. I get where he was at, but I don't know why he had to keep harping on. He wanted Jiles to admit he was wrong. Giles would not admit he was wrong. I I also took a lot of exception at him keep saying you're supposed to be an expert. You can't question whether or not Giles is an expert. He does okay. They hire this guy for about 10 or 12 pay-per-views a year, mostly over in Europe. But you don't hire somebody to comment on hours and hours of bodybuilding live streaming that people are paying for unless they have an expert opinion to offer. Plus, you don't have to be be a pro bodybuilder to have a to be an expert either, right? You don't have to be Peter Peter McGuff wasn't a pro bodybuilder, but he knew the hell he was talking about, right? Yeah. Like all the it's just it's just it's not he pro bodybuilders have a different have a different perspective than we do. They lived it, right? We lived it vicariously through them in the magazines and diving head first into our passion which turned into your job which turned into me hanging out with you doing this. Right. So, we know what we're talking about. Like, just because we didn't weren't on the stage at the Vet or in the Beacon Theater or, you know, in Madison Square Garden, don't mean we know what we're talking about, right? But Jiles, listen, I'll give I love talking to Giles, man. We, you know, when we do these things, we we bring up the past, but J expert, but Milos has to you have to respect someone's opinion, even if it doesn't agree. Yeah. So, you know, you're a big football fan, right? Right. Would you say what is that the professional sport aside from bodybuilding you think you follow the closest? Yes, most definitely. So I don't. So this is why I have to this is why I defer to you. When you watch the commentary, the guys up in the booth with the headphones, some of them are great from from NFL in the past, right? Some of them have never played a game of football in their life. Am I right? Or maybe beyond college. Some probably couldn't even throw a football. Ron, does that mean that their opinion is invalid and they're not an expert? Dude, on ESPN all the time they've got non-athletes making opinions on athletes and and listen, sometime it it does sting the athlete a little bit, right? But they they make a they make a point. They make great points, right? And even everybody's got a voice now on social media, you know what I mean? and and some guys that haven't they're maybe in their like late 20s are commentating about our sport when we've probably forgotten more than they know. But it doesn't mean we go on their show and say you don't know jack [\h__\h] Your opinion doesn't matter. I want to and I may comment that sometimes. Yeah. But there's room for everybody, bro. You know what I mean? Like it ain't that deep. Yeah. I So I will say I was obviously you saw me like cringing and trying to hide. That was that was very uncomfortable. Yes, I'm not going to make a habit of this. And Giles, you know, in our group chat, he says he never actually I think we have over a thousand comments on that video. Um yeah, you know, and people That's great guys. If you haven't watched it, go back and watch it and leave your comments, too. It helps me out. But you know, he doesn't ever want to go through that again and I don't want to go through that again. So if I ever have a show an interview or whatever that's going in that direction, I'll just cut the per I can like I can just click you off right now if I wanted to or at least I could I could stop your microphone. I could take you off. And you know, people were saying, "You should have done that, Ryan. You should have stopped it." But I I felt like I had to let it play out because Jiles kept saying, "No, no, I'm okay. You know, I'm a man. I can handle myself." And he did. He he stood up to every insult. He didn't back down. You know, he didn't get angry. He didn't raise his voice. He didn't get upset. I think too though when when you're talking to somebody and they're not responding getting hyper and hyper like you are that may trigger someone cuz Bob Bob did the same thing. Bob just sat there, Milos. Hey, he he was calm, right? And again, you did a good job. I was watching you and I felt a little uncomfortable, too, cuz you did this a couple times, but it was good you let it play out, bro. And it's sad because this is we're in an era, dude, where that sells. That kind of Jerry Springer type, that's what it was. Like, that's our that's what we came up on. It still it still sells, man. And sadly, that's it's a good and a bad, right? It's it's a it's a it was a rough look kind of to watching going through it, but it's good. I look at the numbers on that video, bro. I'm like, "Holy shit." You know, say that's that is the highest rated power hour we've ever done. But yeah, the best video I've had in recent times. I've done better in con during we do we do live like contests where I can actually show it at the same time because obviously they're watching the damn thing. But uh the Dorian thing I did a couple weeks ago that the numbers of that were like are three times higher. Awesome. I was so motivated I wouldn't train my ass off after watching that. That's Dorian. I mean I get motivated talking to Dorian. I I was like I got to go to the gym after that. Great bro. Let's get into happier things instead of talking about this uh Jerry Springer type crap. So the Cali Pro is coming up Saturday. We're speaking on a Wednesday and this is the favorite to win. Rean Grimes, the grimy man himself. And is that a beautiful This was uh yesterday he posted this. That is That's a hell of a shot, huh? Beautiful physique, isn't it? Yeah. So, New York, he ended up in fourth. Uh they say he fa he did fade. You were watching the stream because I only saw the finals really. Um, so tell me what you what you saw from like day to night as far as how things changed with him. You know what's funny? When he came out, you were like, "Holy crap." Of course, I wasn't because I said Ricky was going to sure prove everybody wrong. I called that. I was drinking Rick's Kool-Aid. But dude, when he walked out, Ron, it was like, damn. It was like, this is what we've all been waiting for. Like, it's finally, it finally hit. The condition was there. Um, he looked phenomenal, bro. Looked absolutely phenomenal. the shape, the structure, uh it just he he had a lot a lot of shame to him, like a lot a big glaze, right? And then he started to sweat a little bit and then he started to fade a little bit. Um I think that's kind of where Kriso kind of overtook him. I think if he could have maintained that initial look where when he walked out, he probably would have beat Kriso just because he's got a he's more pleasing than Kriso. And then when you watch when Rean first came out, bro, like the detail in his hamstrings was absolutely insane. It was just it was as good as Nick. He wasn't as hard, but that hamstring detail was great. The legs look great. He just started to fade a little bit. And again, I'm not sure the science behind that or what happened with that, but um dude, that kid is just he's got all the tools, Ron. He has all good-looking kid, tall and and his popularity is absolutely insane, right? Um I remember at the Olympia, was it a couple years ago, I was shocked at like how people were going crazy. That girl almost like push you out of the way with your bad leg because you walked in front of her picture. That's right. Remember? Yep. Yep. Whoa. He's he's he's got a bad leg, lady. Just calm down. But I think Rean, you know, we've all waited for this kid to come along and and live up to to the hype, so to speak. And again, it takes time. He's coming to his own finally. Yeah. And I mean, well, I want I'm going to show you something in a minute because I was like wondering. Oh, wait. Someone says I'm a scumbag. I gota correct. Yeah, I don't think I'm a scumbag. I love this and having Milos are the highest ratings ever. I was never pro was. Well, that is true. Eggplant renew. I was never pro. Milos was. Uh I'm never having those three on again, ever. Um Unless it's milk toast and we're just talking about something that cannot possibly go in that direction, like a contest preview. But yeah, but yeah, you want to call me scumbag, I I even put the comment up. That's I'm not afraid. But yeah, Rean, so I want to get through New York Pro because he did look real good. Apparently his his tan completely sweated off. Yes. Which that's crazy. I mean, I I we've now you probably never had a spray tan, but it's in your skin. It takes like a week or more to get rid of that [\h__\h] to scrub it off. Oh, dude. Yeah, dude. I I I dreamt tedd up. I pro tan every show. Two coats. Yeah. How dare I make that assumption? Two coats. So, that's what happened. That's why he that was one reason he looked so much worse for the finals. But uh they gave him some advice or actually this this I don't know Leo Marhoff or the classic pro who has overcome podcast. He gave him a a trip a tip which he might try for this show the Cali Pro which is once the tan is on to use hairspray to seal it in so it can't possibly sweat off. Yeah, man. That that just seems like a lot can go wrong and that's not something you want to do before show. like that's something you want to do maybe like in between shows, but you know, you're trying to qualify for the the Super Bowl of bodybuilding, right? And there's a lot that can go wrong with that. You over your entire So, you're going to smell like Aquinet essentially and protein. You got to stay away from an open flame. You might go up in a blaze of glory. Let's hope he doesn't do that. No disrespect, but I don't think that's a good idea. I don't think it's a good idea either. I just wonder I I just wonder if it if it even would work. Well, you're right. It's color is it's just you got to get your It's experimentation because it takes a while for guys to get their color right. Like, you know, certain guys always struggle with that color and that that makes a humongous difference on stage that that you look at him in the finals next to Nick's color. I mean, it you couldn't really see any detail on Rian's, you know, physique, but it was there. But you have to you have to nail that. And I can think too, man, everybody's doing spray tans now, right? Back we just, you know, you put it on, you have more, I think you have more control and you know what's going on. Um, I mean, I guess it helps. I never I can't say I've never been spray tanned, but I know just you put this Protan on, you let it sit, you do a couple coats leading up to the show, you let it sit, you know, um, wash it off, repeat. That's just the old school way to do it, man. I just I don't know. Sometimes, you know, simple may be easiest. Yeah. So, Rean, the New York Pro got fourth place. Uh, I want to show you a video that uh, who made this? I want to give them proper credit because I did not edit. I don't even know how to edit. Mark's Max Muscle. He's got a great channel, almost 55,000 subs. He did a video called Is Regan Grimes improving or is he getting worse? So, I want you to take a look. This was him in 2023. Can you see it on screen now? Yeah. Yeah. So, 2023 versus New York Pro 2025. It wasn't really a full two years, but it's it's close enough for government work. Oh, what' I do there? No, now I gotta watch this fat guy. Oh, hang on. That's YouTube, man. I got skip. Okay, so we're back. How did I do? No, that's the wrong damn video. It's Pittsburgh Pro. I got to go back. Okay, here we go. There we go. So, there's Regan a year and a half. We'll call it two years difference. What improvement do you see? We'll we should probably go shot by shot. So, let's start with the double bicep. Uh, very very similar. I mean, his legs actually look fuller to me to in 2023. What do you think? Uh, they they do look fuller. He looks he looks a lot bigger in 2023, right? If I'm be honest. Yeah. Uh, more more maybe more fullish, Ryan. But I don't know when you take a cuz he took a about a year and a half off to between shows. You expect a dramatic difference. Um but it's just it's hard to say. I don't think he's he's not bigger. I don't think he's that much bigger, but the physique's better, if that makes sense. Right. Um the the quality is coming through. This these guys are so young that he he's a kid. What is he? 31. 31. Yep. Jesus, dude. That I got t-shirts like in my drawer right there. Right. That are that old. So, it's just the It takes time. Now, that that side chest I like the one the older one better because it look I like that big rib box look, but the quality, Ron, is a lot better in that physique. Okay. You know what I mean? Like, it's just it looks like a a baby and a man. It's just the areas that I wanted to see improvements on his biceps and his chest. I I I don't see any improvement. It it's they're not noticeably bigger, but again, you know, with with genetics, Ron, it's just some it may they may not grow, right? Nasser never grew it back. Those those body parts may never get that much better. I mean, Lford's arms still are kind of the same as they were when he turned pro. He's just bigger, right? Yeah. Yeah. But I see what you mean. He's like that. I I do see the muscle maturity starting to show through on this guy. His back. I I was wondering his back actually looks the same, but he's he's got a great back. You know, I would never never put his back down. I just I people speculate and we speculating is just basically pulling [\h__\h] out of our asses. Is he Is he afraid to like push the gear too much higher? Is he not You know what? Who knows? I was listening to I I don't know. I was listening to one podcast and the one guy was saying that knows him that Reagan does really well, right? He's he's he does popular. Sure. He makes a lot of money, does does good contracts. Um, do you is that hunger still there? Like I Right. I'm not questioning him at all. I'm just saying when you're doing well financially, right? It's like when boxers like they struggle for years years, get that that final prize fight, make that big payday. Yeah. Is that hungry still there? Because like Arnold said, you're at the top of the mountain. Are you still hungry? You know, you just described the plot of Rocky 3. remember because he had been a Stallone Rocky Belbo had been the struggling young broke guy in Philly, right? Finally got the title and then they show him at the beginning of Rocky 3. He's living in a mansion. He's got a robot butler. You got a Rolls-Royce and then we see Clubber Lang Mr. T in some [\h__\h] hole apartment doing chin-ups in his closet and you know and the hunger the eye of the tiger which was a theme song. That's where that move that's where it came from youngsters. He had lost Rocky had lost the eye of the tiger. He had to lose his title, go out with Apollo to LA to train in some [\h__\h] hole boxing gym to get the Eye of the Tiger back. But you're right, Regan does very, very well. He's with Celsius and uh he's got another big supplement contract and he he's a dad. He's a new dad. He's a new dad. So, you know, if he's a if he's not prioritizing becoming the biggest mofo in the world, I I get that. And I don't I don't hate on him at all for that. You can't You know, you can't hate on him for that, right? because you you want to be you want to do this, get in with your health, get out with your health. But there's also this part of the selfish methead that says, "Man, just let's go to Kuwait. Let's just do this the right way. Let's get huge. Let's blow this mother effer out and come back and just shock the world." Kind of like what Brandon Curry did, right? But you know, you you he's got to live with the results. He's he's got to live with himself, right? So, um may run slow and steady may win the race, too, because remember Steve Klo never blew up either, right? It took him some time before he got to be that monstrous physique he had towards the end of his career, you know, but like the quality in this picture is way the the New York Pro is way better. Not it's not as big. The legs aren't as full in that picture. Yeah. But the quality is better. Right. So, you mentioned Kuwait. You remember what happened when he went to Kuwait? Yeah. It's it's not for everybody. Yeah. He he left because he didn't uh he wasn't comfortable. They had him, you know, He didn't He was being nice and politically correct. He didn't say, "They had me on so much shit." Yeah. But he was up to like I think he was up like 30 pounds within two or three weeks. They were loading him up with god knows what food and god knows what gear and he was getting scared. I'm getting too big too fast. He worried about his health. So he said, "Uh, well, I'm going to go home for Christmas, guys, with my family, but I'll be right back." He never came back. That was just his way to get the hell out of there. And you know what? And that's it. And a lot of guys in the sport aren't wouldn't do that. A lot of guys, listen, I wouldn't do that. I would stay there and try to put on 50 pounds. But to have that kind of worth about your health and how this is going and how you're feeling, you can't knock the kid for that, man. Yeah. So, there's AI heard he was allergic to the glaze. I had heard that, but I didn't realize why. The glaze has almonds in it. Okay. Yeah. It's got Yeah. He on the video he says it's got almonds in it and he had a reaction to that. Okay. Well, that's, you know, totally understandable. All allerg allergic reactions are no joke. People die that way. Yeah. Okay. Uh, so I think we've sent up me. He is my favorite to win. Uh, the guys that beat him are none of those guys are showing up in uh where are we going? California. California. California. So, let's go back to starting to look at some other guys because it's not a oneman show. No, it is not, Ron. I looked at I look at the list uh before we talked. It is uh by far no guarantee that Rean will win. Uh he is the favorite, but that doesn't mean a damn thing in Bible. So, let's go to Sassan. Now, he beat Sassan over there. Sassan was a little off. Let me see if we got any recent updates from there. He was not as good as he had been in uh Detroit where he was second or uh Fibo, the show in Cologne, Germany, where he was second to Andrew Jack. But uh you know he still looked pretty damn great. So this is New York Pro. I'll put him up on the video. So here's how he looked in New York from the front. Looked to me looked just as good as he had. Definitely. I didn't see things start to I didn't notice any difference. So he turned to the side and you know we're always drawn to men's asses because we're That's so true, man. But that's where you look shredded. Let's look at the glutes. That's the first place. And they were blurred out and then you know in the back shots it just wasn't as sharp. You can see that's where I said I said, "Oh, okay." Yeah, he was. Someone was saying, "Well, when he flexed it." No. When someone's glutes are really shredded, even just sitting like that on in a side pose, the glute, you could see the glutes pretty clearly. When they start walking out on stage and they're in really good shape, you can see it. This is This is his third show, right? And it's hard, you know, to travel the world and maintain that condition. But this isn't bad condition, right? So, I think maybe staying in the States this time, maybe going from New York right to Cali, he may be able to control that water a little bit more and come in a little bit crisper. Um, but it's hard on the body, Ron. But, you know, Cassand from the front, like you said, is just he's dice and he has that that old man muscle look to him that only comes with years and years in the gym, you know, and that it looks that looks very impressive next to a a younger say fresher body like Rean. So, u if he can hit that maybe like that, you know, feeble condition again, he can give Regan a real battle. Yeah. And I to I would not say it's out of the question for him. We've seen people beat people that just beat them the week before many many times. Yep. And judging is fair there. There is no more of this. He won this show, so he's going to win next week. So, I wouldn't it wouldn't shock me if you know if he's signed one if the place has changed. Um because like I said, physiques can change in a week. there's there's no guarantee what's what you looked like last week is going to show up this week. So, um it's awesome now because when we go on to shows, um we can, you know, say who's favorite on paper, but you know, the judging now is so awesome that it's just fair. The best man's going to win. Yeah. And you know, people another thing you'll hear is well, the social they they place people who have big social media followings higher. Well, Rean would not have beaten Kriso. Kriso does not have the following and the sheer legions of fans that that that Rean Grimes has. So, exactly. Nice try, guys. They do. So, I'm kind of doing this in the order. We can give our top five if we want, but it's it's pointless. Let's I a show like this especially where I think it's it's like anybody's show really. This guy from Brazil, Leandro Pere Perez. Yes. So, let's see. He He's done pretty well. He was second to uh Good Vidito at the Arnold Classic South America in Brazil a few weeks ago, a couple months ago I should say. He was just out of top five uh sixth place in Pittsburgh at the Pittsburgh Pro. He's damn damn good. Uh very good. Very good. He I wrote him down on my list on my little poster note, too. That's the one guy. Yeah. I mean, look at that. Just dense thick. Look at that. Look at those eyes. Those frustrations on all all heads of the quads. He's and he's not he's not really missing anything right. It's just just a little bit more Christmas Christmas and think maybe you know by sitting out not doing you know some many shows he may be able to nail here but every his structure is insane like the humongous quads and for a guy that he looks rather tall right? Doesn't he look a little tall like a taller guy? Well, everyone's tall to us but yeah. Yeah, that's true. That's very true. But look at that side chest, bro. I mean, that's that's old school heavy ass weight training right there, bro. Yeah, I the midsection, you know, I always we always have to go, well, he's got to watch that midsection because you're not you're not going to see anybody with that type of thickness doesn't have they're all going to have a little bit of a thicker midsection to put that much thick muscle on. That's a lot of heavy weight training right there. A lot of food and a lot of heavy weights. You're not gonna have a Brian Buchanan at waist at that size. No. I mean, God Brian Kane was awesome, but he did not have this level of thickness at all. He's really a smaller guy with beautiful shape. And when you get this level of of muscle in condition, that's when it looks very impressive, right? So, again, like going into the show, if this guy brings it like 100% or better than he was, you know, previously, you know, Rean could be on for for real battle because these two, they have got very opposite physiques, right? Okay, Rian's got that pretty shape, that beautiful structure. He's got Leando's got that really like bulldog type rock hard piece of block. Not piece of block, but granite look. So, there's they're two varying looks, right? So, it's just it's a matter of which one can can come in condition. Um, you know, so if anyone Ron I think if anyone was going to win could win this show, it's this dude. I would think this guy could win the show. Yeah. What a shock would that be because Yeah. He's still not that well known in in the USA among the US fans. No. And but it's fair. Like I said, it's fair now. You don't you don't have to like listen, like you said, you don't have to have five million followers to win a show. Like you can be some guy from Brazil or, you know, from Indonesia. If you got a good physique, you got a good physique and you'll win. And he's got a damn good physique. Yeah. I want I want to real go I know Gilko. I'm pretty sure Dilko had him up from Pittsburgh, but I'm gonna have to go past like a billion physique and figure and wellness. Yeah, but Pittsburgh was a tough lineup, man. That was that was a hell of a lineup. You know what I mean? And to play That's a good place for this dude. Not not having Harley publicity. I'm sure, you know, the judges aren't really like checking out his progress picks on his Instagram, you know? Right. Yeah. You know, that's another thing. People say, "Well, the judges are looking." I I've heard this. You know, there's a million conspiracy theories say they look at the guys in they look at the the athletes on Instagram and if they don't look as good as they did in their updates. I'm like, they don't give a [\h__\h] how these guys look in their updates on Instagram. All they're judging is what's in front of them on that day. And they don't care if somebody put a, you know, a really cooked picture with great lighting and all this crap. They don't care about any of that stuff. They really fans care about the Instagram pictures. That's two people who care about like the guys don't look the same. They're the ones that expect like this dude looks like this on Instagram. I need him to look like this on stage. So the judges are there. They just judge the physique what's in front of him. There's no like they're not meeting in a hotel room the night before the show say, "Hey, let's vote for Terrence over the other dude because we don't really his his following has got a lot more." Okay, stop. I mean, if that's the case, then I can tell you the classic physique winner for the Arnold Classic next year already. Who is it? Do you know who I'm gonna say? Chris Bumpstead. Samic. H not to digress too too much, Ron. But like that's gonna be a very interesting uh show. Oh, hell yeah. We may have to make the road trip up for that one. Another great Brazilian. It's great to be Brazilian, isn't it? Bruno Santos. Yes. I don't have his placings up front, but I know he's done pretty well in a couple shows. The name is very familiar. and some Brazilian guys. You can roast me in the comments, but uh yeah, sorry I don't know more about him. Look at that back. Thick as hell. Uh I think is he working with Milo still? Uh not sure. I don't want to say yes or no because I'm not sure. No. Yeah, don't quote me. I'm just Listen, I'm just saying I like Brook. He's got a He's very um he's very complete. Not He's not overwhelming, but he competes on a couple remember a couple years ago he did quite a few shows. He did about five or six shows. um finally got qualified for the O. Um he seemed a little burnt out by the time he got there, but he gets very conditioned. I think he was he but he was against Brett in one show, I think, too. Maybe Reno, I think, I think it was Legion. I think he was he was in the top three. Yeah, he was top three there. So, he he's a very he's a very former competitor. He comes in shape and he he kind of he can maintain his his peak for a little while. So, I fully expect this dude to maybe do what's coming up. Uh Legion's coming up. Yeah. doing too. So maybe that and then what we got Dubai. So he's got a few shows coming up and he he'll listen this guy he'll be he'll be parentally in the top five in those shows. We know that. Yeah. I mean it's it's like I said if like I always said a bunch of the Pittsburgh people I knew a bunch of them would do New York because it's a week later. It's like a 40minut flight from Pittsburgh to New York City. In this case we have the Cali Pro is in Anaheim and then Reno is Legion Sports a week later. That's that's like another 30 minute flight, right? And you know, especially if you're coming all the way from Brazil in the first place, it would be silly silly to be all prepped and shredded and just do the one show and not the other. Unless you win the first one and you say, "Well, I got my Olympia qualification. I'm good." But even then, I would be like, "No, [\h__\h] it. I'm going to do the other show, too. Make some money. Make some more money." I mean, you're here. Like, and I think I that's a good idea. And it's I'm not sure how strategically they plan this, but that's a damn good idea to get, you know, all the guys from from the Cali show over to the Reno show. You know, we could get the numbers up. That's that's very good. Very very strategic planning on their part. So here's a question from a teenage viewer in Germany called your mom's flip-flop. Do the judges review footage and then judge or how exactly does it work? To me, three seconds say better cuts it short. No, there's no footage review. I've never We've We've Mike and I have both been right around the judges and back of them, next to them on many occasions. I've never once seen them go to like a monitor and go, "All right, what' you think guys?" No, they have. It's and that's why I think I think judging is the hardest one of the hardest jobs in the industry because they do have to be very quick and as thorough and fair as possible in the shortest time possible because especially now with freaking 101 divisions. They got to you got to keep that [\h__\h] moving because as it is we're all we're there all day and night anyway. When you watch them actually judge like bikini and like the papers are going and the call outs are going and they all do it's it's like a little factory like a little assembly line how it works and god bless him because there's that's a job I would never want to have. Yeah. So that is uh Bruno. We'll let him take one last look at him. This was posted last week. Look at that back though, bro. Yeah, he's thick as hell. Beautiful shape to him, man. I I like the Leandro guys physique better. But this guy's pretty good, too. So, just very they he's he's got a very pleasing look to him. And whatever they're doing in Brazil, man, they're growing him like crazy in Brazil, aren't they? Yes. Yes. Well, I think you know, Miguel, we we speak with Miguel Chain on the group chat a lot. Uh he's like the premier journalist of Brazil. He's like the Giles of Brazil, basically. But he's until that split happened in 2017 where IFPB became pro league on one side and elite on the other side. It was like super hard for Brazilians to get pro cards. They were very stingy with them. So there were there were tons of great athletes that we didn't know about because they they were stuck as amateurs. But once that opened up and there were more opportunities for them to turn pro, it seemed like they were all coming out of the woodwork. They've been there all along, but we just never were had any exposure to them. But you know, just think about like all the Brazilians in wellness, in bikini, you know what I mean? And figure and bodybuilding and they're just it's just like the that nation is just cranks out genetic freaks. Yeah. You know what I mean? And even like it's just crazy how this is like international. Look at that. That looks like Roly Winkler, doesn't it? Yes. The shoulders, biceps. Santos Aandro can beat Regan if they bring their best. Yeah. I mean, if Rean Yes. has another whoever whoever's in shape nowadays is going to win shows like that's just you gota be you gota come in in condition Brazil has all the top-notch gear you know I got a funny I had a funny story Dennis Dennis Wolf told me years ago you know we always thought the European guys had better gear than we did he says in in Europe they thought we had better gear than they did so everyone thinks everyone else has better better drugs and that's why they're they're succeeding I think it's genetics I think you know it's I I think they have almost as many people. I think they're over 300 million. I want to say like three. They're right up there with our population, Brazil. And like if you think about like this the sports in Brazil like the how big soccer is and you know this and sports like that. It's just like but the the genetics there are just it's just weird because you see the the wellness girls and the some of the figure girls from there and it's just that the shape the quad they they have a propensity for like a really hard condition look. Yeah. like they get very conditioned and very rock hard, you know, whereas like maybe some Asian competitors don't get as hard from the back. Oh, I thought you were gonna say Asians don't have backs. They all have these monster legs, which is kind of true, but uh it's true. Sorry, Asians. You got the But I've never seen an Asian uh pro in bodybuilding or classic or 212 with skinny legs ever. Ever. They always have these monster quads, big buly calves, crazy shape, those crazy teardrops. Last thing I want to say about Brazil is my I've had this running joke ever since wellness was introduced to the IPB Pro League is there should be two divisions in wellness. What are they? Brazilian Brazilian and other. Yeah, that's nuts, man. All right, let's go from Brazil to Germany. This youngster Justin Muzle I want to say he's only like 24 25. Yeah, he's he a kid. He's just a child. A kid. When was this? Yeah, that was Fibo. So, he's done pretty well. Let's see what has done this season. He was fourth at the Fibo show. He was eighth in Pittsburgh. Uh, and very I mean, look at look at the look at the quad sweep. Look at the bicep. I mean, for a youngster, this I believe it's his first proseason. Look at the quad the detail in the quads are just insane, isn't it? And we talk we talk about muscle maturity is something we don't typically see in the younger guys, but this guy has it already. He and you know what too, man? like the fact that he he's done those shows that he's put his physique up against some top-notch competition, right? He's not shying away. He you know was that Fibo and Pittsburgh. That's those are hard shows. So he's jumping right in head first. He shared the stage already with Derek Lunsford, Nick Walker, Andrew Jack, Martin Fitzwwater, William Bonak. You know this this kid's already who would a lot of young pros would be like, "No, I'm just going to do some little show where there's not going to be any big names." No. No. He did it. No. And he's doing me in in in the States and over in overseas. So, um I would expect another top five um you know placing from this guy this at this show coming up. And again, I'm sure he'll probably also do the Legions because again, hop skipping the jump from there. But you know, you can't again none of these going into this show like it's crazy because there's not Yeah, Rian's a favor, but he's not these these aren't these guys aren't slouches. like this is a good show for um a lot of guys to do because you know I think it's kind of up for grabs. It really is. You know, if Ra's not 100%, you know, some of these guys will catch up. Yeah. So, your mom's flip-flop is in Germany, but you're you're 17 kids, so you don't know a ton about the gear uh dealing situation over there. Probably, I'm guessing. At least you shouldn't. I hope you don't. But he says they're extremely strict on gear. Well, I mean, there's places where it's it's strict and not so strict. It doesn't seem to matter. You can anywhere in the world if you have the money and you have the desire, you can get whatever the hell you want. Exactly. Strict is just a matter of like if you if you're like you getting caught, you know what I mean? Like that's probably strict. But uh so what what does this kid need? I mean, he's still 20. Even if 26, that's still a kid. Hey, man. It's just it's just we we expect they sometimes when these guys are they're so young and they're this good, we expect them expect them to make a huge leap in a year, right? Where in all actuality it's going to take 14, 18, you know, 20 months to really come into their own. Look at that back double though, man. It's just you just got to keep working, just keep growing and growing. Um have you good off good, you know, proficient off seasonasons. Um but but Ron, you never know, man. If if someone slips up and he's on Yeah. Who knows, you know? Who knows? But it's just we got to give him time. Yeah. I mean, the fact that he took fourth in FIBO, I know it wasn't a huge show, but Yeah. I mean, he's he's a first call out guy or at least a potential. You never know. We know Regan's going to be in the first call out. We know Sassan, Leandro, those three, they're a lock for first call out as far as I'm concerned. This this youngster, I'm gonna call him a kid. People get mad when I say kid, but 26 is a kid. Sorry. I am 26. Listen, he's 26 years old competing with the best in the world. That's damn good, right? That's that's And so people have you got to like your expectations have to come down just a little bit right now, you know? But he's living the dream, man. He's a kid competing as a pro, bro. Do your thing. God bless you. The fact that he's that young and he's already looks like this doing so. He's a work in progress. He's only going to get better and better every season. So, if this is his first proseason, which I believe it is, he made a hell of a a debut as a pro this season. Still, he's still in the first rookie season and I expect I expect this kid to get better and better and better. I remember myself at 24 and I didn't look like that. Yeah. Like that's that's that's very I don't I don't think people realize 24 year old looking like that is not normal. 26. 26. They're gonna get back the 24. So, Patrick Moore, who has won this show before, uh, it's been a little while. Patrick hasn't done very well the past couple years. This Arnold, this last Arnold Classic, he was last out of 12 guys. And I'm not seeing I don't think I have any any not showing anything. Well, this three weeks ago. This is the most recent footage we have of him. I know he's in a tank top, so I don't it's it's kind of tough to really gauge anything because he always has huge shoulders, huge arms. When I I I was there, he turned pro at the same USA in 2017 that Derek Lensford did. Yeah. And that's the first thing I saw was like, God, look at the freaking shoulders and arms on this guy. Holy crap. And when Sean Ray and I interviewed him, we said, dude, more legs, bro. And you're you're right there. I haven't seen the legs come up to where I want them, but he has been top 10 at the Olympia has at that I think it was 2019 20 and he's won he's won the Cali Pro. I'm not sure. Has he won some other shows? I know. I No, this is Cali, right? Okay. Um, you know, unfortunately the biggest news that we had of him was last year when he was it or was it this year? He got in this year before the Arnold. Three weeks out. Yeah. Fight in the gym parking lot with some the gym owners. I think it was. Well, I always want Look at that stripey delts. We like to see re real delts that aren't full of oil. He's a big big dude. He's got a ton of muscle. He's got a great frame, super wide shoulders, very narrow waist. You know, I I wish everyone the best. I don't I don't want to say this guy's washed up or anything. You know, I've seen people that I gave up on without saying so, but in my head I'm like, nah, it's never going to happen for this guy. It could still happen, guys. It's There we go. So that was that was the Olympia then seconds we just did he do he do Feebo as well. Did he do he did another show this year didn't he? I don't other than if he did I don't remember him. I don't believe I I'm not sure. I don't know right like it he could happen. Listen anything could happen right could strike. Um but it's hard man because I remember he tore his Achilles as well. So he's coming back. He he had that injury. Um and sometimes man the body just doesn't do what you want it to do right. The legs probably will never be what we want them to be, but like that upper body is absolutely just bizarre looking. Like this the front double and like the chest and the arms and the back. Yeah. Is just it's very cartoonish. And even when he when he puts it all together, it's a very good look, but it's going to be enough to beat some of the bigger guys. Like even if he say he nails it and brings the best Patrick that we've seen thus far. Yeah. is going to be enough of it, you know, to to muscle out Leandro, Rean, Justin or Bruno, right? Yeah. And, you know, some a lot of people like to hear when someone has an actual athletic background. He was an outstanding boxer before he became a bodybuilder. You got hands. So, yeah, I wouldn't I wouldn't I wouldn't mess with Look at Look at Look at him before. Look how skinny he was. That's crazy, isn't it? Yeah. Look at that. There he goes. There's his boxing. Even as a boxer, look at the arms he had. Look at the abs. That's just that's just uh you know little goody. That's just some like premium ball waiting to happen right there, bro. Yeah. So there's what he won. He had just a beautiful physique, man. Just such you know too. I think after that Olympia um he kind of rushed me to jump into the Arnold real fast and then that didn't work out too well. And kind of after that it was just trying to chase that size. Everybody said, "Oh, just get bigger. Just get bigger." you know, like you can't just force that sometimes like right you know Nasser could but like a lot of guys just can't force you know in six months a lot like 10 15 pounds you know for us to say oh just get bigger you know you know but we don't know what limitations or or not that any individual might have whether it's their genetics uh what's going on with their life at the time you know people have things happen to people injury what you're willing to do like also what you're willing to do to get big Right. Right. I mean, say it does take a lot more gear to put on 20 pounds if you're already at a very high level. Some guys are just No, I don't want to do that. I'm not going to take two grams of test a week and 20 units of GH a day. I'm not going to do that. So, respect. Eat, you know, like 10,000 calories and it's just it's a lot. It's people It's easy for us to say, "Oh, man. If he only had 15 more pounds, you know what I Like people go, "Oh, bumps that only had 10 more pounds of muscle, but 10 lbs of tissue is hard to gain." 100%. Well, it's it's I I think it's it's bear saying because then not everyone understands, especially newer people or noviceses to the sport, the bigger you get, the harder it is to get any bigger than that because you're going to get close to your potent your full potential. You have a natural potential. That's as much muscle as you can put on naturally. And then you have your ultimate potential, which is once you add in plenty of gear on top of that, and you've been doing that and and eating like a like a monster for a few years, that's as big as you're ever going to get. So, let's move on to I believe it's called pronounced Eron. I It's spelled E I ren, which is some Gaelic or Irish name. Anyway, he's from Canada. There's a big big dude. He's over six foot. He's like 270 on stage. Damn condition. Uh he has done Let's see. He was fifth in Detroit this year. Okay. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Look at that. Big He's got a monster for He's got a lot of muscle. Like this dude a big dude all the way. Big dude, right? Pumping iron reference right there. Yeah. I know nobody's gonna get that. I knew you'd get it though. I appreciate that. I just watched it with my son. Like we watched it the night before he did his first contest. That's so awesome, man. That's great. had goosebumps with that [\h__\h] bro. Five days out. Let's see how he was looking at five days out from the show, which would have been yesterday. Yeah. Yeah. Posted yesterday. I'm just trying to see. Maybe it's the lighting from the back. It's hard to see with the light with with in this lighting. I'm not like thrilled with the condition, but I've been fooled before by the lighting in some of these posing rooms, right? It's it's hard to say, you know, but you would think though if he if he did Detroit, he really didn't have time to kind of get too out of shape. Well, you hope too too out of shape, you know, between now and then, right? Um, so that you probably could have been a plus for him, but it's hard to see in these lights. It's just hard to see. But, you know, for he carries an awful lot of a lot of muscle. It's just bringing that muscle into, you know, crazy condition when you're up against, you know, you know, guys like S, you know, Leandro, Regan, you know what I mean? So, size-wise and framewise, he's as big or bigger. Yeah. But is that shape, structure, and condition going to be what it needs to be to to match those guys? Yes, this was a guest posing, just in case anyone's wondering why. If he doesn't look 100% shredded, he's in great great condition still, but this was a posing he did. Guess he must have something from Detroit. Oh, well, there's a good shot right there. That's a damn good shot, man. I hate all these white Canadians look alike, but it reminds me a little bit of Ian Valier. Yeah, look, dude. Look at the tricep and their delt. Look at that [\h__\h] That's a nice dig, bro. Anytime I show somebody with great delts in the comments are like, "Sent tall. That's s like nobody can build delts." Come on, guys. Some people are just gifted like that. Yeah, dumbbell dumbbells work too. Not just tall. Dumbbells and, you know, presses help. This lighting is better. I don't know if it's a different posing room. Well, you know, it's an overhead light. It's a little more of a sculpted lighting as opposed to that blasting that lighting a flash bulb going off or something. The hotel light, the structure is there, Ron. Like the structure is 100% there. You know what I mean? It's just it's with all these guys now. It's just you got to nail in those like said those last few days, those last 24 hours, man, that that determines every single thing. But I think, you know, if he plays fifth in Detroit, he's got to have a good amount of confidence going into the show, right? You you were up there with William Bodak. Yeah. Right. So you you were compared with, you know, an Arnold Classic champion. So that that's got to do something for your confidence level. Two time Arnold Classic Champion. Yeah. Two time, bro. I gotta give because I feel like Bick is one guy who just never gets full props for whatever reason. Most underrated guy we got, bro. His resume is just ridiculous. When you look When you look pull up his resume, you're like, "Holy crap." From a two 212 guy. Yep. All right. So, last guy I'm going to talk about because I uh I'm not going to talk about every single guy. There's a few guys I I wasn't that familiar with. This is Chris to Dominico. He was overall national champion back in 2017 or something. Let me tell you it was he has it in his bio. 2017 NPC nationals overall champion. So, okay. Very nice, man. Uh that was New York Pro. That was his pro debut in 2019 right there. So, let's see. Does he look bigger now? Let's hope he's a little bit better. That's a client. He's a He's a coach as well. All right, so these are his five day out shots from yesterday. Killer killer uh shape. Quads. Quads look good. Quads look good. I'd like to see a little more quads. You know, I'm I'm like a quad fiend. I always want to see more quads. Unless you're big Ramy. Then you're done. Then you're done. You don't need anymore. There's a few other guys. I shouldn't just say Ramy. Uh yeah. I mean I again the lighting. I'm I'm not thrilled with the lighting here because I'd want to see more crispness and separation here uh in the seratus. Maybe not not as big as he was previously. Um maybe it's a little downsized a little bit, but the solid physique, man, back solid back, good quads. Yeah, if he's flexing his glutes here, I'd be worried if that's the condition they're in. Chris, I uh all due respect for you and all the other competitors, but I call it like I see it that if if you if that's what they look like on stage, you're going to have a tough time, but uh let's hope it's just a a lighting issue or a water issue. Lot of magic can happen, you know, last couple days and do some good little magic in the magic in a sippy cup. See what happens. That's Cali Pro. Um I don't know about a live stream. I haven't looked into it. Sometimes if you go to the Muscle Contest YouTube channel, they stream these things for free on their YouTube channel. More often than not, actually the Arnold Classic South America was free. No kidding. Yeah. Which, you know, I love free. Free is my favorite. Free is the best, isn't it? So that is the Cali Pro. It's not Linda. Uh let's let's preface this by saying, did she put the We love Linda. Mike and I are huge Linda fans. nothing but love and respect for Linda Murray. We take pictures with her every time we're at a show every year. But this is this is the post that got everything started. So you guys know what I'm thinking. Ladies, you know what I'm thinking. Okay. So, this message is in regards to the announcement that Arnold Schwarzenegger just made about 26 that he will increase the prize money for the open men bodybuilders at the Arnold to $750,000 for first place. Well, well, I love numbers, too. And I want to share this information. At your show in 25, there were 18 women, three divisions, and 18 women received together. They split $18,000. You gave to your third place open men bodybuilder. I believe it was Andrew Jack. He won about 100 grand. So, one man made $100,000 all by himself and your 18 women shared $18,000. Need I say more? Okay. So, let's go to what Andrew Jack said because Andrew had to had to respond to that. He had receipts. Yeah, he did. It wasn't 100,000. Literal. Literally, he showed the which who would do that, but he did. Where is it? Oh, did he delete it? Maybe. Maybe his accountant said you probably shouldn't put that up there. Yeah, I think but uh Oh, no. There it is. Is that there still? Uh there. There it is. Transaction details. So, he made $70,000. It looks like uh 21 grand was taken away in taxes. He got 49,000. And then he said, "Keep my name out of your mouth." Just like Will Smith said to Chris Rock. So, yeah. Uh but Linda was called out. I'll see if I can find one of the many outlets that that did. So, was Beyond Stage. She puts on a a pro show in Atlanta. Yeah. Uh where is it? All right. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. All All we need Oh, there's look. Keep my name out of your mouth. I just see Milos's face in that one pose like this. So, someone showed the praise the prize money breakdown. Uh was it on that was who was the best bodybuilder? Was it Beyond the Stage? Was that the one I just showed? She was paying the open men's winner for her show uh twice what she's paying the female bodybuilder. So, she's not she's criticizing the Arnold Classic for paying the men's so much more, but in her own show, she's doing the same thing. Yeah. Uh, and why is that? Um, well, I don't need to I don't need to show the uh I don't need to show the the numbers anymore. It's basically the same same analogies you can use for the rational you can use for the NBA versus WNBA. WNBA women have been complaining for the past few years. We're not paid anything close to what the men make. Like, you might actually know this. Who's the highest paid player in the NBA? Oh god. Well, listen this way. LeBron makes $50 million a year. Okay. Highest paid WNBA player probably makes a million a year or something. No, not even close to that, Ron. Okay. So, not even one million. 60 I would say maybe $60,000. Wow. So, why is that? You tell me. It's pe numbers. It's based on pure numbers. the numbers the NBA draws versus the numbers the WNBA draws. I listen, I watch both, but I'm not watching the W Connecticut versus Atlanta. I watch certain people in the WNBA play. Yeah. But when the NBA is on, I'm watching the NBA sponsors go to the And I think to that point real quick, the NBA subsidizes the WNBA financially, right? They lose money. They lose money. They lose and they've always lost money. Yep. So that's it, right? It's it's simple. It's not that anybody is misogynist or hates women or doesn't respect them or value their hard work. It's not about who works the hardest. This is just money. You know, I I wish I could see because Pittsburgh split up all the men's visions on one day and the women's vision on the other day. I I don't know if it was like a combo ticket where you you got to go to both anyway on one ticket or if you had to buy separate tickets. I don't know if someone in the tells me in the comments because I have no idea. But I would venture to say they sold out the men's day and they probably didn't sell out the women's day and the pay-per-view buys. I bet I bet it was like a quarter if that on the women's day as it was for the men's day. That's where the that's where the money is. That's where the interest is. Okay. We got an Jackie Young is the highest paid player in the WNBA with an annual salary of 252. Okay. Okay. In the NFL regard Kelsey Mitchell is second at 249, but compared to $50 million that you can't compare that, dude. you too. Listen, I I love women's bodybuilding. I do from the days of Claire Fur Glass Portuguese. Linda is the the greatest of all time. I take a picture with her every year. But if you separated the Mr. Olympia classic men's physique from the women's physique, women's bodybuilding bikini and figure, right? Say the men went on Friday, women Saturday, and you could buy a ticket, one ticket, you could travel to Vegas for one for both. the numbers would be very astonishing. It's not it's just it's just the women's bodybuilding the women's physique stuff is not for everybody, right? It's it's got it it's still a niche sport no matter. That's why they've hit the fit body stuff now is because even bikini has gotten to a point to where it's too much for just a lot of accepted fans. And listen, I go to Tampa every year, Ron. I I go to watch the women's divisions because I love the sport. But the reality is is that that oh that venue auditorium for the women's prejudging it's not a lot of people. Yeah. Right. You can you can hear the fitness girls physiques on stage and I feel terrible but I like going to support them because I love that. I I'm a fan of it. Right. Mandy goes because she just she goes with me. Right. But I go to support them because I know how hard it is. I know the kind of discrimination, the stigma that comes with being that because it's an outlier sport. Our sport, the men, we're freaks to the outside world, right? But these women, it's just a it's a whole different even bikini. If a bikini girl walked into a Walmart with a tank top on and tights, people will be like, "Oh my god, what is that?" It's it's all too much for outside of our bubble. And there's only a certain amount of money in our bubble that we can disperse. And we, and I say we, have been around since 1965, okay? We got a history there, bro. Right? So, yes, these guys deserve the money they make. For me, honestly, I would give fitness girls more money for what they put their body through. I see what Jackie Baker posts leading up to a show. She competes twice a year. Her feet are tore up. Her knees are back. They don't get a dime for fitness for what they do, right? But it's just it's just simple mathematics. And you run the elephant in the room is the chemicals, right? The w it's you it's a physical sport, right? It's as it is. Some of the commentators make comments about the wellness girls and the bikini girls, but it's a physical sport. And some of the divisions have gone beyond to where they're blurred. I love figure. I love that hard crazy look. But some figure girls look like women's physique. So women's physique look like bodybuilders now, right? And so it's just and Arnold had the Miss International for decades, right? He had that he had that for so long, bro. So Arnold was a champion for that, but it's just it's start. You can't blame the girls. The judges let that go. Like you could put a stop to that. You could have said, "Hey, oh yo, whoa, whoa, whoa. It's not going beyond this." Remember they put that picture of um who was Ashley from how they that's how they want the fit body. Think about where her body's gone with the cap and she's a smaller girl. Some bikini girls we see and when you see the bikini girls up close you're like damn she got a vein. You can see her glutes are tied in man. Right. So it's just it's just where we're at. And it sucks for the women. And I swear to God, if I win the Powerball, I am going to put a women's bodybuilding show and give every girl like a hundred grand each, maybe more. But I can't do that. I've heard that that the Wings of Strength loses money every year. That's the show Jake put on when there was no Miz Olympia, Jake Wood, and then he bought he bought the Olympia and brought the Miz Olympia back. So, let me let me give the the the readers some history. The readers, there are no readers anymore. Viewers, viewers, the Miss Olympia used to be held on a completely different date, like a month apart from Hold that thought. Keep talking. So, let me tell people while he's peeing. Miss Miss Olympia used to be held by itself like a month later, a few weeks later in a different city and it would sell out or it financially sustained itself and this went on for years um until it got to a point where the fans sort of turned on it, didn't didn't care for it anymore to the point where in 2014 that was the last Miz Olympia that they had for a few years. 2015, 2016, 17, 18, and 19. Five years in a row there was no Miz Olympia. There was no Miz Olympia contest held for five years because it couldn't make any money. Jake Wood, who was a huge fan and supporter of women's bodybuilding, Jake came in in late 2019 and bought the Olympia. He's the one that brought it back, made it part of the Olympia weekend instead of a standalone contest. And that's when they started having their shows again. But financially, the Miz Olympia cannot sustain itself. Mhm. You can't tell people what they're going to like. You know, people love golf. People love to watch fishing. I could give a flying [\h__\h] about stuff like that. I don't care how much it's market. They, you know, women's bodybuilding will physique. They'll say it's not market. If they market it more, you can't make people like what they're doing. You can't make people interested in something they're not interested in. Doesn't matter how much you try to push it on them. I don't care about any of those other sports. I'm never going to care about those other sports. I don't care if I watch a million ads for golf a day. I'd be like, I don't want to see guys hit the stupid little white ball around a giant field of grass with a [\h__\h] I don't care. So, you know, we respect the hell out of these women. Every division, the women bodybuilders work as hard, maybe harder than the men because they have things to deal with like estrogen and periods and go, you know, they have they have more challenges than we do in some in several ways. But you can't force people to watch what they don't want to watch. And you can't pay people the same. Well, you shouldn't. If you're a business owner, you base it, getting back to the NBA thing. Why are these NBA players paid so much money? Well, they can because people love to watch them play. They can charge sponsors, advertisers tons and tons of money during these game, the commercial breaks between while you're watching the games, the shirts, the sneakers, the merch, everything. It makes billions of dollars. The WNBA players, no. I I you walk, you know, you walk through a mall, you'll see people wearing a million jerseys from the your local pro team, you'll see them wearing sneakers from this or that guy. You're not going to see them wearing WNBA jerseys and and most of the women don't have like, you know, Air Jordan type of sneaker deals. No, no. You you may see you you may see a few individual W NBA girls that are very popular now, but you're just not seeing that. And also too, you got to realize there's a lot of pros now, Ryan. There's a lot of women pros. There's AI mean pro cards are panned out like we know a lot at those junior national shows. 20 pro cards. So the the pot there's a lot of fish in the ocean. Everybody's not going to get fed, right? Everybody and these and these girls, they they travel to these shows and they do all this out of their own pocket. They're not getting sponsorships. They're not be getting those big big deals. You know what I mean? They're not getting ant, you know, muscle tech deals. So, they're doing all this, but there was three girls at the New York Pro. 3-1 bodyweights, correct? That's it. And you can't and that's that's not supporting your sport, right? And I get it. It's expensive. I get it. But what's that? What's Stephen to say? Hey, listen. The the numbers aren't it's about it's a numbers game. And I learned that back on MD when Bob had that rant about ROI back in the day. It's about numbers. Yeah. And how long is Jake gonna lose money, right? How long can you lose m? Like I I I know I thank God for him because he brought women's bodybuilding back, but you know, the people don't know the Olympia tickets are all all together, right? So it doesn't matter. You you you buy one ticket. Same with the Arnold. So you can't split it up. Even with Tampa, now Tampa, you can do all like card stuff, so to speak. Um, but with the big shows, it's it's all together because you can't split that up. We know, everybody knows that, you know, and I think sometimes people are afraid to have uncomfortable conversations and I never would want to see that that division go away. Um, but it's just we just got to it is what it is at this point right now in the sport, you know, I mean, and Arnold, listen, Arnold can do what Arnold wants to do, you know, and I would love women's body. I would love for him to have 212 women's bodybuilding, but this is where we're at in our sport today and it's not it's not going back. It takes a lot to change [\h__\h] in the sport, Ryan. Yeah. It's not like there's union. There's no, you know, IFBB union like there is an NFL PA, you know, NF NBA PA, right? Will be. I don't think there ever will be. No, never. Never. It'll never happen. So, it's just happen by now. Like some listen, sometimes you just got to take an ass kicking. You know what I mean? just every you know it just it is what it is sometimes. So I I I worry I not worry but I just see it happening. I don't think women's body is going to be around much longer because he said the participation is so low. Just to give a little a little example that's probably a a glimpse of the future. Uh my son did the NPC natural Massachusetts contest a couple weeks ago. 70 75 competitors I think overall. Um fit model had like 20 girls. Bikini had bikini had like 20 girls. There was there was a lot more women in the show than men. Um, figurehead had a few. Uh, how many women's physique competitors were there, Mike? You think? Maybe one. Zero. How many women bodybuilders? Oh, zero. Zero. Zero. So, if you're not getting the participation, if if you don't have amateurs coming up to feed the pro ranks, you're not going to have a pro sport much longer because what are you going to do? just have uh the same few five women competing like all year long at different shows and Ron let's listen listen and we all know like a lot of women bodybuilders now there's there's always been way alternative ways for them to make money right so a lot of them they don't have to compete because they've got other ways now to make money there's no more you don't have to go to a hotel room to make money anymore you can do it on with a camera now so you know why diet down and suffer and do this to do a pro show where I'm making 3,000, I'm losing money. You know what I mean? So, but like you said, there has to be a feeder system to the pros. Like, there has to be and I I haven't seen the USA or nationals in a while, but I'm assuming there's not a lot of women bodybuilders. I I always look at the results and the the numbers are a fraction. You know, bikini was dominating in terms of numbers. I guarantee you this they haven't. This will be the first nationals with fit model. This year's will be. Oh, wow. Is it? So you can imagine what the number they've fit model started this spring, right? So yeah. Yeah, I can imagine the USA and the nationals are going to be packed with fit model. Oh my god. And it's so much more accessible. You can be in the gym for a couple months and like, okay, I'll do fit model where you're not going to look like Iris Kyle. You're not going to look like uh who's the champ now? I'm I know. Stop me for being an idiot. Oh, Andrea Shaw. Andrea Shaw. Sorry. I know who I was just looking at the last MD cover she was on uh yesterday. But Andrea Shaw, you can't look like that in a couple months. It takes years. It takes a lot of food, a lot of other things. And a lot of women don't want to look like that because they either they personally feel uh I'm not comfortable looking like that. That's not how I want to appear. Or they know they walk down the street or everywhere they look, people are going to be looking at them like, huh, that's a that's a dude. Or look at all those steroids. you know, they know that it's not acceptable and they just don't want to have to deal with that every day because they chose to to turn their physique into this. And and and what sucks, dude, is just, you know, hindsight's 2020, if you look back now, it just, you know, you're going to get older. Like I we get older and those women that are, you know, pushing the envelope now are going to be 40 one day. You're going to be 45 one day, right? And I really remember my ex man would she would she was taking probe and would do stenex hell tests and you know you can see the side effects already with the the shaving and the hair growing back. It's just you can see it but when you the voice doesn't go away. So you have to kind of just you know it's easy for me to look back and say okay don't do this but you got to think long term. You try to think long term. We didn't. But, you know, it's just that those characteristics are going to be with you forever. You know, they're not going away. You know what I mean? And that's a harsh reality for some. You know, we've been around so long. You see sometimes the expos women, it's usually not no one that was famous, but we see these women that are like in their 40s and 50s that were they were competitors, but they're they they're still trying to be big. Their hairline is up here. They they have stubble. They they have the big gh nose. I mean, they've destroyed they've destroyed and they're walking around in tank tops with the veins in their but most people like they don't find they find that hideous. They don't find it appealing. Especially now, Ron. It's a different era now than when we were coming in the expo, right? Yeah. Like these kids now are just like, oh my they Oh my god. There's Mrs. Jamaican Tank. Patty Clayhart. What's up, Patty? I do the I do the Muscle Discord uh live show every Monday night at 9 uh Eastern 6 West Coast with uh Bill does that with the host Matt Sinkerang. So they're good people like Yeah. Phil and Patty are awesome people. They live right right down the street too like about half an hour away. Yeah. And there's the voice once their voice has changed from the gear. I don't think it's I don't think it's possible. I think they would have to shave the the voice box down. Yeah. The voice Yeah. voice down. But there's like I said around there's always there's always that niche for it, man. So if you're if you're paying your bills, it's hard to say it's not working right. Yeah. But eventually but eventually I don't know. You can be 60-y old still doing webcam stuff. Well, you know, do I want to go there? I get on my explore page. You know, when you go search on Instagram and it shows you if you look at like one only c only fans ad on there that you're seeing you're gonna be see your freaking life and I see a lot of women that are definitely not young, definitely not attractive, definitely not physically appealing, let's say, and they I don't know how much money they're making, but they're trying. These are like I see women that are like 50, 60 years old. I see women that have to be like 300, 400 lb. What? I see women that look like they got hit in the face with a baseball bat. I mean, they're trying. I don't know how much money they're making. Oh, man. Where do we go? Okay, I'm so glad I just be the last thing. Well, because I don't want to talk about this all day. Maybe they should weight restrictions women's bodybuilding. Well, women's physique started out very feminine. Dana Lynn Bailey was the first winner. Juliana Malikarn followed her. She was still pretty feminine, but as time went on, they got more and more like women bodybuilders. I mean, they're a little smaller, but the the line between women's body and women's physique is it's it's a very gray area these days. But let me let me again say this, but like I I love the look. I I'm a huge fan of women's physique, women's bodybuilding um figure. I love that. I love that granite hardness like that Lola Montes condition that she gets in. I love it. Right. But it's it's not for everybody, you know? I mean, I love the rip glutes and like just the big traps and [\h__\h] but it's not for everybody. It's a it's just it's a niche sport. Yeah. And it's so to put a cap on it, the money you bring in as an athlete is just based on how much money you're making the organization. Bottom line, if if you're helping the NBA or the MLB make a lot, why do you think they pay these Do you think they pay these guys like these $500 million extended contracts 700 million because they want to? Because, oh, we love this guy. Let's give him $700 million. No, they know they're going to make five times that amount back with merchandise, with advertising they can charge. Every time this guy's up to bat, everyone's expecting him to hit a home run. It's it's all based on how much money you're going to bring in. That's all the It's a business. It's nothing personal. It's not a a male versus female thing. It's money. It's green. It's money. That's all it is. So, get over it. I guess good way to wrap it up there, dude. Yeah. So, good. That's it. Big Mike Cox, you stood in well for Giles. I couldn't bring Giles back so soon because he's still recovering. That was a brutal assault he took on here from Yeah, he's got to recover. That That was rough. Like he took he took a couple body blows, but he he hung in there pretty tight. Oh, he stood up. He did, like you say, he's never been bullied in his life. He's not about to start now. So, he stood up. He stood his ground. And um you know, at one point I was I didn't want to pull the video. I didn't want to not post it, but they were both like, "No, it's okay. It's okay." Okay. Jo's like, "No, let's let it go." So, yeah. Uh, good. It's good. Good views, bro. That was good. Good. Uh, very entertaining stuff. Yeah. So, guys, if you haven't watched that, it's the last video before this one. So, check it out on this channel. Uh, Saturday, if there is a live free video, I will be doing a watch party. If we have to pay for it, I can't because you will get a copyright strike from YouTube. You could lose your channel. You'll certainly lose any money. You'll be demonetized. This happened to me at the Olympia last year. That's why I know this. We were up till 3. Was it 3 in the morning? 3 in the morning. 3 3 in the morning. We're all We I saw the viewer count because I could see you. There's 42 of you watching right now. There was like 3,000 people watching and all of a sudden it said zero. And I said, "Uh oh, I think we're not I don't think we're on YouTube anymore, guys." And we weren't. The video was just pulled immediately. Oh god. You can't have uh because guys like where can we watch you for free? If it's a pay-per-view, you can't watch it for free. Like that's like asking what does UFC charge like 50 70 bucks for you stream on your ch on a YouTube channel the UFC title fight while it's happening? You think you could get away with that? You don't think the UFC would be like uh they would they have people they have a team of people there watching and as soon as they see somebody streaming something boom it's reported to YouTube and your channel is gone like that. So the UFC doesn't even show they don't have ESPN show the knockouts. They'll show the fight. They won't show the knockout actual knockout on ESPN. Right. You can't uh can't you still stream and not show the show? Well, what would it just be like me and Mike or Giles talking? Like would you just be like describing it for the hearing and for the for blind people? No, I'm not. I'm that to me that's just lame. If if I if I can't show what's happening, I'm not gonna I'm just not Exactly. So, that's it. We're going to wrap it up. Big Mike Cox, guys. That's his real name. He's He is a so-called expert just like me. I think I might have t-shirts made up. So-called expert. Oh, you have to. Milos kept calling Giles that. But, u it was all good. That's it, guys. So, thanks for watching uh this episode of the Cali Pro preview where we also touched on the women's bodybuilding and other women's divi divisions prize money debate that's been going on. Thanks for watching. Check us out next time whenever that may be by subscribing on the channel. You'll know when we have new videos coming out. Turn on notifications. So, thank you, Mike. Awesome as always to have you. Appreciate it. All right. Peace out, everybody. See it.