What's up, guys? Happy Friday, wherever part of the world you're in. We now have two of the heaviest bodybuilders in the IFBB Pro League. Mr. Olympia Samson Da and Tsunami Pro France winner Sergey Danilov from Russia. They are both sitting at 340 pounds. Samson's actually 341 and they're both still trying to gain more weight. Uh Don Love wants to get to 350. Samson, he says he's going to push to 360. Let's take a look at how these guys are looking in their offseason. Who's holding the weight better? Do you think that it's all quality muscle being gained? Do you think this is going to improve their physiques, make their physiques worse? Very curious to hear what you guys have to say. So, let's go first to our Arnold Classic champ and Mr. Olympia champ, Samson Da. So, here was the last posing video Samson put up a week ago. Said 341. Uh, actually, it's Antoine that said project 360. I don't know that Samson himself has ever said he wants to beat 360 pounds, which would be enormous. Now, we have had guys heavier than this before, but they were awful. I'm talking about Greg Kovac, the late Greg Kovac, rest of soul from Canada. He was over 400 lb, but he was not a good bodybuilder. He did not have a very good structure or shape for bodybuilding. He was just a very, very big dude. Samson, on the other hand, has almost an ideal shape and structure. And uh I think he's gone a little on the uh the other side because as we know for the Olympia he overdieted. Came in at 280 pounds which was 20 pounds lighter than he had been the year before when he won the Olympia. It cost him the title. He got bumped all the way down to fourth place which is it's a rough that's a rough tumble for a reigning Mr. Olympia. It's happened before. We saw Rammy drop in 2022 all the way from the the defending champ to fifth place. But still, everyone's agreed Samson looks better when he's bigger. And now he's trying to solidify that by getting even bigger than he already was, which I think it's very safe to say he's done that. He's definitely bigger now than he's ever been. And I defy you to come up with anyone who's really bigger than this right now. 340 pounds, 341 at 6 foot. And some of you guys say that he's not even six foot. You say 5'11. uh and not fat by any means. You can still see muscle separation. Uh when he turns around, there's no gut. You could still see abs. He could still hit an abdominal and thigh shot at 341 pounds, which is outrageous. That is truly truly crazy how big this guy is. Now, look at some more of his uh recent footage. Then we'll get to Sergey. Uh this is a lot of stuff from uh there's that beautiful dog of his. This is [snorts] a week ago. Chest day at the cave. He calls his private gym the cave. 315 on that on that uh Smith machine like it's nothing like we would all the rest of us would do 145 pound plate. And I bet he goes much heavier than that. I bet as these uh reels go on. No, there's his training part. Oh, he's trained with Matias Holwick from Germany. Here's Samson with four plates. Four plates on the Smith. That's a lot of weight. I don't care how big you are. Although at 341 pounds, obviously it's not as impressive as say a 200 or 220 lb bodybuilder doing that. But nonetheless, I'm just curious. Does he go even heavier than that? No. Then they go to the hammer or it's not hammer machine. He's with uh [snorts] what's the what's the brand? What's the brand he uses that they they filled up his whole gym? And people are saying, "Why are you using all these machines?" All the machines. He got the machines for free. So that's why here's five plates on that. So he's clearly getting bigger and stronger at the same time. And if I put up those reps, people would talk [\h__\h] But he's Samson. Look at him go. And of course, this was how he looked when he won the Olympia at 300 lb. So, he is on track to beat that look, at least in terms of size, 300. We could possibly see this guy at something like 315, maybe 320 pounds on stage at Olympia in shape. It depends, you know, obviously he's got to be in shape or he's not going to get a call out. He's got to be big and he's got to be in shape. Any comments yet? No. No comments, guys? Okay, I'm just going to keep rattling on. All right. Uh I want to go over back to uh the Russian guy, Sergey. So Samson is turning 40 in early March. He's definitely older and by far the more accomplished out of these two. This is Sergey Danilov from Russia and he's posing with Larry Wheels. He was 320 there. That was 10 weeks ago. Now he's 340. It's pretty dark footage, but he wants to get to 350. 350 pounds. That is insane. That is just a huge huge human being. Uh he is 6'2 according to AI chat GPT. I don't know if he's actually 6'2. I could tell by the pictures at the shows he's definitely a taller guy. He's definitely six foot, but the tall guys seem to get upset when you say someone is uh 6'2 and they're not really. So, here is a 340 next to I don't know who this other guy is, but he's his 360. That's a 360lb guy he's next to. But, of course, Sergey is the one who looks more like a bodybuilder. That 360 lb guy looks more like a powerlifter or a strongman competitor. And Sergey holding really good condition for 340. Definitely leaner, a little bit leaner at 340 than Samsung is at 341. But nonetheless, this is impressive. I look at this. You can still see separation, vascularity. Look at the legs. Now, I have [clears throat] heard and you guys, if anyone knows this to be true or untrue, please confirm or deny. Supposedly, Sergey had a heart attack when he was only 18 years old. If that's true, um, and he's 30 or 31 now. AI couldn't decide. It would seem to be kind of kind of, uh, foolish. Reckless maybe would be the better word. Reckless to be pushing a ton of gear and, uh, the kind of food that it takes to be a a monster of this size. He's coming up on coming up on 350. But, you know, I I don't know his stack. I've heard that he's admitted to something like three grams of gear a week, which is not anything crazy for a a top pro bodybuilder, especially of that size. He was running a 100 IUs of growth hormone a day, but I believe that was just like a oneweek experiment to see what would happen. I don't think he's going as big in 24s. Legs don't look that big even at 360. Oh, you're talking about Samson. Uh I think he will be. I mean, how could he how could he not be as big if he's if he's put on more muscle size than he's ever had before, more muscle mass? I think it stands to reason he's going to be bigger than ever before. During the sight to behold in the offseason, yeah, he was sort of the Bible sell the sports keeps rewarding them for getting bigger and bigger sticks reward size. We might have fewer deaths. Well, I agree with you, Henry. But I I think that's why one of the reasons classic physique was created so that we would have a division that emphasized a more aesthetic look with a smaller waist. Uh obviously men's physique is all about the the vtaper and a small waist and a very flat tight midsection, but classic physique is as well. If you're a classic physique pro, well, first of all, you wouldn't even get to a pro card in classic physique if you had a really wide thick waist or a bubble gut or anything like that. You have to have some sort of aesthetics to be to be a classic physique pro in the first place. And to do well as a classic physique pro, you need to have excellent shape and structure. You have to be very aesthetically pleasing, which all the top guys are. Power extreme top. I think Samson reminds you of 200. All huge, quite lean for offseason. Yeah, I agree. But um I'm going to give I'm gonna give this guy credit. How big was Victor Richards? I don't think Victor Richards ever got much over 300. You know, Victor, that was an era where nobody ever put you on a scale. He was a huge guy. I saw him I saw him in person many times because he actually trained at my gym in Pasadena for a few months back in the was either the mid or late 90s when I was out there and I would spot him sometimes. So, I saw him very very close up. I'd say he was about 5'9 because at the time I was probably a little over 5'8. He was 5'9, maybe 320, which is enormous. Enormous. He wasn't that lean as lean as these guys. Sergey's got some some more content, but look how lean he is at 340. That's definitely leaner than Simpson at that at that weight. Not that it matters because this is off seasonason. I love this. This is him with a a big bear. You know, they call him the Russian. A lot of Russian guys have been called the Russian bear over the years. I don't know how many, but this is a very tame bear. [laughter] Look at how look how look how friendly this bear is. He's nibbling on him. He's standing up and posing with him. What's he eating some grapes? What a good bear. What a good boy. I mean, Samson's got a really cool Kane Corso dog, but this is this is a step cooler to me. I don't know what kind of bear that is. I don't think they have grizzlies in Russia, but whatever it is, it's pretty cool. But Sergey is a big big dude. Look at him out there in the can imagine it's like it's like five degrees here in uh Massachusetts. It's probably like 20 below over there. I know they have very cold weather in Mother Russia, but that's that's pretty damn good condition for 340. What we got now? [snorts] How big was Victor? Okay, still the same. No more fresh comments. Okay, so we're going to keep going. So, more footage. Uh, the one thing that did alarm some people was it's dark. It's hard to tell, but he's got, if you really zoom in there, you could see he's got he's got oxygen, an oxygen, I don't know what you'd call that, a device around his head that's feeding oxygen into his nostrils. So, he's breathing pure oxygen while he's training. Uh, so it's not the same as a CPAP mask, which I had that guy Maximus Wads a couple years ago, the young a couple a couple of weeks ago, the young guy from the UK, uh, who actually had a CPAT mask on, but he was doing that more for rage bait. He doesn't really train in a CPAP mask, but here's an oxygen tank. And there's Sergey. Now, I don't know if you could do that with every exercise. I don't know how long the extension cord on that thing is, but yeah, that triggered a lot of people. Look at that condition. That that is pretty intense inc if if he's 340 pounds in that condition. I'm sure he could be 360 if he let his condition go and gained, you know, a good amount more fat and water as a lot of guys will do in the offseason. Samson's definitely got a little more body fat and water on him than that. I think Samson tends to hold a lot of water in the offseason anyway. Some people do and some people don't. Uh, but nonetheless, this is that's probably the most impressive 340 I've ever seen in terms of how how well he's holding condition. Uh, I don't know what he weighed when he won the Tsunami Pro. I think he was some something like 290, 285 or 290. So, I can imagine he's going to be a little bit bigger, too. Uh, but what does he look like in shape in total contest shape? You can see the warning here from Ed Connors who was one of the founders of the Gold's gym franchise. Ed says dangerous territory. Dallas Macccarver who was 6 feet tall, weighed 355 pounds when he died. So Dallas was bigger. And then they were all uh arguing about Dallas is taking more stuff and you know how do we know that? We don't know how much Dallas was taking versus how much this guy is taking. Dallas was a next level drug addict. No one was taking more stuff than this guy. Yeah. I don't even know. I don't know how many. Now, this guy says Dallas was 332, not 355. A lot of arguments there. A lot of arguments about about that. So, we don't know how heavy Dallas really was. Uh, and there's no way of knowing how much gear Dallas was on. I mean, he was on I'm sure he was on a lot, but as far as the exact amount, Here's another another reel with him and the bear. He's 340. The bear is 8.90. I gotta tell you, as an American, I really appreciate him putting things in pounds because most of the world does use kilos, the metric system, and us dumbass Americans, we have a real hard time converting without a calculator. The only easy kilo conversion I can do is 100 kilos is 220 pounds because 2.2 a pound is a kilo is 2.2 pounds. But once you get past that, I have a real hard time. I need a calculator. But I thought that was really cool. him in this thing. Him and the bear. What's it say? Getting ready for the Mr. Olympia. He is qualified already. He is already qualified for the Mr. Olympia. I don't know if you guys realize that, but yeah, that was a post a show. It was a show after the final qualification for the 2025 Olympia. So, everything after that was wow. So, 112 pounds. I don't know what you want to call these. I don't know. Are these supposed to be upright? They're not supposed to be laterals. I hope it's like a partial upright row. He's doing a little more than half the rep there. 112 lbs. I wonder if these are 112s or 112 112 kilos. Oh, 50 kg. So, it is 112 pounds. Okay. It's It's impressive, but uh Milo says monster strength. Yeah, Sergey is very good. There he is. There's a back shot at 340. What are you saying? Uh I'm gaining momentum smoothly. Thank you very much to everyone who believes supports me to the end. I'm slowly gaining speed. Thank you very much to everyone who believes supports to the end. There he is with that. I think those are supposed to be laterals. I think kettle bell. So here's a full body posing of him at 340. I guess he's been holding this weight for a couple weeks now. So look at the condition. This is how most guys look at about I'd say about six six eight weeks out from a show and then they gradually drop down another 10 to 15 pounds beyond that in those final weeks. But this is excellent excellent offseason condition. I don't think I've ever seen anybody, you know, I remember seeing Ronnie around this weight and he wasn't Ronnie was a a lot I want to call him a water buffalo. That sounds awful, but Ronnie held a lot of water. I don't think it was a lot of body fat, but Ronnie was pretty watery, puffy in the offseason when he was when he was over 300. Uh, who has the record of being the heaviest on stage at the Olympia? It's a good question. I think it would probably either be, uh, you know what, I actually think it was Lou Farigno in 1993. I believe Ferraro was around 312 to 315 on stage. Uh he is six foot five so you got to factor that in. He's he's not wasn't a short guy but I believe it was Lou Farigno. Ralph Mohler was also well over 300. Ralph Mohler at the 1988 Olympia. He's an actor. He's a good friend Arnold who's had a good movie in the good role in the film Gladiator, but he's 6'7. So that's a very very tall guy. So uh Rammy has been over 300 pounds on the Olympia stage. But I I still think it's uh it's either Ralph Mohler or Lou Farigno. So you're going back to either 1993 or 1988 for the heaviest. But these are very tall guys. 65 and 67. What's up Zionic? Mask is definitely just for content like the other guy. Yeah, it's rage bait because you know I I have a hard time I don't want people being enraged with me. Maybe I'm just a a [\h__\h] that way. But rage bait seems to be the way to get a lot of a lot of interaction, a lot of clicks and views and shares. It's how to make stuff go viral. 70s bodybuilders came down off. Oh yeah. In the off in the 70s, Kalian, as you know, but I'll I'll edify the rest of the viewers. People didn't bulk up. The bodybuilders in the 70s did not bulk up in the offseason. It was customary for them to go off the gear, completely off. They only used gear for maybe 16 weeks out of the year. They only used gear pre-contest. They would start putting the weight back on, start eating more, get back on gear, and they would get heavier and heavier and leaner as they got closer to the contest. Like even Arnold when he was like competing around 240, 245, he would go down below 220 in the offseason and you know, a much smaller look and they they all did that. And you know, these guys are in their 70s and 80s now and most of them are still here with us. That bare looking stage ready that we even have. Oh yeah. I mean, I couldn't do that. >> [laughter] >> I could shrug those. That's about all I could do with them. That's how I do side raises more weight with strict form. The weight goes way down. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I've never seen anyone do really good form or even acceptable form on lateral raises with more than maybe A-50 or 60 pound dumbbell, a pair of dumbbells. Uh I've seen guys do like hundreds like Branch and Johnny, but they're really just swinging and swinging. And obviously I'm not saying it's not working for them, but I would be terrified for my shoulder joints. Greg Kovac. Well, Greg Greg actually was over 400. Greg Kovac, the late Greg Kovac. Greg never ever made it anywhere near the Olympia stage. He did get invited to the Arnold Classic one year and it was one of the most embarrassing looks of a bodybuilder ever. His midsection was enormous. I think he had a 60-inch waist. It wasn't that different from Big Lenny. another guy who died. Uh just a monstrous torso, huge gut, very wide. It was not an appealing physique. I'm not even sure. I think he just got invited either because he had so he was so popular at the time or maybe because Muscle Tech was his sponsor and they were sponsoring the Arnold at the time. I'm not sure why they would have invited Greg Kovx, but they did. But yeah, if we're talking about Mr. Olympia stage, [snorts] Rammy was a little over 300. Samson was over 300. And if you go back in time further, Lu Farigno was definitely 312 or 315 when he made his, it wasn't his first comeback. He was he came back in 92 in Finland at the Olympia that Dorian won, but I don't think he was quite as big when he came back the next year, the second year of his comeback, 1993. Lou was right around I think he told me 3:15 at the show. I seem to remember I was there catching a live stream. Why do they want to get so heavy, putting their life in danger? That's a great question. That's a great question. I don't know why you would focus so much on body weight. I could see why. Yeah, they want to get bigger. Uh what's he going to do? The Arnold rumors about the Arnold Brazil. Okay, so he's putting it out there. The rumor is he might do the Arnold Brazil. Huh. I mean, he certainly looks like he could be ready for it. The Arnold South America. There he is with some other dudes. So, okay, so this was three weeks ago when he got on the scale. It's 150.6 kilos. So, what's that? I don't know. 150 kilos is like that was like 320, I think, or something. So, he's gotten even bigger in the last last three weeks, last couple weeks, which really makes me wonder, is he doing the Arnold Brazil? Because the Arnold Brazil, I think, is in April. Why would he be bulking up and trying to get bigger? But at the same time, it kind of makes sense cuz why would he be holding this kind of condition if he was really just going for pure size, pure body weight? I don't think he would be making the effort to stay as lean as he is here because it looks to me like he could be in shape for the Ar Brazil. When is the AR Brazil? When is that show? Do I have it in my calendar? I'm curious. Arnold UK. Uh, I didn't write I didn't write it down. So, Brazil Sports South America is They don't even have the date. They don't have the date on their on their website on their Instagram page. Silly rabbits. That should be the first thing there, dudes. Okay. It's April 24th through 26. April. Yeah. So that's that's still that is about seven weeks after the Arnold after the Arnold America USA and the Arnold UK is two weeks after that. Catch me live stream work on Friday. What's up? Yeah, I was hoping Friday would be better than Saturday because Friday is the end of the work week and a lot of people are they're really not into their work on uh on Friday afternoons. So they will watch something on YouTube. Arnold downsized to 209 for stay hungry. Yeah, that's right. He returned to regain muscle mass and weighed a little weighed a little 235 for Yeah. in pumping iron. Arnold has has said many times he he didn't have enough time to put all the size on that he wanted to because he had won the 1974 Olympia at a little over 240 and many people preferred that of all his seven Olympia wins when Arnold won in 1974 in New York City versus 75 in Ptoria South Africa which was for the Pumping Iron movie. But he was he was approached by the producers of Pumping Iron, George Butler and Charles Gaines while he was filming Stay Hungry. Uh filming was like almost done, but it was going to be a rush to try to get his size back in time, and he didn't quite make it. He didn't quite get it all. Four, or five weeks tops. Yeah, I think uh I think Sergey, don't be fooled by the uh the pasty white skin. He could He's leaner than he looks. He's definitely leaner than he looks. Yeah, you can tell from the training stuff. So, I'll show him one last time. This is Sergey Dinov. Now, supposedly he's 6'2. So, technically Samson is bigger than him because Samson is 6 foot on a good day, but I wouldn't expect him at 30 years old to be as big as Samson, who's been doing this a little bit longer. Uh Samson is turning 40 in early March. He's been bodybuilding now I think I think only for about so we're in 2020 20 I think he's been bodybuilding about 10 years so Samson isn't as uh much of a veteran in the game of the sport and all that as some people seem to assume he is because of his age. He got into it a little later just like Andrew Jack. Andrew just turned 40. Andrew didn't get into bodybuilding until probably mid30s. Uh he didn't he didn't turn. So, if he's just turned 40, Andrew, four years ago when he turned pro at the Arnold Amateur, he was 36. That's all he was. Yeah. Let's go back to uh Samson. This was some pretty crazy footage here. Well, this is all the eating. So, he's he's hyping up the mass gainer from My Protein, which he's using to get his calories up. I don't know how many calories he's eating a day. I wouldn't be surprised if it's something like 10,000 calories. Gym work says Samson's training blueprint. It's a pretty cool little montage they made. But this was the latest uh look at that. I wish they would have that thumbnail always deceased me. I always think I'm going to see more of what we're showing in the thumbnail. Uh but here's here's a here's a good clip. This was a week ago. This is him doing some behind neck presses on the Smith machine. I think he's got 315 on it. And that is just a giant human being. That is a huge huge man with great shape. And his waist, you can see he doesn't have a gut popping out. You know, it would be very very difficult for him to keep a a gut a bubble gut sucked in doing doing this pushing that kind of weight. So, I don't think he has any kind of gut at this weight. Well, we saw from the posing he's got abs. Here he is doing some uh laterals. The mirror needs to be cleaned. I think he's got spittle all over it or something. That's a big guy, man. That is a big dude. Lord have mercy. That's a big guy. You could make a point that he's four or five weeks out top. Yeah, that's about We're talking about Sergey Shawn Ray's 14ear career was always in the ballpark 215. Yeah, Shawn never got it very heavy in the offseason. A lot of guys in the in the old days didn't. Of course, some of them did. It was a it was an individual thing. Some guys like to stay a little leaner and and closer to body weight, you know, like Lee, the great Lee Haney, the eighttime Mr. Olympia champion, he stayed within about 15 20 pounds of contest weight all the time. He called it striking distance. [snorts] stay within striking distance so that you don't have to do anything extreme to get down for a contest, which I think is a great strategy. I mean, you know, I know I'm it's people get mad when I compare my own things that I did in my bodybuilding career to them, but uh I did something similar toward the end of my competitive career. I just decided to stay leaner. And I just want to say that prep was so much easier. I didn't have to kill myself with two hours of cardio a day. I never had to go zero carbs because I didn't have that much weight to lose where if you have 40, 50, 60 pounds to drop for a contest, as some heavier guys will do, it's a [\h__\h] man. You got to starve. You got to grind on that cardio. And I don't know too many bodybuilders that are that are fans of cardio that want to be doing any more than a half hour of cardio a day. That's about that's about as much as most bodybuilders really would would find tolerable. Anything after that is just a chore. It's just a grind. Although, you do have great uh videos to watch on YouTube like this and podcasts and things like that. And you have ways to distract yourself. You can watch movies on your phone now while you're training. I mean, couldn't do that. Samson is a man on fire. I mean, he's looking massive. He is looking massive. You know, I think losing the Olympia title, losing the Arnold Classic to Derek was bad enough, but then at the Olympia to go all the way down to fourth place from being the reigning champ, getting beaten by I don't think it bothered him too much. I don't know if he's he's gone public about this, but I doubt it bothered him too much to be beaten by Derek and Hottie because they've beaten him in the past, but Andrew Jack had never beaten Samson before. So, for Andrew to get ahead of him at this Olympia, that that had to be a that had to sting. That had to be a lighting a fire under this guy. But yeah, he is just massive. Look at Look at how round and full the delts in the arms are, you know. He's He's never really gotten a lot of compliments for his arms, but they're looking pretty damn big and full. You know, I don't know. PE people are going to say there's oil. It's funny how they'll they'll come after some guys for oil, like Andrew Jack. They'll say that or Derek Lungsford, but no one's no one's saying that about Samson, which it could be. There could be oil in there. Nick Walker, they say has no oil. And I don't know, maybe he doesn't. He doesn't. How could you how could you be 100% sure that somebody doesn't have oil? All right, this is leg training. That's not going to be as fun to watch. Although, look at the look at the thickness of those quads and hams. That's pretty That's pretty intense. Yeah, Samson doubt everybody. Okay, so this was this was his last posing. This was a week ago at 3:41. [clears throat] And I think he's going to I think he's going to keep going till he hits about 3 350. I don't think he's going to stop before that. I'd be surprised if he does. And it's a very impressive look, man. I I I I understand totally psychologically why getting bigger is so important to him now because he lost the Olympia, lost the title, and then he lost again to Martin uh in Prague, Martin Fitzwwater, because he still didn't have all his size back. I mean, the Samson that won the Olympia in 2024 at 300 lb or I I think he said 300, 305, something like that, that still would have won in 2025 if he had showed up like that, I believe. And if he brings that package again or even looks like he's on track to bring a bigger package this time, I could definitely see him getting his title back. He's fully capable of doing it anyway. All right, guys. I think that's enough. So Samson and Sergey Donolv are both racing toward 350. Who's going to hit it first? Is it a good idea, bad idea? Let me know in the comments what you think. Yeah. Well, we got Kianne saying, "No Top Press is strange to sight enhancement in the late 90s." Yeah. I mean, I I don't I don't I wouldn't bet money that any of these guys have no sight enhancement. I think if it's done very well, you would just never never suspect it. That That's my feeling. Anyway, guys, drop a comment. What do you think about this race to 350 or even higher? Will they try to go to 360? Is it healthy? You think they're okay? They're going to be okay. Obviously, it's pure speculation, but let me know what you think in the comments, guys. And that's it. Enjoy your weekend. Stay warm for those of you in the very, very cold places. Stay safe, everybody. We'll see you next time.