What's up, guys? Ron Harris here, Ron Harris Muscle Channel, and I want to do one last video for 2025, which is just hours away, no matter where you are in this world. Actually, if you're in Australia, it's already 2026. Uh, but I did want to take this opportunity to thank all of you who watched the videos, subscribed to the channel, like the videos, shared the videos, participated in the live chats. Uh, we had a lot of fun this year and uh wanted to see what you guys thought of 2025, either the bodybuilding world or the world in general. Just have a have a quick chat before the year is over. Uh, I will start off 2026 with an interview with the great eighttime Mr. Olympia Lee Haney. We are scheduled to speak tomorrow afternoon and I'll ask Lee about 2026, what he wants to see for the coming year in bodybuilding. But right now, I want to give you guys a chance. Xavier Willis, man, happy happy new year. Uh Xavier, I should probably be clo following your social media more closely. I I believe you are closer and closer to getting your kids back. Uh, you know, I hope and pray every day that you get your get your kids back as soon as possible. You know, I wish it could have happened a long time ago. Um, but yeah, could just real quick, can you let me know what's the status on that? I know I should just check your social media, but uh I've been following it off and on, but uh for those of you who don't know, Zionic, what's up? Great 245, man. Thanks for everything. Hey, Zionic. Yeah. So, Zionic, while you're here, what what was your favorite part of the year in bodybuilding? What what to you was the highlight? Or you can you can name more than one thing if you want, but what was the the most exciting part or the the most uplifting part, the the best thing about bodybuilding in 2025? For me, I would probably say the fact that we had more shows than ever before. You know, sport is definitely not dying. It's it's growing. We have more pro shows than any time before in history. The money is better now than it's ever been before by a long shot. And it's getting better all the time. The Arnold was $500,000 this year. They're moving that up to $750,000 for the show that's happening just in 10 weeks from now. Pittsburgh Pro didn't even exist until this year. That's another $100,000 payday for whoever wins that again. So, overall, I think things are going Xavier got back to me. recovering from surgery. Oh, geez. Oh, surgery for what? I don't want to keep bothering you, especially if you had just had surgery. But now you got me curious because you're a a young healthy guy, I thought. What What did you have surgery for? Don't know, man. I mean, I'm most of you probably know I had shoulder replacement surgery six months ago and uh I'm so happy with it. The pain is all gone. The pain that I've been living with in that shoulder for years and years is all gone. I'm getting the range of motion back that I haven't had in years. The strength is coming back. I pushed 60 pound dumbbells the last few workouts on incline and flat presses for chest, which is used to be an easy warm-up, but you know, for someone whose shoulder was in agony all those years. Yikes. Hey, Derek. Cold northern New England. How north are you? I mean, obviously you could be up in Maine. That's way north. I guess I would be considered southern New England. I don't know because you got below Massachusetts, you have Rhode Island, then Connecticut. So, I think Massachusetts is kind of in the middle. North New England, I would consider New Hampshire, Vermont, and Maine. So, I assume you're one of those. What's up, Kan? Thank you. Thank you for the 40 rupees. Appreciate you being part of these lives all the time. Service. What is that? Is that German for service? I don't know what that means. Does that mean you're welcome or something? I don't know. I speak like two words of German. Houston Fuks. Woo Fuks. It's a pretty cool name. Watching Andrew come to Proition. He is truly jacked. Majority Pro toss up. No clear winner advance. Yeah. I mean, I I think it's exciting how the Mr. Olympia has been changing hands so many times. We haven't had a multiple, you know, a dominant Mr. Olympia since Phil Heath. We haven't even had a guy win it two years in a row since Romney did it in 2021. But think about it. Phil Heath was 17. 2017 was his last year. 2018 was Brandon. Am I right? No. 2018 was a late Shawn Rhoden. I'm sorry. Sean Rhoden. Brandon Curry. Ramy. Rammy. Who went after Ramy? Was it Derek? Derek. Hottie. No, it was Hottie. Derek. Samson. Derek. Yeah, Hottie's only won it once. But yeah, it's very exciting how we've had so many different Mr. Olympia champs. You never know. And even this Arnold coming up, we have no idea. It could it could go. Hottie Chupan could easily win it. I think Andrew Jack could win it. Mick Walker could win it. Martin Fitzwwater could win it. You know, those are the most likely candidates. We'll be talking a lot more about the Arnold as we get. Oh, hernia. It was a shocking one. It's my second. Yeah. See, I can't let my wife watch this, Xavier, because I've had this hernia for 11 years now. It just came out of nowhere one day. There's no pain, but it looks like a big knob. It's not sticking out of my belly button. It's actually Do you care? Show it. It's It's right here. Look at that. Can you see it? Look at that big gut. You can see it popping out. It doesn't hurt, but my wife is like, "Why don't you get that done?" Just lazy, man. Just lazy. Davey Mace, happy new year. As part of my Vers getting the opportunity to work and learn from you four months. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, uh, so Davey, he has a supplement company, Bayou Muscle. It's on Instagram there at Bayou Muscle. Check it out. Uh, we work together and he is the ideal client. He's a hardworking guy running businesses, taking care of his family, but finds time to get all his meals in, trains his ass off, and got stronger and stronger at I think you're 49, Dave. You're no spring chicken. You're not a young guy and you're still getting stronger and looking better and better. It's pretty great. Service means hello. Oh, okay. Bavaria. See, all I know is uh what do what what's the uh the standard German one? Ga Ghabin. I don't even know the standard way to say hello in Germany, but it's all the same language. Well, Bavaria is part of Germany. That's where the BMWs come from. Used to have BMW Bavarian Motorworks. That's what BMW stands for. Bavar Bavarian Motorworks. The American Hegomomen is fading, which I'm not happy. Uh, yeah. I mean, Americans used to dominate bodybuilding because most of the most of the gyms were here, the bodybuilding magazines. It was it was a very we had I wouldn't say monopoly, but I I think in the in the old days, not that long ago, bodybuilders from overseas thought they were at some sort of disadvantage because seemed like the Americans were winning most of things. They were getting most of the big contracts. the sport was very much centered around the USA in many ways and it's it's not that way anymore. It's it's a global sport. I mean the internet and social media have changed everything where it's a everything's worldwide now. Nothing is really tied to one geographic location like that. Tonio is competing at the Arnold coach said, "Oh, was he on the list? I didn't know. Keep up the good." You know what's funny is uh a guy at his a guy at my gym, a young guy Josh Brown uh looked fantastic and light heavies at the NPC nationals a couple weeks ago and he has the same coach. Same coach as Tony. Get massive. Keep up the good work. Keep it real. Can you give us all day? Chong, chimp. Yeah, I wish no ill on on Matt. Uh it's it just seems like a very uh I don't want to say self-destructive path that he's going down because you know who's going to who's going to stop stop I got to tip this off screen. I I just would would like to see more more positivity on on that channel. But whatever it's his channel he can do whatever he wants and he's he's doing well with it. Same here. I was trying to manage it. Can't have recovery down time. I don't like the knife. Yeah. I mean I I don't want any more surgeries. I'm sure you don't either. I mean, I've only had a few in my life. I had the tricep reattached. I had a shoulder decompression in 2011, uh, tricep reattached, the quad tear, the quad reattachment in 2023, and then this, uh, shoulder replacements. I've only had four surgeries, and I just I don't want any more. I mean, the the hernia looks awful, but it doesn't it doesn't hurt. It doesn't affect me in any way dayto-day. It just looks dast. That means you have Dhast. Yeah. Uh I I love uh Ramstein for training. My My favorite song for uh heavy sets used to be Firefly. That's a rocking tune from from good old Ramstein. They have good stuff. Kion's coming for Oh, offered a masters exercise at University of Florida Tampa. Wow. Congratulations, Kian. Tampa. Kemp is a great spot, man. We know Big Mike Cox, who does the Meathead podcast with me. He's been living in that area. He moved there from Ohio, I don't know, 15 15 20 years ago. He loves it down there. Uh, obviously Derek Lensford's down there. He just opened up a new gym. Uh, they're having a grand opening, I think, in a couple weeks, re real soon. You have Ben uh Ben Pakowski's MI40 gym down there. There's an awesome powerhouse. So, there's great gyms, great beaches, great weather. Uh, Florida's one of the better states obviously. I mean, that's why so many people in the USA, especially from the part of the USA I'm in, the Northeast, so many of us end up either moving down there in our prime or or retire or in retirement. It's like, it's almost a cliche that, you know, northeastern people retire in Florida. It's got obviously better weather. I think the tax situation is a lot better than in most of the the states that we live in up here. the real estate's more affordable in most parts of Florida. Uh my my you know I I don't want to say I'll never live there because my daughter and my son-in-law, they've been in my they've been in Florida period for about four years now. They've been in Miami for the past two years and and they like it a lot. So, who knows? I might end up down there. But congratulations, Kian. That is awesome. Which hernia is it? Mine was pushing on my junk. No, mine's way up here. Mine's literally here. So, you can see it. See it? It's like a knob. Look at that. So, it's way above my belly button. It's like three or four inches above my belly button, but you can see it sticking out. Um, I can't remember that there. You know, there's there's different medical terms for different types of hernas. Uh, I could probably still get it covered and get it taken care of for free because it's, you know, it's not, you know, I'm sure a surgeon would would say that any hernia can be potentially life-threatening if it gets uh strangulated or something. It can cut off all the blood supply and any hernia can be life-threatening potentially. So, I I don't Mine is has no pain, so I don't I don't know. I don't know. I'm not 100% sure it would be covered, but I think it would be. There we go. The champ. Happy New Year's Eve. May 20256. Thank you. Thank you, Natalya. And um yeah, I appreciate uh appreciate the interviews you've given me. And you know, I'm so happy for you, Natalya, for all the success you've had this year. And you know, obviously, you're not letting any of that negativity bring you down. You're you're rising above it and you're staying out of that whole nonsense. We did a whole show last night, guys. me, Sean, Ray, and Big Mike Cox talking about the the Sarah, Natalia. It's not a feud. It's really a one-sided feud on on Sarah's part, but check that out if you hadn't seen it. We had a really really cool conversation with Shawn Ray for about an hour on that. But thank you, Natalya. Obigo. Happy New Year to you and your your friends and family. Is there something you know that's coming up 26 just can't talk about yet? No. I mean, I'm not I'm un I'm I'm not great at keeping secrets. The only time I keep secrets are when someone says you really can't like for instance that footage of Martin getting in Giles's face that ended up going viral because he did send it to a couple people and he told all of them don't send it to anybody or don't post this. Somebody passed it on. I kept on I kept secret. I kept that to myself for I think it was about four or five weeks before somebody else leaked it. And he'd only sent it to like I think a total of four or five people. But you tell people don't don't you know don't don't say anything and you know the odds are someone's going to sell somebody. I I've always heard that everybody tells one person. I only told showed it to my wife. That was it. My wife and I think my gym owner. I showed it to him my phone. I didn't send it to him so that he could distribute it. my gym owner. I keep him a breast on all the gossip and stuff. Uh because he's a big bodybuilding fan, former competitor himself. Davey. Yeah. So great to see you handle things class. Yeah. I mean, physique-wise, Natalya Natalya is the best out there right now. It's just like uh I don't know if she's as dominant right now as Shenique Grant was. Chenique Grant was a very dominant women's physique Olympia champion for I think was it six or seven years in a row, but right now I don't see anyone anyone beating Natalya in the you know I know anything can happen but she has a very very strong chance of carrying that title for multiple years just like I see uh you know like Sydney Gillan did in figure uh the way we're seeing Andrea Shaw do in in women's bodybuilding at the Miz Olympia right now. You know we don't uh we don't see that in the men's division so much. We don't see dominant champions in the opener 212. Although Keon might be that guy, but yeah, it was really cool to see Natalya get that. Do I still have that footage up? Please ignore the beginning part of it. Uh because it's that post with Sarah, but it just showed some really cool uh some really cool comparisons. Yeah, ignore that. I mean, I'm done talking about that, believe it or not. I'm not trying to drag this out. It just happened to be at the beginning of the clip. But this was the uh I mean, look at the Vtaper. The delt caps shape and structure are just so critical. They're so critical. And Natalia's got a very, very good shape and structure in addition to the muscle size and the muscle definition and the presentation. Not to say it's impossible Sarah could get her title back. You know, nothing's impossible in this sport. I've seen people come back and I mean Derek Lensford got his Olympia title back which no one else in his in six years of Mr. Olympia other than Jake Cutler in 2009 had ever lost the Olympic title and and reclaimed it. So exciting times man. These are exciting times. Let's see. Not going to lie, Ron. That looked like a big G HGH pen shot. Now I swear I don't I haven't been using HGH. The last time I used HGH was woof. Oh, it's been well over a year now. I was getting kits. I mean, uh, you know, I'm not complaining. My income is is not what it used to be. I'm doing okay. I'm getting all my bills paid. It's just I don't have extra money for certain things like growth hormone, which that's fine. I'm on TRT. I get that covered through company called Frontline Alternative. They sponsor me. Uh, so they're handling my testosterone. So, I'm happy. I'm I'm functioning well as a 56 year old man, so I can't complain. Get rid of that. Dr. Sam Buckner, my mentor for master program cut off in Derek H. Champion Ellesium. That's the name of it. Sam Buckner. Yeah, I know that name. Sam Buckner. So, you're going to be learning under a being mentored by a guy who's very, very well respected in that field. And you know, you'll be knowing, you'll be learning the actual science of this stuff, not just the bro science. So, oh, what's up, Randy? Happy New Year's. Best coach. That's me, guys. I'm best coach. Yeah. So, Randy uh was just in the Masters USA a few weeks back, and she's still shredded. She's not trying to be shredded. I hope you had that cheat meal I told you to have, but uh Ry's going to be going for a pro card again in 2026. Right now, we're looking at the universe in early July. uh and she'll be doing some offseason leg leg work with me because that's the area that we both feel needs to come up the most as we continue this journey. I've been I've been coaching Randy since 2017. And yes, guys, I am available for coaching. You can hit me up uh Ron Harrismuscle on Instagram. I am available. But uh great job this year, Randy. It was it was a challenging prep. Uh, every every prep with Randy has had its own unique challenges. And, you know, that's that's to be expected with any any coach client relationship. I don't think anyone's any prep for any bodybuilder has ever been 100% smooth, but Randy has overcome some some serious challenges. Uh, new medication this year made it a little tough to get her meals in. Uh, but we we figured it out and she looked fantastic. Sarah you Craig Titus early 2000s obnox I don't want to compare to Craig Titus. Craig was Craig was a genuine sociopath I guess would still be considered he was a dangerous person like physically dangerous. Uh he used to get into physical fights with people over the dumbest things and then eventually participated in murder. I would never lump Sarah in with somebody like a Craig Titus. I guess I see your point, but I I I I can't let her and Craig Titus be said in the same sentence. Shenica has two or three titles. That's all she won. Okay. Yeah. See, this is why this is why we're live so you guys can correct me. Thank you, Natalya. Appreciate it. This guy watchs live from yesterday. Very good one. Yeah, Shawn Ray is always good. You know, you can love Shawn or hate him, but he speaks his mind. He says what he wants to say. He's not afraid if everyone doesn't agree with him. He's not afraid of people get angry. If he has a strong opinion about something, Shawn Ray, he will state that opinion whether you like it or not, whether he's not worried about being, you know, black ballalled or banned or, you know, he's spoke out against and it's not like he's uh a shill for the company, the MPCIP, as some people have accused Bob of being. Uh if Sean sees something that isn't 100% to his liking with the way shows are run or anything, he'll he'll speak out against about it. So yeah, happy new year. It's Debo in in your avatar. Debo the late he he died this actor, didn't he? Tiny Tiny Lester. I think he did pass away. Big dude. He was a big guy. Happy all the meattheads out there. Yeah. So I don't know. Is it? We've already talked to one guy, Xavier Willis, and he's in Australia. It's already 2026 in Australia. We're still hanging on to 2025 here on the east coast of the USA for almost another 9 hours. Gee, well, we have plenty. Oh, no. Yeah, nine hours. It's only 3:08 p.m. right now. Good pharma GH. Yeah, I wasn't doing pharma. I was getting a kit and it was it was working just fine because I've I've used Pharma GH in the past and then I used this kit that a local guy had sold me a couple kits and I you know I know exactly what GH does for me and I I've never run high doses of it. I never had enough of it. I didn't want to spend that kind of money to use like 6 8 10 or more I use. So I was always in the two to four range. But I noticed I slept better. I noticed I stayed leaner um with no changes in diet or cardio. Just the GH two to four units of GH a day. I would just do it uh every morning when I woke up. I didn't do it break it up like twice a day like some people will. But um I didn't use enough at that dose. You're not going to see any additional muscle growth. you know, when you're when you're stacking it with with gear in higher doses, you will see additional synergistic effect gains with the muscle tissue. I didn't see that, but uh I was very happy with it. Natalie is a social climber trying to cozy up the company, man. Chubby social climber. I mean, she's already miss Olympia. She's already the Olympia champion. What else does she need to do? Massage gun attention study master need not to reinvent the wheel to fine tune. Strange. Yeah. You know what? Uh, I as far as like science-based I got to cover. As far as like science-based, I I'm glad that we do have new evidence about hypertrophy training and things like that and studies that give us more of an insight into what is productive and what's not. But I still believe that abandoning all the basics that have worked for ge like a hundred years at this point, people have been weight training and getting bigger and stronger for well over hundred years at this point. So the time the time proven exercises and rep ranges. They've worked for millions and millions of people and they will continue to work for millions and millions of people. But I am of course always open to new ideas and new new discoveries, new evidence. So, I look forward to reading some of those from you in the future, Kayenne, and maybe implementing. Did my wife used to compete? Yes, she did. So, she did figure was what she did first, 2002. Did she only do figure once or twice? I think she did two figure shows and then she did uh bodybuilding in ' 05. She did bodybuilding after that and she her last show was 2008. She won the NPC Junior New England bodybuilding title for for women's bodybuilding. She only beat one woman to be transparent. Um and that show was never held again. It was a one we have the New England every year. That's been a that's been a tradition in in this area, New England area for like 40 50 years. Uh, but the late Dave Finsby passed away a couple years ago. He put on, he was a promoter for a while in the area and he put on a show called the Junior New England back in 2008 down at Twin River Casino in in Rhode Island and she won that. When you go around 10U growth hormone, I'm going to get buffalo like the guys in Oxygen Gym. Yeah. Do you mean being buffalo like a water buffalo? Because I you do get there is water retention associated with higher doses of GH. I never used enough GH to to retain water. The only time I ever held a lot of water was when I used to do like Deca and dbol together. But I'm not someone who holds a lot of water. When I look back at pictures, I was just fat. I wasn't bloated with water. I was just I used to get very very overly heavy in the offseason. I would get uh I would get 240 would be my minimum and I like to be more like 245 and one offseason at 5'8 I did get to 247 248 for about a week and then I was like oh no this is awful because it wasn't a pretty look. My head was like looked like a beach ball. I was starting to get a double chin because you know you can't force muscle gain. You can you can gain a lot of weight quickly but it's not going to be muscle. I was gaining a little bit of muscle and a lot of fat. So, stopped doing it. Happy New Year. Beginning of a new cycle. You wouldn't be the first person to start cycle on January 1. I mean, how many people are going to start a diet tomorrow? So many people around the world. January 1, new year. And, you know, a lot of them don't stick with it, but at least they're trying. At least, you know, I I give props to anybody who's trying to better themselves in any way. Uh, you know, I hope they all stick to it. We know that most people won't stick to training and and a good nutrition program, but the effort if if they're at least trying, I respect that. Have you done a show reviewing peptides, Dr. Sasso? No. You know, I don't think he is. Dr. Tuli, he's not that interested in peptides, so he hasn't learned a whole lot about them. Um, the person that I would probably turn to for that is uh Leo Leo Marhoffer who has the Overcome cast. He wrote a free ebook about peptides. He he sells peptides, so he would know a lot more about it. But no, Dr. T Dr. T has never uh has never done that. Has never he peptides and we skip most of those questions because he's just not that interested in them. Bloated with water, but lean from the high GHG. Yeah. So, you can get lean without the bloat by just staying on the lower doses, but you're not going to see any muscle growth at the lower doses. What's your height? So, I was 5'8 and now I've shrunk down a half inch. Last time I went to the doctor, they have me at 57 and a half. And I hope I don't get any shorter than that. I think at my absolute tallest, I was a little over 5'8. I was probably 5'8 and a quarter from about age 23 to 30. And then I think I slowly started coming down and I didn't notice I didn't get under 5'8 until I guess around 44 45 years old. And one day I'm at the doctors getting my annual physical and they said 57 3/4. I said what? Do it again. And we measured and measured and I I I had lost a quarter inch and then over the last 10 years it's come down like another quarter inch. So I probably will end up around 5'7 by the time I die. my diet. Excellent. Oh, were you uh you were I think you were in the live chat because you're doing the Arnold Brazil, right? The Arnold amateur. Yeah, I didn't put your responses up last night because we were talking about something completely different. Uh we were talking about rules and bodybuilding and you know, you were talking about your diet and your contest and it just wasn't really relevant. But I wish you the best. I just didn't didn't put it on screen because it had nothing to do with the conversation. As a conservative, Florida is definitely a place to live. Yeah. Ron. What's the governor's name? Ron. I know it's Ron. Ron. What the hell's his name? I just remember his name is Ron because my name is Ron, but I He's still the governor. Ron. God. Los Angeles. Still my dream city. No. No. Don't bother. Kan. LA is not what it used to be. I lived there from January 1991 to the end of October 2000. So, it was I call it 10 years. It was more like nine years. But, uh, that was a good era. The 90s were a good time to live in LA, especially for bodybuilding. Gold's gym Venice was still the mecca. You still had tons of people coming out from all over the world to train there. They would stay in Venice for anywhere from a week to a month or more. So you'd see the best bodybuilders from around the world in Gold's Venice at different times of the year, especially as you got closer to the big shows like of the Olympia. Uh you'd see photo shoots going on all the time. Tons and tons of pros. It's not like that anymore. We also had World Gym down the street, which is long gone. Joe Gold's flagship gym, the late Joe Gold, where Lou Frier would train, Arnold trained there. I'd see Lee Priest in there. Uh, a lot of the oldtime actors and bodybuilders from the 50s and 60s were there because they all knew Joe. Uh, that's long gone. You had, you still have the Firehouse restaurant. Uh, but back then we had like, uh, I'd say on the same within like a threeb block radius, you had there was a powerhouse gym, too, on Main Street for a while. You had a you had probably within within a fiveb block radius, you had four awesome gyms, three or four good bodybuilder restaurants, clothing store, supplement stores, Max Muscle Venice, I don't know if that's still around. They were just they were just a really cool it was a cool place to hang. And it's just not like that anymore because most of the bodybuilders have moved away. Everyone used to live in Venice either all the time or part of the year and now now it's bodybuilders are mostly in Vegas. Uh Tampa Tampa area is a lot uh Texas the Dallas Fort Worth area. A lot of bodies have migrated there. So it's it's it's not the mecca that it used to be. Gold's Venice is still worth checking out for one day. It's it's not what it used to be, but to me it's still it's still Gold's Venice. Uh I haven't been out there in 10 it's been 10 full years but uh I I was out there 10 years ago uh to to Los Angeles and I trained there and yeah it just it was kind of disappointing. Arnold Classic is actually early Oh, you're doing the Yeah, you're doing the Arnold Brazil because the Arnold Ohio is early March. Why has Kevin stopped doing interviews? You mean Kevin Leone? Uh I don't know that he has. I mean, I I haven't I haven't asked Kevin for an interview in a long time, but when I ask him, you know, he usually usually says yes. Uh like I have Lee Haney tomorrow, and yeah, if I can think of some relevant things to talk to Kevin about, I'd love to get Kevin on again. He's he's someone I always look forward to speaking to, but I didn't know that Kevin had stopped doing interviews. Maybe nobody's asking him. Was Rich Pian getting magazine coverage? No. No. So the magazine. So Rich Rich competed briefly in the late 90s and early 2000s. I do believe he won the Cal the NPC California. Uh and shortly after that he started going as soon as social media came around, you know, about 12 years ago. Uh he was already on YouTube. He was one of the first big YouTube creators in in the bodybuilding world. But no, he wasn't in the magazines. No, I mean, because he was he wasn't a competitor. He wasn't a bodybuilder. You'd see his ads for 5% nutrition, the company that I don't know if he owned it or was a part owner. I've heard that he was never really the owner. He was just a like had a stake in it. But no, he was he wasn't in the magazines because he wasn't there was no reason to put him in the magazines, but he was all over you. He was huge on YouTube, huge on Instagram. Uh he appeared in some mainstream stuff like he was on Tosh.0. He had an interview, but uh No. And I never knew Rich. I I met him a couple times when he was younger. That was for like three cheat meals. Yeah. Three cheat meals a week. I told her because she is Randy is is almost as lean like I'd say 95% of the condition that she was when she competed uh at the Masters USA. It's been like three weeks now. Um, you know, typically the challenge is to not blow up and that's why we do reverse dieting. But I told Randy she could have a cheat meal. She's been having them, but she has not been getting much fatter. When do you leave muscular I never left muscular development? No. So muscular development, it just ceased to exist one day. So muscular development had been as a magazine. It had been around since the 1930s when it was called strength and health. Around the mid 1960s, it changed its name to muscular development and it was purchased in the early 1990s by Steve Blackman. Uh him and his brothers had owned a company called Twin Lab. Twin Lab supplement company. Twin Lab. It just called Twin Lab. Anyway, so he owned it for from like 1990 or 91 all the way up until November 2023. Obviously, all the bodybuilding magazines have been going out of business already at that point. Iron Man was gone, Muscle Mag was gone, Muscle and Fitness was gone, Flex was gone. So MD was the last of the big print magazines. And I think, you know, I never got all the details, but I know that it became harder and harder for them to sell advertising. And that's what you need to do for a print magazine to stay afloat. The money from the subscriptions and the newsstand sales, that's that's really just a fraction of the income. You need to sell ad space. When people used to complain, oh, the magazines are all ads. Well, that that's how they were that's how they were able to print the magazines and ship them and sell them and stay in business and pay all the employees. And with social media, supplement companies didn't want to invest as much in print magazines, print media anymore, because it just didn't make sense to pay, I'm just going to throw a number out there, $1,000 for a full page ad. I know Muscle and Fitness at one time was like $10,000 for a full page ad, but let's say you're paying a,000 or $2,000 for a full page ad that maybe it's going to go out to 20,000, 30,000, 40,000 copies. Instead, you could find some influencer, you know, a bodybuilder who's got a half a million followers on Instagram, a million followers on Instagram, pay them same amount of money or less, send them free supplements every month, and they're posting every day for you, reaching all your target market with that. So, it became very very difficult to make money with that magazine. Uh, was was I don't say the impression I got, it was definitely that was the case. So, one day Steve Blechman, the owner, he called us all on a on a Tuesday. I think it was the 16th. It was he called us up on a Tuesday back in November mid November 19 or 2023 and said, "Uh, guys, I'm just going to I'm letting you know I'm I'm closing the company down. I'm shutting down the website. The magazine's done. Uh, Friday's going to be your last paycheck." And that was it. So, I didn't leave Muscular Development. I wasn't fired. muscular development just it ceases it ceased to exist. The owner of the company just dissolved the company. There is still a YouTube channel. Uh obviously no new videos have been uploaded it to it in over two years now. But the because YouTube doesn't cost anything. You can once you make your YouTube channel and you've uploaded videos, it's there forever unless you delete your channel. And Steve never deleted the channel. Why would he? Um, you know, he could still be still making revenue from the videos, I think, if people are still watching anything. But yeah, if somebody came along with a huge offer for the for the brand, say, "We're going to give you $10 million for muscular development. We're going to take your YouTube channel. We're going to take the website domain. The website's the the the website's gone, you know, with the message boards and had a lot of good stuff on there, but it's gone. Do not need Ron. I'm here for the fun. Do not need to put me on screen. Run on track with chat. Okay, that's cool. Just share my journey. Do Santos. Ron Des Santos. Is that his name? Do Santos. Thank you, Randy. I just remember the first name because it's such a cool name. Ron, I don't meet any Ron's under the age of like 45. It's a It's a name that sort of went out of style. Like my wife's name Janet. You're not going to meet any young ladies named Janet. It's a name that nobody's given their kids anymore. Is hostile learning the hard way is no more respons. Yeah, that's a good question, Renode. I personally don't think the return on investment uh sponsoring pro bodybuilders is is what it used to be. So, back in the old days, the business model was for many many years in a supplement company was you pay, you know, I'll go back. Let's go back like 50, 60 years. Let's go back to the to the 70s. Let's go back to the the Arnold days. So Joe Weider paid Arnold Schwarzenegger X amount of money, whatever he was being paid. And Joe was uh Arnold was the face of he was on supplement canisters. He was on uh Joe Weider sold weight training equipment, you know, bench presses and weights and barbells and dumbbells and things like that. So Arnold was on all those. And back in those days, consumers were more gullible, maybe not the right word, naive. You know, if if if Arnold held up a jug of Mega Protein 10,000 powder, and said, "This is the secret to all my gains," people were like, "Okay." They believed it. You know, I used to believe it. I I started buying magazines in ' 87 toward the toward the fall of n in the fall of 1987 is when I started buying bodybuilding magazines and I was buying all the supplements that my favorite bodybuilders were endorsing because I honestly and truly believed that's why they looked. Later on I learned, well, no, these are genetic freaks. They're genetic anomalies and they're using all these drugs, steroids. I didn't know that they were. Today's consumer is so much more aware of the genetics aspect, the drug aspect in particular because god, we have uh a million a million YouTube channels that talk about drugs and and the the the pros and top amateurs come on, they tell you exactly what they're using. They go on podcasts, they do interviews, there's uh millions of Instagram pages where people talk about their drug use. So, does it make sense to pay a pro bodybuilder $100,000 or $250,000 a year to be in your ads? I mean, where are these ads even showing? They're on social media, right? Well, you could you give that same you give a fraction of that money to someone else who's got just as big a following, but they've they're an influencer, fitness influencer, uh, and they'll they'll gladly, you know, pimp your product out, hawk your product to all their followers. So, it just doesn't make financial sense, I think, for any company to pay a a pro bodybuilder a lot of money anymore. It just you're not going to make your money back. And it's a business. You know, people think, well, they should be they're making a lot of money selling supplements. They should they should sponsor bodybuilders just to give them money. No, businesses don't give money away. They don't do anything out of charity or the kindness of the heart. That's not business. Business is you invest something to get something back greater than your investment. you spend uh $1,000 to make $10,000. You know, you understand what I'm saying? So, it doesn't make sense to pay someone like a Samson DA. I don't know how much money he was looking for. Let's say it was like $250 or $300,000. I'm just guessing. I have no idea. But if you're giving Samson doubt $300,000 to be in your Instagram ads uh and to go to your to to appear at your booth at Fibo and at the Arnold in Olympia uh for a few hours or something, is it really are you going to make your money back? Are you going to make you know you don't want to just make 3001 back? You want to make back significantly more. That's that's what business is all about. So I don't know. I don't know what the deal with hostile is. Governor Ron Desantis. Dantis. Yeah. He served in the US Army in Iraq. War veteran. Born in Jacksonville. Big fan. Yeah. It's funny until you drive down. I've driven to Miami a few times. I've driven to Orlando from from Boston. I remember the very first time I drove to Miami. The very first time I drove all the way through Florida and Dex uh Dexter Jacksonville was like exit 303. And I said, "There can't be 3003 exits on the 95, the I95." There were. So, you count backwards as you drive all the way down until, you know, you get down to Miami and you're in the you're finally in the single digits for the exits on the 95 62 87 pounds d40 class. I need to get big deep tissue fix good luck. Leah's mentor Dr. Fred Hatfield was a PhD exercise world. Oh yeah, I know. They called him Dr. Squat. I think he was the first guy to squat 1,000 pounds. He did that at like the age of 50. He was no spring chicken. Dr. Squat. Fred Hadfield. Too small for open, too big for classic. Too big for classic. I think you're too big for classic. If you're too small for open, you're probably not too big for classic. Maybe you're just too heavy. I think Rich won he competed Plumbbo National. He was more symmetrical Porsche Dave Dave was bigger. Rich wasn't a great bodybuilder. He wasn't a bad bodybuilder. He just had a you know he didn't have really pretty shape and structure. Neither did Dave. That's the only reason Dave Palumbo never turned pro is that structure. He had a big thick blocky waist. If he didn't have that and even today I think because there's so many more ways to turn pro now. I think if Dave was competing now as a masters, he he would turn pro now. But it was tougher. It was tougher. You know, Dave was trying to turn pro, we're talking like 15, 20 years ago, you know, that that's when I was trying to do it and it was it was just it was rough, guys. It was rough. Bob Hoppin, Strength of Health, New York barbell. Yeah, same thing. So, that's the magazine that eventually evolved into uh muscular development. It was called Strength and Health for many, many years. Then it became muscular development. When Steve bought it uh for a brief time for about a year, he tried to make it a natural magazine. He called it all natural muscular development. Put featured all natural people on the covers. Uh Tito Raymond, Jose's older brother was on there. A young Kai Green when he was natural was on the one of the covers. Uh but it didn't sell very well. It didn't sell well. So he just went back to uh featuring guys on gear and stuff in the magazine. the magazine really took off. MD at its height, I'd say the height was probably 2001 to 2010 as far as the money it was making and the page count. The magazine was like a phone book. It was like 450 pages. I have one here. Wow. So, here's here's an old one, guys. I think this is the same one. Health and Strength. That's from $2. 1962. It could have been two cents, but that was 1962. And then this was one from 2005. And you can see how thick that was. It was over 400 pages. It was a huge, huge magazine. Uh yeah, MD. RIP MD. Still watching that channel with you and Kevin on it. Yeah. I mean, we had some really good content on the on the MD YouTube. It's still up. I'm surprised he never took it down, but he left it up. So, all those videos are still there. 41. A young guy. Giant mega mass buckets. Yeah, when you say buckets, they literally were buckets. They look like a bucket that you would, you know, buy paint in or something with a big handle. Uh they also sold them the mass the weight gainers were a huge huge supplement product in the 90s. Uh I think I think the the the biggest one the biggest serving size was like 10,000. It was I know 5,000 was one, but I think someone came out one that was 10,000 calories. and you looked at the serving size and you had to use like 20 scoops or something stupid. And yes, it was garbage carbs. It was all sugar and just filler and cheap [\h__\h] It was crap. I mean, weight gain weight gain powders as a as a supplement category, they went away because most people figured out we're just getting fat. Why don't you just have uh a protein shake and have some carbs with that, which is what I recommend people do. Drink your protein shake, you know, either way straight way or or a blend of whey and casein. You know, have a have a muffin with that, have an apple with that, have a a cup of nuts with that. That's a that's a pretty good meal replacement right there. But those weight gainer powders were just so much sugar. Everyone got fat. I remember the the when I was a natty in my 20s, uh I was I was natural until I was 27, but I'd say from age 21 to 27 or so when I was natty, I would bulk up to 230 pounds and I was a fat ass. When I say 230, at 5'8 it was I would diet down and be 170 180 pounds. So that was just a bunch of pure fat that I was carrying on my body because of I was I was I was guzzling those weight gain shakes. I remember I worked for the American Muscle TV show from 91 to 98 and we used to do uh supplement review se uh segment on the show GNC Muscle GNC News or something it was called GNC Muscle New. It was something whatever it was called. GNC sponsored it because we were just featuring a bunch of supplements you could buy at GNC. And every five or six months we would do weight gainers because it was such a popular category. We would review like new weight gain powders and when we were done filming, you know, they sent us samples, all the companies. I would just take all those and I would I was having probably four or 5,000 calories a day in shakes for a long time as a natural. I did not need all those calories, guys. I definitely did not eat need those calories. Let's bring Bob for any of you. Bob, who if you talk about Bob Chikorillo, I had Bob on like a month ago. I just had Bob on. Yeah. Do I watch UFC? I don't. Uh I'll watch it if it's on. If I'm somewhere that it's on, I'll watch, but I don't go out of my way to watch it. Like my my brother-in-law, Miguel, he's a huge UFC fan. He knows all the guys. It's funny. We were watching uh I guess it was a replay of a recent one with uh is his name Carlos de Olivera from Brazil with the with the with the blonde highlights in his hair. And I remember that was one of the last interviews I did for the muscular development channel uh because he was sponsored by the supplement company MHP uh Gerard Dente. That's one of his companies. He also owns Muscle Meds. So we did an article on him for the magazine. We did an interview with him for the YouTube channel. And yeah, I I did the interview through a translator. What's her name? Uh, Deloo. She's a beautiful woman with glasses. She's got her own She's got her own YouTube channel. I can't remember. Ah, it's killing me. Loose. Last name is Loose. Artha Artha Loose. Arita did the translation for us. That's the problem. I'm going to put two or 40 C me tape North Carolina DJ Jeff happy trying to meet me feel I love my good girls and guys go uh I would Google like there there are dating apps for I don't know the names I think there's like fit fit me or fit Google dating apps for fit people there there are a few apps they're specifically for people that are really into working out Google that and get on one of those and you'll You'll meet plenty of men and women that that are into working out. I don't think he had a wig Somerfeld. I think he had just had his hair. I did see older footage of him from a few years ago where his hairline was up here and then it's down here, but I think he did what I did. He went to he went and got a trans hair. I don't know if he went to Turkey, but I think he got a hair transplant like I did. Uh, you know, like Chris Bumpstead did and Ian Valier did. We all went to the same place. and Phil Viz that we had on Meatthead podcast. He went to there same place now Hair Time in Istanbul, Turkey. Uh, and they did that, but he had his hair poofed up with a lot of gel to make himself taller. Did Rick Drace compete? Uh, I don't know if I don't I think Rick competed, but I'm not sure that he did. Rest in peace, Rick. I interviewed him a few years ago for MD. Very talented artist. He designed the original Gold's Gym logo uh and the World Gym logo with the gorilla, too. He designed both of those. He used to sell t-shirts in Iron Man magazine. There was like a half-page ad with all the designs. He had very talented artists. He was a pro wrestler and he trained alongside Arnold and Frank Zayn and Robbie Robinson and Ed Corny and uh you know that that whole crew out in the 70s out in the West Coast. So he's definitely Rick Drac was a part of that era that pumping iron era. 2025 was a disaster. I was going to do a 5k. I'm very tired this year. Oh, I mean I wouldn't call that a disaster. I thought I thought you were going to say something a really awful happened. Yeah. Well, hoping for the best for you. 36. You're a very young guy. Peter McGuff. Really? From Newf Finland. Newfoundland. No, Peter McGuff. Not McGruff. He was from uh Noddingham, England. Noddingham. or you know that's where the fictional Robin Hood story took place. Nottingham, that's where he was from. We had a great year on. Yeah. I'm, you know, I'm just happy. I'm grateful that I have everything I need. I have a roof over my head. I have all the nutritious food I need every day. Beautiful wife who loves me. Two great kids who are doing well. And I I can't ask for better. Nice. My my pitbull out there, Branch. I love him to death. Great dog. So yeah, I I have everything I need and I'm very very grateful. Help move to LA. So Cal Reality LA probably is a big rock and rolling man. Yeah, you would have you should have gone to LA like 30 40 years ago. That's when LA was cool. I mean I lived out there uh I did my first year of college at University of California Santa Barbara. So that was September to like late May of September 87, late May 88. And then I lived in Venice. I actually lived in Venice from late May, early June of n of 88 till it was time for me to leave in late August to go back to uh Boston and went to Emerson College. But those were good times. I remember walking on the Sunset Strip. Hollywood Boulevard was really happening back then. And obviously Venice, Gold's Venice was uh the the capital of bodybuilding for the world. Between natural and unnatural, well, natural would be no drugs, no peptides, no hormones, just what your body produces naturally. And unnatural would be adding adding to that with peeds, uh performance-enhancing drugs. And there are many many different there's steroids, there's peptides, there's SARMMS, guys use insulin, growth hormone, IGF-1. Uh there's a lot of different drugs are being used today. Uh have I ever explained how I got started? I have I have a bunch of times, but I'll I'll give you the uh the cliffnotes version. So I was attending Emerson College in Boston, and they had something called the LA semester for graduating seniors. So, your final semester, which for me would be the spring semester of 1991, you could go out to the they had a building out there, Emerson, where they you could take classes. You only had to do two classes, I think, unless you needed more to finish your degree. And then the rest of the time, you would intern uh at uh a company in your chosen field. So, I was a mass communications film major and I saw this show on ESPN that I've been watching for about a year, maybe closer to two years, called American Muscle Magazine on ESPN. It was a magazine format bodybuilding show. They did contest coverage, cooking, gossip, fashion, supplement reviews, all kinds of stuff. So, I sent I made a little demo tape with my student films and a resume and a cover letter. I sent it out to the the owner of that company, the executive producer, LS Wick said, "A big fan of the show. I'm a big bodybuilding fan. I'm a bodybuilder and I'm studying mass communications out here and I'll be I'll be in LA and I need an internship. I'd like to intern for you." He said, "Sure, come on down." And you're only supposed to be there like 15 hours a week. And within a week, he had asked me to start coming in a lot more. And before the semester was even done, he had hired me. So I was supposed to be in LA for one semester. So like January, February, March, April, May. So about five month. I was supposed to be out there for five months. I ended up being out there for almost 10 years because he hired me and ended up being associate producer almost right away and writing scripts for a TV show from from get-go. And I started producing segments out in the field with cameraman and a sound guy. I didn't do a whole lot of editing. I didn't have the patience for it. You know, the the editor made did the actual edits, but the producer would be there in the edit bay with the editor. Anyway, so the American Muscle TV show on ESPN, which I worked for that company, American Sports Network. They also produced the Muscle Mania contest and the Fitness America pageant contest. So, I was out there for that was and I started writing for the magazines while I was working for them. I I did it on the side. By the end of the decade, uh, by I should say the start of the new decade, yeah, because I was still out there in 2000, uh, I was working full-time for the magazines by then. I was a full-time magazine writer by the year. It took me seven years to get enough work going to be able to do it full-time. But by then, by the end of uh, 2000, I wasn't doing anything else. I had been a trainer, a personal trainer for a couple years toward the end of that that decade while I was getting enough steady work going to become a writer, but that's it. The best Mr. Olympia show you've been to in capacity. I mean, I don't know if it was the best, but for me, because it was the first, it was 1991, Orlando, Florida, which was Lee Haney's eighth and final Mr. Olympia win. And to me, that was the best Mr. Olympia because I had never been to a Mr. Olympia before and I was part of the TV production crew. So, I was backstage. I was interviewing the guys. It was guys like uh Lee Labrada was in it. All my heroes were in. Mike Christian, was he in it that year? Anyway, Lee Haney, it was Dorian Yates's first Olympia. Uh you had Labrada, Christian, Vince Taylor, uh Samir Bonoot was in it that year. Lot of great competitors. And for me, just to be in that atmosphere with all the all the media people, all the celebrities in the in the industry at that time, it was just it was a dream come true. It's the most dominant Mr. Olympia. Uh, I'd say it was probably Ronnie. Ronnie used to come out there and like the show was over. Even when he wasn't 100%, he was just so hard to beat. He was so freaky, big and ripped, and it it was just a very imposing package that Ronnie Coleman brought to the stage. It was he was very hard to beat. Dorian was pretty hard to beat. Uh he he came in off a few times and still won, but I'd say it was Ronnie in my lifetime. Mike Summerfeld's big slipback seems to be inspired by Chvolta Davis. Most people based something purchasing. Yeah. Yeah. Sebum is probably the only Sebum and Sullic are probably the most influential guys out there now. You know, the older guys, they don't buy the supplements like they used to. I think they buy the guys in my age range. I think we buy more of the health supplements than we do the get big, get ripped supplements, but yeah, I don't think it makes sense to uh to pay a a bodybuilder a ton of money to to hold up a bottle of your product anymore. It's just those days are gone. Sherry wants to hear you start in the industry. 26 at least 26k subs. Yeah, I'm only at 11.2 or something now. I'd be happy to hit 20 by the end of this year. I received a masters program off Springfield College. Oh yeah, that's right here. Massachusetts. Yeah, why not Phil Heath? That's a good Yeah, Phil Heath was very dominant. You know what? I It just slipped my mind. I didn't I Sometimes my mind is going in different directions as I'm doing these. And yeah, you're right. Phil Heath was a very dominant Mr. Olympia. Kai came close to beating him, but Kai couldn't shut the door. Three years in a row, Kai Green was runner up to Phil Heath. Yeah. So, four Olymp Oh, Lee came out. There was no doubt. Yeah. That was his first win. One day show, that's what people don't realize is in those days, even when I went to my first few Mr. Olympias, it was just a just a Mr. Olympia. The Miz Olympia was held different city, different month. We just went to see the Mr. Olympia. Judging was in the morning, usually like around 11 or 12. Everyone would go out, eat, whatever, come back at like 7 o'clock for the finals and that was it. We were done. Jay Cutler thinks Phil was most dominant. I would I wouldn't argue that. I think Phil was a very dominant Mr. Olympia, but Ronnie's Ronnie's got to be in that conversation, too. Cool. Anyway, guys, I've been going here for almost an hour, so I think I'll let you go. I want to wish you all a very very happy happy and productive and successful healthy 2026. I want to thank all of you for being uh supportive of this channel in 2025. Appreciate it very much. And that's it. Uh stay safe tonight. Enjoy yourselves responsibly so that you're all here to to enjoy 2026 together. So let's do it. Let's all have a great New Year's Eve and I will talk to you guys next year. As we always say, thanks for watching, guys. Bye-bye.