What's up, guys? Ron Harris here, and I didn't think I was ever going to make any more mentions about Martin Fitzwwater's terrible attitude, piss poor attitude toward the bodybuilding media in general. But then he goes and posts this on his Instagram story saying he hates all the bodybuilding media. They're all trash. And this was uh Fouad's reaction to it, which I think says a lot. So we'll start with Fouad and then we'll move on from there. So Fouad is his former employer, Fouad with Hostile Nutrition, his brand. He did sponsor Martin and pay him for quite a while. So here's what uh Fad has >> like immaturity. What Samson has that Martin doesn't have is that ability to rise above this kind of thing and the ability to not succumb to your emotions. To say all bodybuilding media is trash is a little bit in my opinion immature. Martin does have the ability and the physique to become Mr. Olympia. What Martin has to do is get the emotional side and the mental side to catch up to the physical side because if you're going to be Mr. Olympia, you're going to be attacked. So if Martin's going to be a Mr. Olympia and he's going to be a great ambassador for the sport. He's got to learn to rise above these questions. >> Okay. So, he didn't say some of the body building media is trash. He said all of the bodybuilding media is trash. Now, there have been a few channels that have been very critical of him. Uh his attitude in particular. Javas and I on our on our reviews, we've never said anything bad about his physique ever. In fact, we've been very very complimentary about his physique. And there have been channels like Nick Strength and Power, uh Xavier Willis with Desktop Bodybuilding. They've been almost entirely positive. You've even got guys like uh Christian Duke who has the Strength Addicts mostly on Instagram. I think he he has YouTube as well. He's been Martin's biggest cheerleader over the past few months at least, saying Martin's Martin's going to win everything. Martin's the best. Martin Martin got robbed if he doesn't win. So, even you, Christian, even you are trash. According to Martin, it wasn't it wasn't some or most of the bodybuilding media are trash. We're all everyone that has a bodybuilding channel on YouTube, a bodybuilding page on Instagram, whatever. We're all We all suck. We're all trash. That's somebody that cannot handle any type of criticism. And that is going to bite him in the ass because as much as you can make your own publicity these days and I'm sure you know he's got many many followers and all that. He's got his own YouTube, he's got his own Instagram, but you can't do it all by yourself. If you alienate and insult everyone in the media like that, it will come back to bite you in the ass. I'm going to put him up on up I'm going to put up uh some posing with him because I do believe Martin is a phenomenal bodybuilder. As far as a future Mr. Olympia. That's that's very hard to say because we've had guys like Flex Wheeler, Shawn Ray, Kevin Levrone, who we all thought were future Mr. Olympias. I don't know if Martin will ever win the Mr. Olympia title or not. Who knows? Maybe he will and maybe he won't. But if he's this hostile with one S, not two. If he's this hostile toward the media and can't take any mention of him unless it's just really kissing his ass, and that is a problem. Now, we keep hearing it's a maturity thing. He's young. Okay. He's not that young anymore, guys. He's 29 years old as of January 6th. Yes. The same day as the January 6th incident couple years ago at Washington DC at the Capitol building. 29 years old. That's a grown ass man. He's knocking on the door. He's He's almost 30. He's pushing 30. At what point are we going to stop saying, "Well, it's young. It's a maturity thing." If someone's got an attitude like that, it's not going to get any better unless they intentionally face the fact that this attitude is terrible and I need to change my perception and change my the way I'm thinking about these things and reacting to them. So, let's see. Big baby, where you at, Ron? I'm right here. What's up, Smoke Dog? I'm in little south of Boston. Very cold and wet. Northern New England. Yeah, Northern New England's pretty bad. I'm in middle New England, I guess. Massachusetts. We've had it down to zero degrees a few times so far. I know about all there, but there's a negative me. Oh, absolutely. Do are there channels that are mostly negative? Of course there are. Absolutely. No doubt in my mind. Of course, I'm not arguing that. But to say that all the bodybuilding media, and there have been some channels, outlets, pages, so on that have been nothing but complimentary. But he's lumping them all in the same group and saying they all suck, they're all trash, they're all [\h__\h] Horrible, horrible, horrible. >> [clears throat] >> the negative media. Only a only a trash think of others as trash. I'm gonna keep putting up because again, that's him at the Olympia. He looked better in Prague. I I loved his Prague look. He was shredded and really full to bursting. It was a It was a really great look, but I don't like his attitude. [clears throat] Ivan's all negative. Yeah, I mean, Ivan is is gossipy. He's like TMZ. It's it's it's looking for He calls it juicy. Some people would call that dirt when you're looking for negative stories or negative things to report. Whereas someone like Nick Nick uh Nick Miller at Nick Strength and Power, he's mostly positive. He will report on things that are not so nice. If somebody gets injured or uh if there's a controversy over placing, you know, he reports on everything, good and bad. Ivan does tend to be a little more gossipy. Ivan and MD muscle discord. So MD would be not muscular development. That's long gone. Muscle discord. Yeah. I mean, you could say that muscle discord has been fairly negative towards towards Martin. And again, Giles and I have never been negative about his physique. We both we both agreed many times that he deserved to beat Samson at the Olympia. Not only not only in Prague a couple weeks later, he definitely deserved to beat him at the Olympia. I [snorts] thought Martin is a what? What's up, Xavier? Just waking myself out of the trash. Yeah. So, this is Xavier Willis. What's up, Xavier? Over there in Australia or is it Tasmania? I don't know. He he lumped he lumped you into that category. I can't remember I don't watch all your content, but I I do watch a lot of it. And I don't remember you ever being negative towards Martin, saying anything nasty about Martin, but dude, I don't know. Here's him beating Samson back in Prague again. He looked phenomenal. Was a great great look for him. Ivan is all negative. Strength and power is garbage. Mark strength and power. Who's Mark's strength and power? You mean Mark's Mark's max muscle? Mark I don't know. I don't know. Mark strength and power. Is that a real thing? Mark is a power bodybuilding is trash. I don't know that one either. Who are these channels? It's his opinion. You're the grown men are so upset by this guy. Well, to [laughter] [gasps] It's not like he's dysfunctional. I mean, he's got serious anger issues. What's he so angry about? He's successful. He keeps getting contracts. He's winning shows. He's doing better and better at the Olympia. What is he so upset about? You know, you think he'd be happy. He's on the rise. Physique-wise, he's he's been getting better and better. He's improving. He's climbing the ladder. He's getting closer and closer to winning an Arnold Classic or winning the Mr. Olympia, which you know, either or both of those is definitely he's capable of doing that in the future. Victoria is an epitome of crybaby and victimhood mindset. Yeah. See, there's a difference between saying, you know, you suck or giving constructive criticism. The whole thing with Giles that he was upset about was in 2024 at the Prague show, the EVLS Prague, where Chris Bumstead made his first and only appearance as an open bodybuilder. He was beating in the minds of many, he was beating Martin, although not on the scorecards. Martin was off. He had torn his hamstring on stage, flooded with cortisol, water retention as a result of that. So he didn't look very good on the first day. Somehow boss of outlaw Stephan Keenel, an amazing coach, got his [\h__\h] together so that by the next day he looked much better and he beat Bumpstead. But a lot of people, a lot of people thought Bumpstead had a great chance of beating him. And that's all Giles was saying in his playbyplay. He wasn't saying, you know, I hate Martin. Martin's a jerk. Nothing like that. We talk about physiques and when someone looks phenomenal, we give them full credit. Like I said, we've been doing saying nothing but great things about Martin's physique. Martin Fitzwwater, he's always had chip on his shoulder. Well, I I mean, I remember 2022 Texas, uh, where Andrew Jack made his pro debut. Martin was runner up. I think Martin got Yeah, Martin was runner up there. [snorts] Um, and he looked great, but Andrew Jack looked better. Was Martin in better condition? Yes, but it's not a condition contest. and he went and made that post saying that uh Andrew looked like AI got beat by something like I'm going to quit bodybuilding because I got beat by a bag of chocolate milk, you know? I mean, just [snorts] that's that was four years ago. So, he was 25 22. Yeah. So, you say, "Well, he's young. He's 25. Here he is 29. Still still the same thing. Still talking talking needless crap about people. Chip on his shoulder. Nick strength and power is great." Yeah, Nick strength and power. I call that the sports center. The sports center of bodybuilding. If you know sports center from ESPN, it's where they basically they talk about everything that's going on in sports, the highlights. They show highlights of the big games and top plays, things like that. So for people that don't have time to watch hours and hours of sports, they can just watch Sports Center for a half hour and they catch up on all the news, everything they need to know. Nick's drinking power is a lot like that. Why are bodybuilders so sensitive and emotional? You know, I I I don't want to speculate. [laughter] You know, a lot of us a lot of us come from places of deep insecurities as bodybuilders. I know I did. You know, I felt skinny, uh, ignored by girls. This is back before I That's why I started training. So, I don't know. I don't know what Martin's issues are. I'm not even going to speculate. But, he is very sensitive. He can't seem to take any type of criticism. And this is a sport where you're going to be criticized. You put your you put yourself out there on a stage in a in a thong, you're going to get criticized. People are going to tear your physique apart. Even if you're Mr. Olympia, even Mr. Olympia gets all kinds of abuse and criticism from people. God forbid if he fails place top five was so downward spiral future we forgotten like the Hakua girl. Hakua girl. [laughter] Was he in the first caller of the Olympia? I need to go back and check. Uh I think he was right. Let's see. Stro top four. No, he was not. No, he didn't make because he wasn't top he should have been in that top four. Uh who's him at? Here's him at the Olympia. I want to keep some good footage because I do think he's got a phenomenal physique. I think he's he's really really good. He certainly has the potential to be an Arnold Classic champ and a Mr. Olympia. Let's see. I know we said people pick and choose when they want to take people literally. If he does hate all, so what? Maybe he just doesn't like the fact he'll steal their content to then make content. Dude, that's like, you [clears throat] know, steal their content to make content. Dude, it that's the every sport has a media co has media coverage. I mean, if ESPN is showing highlights of an NFL game or whatever, which they have permission to do, they're not stealing it. It's their job is to report on the sport. And people who have bodybuilding channels and bodybuilding outlets, that's what they do. We report on the sport. We report on the top athletes, the the contests. That's it. That's what we do. And they don't get paid from it. I mean, [laughter] do you think do you think every time these football players and you, of course, they're making great money. Basketball players, hockey players, baseball players, they're being shown on ESPN all the time and other sports channels, of course, they don't get paid. You know, how are they supposed to get paid? It's you're a public figure guy. It's like saying every time uh Bad Bunny is in a magazine or a news article, he should get paid for that. Bad Bunny. Tasmania, Australia, that's where the Tasmanian Devil was from. Martin is the Billy Isish of bodybuilding. Young and dumb. But he's not that young. He's not that young. He's almost 30 now, guys. Uh yeah, I'm going to put this up. This I'm not going to ask for an apology. That's all said and done. Martin's not going to apologize and Charles is not going to apologize to Martin, but this was this was the uh this was what he did. He did toward the very end of the Prague Pro this year. Last year, I'm sorry. Uh October, November, it was October, I think, 2025. Giles was doing the playbyplay along with AJ and at the very end in the pose down he came up and did this. >> Hey, next time you want to talk [\h__\h] about me, do it to my face. >> [music] >> And again, next time you want to talk [\h__\h] about me, which he was just saying he thought Bumpstead was beating him and he was flat and watery that day, which he was. He looked better the next day, but say to my face, what is he supposed to like look for him and find him? Which actually Giles has he was backstage. I'm sorry. He was at the afterparty both years. Martin didn't say anything to him. So whatever. Let's see. Zave is awesome. I agree. What's up? What's up, Zionic? Yeah. So, this is Xavier. His channel, Desktop Bodybuilding, is one of the top bodybuilding channels on YouTube. Check it out. I've been very pro Martin as a whole, for sure. Yeah. So, you know, Martin didn't just say that by accident. He typed that out. It was in his Instagram story. He says, "All bodybuilding media is is trash." All. You know, he could have just said most, but it was a very dis very distinct choice to say all. So, even you, you suck too, Xavier, apparently, even though you've been nothing but positive. This is Dave M. What's up, Dave? When Martin came back from his time off, he showed tremendous difference in maturity. He's not a top pro. It's your immaturity again. I mean, I don't know if you want to call it immaturity because I think it's just an attitude because he might be 40 years old in 11 years and still have this exact same attitude. I don't know. >> [clears throat] >> Xavier's an amazing content creator. Yeah, absolutely. Think big. That's uh Paul Bartlett, right? Yeah, Paul's awesome. What's up, USA 219? Oh, that's someone saying he's great. Okay. Raw should drop his ass. I mean, I'm not see nobody's really nobody nobody protects and not that the the body of the media needs protection or you know, I'm not asking for the IFBB to do anything to him. I I'm just pointing out the fact that I can't believe he would say something like that and he didn't he could have deleted it. He could have put something up later and saying, you know, I I meant to say most, but there are a few channels that are that are cool. He could have said that, but he didn't even do that. He lumped everyone in. He's become the Diego Pavilla Bible. I don't know who that is. Help me out. Is that some other sport? What are his anger issues? Not like he's beating his girl. I just got her contract with the big supplement to say Nick. Yeah. Well, uh yeah, he got his girlfriend a contract cuz that's he wanted when he wanted his contract renewed with uh Hostile Nutrition, Fuad Abiad's company, he wanted her to be given a contract as well. And Fouad was not cool with that. And that was that was one of the reasons I I suspect why they did not have another deal going. [snorts] Anger issues. Do you don't think this is an anger issue? The buzz. Look, I'm not I'm not I I have nothing personally against Martin. I just I I You don't think this is an anime want to talk [\h__\h] about me, do it to my face. So, it's almost the the very end of a contest there that he's clearly going to win. He knows he's winning. He should be happy. But instead, he takes takes the time to go all the way up to where Giles is at the booth at the table there where he's doing the the live stream commentary. And he has to go out of his way to say that. Who does that? He should have just been focusing on the show, winning his contest. It was ridiculous that he took the time to do that. And for I'm forget about the apology. I'm not even looking anymore. I don't I don't give a [\h__\h] about that. He's never going to apologize. And then we see people saying G should apologize to him. No, nobody's apologizing for him. Fitness industry has so many negative people haters that people confuse who's negative and who isn't. Well, I mean, Martin should pay attention to channels like Xavier, Desktop Bodybuilding, Nick, Strength, and Power. Again, I mentioned Christian Duki, who has been, if anything, overly supportive of Martin to the point of almost delusion where he thinks Martin's should win every contest he's in, even the Olympia, which granted he looked great, but he wasn't winning. Anyway, comes off zarro and cocky, might get humbled soon. Martin didn't like Bad Bunnies. What? [laughter] Oh, you're saying it's because of the Bad Bunny thing. I didn't mind the Bad Bunny thing honestly because I've been listening secondhand to that music for 35 years because my wife's Cuban and uh you know we have my whole both sides of my family's with married to Latinos, Mexicans, Puerto Ricans. So I've been hearing this music for quite some time. Heart is not professional. Yeah, that's that's a good thing. Just say it's unprofessional. It's unprofessional to behave like that, to make statements like that. I mean, if if people can't say anything about you, even complimentary things, nobody's allowed to talk about you. You're a public figure. You're one of the best in the sport now, Martin. And and Fuad's right. If he gets to the point of being Mr. Olympia, dude, when you're Mr. Olympia, it doesn't matter how good you are, people are going to [\h__\h] all over you because if you're very successful, you're going to have haters. You're going to have detractors. You're going to have people saying bad things about you just because that's just the way it is. Whenever anyone is super successful in any endeavor, business, music, politics, whatever it is, anyone who's super successful is going to have to deal with a lot of negativity from people who are either jealous or needlessly critical. You get the idea. Pretty unbecoming conduct. Conduct unbecoming is a phrase that comes to mind. Good thing it's a muscle contest. Oh yeah. I mean, if it was a something where like a Miss America contest where your character was part of it, he might be in trouble, but it's not. It's a muscle show. A lot of people talk [\h__\h] They have no room to talk. This guy's doing amazing things. What's up, Raymond? Pro athletes. He's meeting Chris and a few of them get better since we work for Martin. But he's not though. [laughter] I mean, people are even when people say great things about him, he seems to get upset that they're, you know, I don't know what he wants. Does he want no media to exist? How are people going to find out about, you know, just people are just going to have to go to his Instagram all the time? We have live streams for the shows, but then we have all these other channels. We have myself, we have Nick Strength and Power, RX, Muscle, Discord. Yeah, I'm I'm saying everybody. Uh Nick Strength and Power, Xavier Desktop, there there are a lot easy EP09. I mean, there's a lot of outlets who work very very hard to produce content for the fans. And all of us who have these channels and these outlets, we're all huge fans of the sport, or else we wouldn't be doing this. You know, I've been a fan of bodybuilding now since the 80s, the 1980s, guys. Uh I've seen thousands of bodybuilders come and go. Uh I've been to so many Olympias and Arnolds and Iron Mans and New York pros, United Champions, whatever. I mean, I'm AI'm a fan to the core. I love bodybuilding. I've always always given credit to the great bodybuilders. And if there are guys who have things that could be better, room for improvement, I point that out in a respectful way as constructive criticism. I just I never come out and say, "This guy's back sucks. He's got no calves. He's got no chest." I never say, you never hear me say anything like that. I'd say his chest could his chest needs to come up to match his shoulders and arms or uh he looks he looks smaller from the back than he does from the front. Things like that, you know, which are you could take that the wrong way, I suppose. It depends on the delivery, but I I do try to always do it in a respectful way because I I I respect these guys. I do, you know, I was never a pro myself, but I did all these things. I still train every day. I still eat six meals a freaking day. You know, I've done all kinds of gear in the past. Uh I I know exactly what they're going through. I've dieted down. All right, the buzz. You're gonna can only imagine what this is. It's not what other sports cont have to like it. Oh, no. He doesn't have to like it. But to say that everyone's trash, I don't agree with Bastion doesn't mean I agree with him. Well, good. Thank you. At least we're on because we're kind of on the same page. I I don't I don't think he had any place saying that all bodybuilding media is trash. Uh I could understand he doesn't like Giles, so of course he's not going to like my channel. He blocked me and Giles. He's blocked almost every media outlet, Beyond the Stage TV where that he put that clip of Fouad. He does a great job with his Instagram page. He he blocked Martin after Pittsburgh last year, he told me when he just commented about how Martin looked at Pittsburgh, which was not his best look. You know, it's bad for you and Fouad. Well, Fouad did also made a post a couple months ago because Martin had made a comment on a post saying that, you know, Fouad never didn't believe in him because Fouad didn't have him in his Olympia predictions. He didn't have him winning. He had him in fifth place in his Olympia predictions. So, Martin got upset by that and said, you know, you don't believe you don't believe in me. And Fawad clapped back as the young people saying, saying, if I didn't believe in you, I wouldn't have signed you to a contract and paid you all that money, which he did. And he also pointed out Fawad. He placed exactly where I said he would, which means, you know, Fouad was giving his honest prediction. Fouad's got a great eye for physiques and bodybuilding. He's been around for many years. He has a good idea where people are going to place, assuming everyone's at or near their very best. And he was dead on with Martin. But if he had been done what Martin wanted him to do and say, "You're the best. You're going to win." He would have looked like an idiot. He would have been selling out his integrity because he knew there was no way Martin was winning. He knew that Martin was not going to beat all those guys. He wasn't going to beat Derek, Hottie, Samson, and Andrew. He might beat a few of them. He didn't beat any of them, but he wasn't going to beat all of them. And he didn't. Anyway, what a Momo. I don't know what a Momo is, but I agree with you. Valentino used to use that word all the time. No competitor in history will be sparred from spared from criticism coming. Larry Phil. Oh, every every champ. You know, I've been around forever. I don't I hate to keep reminding you how old I am and how long I've been doing this, but every champ I mean I started following bodybuilding in the Lee Haney era when Lee Haney was Mr. Olympia. Lee got all kinds of crap. People used to talk he had a lot of fans but he had a lot of detractors too. People would point out what they didn't like about his physique. How did Samson lose that show? Uh oh, Prague. Uh let's go back and look. I had no problem with Martin beating him there. So, this were this was the final call out here. Yeah, I I think Samson uh I think Samson looked way better, far better here than he had at the Olympia. He'd regained a good amount of the size that he lost, but it wasn't enough. He wasn't 100% Samson. 100% Samson, I think, would have beaten this Martin, but this was the best Martin we had ever seen. I totally gave him. He won with AI think he won with a perfect score, and I agree with it. His conditioning was just crazy, Martin, and he was bursting full. It was an amazing the best look he's ever shown so far. Had he brought that look to the Olympia, I have no doubt in my mind he would have he would have beat Samson there, as I think he should have, but he didn't. What else we got? Bad Bunny. When I hear anger issues, I personally think about violence. Yeah, I mean I don't I shouldn't throw terms like that when I don't fully know all the psycho babble talk myself some of both the IPB cryb babies. I don't know. Does Summerfeld cry a lot? I wasn't aware of that. Gave Joll Stern talking to a tuss didn't beat him up. That's just me. Yeah, but it was just so unnecessary. Like what was the point? I don't think he's immature either. I think it's just his take. Uh well, maybe his problem isn't about support. I mean, he has plenty of support. He's got his girl. He's got a great girl. He's got a brand new supplement contract. I'm sure he's being paid well. He's got [snorts] many hundreds of thousands of fans, millions of fans around the world. I don't know what the problem is. Serious ego issue. And I don't want to say little man syndrome because I'm 5'7 and a half. I'm not a tall character either. Spanish. What? We're not talking about Bad Bunny right now, Kalian. [laughter] That's a whole other If if I was making videos about Ice and Bad Bunny and all that, I'd probably be doing a lot better on YouTube than I am. But I'm a meatthead and I'm talking about meatthead stuff. Nobody said they got to kiss me as ass when they won their pro crud. So there's a difference between kissing ass. No one is look I'm me neither I or anyone else in the media is looking for the athletes to come out and say thanks guys. Thanks for talking about me and giving me giving me uh props and all this. We don't need that. We we're not looking for that. But to be [\h__\h] on for just doing our job and crit critiquing physiques. That's that's going that's going beyond. Uh maybe they should stop doing media. I thought he meant your channel though. I don't know if he does. I don't I don't I honestly don't care what Martin thinks about me at this point. What can he do to me now? He blocked me. I feel it's privileged to honor bother me. Thank you. So this is Missy Trust God. Thank you, Missy. A fourtime, three-time [snorts] fitness Olympia champion now going for the figure Olympia title. appreciate you popping in here, Missy. Yeah. So, I mean, Missy's got I know. Now, I'm going to say you're kissing Missy's act. Miss you're kissing her ass because she's agreeing with you. Well, I mean, there are media outlets like myself and and many others that are very respectful toward the athletes. We're trying to uplift the sport. We want to promote the sport. We want to get more people interested in it, more people involved in it. We're not trying to tear the sport down. I don't do negative videos for clicks of views saying so and so sucks or bodybuilders are all drug addict. You know, you never hear stuff like that because I love bodybuilding. I love bodybuilders. I'm a bodybuilder. Most of my friends are bodybuilders. You know, if you look at the the contacts on my phone, I'd say 90% of them are people in this industry in some capacity. He's financially secure. Pepsis manufacturers should motivate. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what his deal is. I really don't. All right, Harris. Okay, these are the best channels. All right. Think big enough to sub on this channel. Thank you. Appreciate it, Kalian. Media is YouTube channels pro. Well, media is also uh I would I would include all the media. It's social media. So, if you have uh an Instagram page, there's a lot of Instagram pages that cover bodybuilding. Who is the best bodybuilder? Uh Beyond the Stage TV, uh Bodybuilders Without Borders, what's Sulios is one? I think it's just called Sulios. Yeah, there are a lot of Instagram pages that are dedicated to covering bodybuilding. A lot of people that have YouTube channels um like Generation Iron and RX Muscle, they also post quite a bit on Instagram. So, it's kind of a when I when I hear media, I'm thinking everything. I'm not just focusing on YouTube. Peter McGuff is very sharp with his words when he criticizes. Yeah. So, Peter Peter's a good example. I mean, today's bodybuilders, I don't think they could handle the critiques that guys like Peter who loved bodybuilding and loved the he supported the athletes for years. He was uh he was the editor of both uh Flex Magazine and then much later at MD, Muscular Development. You know, he was he was uh involved in securing contracts when he was with Flex Magazine. He was helping those guys get contracts with Weer or with the publications, publishing contracts and making money. though. But then when he wrote about them, when he wrote contest reports, Peter, because you know, we used to do contest reports in magazines before we had internet and YouTube and all that. So about a month after a contest was over, you'd get the magazine in the mail or at the news stand, it would be like 10 to 20 pages, pictures, photos from the show, and it'd be a written report from guys like Peter McGuff. He was the best. He was the best at it because he could really describe everything so vividly like you were right there in the front seat like he was. But he was very critical and you know anyone that wrote contest reports for the many decades that bodybuilding magazines existed and did that we were always very critical. I used to do I I wrote more than my sh a few more than my share of contest reports and we criticized the physiques. We critiqued them I should say. Why did Lee Haney win and why did Gaspari take second? Well, it's usually just structure. You know, we pointed out the areas that were great on people and the areas that were not so great or, you know, why was one guy deemed better than the judges. We try to do our best to break it down and explain it, which is what people do now. People like Giles and other commentators do on the live stream commentary. That's their job is to explain to people at home watching who may may not be entirely familiar with how the judging works and what the judges are looking at in terms of attributes and qualities in these physiques and how they're making their decisions first, second, third place and so on. God, I need to take a breath here. So Matthews fabricate criticism. They just have a chip on their shoulder. Mark keeps the media be forced to acknowledge. Well, the media does acknowledge him even though but he's blocked everybody. I mean, why that that is insane to me, you know? That's like obviously like in other sports, the mainstream sports, the athletes can't stop photographers and videographers from filming them, taking pictures of them at the games. Uh, and you know, when these guys are at the shows, Martin is weak mentally. Martin stop act like a baby and grow up. Smash that like. Thank you, Sean Turner. Fan of Martin. His physique is awesome. I don't think I'm going to root for him anymore. Yeah, I'm a huge fan of physique, too. This this physique that he showed in Prague, it was it was an amazing physique, man. This was a great look. I have nothing bad to say about this condition. Was Look at Look at the quads. I love those crossstriations. He hit that perfect balance of being totally shredded, detailed, dry, yet bursting full, which is almost impossible for the human body. I don't care how many drugs you're on. It's almost impossible to strike that perfect balance between condition and fullness. And he did it. And he beat Samson. He beat uh he beat the guy who had been Mr. Olympia the year before. That's no small feat. It's pretty amazing. There's the Billy Eyish. [sighs and snorts] Uh I'm waiting. I got to find find the comments. Any Spanish Shakira. weak mentally. Stop acting like a baby. Smash that like. Uh, has Martin deleted his IG or is He's blocked you. He has blocked you. He has not deleted his Instagram. If you can't see it, Xavier, he has blocked you. He's blocked almost every media outlet. I wonder if he's blocked Strength Addicts, which would be really ironic because Duk has gone out of his way so many times making post after post about how great Martin is. So, that would be that would be a great irony. But yes, he has not deleted his Instagram. He has blocked you. Uh uh because I know because when I go to the gym sometimes I'll have people look show me Martin's Instagram to see if there's any updates because I do follow him. I am a fan of his physique. I think he's great. Pretty ironic. So Martin got moved this building. [laughter] That's a different Martin. 500 trend. That's a lot of trend. I know it doesn't seem like a lot to some of you. Trust me. 500 milligrams of trend. That's a lot of trend. [laughter] Uh, I can remember anytime I went over 300 milligrams of Tren a week, and some of you guys can relate to this, you start getting kind of crazy. You start getting kind of crazy. Go back there. I like to give you something to look at in my mug. My mug. Uh, see finger number one. Finger number one. Okay. show. Thank you very much. Witchd Doctor, it's a cool name. Witch doctor was a big hit with Alvin and the Chipmunks about thousand years ago. I rebuked him in Jesus holy name and he mocked me. Let us pray for the spoiled brat. Okay, I mean I I agree with you. I have not I don't hate the guy. I don't really hate too many people in this world. You'd have to You'd have to really do something horrible to me or my family for me to hate you. He's a guy who gets his body judged for a living and then cries about Yeah, exactly. You're you're going out there in a little thong with your ass hanging out shredded. Don't get me wrong, but you're putting yourself out there literally literally to be judged and critiqued. It's a beauty. It's like a beauty pageant. I know it's a sport, but you're putting your body out there on display and it's judged 100% visually. So Martin's being crybab again. Yes. He said uh he said what was exact uh he someone asked him on his on his Instagram stories. He answered a question saying, "Do you watch the bodybuilding channels on YouTube?" And he said, "Lmfo," laughing my [\h__\h] ass off. "Most definitely not. I hate all bodybuilding media. They are all" And it was a a trash can. So, they're all trash or garbage, however you want to call it. With a few Gen Z guys when she's Peter Harris. Yeah, you definitely are one of the few Gen Zers. Who cares? Yeah, if you don't care, why why you watching just some dude? Jory Bollywood fans have a difficult time understanding the skill structure. Yeah. [snorts] I I think a lot of fans, a majority of the fans now because there are so many casual fans just look at it on their phone on they might watch a few videos here and there and follow some Instagram pages. Uh I think it's very common that the people don't the fans don't understand how the athletes are judged. I just set up a separate account. You can see his account. No, I'm not going to do that. I just I mean I have plenty of people that will send me updates if I want, you know. I have 31,000 followers, which is nothing. He's got like I don't know. I can't I don't know because I can't look at his Instagram anymore. Uh Donald Trump and Neil Martin to be rude to me. [laughter] Martin will have his own media podcast. I don't know why he doesn't have a podcast now. Everyone else does. You guys all should boycott him. Not going to boycott. I mean, I'm here to cover the sport and the top athletes and and the top contests. I'm going to keep talking about him and you know I don't I'm doing Arnold Classic predictions soon. They're going to start. We're gonna I'm going to be doing them with several different people and uh I'll be realistic. I don't think he's winning the Arnold Classic. Does he have a chance? Sure he does. I don't think he's beating either Andrew or Hottie. Andrew Jack or Hottie Chupan. Nick Walker. Maybe he'll beat Nick. Maybe. Maybe Nick will beat him. Brandon Curry's up there too. You know Martin's been beating him consistently. So, I think Martin's a solid top four. Uh, although MoDota is looking pretty damn great. I don't want to get into all that, that's for sure. Good. Veto is the Olympia this year. Yeah. Gut issues. Gut issues. What's bodybuilding media? Yeah. I mean, how would you follow bodybuilding? There's no magazines anymore. So, all we have is Instagram and YouTube now. So, we have a lot of good YouTube channels that cover it. We have a lot of good Instagram pages that cover it. And that's how most people get their bodybuilding news now. And that's how they know what's going on. You know, people don't go to the contest. So most most fans are not going to spend thousands of dollars to go physically to a contest. Why compete in the sport based on if you can't accept Exactly. It doesn't make any sense, Derek. So immature Godf Frogs. I know. Trolling people. He's not I don't think he's trolling. I think he's dead dead serious. I really think so. Want Nick to beat him anyhow. Peak Nick Walk will always beat him. Hey, you know, I wouldn't I wouldn't I'm not saying Nick can't win the Arnold either. Nick Nick could win it. He's [clears throat] won it before. He's been third place in the Olympia. Nick Walker certainly has a chance to win the Arnold. As does Martin. I think Hottie and Andrew have a better chance. That's me speaking on what I see in the different physiques. Also looking at their track record, who's beaten who, who's getting better. We'll see. Uh well, you know what time it is? It's time to go walk Branch. So, he just had his checkup. He had three shots and they drew blood. So, poor Branch. Anyway, guys, that's all I had to say. I didn't want to drag this out any more than uh than we already have. Let's be real. Anybody who thinks Martin is in the second coming Phil He's great. I've said it many times. I think he's got a great physique. He's got a incredible future. He's 29 years old. He's got his best years ahead of him. But that attitude just turns me right the [\h__\h] off. Anyway, he doesn't care. Martin never beat an on Nick. Yeah, I I I think Nick at his best beats beats Martin, but we're going to find out in three and a half weeks, right? Anyway, guys, that's all I have for now. Appreciate you watching. Please like, subscribe, share, do all that good stuff. You know, I appreciate it and we'll see you. Oh, last one, Jack. Uh there is one that you can subscribe to. Uh Joe Potaro does uh Muscle Sport Mag, but no, Flex has been gone for years. Muscle and Fitness has been gone. Muscle Mag, Iron Man, and NMD was the last one. They're all gone. Anyway, guys, thank you so much for watching. That's all I had to say about this issue for today. Drop a comment below and let me know what you think. Are you for or against Martin? His attitude, whatever you want to say, drop a comment and let me know. I always love to hear your your comments and feedback and I always respond. So, that's it. Talk to you'all later. Thanks for watching. Thanks.