What's up, guys? Ryan Harris here and we're talking about arms. Yes, it's that slow time in bodybuilding where we can talk about stuff like this. Who's got the best arms in bodybuilding right now? Of course, I only put three names on the list and you guys are welcome in the chat. And if you're watching this later, drop it in the comments. Who do you believe should be number one? Who is not even on my top three? My top three, Nick Walker, Andrew Jacked, and Kiso. Uh, I want to start taking a look start taking a look at these guys. So, first of all, Nick Walker, I think, has got to be got to be in this conversation for sure. I know this is 2022. His arms are probably a little bigger than this, but look at when he first steps out there, hits that front double bicep. Boom. Amazing. That's just perfect. Perfect arm development. Peaked full biceps, sweeping triceps. I've never heard anyone remotely accuse Nick Walker of having oil in his arms or any kind of sight injection, period. He's always had these fantastic arms from the time he turned pro back in 2020. And look at that again. This is 2022. Hits a lot of arm shots. And if I hit arms like that, man, so would I. I would too. Look at that. They are fantastic. You look at him in the 25 Olympia. This is obviously much more current. Still has tremendous arm development. Of course, what are they going to go down in size? They look fantastic. Uh I'm curious to see how the poll goes. Right now, he's leading in the poll. You can vote on this poll while the video is running. Right now, who do we got? We got Nick W. Oh no, Chriso's in the lead. Chriso's in the lead with 50%. Go Kriso. Okay. Yeah. So, that's Nick there. Let me show you on his Instagram. He's got so much good stuff on his Instagram when it comes to arms. Just hang on a second. Let me get rid of that. All right. If we go to Nick's Instagram, which I'm about to do right now, he posts a lot of arm training because good lord, look at these things. Here he is doing some curls. I mean, these are the arms. If I could probably have anybody's arms in bodybuilding, I would want Nick Walkers because yeah, those look completely real to me. [clears throat] If he has ever injected any foreign substances, let's say, in his arms, he's done it in such a way that you would never notice, but I don't think he has. I think he's just got fantastic arm genetics. They respond very, very well to pretty much anything he does for them. And look at that. They are just phenomenal. Phenomenal. That's [clears throat] a close-up shot. Take a look at uh when he does the double arm curls. I think it's even more impressive because that's showing more of the physique. Well, that's a side. Even the side, all his poses, the arms are a strong point. They're just so full and thick. So incredibly full and thick. And you know, even though even though I didn't love his look at this last Olympia, those arms are still looking insane. Insane. Insane. The memory. Here we go. So, these are the shots right here. Look at that. That is just That's crazy. Crazy arm development on this guy. See what you guys are saying in the comments so far. Evening Azimov for me to open for pillar arms. I also got to be Nick. Yeah, we're just talking about arms. We're not talking about anything else. Yeah, Roman Dino has got pretty awesome. Andre Smay by far. Okay. Yeah, I'll take a look at him for sure. Should be number one isn't even on the list. So, you're talking about Smay. Yeah, Smay who has never competed in bodybuilding, but you could make that case. We'll look at him. Chris Neck, best arms in Doug, hands down. Yeah. I mean, I I tend to think so. If he ever gets on stage, we can talk about more. Yeah, Smay I I hear what you're saying on him, but again, Kriso. Yeah, Chris, what about Akim? Kim's got pretty good arms. Absolutely does. Yeah, I mean that that's why I have you guys on here is because I know I didn't think of everybody. Plus, in the thumbnails, I I only have room for a couple guys, so you understand. [laughter] But Nick Nick's arms to me, those are the best arms right now. From every angle, they just look incredible. So full, so round, so thick. And I do believe they're 100% real. I don't think there's anything funny going on with these arms. If if I did, I wouldn't have them in the uh I wouldn't even be talking about him because Yeah, look at that. Look at that. That is insane. But let's take a look at Kriso. We'll get to Jack last. So Kriszo also phenomenal arm development and also another guy. I don't think there's anything funny about his arms. I don't think there's any SEO in there. Uh his whole physique is so detailed. There's so much separation, detail, striations. He's one guy I don't think has messed with any kind of PMAA or synthol or anything like that. Could I be wrong? Of course. That's why they called me Ron Harris. But I think his arms are I don't want to say 100% natural because yeah, of course he uses gear and GH and things like that. But as far as what we're looking at, is it is it all muscle? I believe it is. I believe it is with KZO Ko. Yeah, that's just a real clean shot. Those those arms are double bicep is is to me his best shot along with the most muscular that he does. Doesn't have any bad shots. See, the back shots aren't great, but look at that. Look at just how full and dense those arms are. Kriso is just he's an arm an arm god among men. Yeah, he posts a lot of arm training as well. Like I said, man, if I had arms like that, I'd be posting arm training stuff every day. Every damn day. Here he is posing. You know, it's you can't hide bad arms. So, it's a good thing. I mean, that's that's one reason u I had trouble competing is because my triceps in particular were lackluster. But Kriszo's arms look good in every single pose. the most muscular. Yeah, look at that. He's something else. Frieza. Yeah, that guy's that guy's a fan. [cough and clears throat] So, although I do have Nick as number one in arm development, uh Chris Oak to me is very, very close. Oh, that's a back exercise. Even when he's training back, his arms look crazy, don't they? He's going to do a little posing here. It's very brightly lit gym. Yeah, to his credit, he's got the chest and the shoulders to match. A lot of these guys have huge arms and the crappy chests or shoulders aren't that great. He's got everything, Krzo. But look at look at how full and veiny. And again, I guess if I could pick anyone's arms, it would be either Nick or Kriso. I'd be happy with either one. I'm not greedy. I'm not greedy. I'll take either one. Some more posing. That's a sidekick. That's a sponsor. Yeah, this is a series of his crab most musculars. Last one is very very manipulated, very uh structured, sharpened. Look at that. That is fantastic. Fantastic. Let's see. Nick, best arms shapewise. Oh, yeah. Wesley's got really good arms. Absolutely. Uh I don't know. Wesley's arms are pretty huge actually cuz he's 6'2 or 6'3. I think he's 6'3. His arms are probably 22 inches. Inject strip. People seem to want to make him poster boy oil. Yeah, we're going to get to him next. Imagine if Cruz has a little smaller waist. Yeah, it's just that waist, the wide waist that kills him really. It's the only thing because good lord. This guy's phenomenal. Look at that. [sighs] Yeah. Even when he's doing a leg shot, you can't stop looking at the arms. You can't. She could pose better. Yeah. I mean, that's something that could that could be improved. So-called Kurt Mestro is not even the combo. No, I didn't have uh Heidi in there either. And I didn't have uh I didn't have Martin in there. I don't think Martin's arms are awesome. Hottie's arms, they're good. They're not like awesome. His arms are a joke. Yeah, we're not talking about the worst arms. No one knows 26 inch real. We're going to get to smile after uh let's look at uh let's look at our boy here though. [clears throat and cough] So Andrew Jack I I remember the first time I saw Andrew uh was on like I think it was a Larry Wills video. So we're talking about 2021 2020 maybe even as far back as that. And I was just [clears throat] thinking man this guy's arms are ridiculous. This guy's got the best arms. Uh, better arms than 99% of IFPB pros and he's never even competed. So, there you go. Look at that. He's balancing. So, that's his tricep training. Triceps are just so full, so round. They they stick out like a six inches behind him when he's walking. Here's some skull crushers. They're looking phenomenal. That's good. I'm talking about Mr. O Caliber. If you're talking you're talking about Smay now seems too tall. His waist might even out. No, I don't. It would still be the same shape. We're talking about Kriszo there. Andrew has high insertions. Could be awesome to have you and Dr. Tiggo with the IGF-1. I don't know how much he knows about that to be honest with you. IGF-1 LR3. Yeah, we're looking at Andrew now. There's the triceps. Let's go to the biceps. This bicep training here. This is a little a little more offseasonish, but you can still see the look at that. This is about as fat as Andrew ever gets right there. Just very fat at all. He looks pretty damn great. Yeah. Go show that one. I go back to this one picture of Andrew all the time. To me, it's this is the best picture of him right here. That [clears throat] is my favorite picture of Andrew ever. I should say so far. Perfect. Peak biceps. Triceps are nice and full and sweeping. Phenomenal. Just phenomenal. See all oiled and stand over perfect. Yeah. Phil had big arms even when he was a basketball player. Triceps are huge. Andrews are very good, but his inserts are pretty high. Nicks just look fuller. Yeah. I mean, Nick's 56. He says 5'7. I want to say I'll give him 5'7 if he really wants to say that, but I think he's closer to 5'6. So, his arms are probably as big as Andrews, but he's seven or eight inches shorter. Delta Unreal, too. Smay got the best arms. The best arms in classic. Yeah, probably Romanino, but I'll take a look at Smay. Let's take a look at Smay. So, next we're going to uh Andre Smayv, who is a young man from Russia. Is it Smay official? Smay. Yeah. [snorts] [clears throat] Okay. So, I think I think he was saying his arms are like 20 25 or 26 inches, which yeah, I believe it. He's what's he 330 pounds or something like that. It's a huge huge guy. Oh, that's scary. That's a It's about 150 lb dumbbell there. He's doing a partial rep with a preacher curl. Still scares me, but he's strong enough that I think he can pull it off without tearing anything. So, he's a 27 year old guy. Here he is posing down with a normalsized bodybuilder. And yeah, you could see those you could see that's the size of this dude's arms. Crazy. He's a big big kid. I say kid because he's only like 27. 26 or 27. He looks a lot older. I know. It's It's mainly because he's lost his hair. I think hair makes people look uh losing your hair, I should say, makes people look older, but he's uh he's not a he's not an old guy. He's still in his 20s, Andre. He's not even close to 30 yet. But yeah, these are the these are the pictures that went kind of viral a couple months ago. Look at how thick and full everything, not just the arms, the shoulders, the chest, but arms in particular on this guy are so big and meaty. It's It's impressive. It's very impressive. Nick, is that short? Yeah, I mean, I'm five I'm I used to be 5'8. I'm down to 5'7 and a half. And every time I've interviewed Nick, he's a little shorter than me. I'm looking at him eye to eye. Now, granted, he's usually barefoot, but still, he's definitely no more than 5'7. He's 5'7 on a very good day. Smay bolting to 350 right now. Uh, well, I mean, how old how tall do you think Derek and Hottie are? Derek Derek and Hottie are both around I think hottie's about 5'5. Derek too. I think they're right around 5 foot five. He's almost 346 right now. Wonder calories. He's eating a lot. Freak. Think now that is in open. He will be putting more size arms. He needs triceps. His biceps. Ers's biceps are very good. It's his triceps that aren't aren't in proportion yet. Here's the final caption cap. The final boss as they say. K would have loved this dude. 5%. Well, he would have liked this guy 5% if he put a bunch of crap in his arms and got a bunch of tattoos because it seems like that's pretty much who he had in most of his uh most of his team for 5%. See if there's another shot with this guy's arms. Yeah, there we go. Look at that [clears throat] smile. Yeah, in terms of uh measuring tape, so if he's almost 350 pounds, I bet those arms are every bit of 25 26 inches. They're enormous. Look at that. But he doesn't compete. So, is he really in this conversation? No, probably not. You guys did mention Hakee, and I think it's fair to bring Akeem on here because Akeem Williams is a beast. He hasn't been doing as well lately in competition, but he still has some of the best arms in the sport. Look at that try in the side. Try. Crazy triceps. back is not a great point, strong point for him. There we go. There's that front double. So, Ake has those super peaked biceps. You can see the striations, the cuts in those biceps. So, they're very detailed. Another guy I don't think has any sight injections going on at all. I think those arms are 100% real muscle. Yes, built with gear and insulin, MGH, and all that like everyone else, but I don't believe there's any weird plastics or oils in those arms. I think Akim's arms are [snorts] real. Let's say let's they're real muscle built with Yeah. chemical enhancement, of course. Like everyone else. Like everyone else. But Akeim definitely uh for classic. Yeah, I think Ramondino very good case he can make for Ramondino. Best arms in classic. He is our classic physique Olympia champion right now for a reason. even just hanging out there with his coach Fabitio. But yeah, it's very hard for someone to to hit a pose with the arms outstretched and they still look good. If you don't have big arms, stretching your arms out and especially putting them overhead is very very risky. But Ramon's not he's not scared. Not scared. So yeah, I would say for classic Ramon's got the biggest arms. But we're talking about we're talking about the biggest arms overall. And the open guys are just they're a lot bigger. So, they're going to have they're going to have bigger arms. But yeah, you could see Ramon's arms in every pose. They're a strong point. Look at that. Uh it it kind of makes it's hard for his chest and his back to uh to look as good as they would otherwise because his arms are so so big. There's a good shot. Yeah, they don't look that great. They don't look that big. There. Who should we go back to? Let me go back to Walker. Why not? Nick Walker. Yeah, because uh when Nick puts up He put up a video. This is a while ago. It was on his Instagram. When he's doing those curls, close grip curls, you know, like a cable or something or easy curl bar. Here we go. Look at that. That's crazy. That's crazy, guys. Ah, rolling. MTA wasn't really tall and dark. Just didn't know anything about like that. You guys going to make it to the Arnold. Yeah. Um I I heard issues about visas, but those are visas. Trump put a a stop to visas for people that are trying to come here to live to become you know eventually citizens where uh from what I understand the visas for people who are just visiting like athletes businessmen you know the just like a work visa temporary visa for a limited amount of time I don't think those have been affected at all of course the political situation in Iran they're they're almost in a civil war right now and I think that's coming very soon so I don't know how any of that is going to affect him I I don't see him ditching his wife and three kids to hurry up and get over here immediately so he can be in the Arnold. But, you know, he's got uh he's got Honey Honey Rambout on his side. And Hani is has been doing an amazing job getting him over here to all these Olympias. Look at that. Some tricep training for Nick. It's Nick Walker we're looking at, guys. So, I don't think is going to have a problem getting over here. Roly was a man for Oh, yeah. Roly Winkler's arms were nuts. They were Phil Heath and Rolley were both competing at the same time and I think in their era they both had the best arms. Crazy. Crazy question. Anybody right now would even be remotely close to fight in the arms department of all time. Uh I don't know, man. Rolley. Well, that's Roly's not right now. Roly's He's talking about your mom's flip-flop is talking about people that are competing right now. Anybody who's competing right now for the best of all time. I don't know. Nick Nick's the closest I think most class guys don't get so heavy so they want to get bigger arms because a weight cap I mean I don't think you know an an extra inch on your arms is isn't going to be like another 20 pounds or anything so if anything they're probably a little more wary of adding more back and leg development because those are much larger muscle groups that would add significantly more to your body weight than a little more arm size can be Andrew Jacko Walker and Good Veto Ah, good veto. Jack's arms look flow small compared to his arms. You think you think Jack's Andrew Jack's arms look small compared to a MF has cool arms. Who's MF? Mother Effer. Who's MF? Help me out. Uh, I don't know who that is. Uh, I should look at Good Veto. The Storms ever Ronnie Phil debate, I guess. Let's look at Good Veto, man. I didn't even think of Good Veto, but that's why you guys are here. You guys are here filling the gaps in my things I don't think of, things I forgot. That's why I like going live with you guys. So, Good Vito definitely has some great arms. Yeah, look at that. They're not that much further behind uh like Nicks. Here's in slow mot. She's got tremendous leg development, too. This guy, he's a kid, too. He's only about 27 years old, right? Yeah. Veto. Vitali, what's his name? Vitali. Vitaliak. Good. Veto. Yeah. Some of these poses like you can't do anything with your arm up in the air if you have anything less than spectacular arms or else it flattens out and it looks bad. So, you know, somebody has to have good arms if they're hitting shots where they stretch out their arms or put their arms out overhead up overhead because yeah, your arms will will go away if you don't have great arms. Oh, wow. There he is with Smov. I don't know what that says. It's probably like Merry Christmas. Yeah, happy new year in Russian up there. Remember Good Vito? Although he lives in Brazil, he is a Russian man. He is a Russian. So yeah, two of the best arms in the game right there. Yeah, man. I almost forgot about Veto. Thanks for reminding me, guys. Look at that. There we go. Good. Veto definitely has some killer arms. rarely the judges don't ask guys any big arms which got my feedback [clears throat] I I don't think many of them have weak arms is the thing um you do see the two most common areas that you see lacking on anybody whether it's classic or open are back back and legs most people most competitors have pretty good arms pretty good chest and shoulders back and legs is where you start seeing people lagging hacker's arms hack >> [laughter] >> Andrew Jack is that Andrew Hacker pooper etch Somerfield's arms are pretty nice as well. Some picks underrated with the arms. Summer Oh yeah, he's got really good arms. That's why you know people saying you don't you're not giving uh Sull enough credit. Oh, I think I think Selk's very good, but he's going to have a hell of a time. Uh where's my where my StreamYard go? I think he's going to have a hell of a time. Where did I put my Instagram? Where' my Instagram go? I have to find my Instagram again, guys. I I lost it. Okay, because I want to show I'm gonna go to Somerfell because Mike Somerfeld does have really good arms. He's Mike the Badass. Let's go to Mike the Badass. Mike the badass. Okay. All right. Let's go to Mike. Okay. See if we can find a good arm shot. That's Neil. Neil. Neil actually had great arms in his day, too. Neil Uh, [clears throat] looks like he's real flat there. So, I'm not going to not going to say that's one of the better ones. Here we go. Just going to hit a double bice for us. No. This is Mike Somerfell, guys. Runner up at the last Olympia. He is a defending Arnold Classic, a classic Classic physique champ, and he is hoping to keep that title even though he's got to go into a slightly lower weight class than he did last year. He was heighted as being a little shorter than he had been in the past. So now he has to be a little bit lighter, but Mike has some pretty great arms, man. Let find those Olympia shots because he was putting up some really great shots back a week ago. Oh, he looks pretty good now, doesn't he? Yeah, Summerrfeld's got some pretty damn great arms. Look, I I like the cross durations. His tries are very, very strided, which you don't see a lot of. You especially don't see that with guys who are putting a bunch of crap in their arms. That's too dark. Can't see. Can't see, Mike. There we go. That's a good shot. [snorts] Good veto. Quinton. Yeah, Quinton's got some good arms. Look at Quinton. Sure. Quit hot veto and autoam. Where do I think places in the Arnold? I think if he can be in the 7 to 10 range, he's doing very very well. Structurally, he does not have great shape and structure. He will be shredded. He's got good size, but not the most pleasing physique. And classic is about pleasing physiques. Who was I going to look at? I forgot. I already forgot who I was going to look at. [laughter] Oh, Quint. Quint. That's fair. Let's go to Quint. Quint Beastwood. Yeah, Quint does have really good arms. Good call. Good call. This is obviously offseason. He's not that lean. When he's lean, they're they're even more impressive, of course. When was this? This five weeks ago. Yeah. I think he's in a health phase right now. I suspect he is. I don't think he's on gear right now. just maybe a TRT dose. So, let's go back to when he was on when he was blasting. Here we go. I was guest posing. Quintaria. Yeah, look at that. Yeah, Quint's got some great arms, too, man. It's hard. It's hard to pick just one. I mean, I don't know if my top three is the only ones I had there. I'm so dude is absolutely peeled like he might lose some muscle. Yeah, he's still young, but I'm not being negative because I think he's I like the kid. I think he's fantastic for the sport. He's got a great personality. He's humble. He's down to earth. He's hardworking, doing his own prep, which I'm very impressed by. Um, but the shape and the structure, those things don't change. He can get bigger than he is now, but his his structure and everything, they're not going to be any different. Best of all time. Yeah, Lee Priest maybe. Uh, Phil Heath is up there. Roly Winkler, Levrone for triceps, Ronnie Coleman for biceps, Robbie Robinson for biceps, Arnold for biceps. Yeah, Marco with the best bicep peaks of all time. Marco. Yeah, I forgot about him. All time. Sergio Leva, Larry Scott. Go back to Yeah. The funny thing is Sergio Oliva, I bet he was barely on any gear. I'm sure now he was using gear, don't get me wrong, but I bet compared to what the guys are using now, Sergio Leva was on a fraction of that. And I [clears throat] bet he wasn't eating and taking supplements and the way the guys do now. If he was in the modern era and doing everything that the guys now do, talking about Sergio Lev, the three-time Olympia champion, father of Sergio Leva Jr., I think he would just be he would be kicking everybody's ass if he was around today. Yeah, you read my mind, man. That was crazy imperson cartoon. What's up, Mike? Mike is going to be joining uh me again tomorrow night, guys. 7:00 p.m. Eastern on the Miad podcast. We got Jimmy Menus back and Chris Pantano. This time, we're going to be talking about drugs. How much do they matter? So, definitely if you're able to make it tomorrow night, Wednesday, at 700 p.m. Eastern, hop on and and join that discussion with us. Share your stories. Listen, our stories. It's going to be a good time. We'll see with time. Yeah. I mean, his frame isn't going to change. your mom's flip-flop talking about Sullic. I guess I'll put him on screen if we're going to talk about him. So, the last update we have, this is the last Sam update we had. Does he look fantastic for a regular guy? Absolutely. You put him next to Wesley Vizers, you put him next to Mike Somerfeld, uh, Nyall, that the top classic guys, he doesn't have that type of shape and structure. He doesn't have wide clavicles. It's just not the right frame is what I'm saying. Now, he looks great. I respect the hell out of this kid for the hard work and dedication, but when you ask me to predict how somebody's going to place, I'm not going to bullsh I'm not going to sugarcoat it. I think he's capable of getting seventh through 10th and I think there's 15 of them. You know, anything anything better than last would be a victory for him because let's face it, I mean, he won a he won his pro card in a pretty easy competition last year at the Arnold Amateur. It was not a very difficult competition. So, but again, I'm I'm all I respect the hell out of this kid. I just don't think he's meant to ever do great things as a competitor. That is not the shape. Look at that. And then you go look at Wesley or Somerfeld or Nyall Darwin or Ramon. I mean, any of the top classic guys really. He doesn't have that kind of shape. And that's not going to change. It's not walk on water. Top five. I mean, top five would be amazing for him, Mike. Amazing. That would be like a That would be a win. I think there's no way he's winning, guys. There's just no way. He just doesn't have the the structure and shape. They they they matter a lot. They matter a lot. He just he doesn't have it. Uh you know what? I want to take a look at uh I kept mentioning Wesley. [clears throat] Wesley Vissers has some really good arms, too. Especially for a tall guy. You know, we say it's easier for the tall for the short guys, and to an extent that's true. I don't think it's easy. It's easy for a guy with arms and legs that are very long like Wesley's are and Andrews are to to pack on the size. But look at that very nice double bicep shot. This is Wesley Vizers we're looking at, guys. That is not him. That is an AI enhanced version. That is not real. I don't know how much posing. Nope. They always trick me with the thumbnail is the posing. But one thing I do like about uh Wesley's physique also is the separation, the striation, the details that you always see. Here we go. I mean, look at that. That was seven weeks ago. That's how lean he already was at seven weeks out. And you can always see so much separation between the muscle groups. Lots of details, vascularity, all that stuff. Got one more. There is with Logan. Logan's got some really good arms, too. Now I think about it. There's a nice relaxed shot of the arms. Yeah. Yeah. Robbie Robinson. Uh those bicep peaks on Robbie. I think the the most the best peaked biceps I mentioned Marco Savone. I don't know how to say his last name. Ronnie had Ronnie Coleman's bicep peaks were great. Albert Beckl's uh guy named Callus Scalac from the from the late 70s was really good, too. Peter Watkovich. [snorts] Peter Watkovich. Well, [clears throat] I don't know if you're joking, so I'm gonna have to take a look. You might be You might be right. I definitely wouldn't have thought of that. Per What's Gavich? The Polish Eagle. I hope this wasn't You weren't clowning me. They're pretty damn They're pretty good. Absolutely. We're talking about the best. I don't know if they're the best. They're very good. Don't get me wrong. I wouldn't put them up there with the guys that we're talking about though. Yeah, they're good. They're good. I got to go back to Wesley. Lost Wesley where we went to check on him. He's up there, man. He's up there again. He's 6'2 or 6' three. But the detail in those arms is something else. Look at that. [snorts] You know, I'm never impressed when someone just has a big lumpy arm with no separation, no detail. I want to see all that all that stuff going on. Good biceps, those peaks. Yeah. I mean, Arnold's How many people bought those arm blasters just because they saw a picture of Arnold using it? Jimmy Mus is good people. Yeah, Jimmy's cool, man. I'm so glad he actually volunteered to come on again. I was like, "Yeah, absolutely. Come on, dude." Invite Batty on. I like to keep it to four. Batty's definitely coming back. I don't want him up. I don't want to hit him up too much. Sam's a great dude. He's going to get smoked on stage with the big boys. Yeah, I don't think he's going to do He's not going to make top five. I I would be so shocked if he if he makes top five, I will take my hat off and give him his proper credit. I know he's going to be in shape. I know he's going to be shredded. I just I look at the genetics and it's that's something that's beyond his control. He's up against guys with just better genetic structure and shape. Yeah. Oh, his I'm waiting for his fans. That was actually one of my predictions that I made for Giles about 2026 is that Sam Sull fans were going to were going to throw a fit after the Arnold because he's not going to win and a lot of them were expecting to win. sim. He's gonna do the pro show. >> Well, they So, Black Patron, I don't know if you knew this, but when you win the Arnold Amateur, that gets you an automatic invitation to the pro show the following year. That's how Roly Winkler made his pro debut. He won the Arnold Amateur. I think it was 2009 or 10. Anyway, his first pro show was the Arnold Next year, and he did very well, and he started winning almost immediately. I think he won the New York Pro that year. Good open guy. Yeah, I I mean you can get away with a little bit more structural deficiencies if you pack on enough size and he's already at the limit for uh for classic. So, he can't get much bigger or he's going to be out of classic. Uh like two other guys, majority of guys have better overall physique. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I I think they all do, honestly. It's just genetics. Sam's legs just not as big as they should be. I don't I think he's got pretty good legs. I just think it's a shape and structure issue. Sam's going to be a lot more filled out. Yeah. I mean, I go to his I'll go to his Instagram. He doesn't put much on his Instagram because he's all about the YouTube and he is a tremendous success on YouTube. So, I get it. I'd put everything on YouTube, too, if I was making the kind of money on YouTube. Samus. Yeah. Here's a shot where he shows his legs. Legs look fine. I mean, I think they're big enough. for classic and definitely nice and detailed. They're already showing crazy frustrations. What they got almost eight weeks left still. Yeah, they have a lot of time left. Solic. Yeah, I don't know if you guys are joking about Per [laughter] say Arms. He just looks skinny for those personal intimid Well, you know what I if if you're like my training partner that I train with for years, guy named Chris Griffin Goon. He's 6'5 and his arms were never anywhere near as big as he wanted them to be. But because he was so big and he bulked up at one time to 340, I think just trying to get as huge as possible, pushing the limits on a lot of things. And you know, he on stage it wouldn't look pretty. He didn't have a great structure, but just walking around people were freaked out by him, especially shoulders were massive. He had a really big thick back. Arms are were good. Sam's not winning. Wesley's my pick. Yeah, I I like Wesley's physique a little better, but I think Mike's Mike's got it. Heard anyone say Sam is gonna win. Oh, his fans. If you go on his if you go on his YouTube go on his YouTube channel, Black Patron, and look in the comments and he's got, you know, millions of subscribers. He's doing he's killing it on YouTube. I totally bow down to that kid's YouTube success. But yeah, his fans do believe he's going to win. And you know what? That's fine. Let them let them have their favorite, you know. He's a good kid. He deserves He deserves to have a little fun, a little little fanfare, I should say. Yeah. But yeah, I mean, you can see there. I know this is an older picture, but he's still that's his arm shape. They're just not really The biceps don't have much peak. The triceps, they need to be a lot bigger to really match up to the other guys where Oh, I think he's going to look great. I think he's going to be in fantastic condition. And I give him a lot of credit for doing his own prep because everybody wants to coach that kid. I'm sure everyone like Aceto, Boss of Outlaw, you name it. All these coaches, Super Slice, they would love to work. Who wouldn't want to work with this guy to be his coach? Best arms zero oil. The royal conversation needs to stop. I mean it was slow. It was a PMMA conversation [clears throat] which is a little plastic ball to Ivan. So we can stop juicing. Oh I mean Ivan's killing it on YouTube also. He's he's more gossipy than me. I don't engage in the gossip to anywhere near the extent that he does because I'm not as prove it or pay up. The oil the oil thing. Zach, come on. Arm blaster. Yeah, dude. Those make you look like a hero. So, you talk about those. It was like a, you know, it's like a piece of metal, a bent piece of metal that your elbows fit in and there's shoulder straps and it keeps you strict while you do curls. I think you have a defation lesson here. See, someone's using oil in their arms. Yeah. Is your arms see? Yeah, Mike. I mean, I think if we knew everyone had stuff in their arms, we'd be shocked. our jaws would drop because there are people that get accused of it all the time and others that you never hear. But how do you know they're just not doing it very well? They're just not putting the oil in or the PMA in in such a way that it just enhances the way the muscle looks. It doesn't look the shape doesn't change. It just volumizes it. The oiling isn't big deal. It's not going anywhere. It's a lot different. One guy's been constantly recruits for [laughter] Pure's arms look awful. Brandon Curry's arms. That's a good That's That's a good one. Yeah, I actually meant to put Brandon. I mean, Brandon still still has some of the best arms out there. And he's 42, 43 now. He is a former Mr. Olympia champion, a former Arnold Classic champion, and I think he's got some of the best arms. Look at that. His legs even look pretty damn great this last Olympia. Trying to find a good arm shot with Brandon. He's pointing to that nice perfectly round full bicep of his posing. Yeah, Brandon Curry, man. And there's Heidi. He's got some pretty good arms. I'm just I'm not like floored by them, [clears throat] but they're very good. Don't get me wrong. But if we're talking about who's got the best arms, I'm not I don't have him in that conversation. Yeah, Brandon Curry, man. 2025 Olympia where he was seventh place. I actually would have had him beating Nick Walker. I would have had Brandon in sixth. Uh you would I believe people have their own opinions. Black Patron, I don't get on that case. I press M get sued. talking about the oil in the armpit. Harsh's arms look awful. Phil Heath. Yeah, we're the topic of this video is who's got the best arms right now. Check on the uh check on the poll results, guys. So, right now, Kriso leading in 44% of the votes. Nick Walker at 38% not too far behind. Andrew Jack a very distant third at 17% of the vote right now. Okay. Going from the all pro. Huge leap. Sam looks awesome. What they all do in the gym. Yeah. I mean, Sam looks great to people who don't uh understand how the sport is judged. The competitive side of the sport. And you know what? A lot of people don't even care. They just want to look good in the gym. And whether on stage there are flaws in the structure and shape that are going to get you scored down. A lot of people don't care about that because they have no aspirations to go to the stage. So for a gym bodybuilder, Sam Sullik is phenomenal. And of course, he's a social media sensation. He's making more money than almost everyone else in the sport right now. Milo, we shut him up. I don't know who you're talking about. Ivan has kind of took over Louis Marco. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, Ivan's killing it. PMMA is a true champ. Hard to beat Chris when it comes to arms. I think I'll finish with him. Sean to Brandon Curry sucked down 212. Yeah. Yeah. Curry is uh was not going to be at 212. Look at that. Look at that bicep on on Brandon. Wow. [snorts] Some of the best arms ever of this generation of bodybuilders, I think. Doesn't get enough credit. We'll go back to Ko because I'm going to finish this up pretty soon because guess what? Branch needs another walk. He's a very uh energetic pit boy. I got to get him all his cold weather gear. Takes a while to get him get him ready to go out. I got to put stuff on his paws so they don't freeze. Where was I going to show you from? Cruis did a video doing some curls. [laughter] That was pretty nuts. I know. I could have just gone to his uh YouTube channel, right? Well, this is uh tricep training. Look at that. Look at that. Those got to be 24 inch arms offseason. They got to be. I'd be surprised if they're anything less than 24 offseason. 23 on stage, I bet. That's not him. I don't know who that is. That's probably his buddy or something. Yeah. Creo. Look at that. Crazy tree. Yeah. Sam's conditioning all the way there. This is the New York Pro. Good. Should do very well. Another good offseason work on his posing. Yeah. I hope he's working hard on his posing. I really do. All right. All right, guys. So, I'm going to take off. So, that's it. Uh, if you're watching this on the replay, drop a comment below. Who do you think has the best arms right now? We're not going back. We're not talking about of all time. We're talking about active competitors right now. Is it one of the three guys I mentioned so prominently in this video, Nick Walker, Andrew Jack, or Michael Krzanic, or is it somebody else that I completely left out and uh you want to give them the credit for having best arms? Let me know in the comments, guys. Appreciate it. And don't forget to join me and Big Mike Cox tomorrow night. Tomorrow night on the Meithead podcast, 7 PM Eastern, live right here on this channel. And yeah, that's true. I do have the best arms for bodybuilding. No. [laughter] I have some of the worst arms. Anyway guys, thank you so much for watching and I will see you all tomorrow night.