What's up everybody? By now because we have social media, you all know that Eva Nutrition has dropped Hari Chupan after almost six and a half years partnership together. And the timing just seems awful, terrible, because Hottie is competing uh two weeks from tomorrow at the Arnold Classic, hoping to win that. Uh and just give you an idea of how consistent this guy has been as a Mr. Olympia competitor. First year, third place, second year, 2020. Fourth place, third year, third place, uh second place, second place, second place. So, the worst he's ever done at the Olympia has been fourth place. and he's been either a winner or runner up four times now. He's been third place twice. Um I have a poll going. You can vote in that. What do you think? I mean, we don't know what was behind the decision. You know, why did Honey Honey's Honey Rambod has been his coach and he's been the owner? Obviously, he's the owner founder president of Eva Nutrition since that company was founded. And uh Hottie has been his star guy uh till he added Derek Lensford to the mix. Derek Lensford is still a sponsored athlete I believe. Let me check Derek's Instagram because I don't always keep track. But man, it it just seems like the timing of this is awful because obviously he's been going through a lot with everything happening in his home country of Iran. Uh let's see the link tree for Derek. No Jaco fuel. Yeah, he's not with them anymore either. I knew I knew that, but sometimes I have to check up on things. So, it it it seems like uh as his coach, his friend, a really really odd time to do this to him. Now, clearly it must have something to do with the situation in Iran with the Iranian people have turned against Hadti. His fans over there have turned against him for the large part because he didn't speak out enough harshly enough against the government. um when they they felt he was supporting the government which I don't know the intricacies of their what's up man I'm dropping Evagen now whoever it's a supplement company and according to Arman Adib's IG he says that the vast majority of Evagen's supplements sales were in Iran which I don't know if that's true or not I don't know if that's true that seems kind of far-fetched to me that that one country because they are a pretty big brand in the US too it's a good move from Eva well yeah you're right Derek is with Jaco. I I knew that and I always forget. If the sales drop so much, why would they keep Exactly. I mean, business is business, guys. That's why in the poll, you can either choose dick move or it's just business. And I'm guessing any of you who have owned a business or tried to own a business, you understand these things better than the average person. You know, it's when you're sponsoring an athlete, it's not just out of the kindness of your heart. It's not charity. It's not because you like the guy. It's because he brings you he or she brings you sales. More people buy your products because of that athletes association with your company. So if you have the opposite, if you have people shunning the brand because of a certain association, the smart thing to do would be to drop him. Now I don't know if that's a fact that most of Eugen's sales were in Iran. I have no idea and I don't know where Armen got that figure, but he's probably got all kinds of connections over there that that I don't have that would let him know if that's true or not. Uh I stick with Celtech. Do they still make Celtech? I think I'll die for this [\h__\h] Even your products are overpriced. Well, you could say that about a lot of products. Not Blackstone. Check out Blackstone Labs. Put some more stuff of Hottie up there. So, this was uh you know, Hottie's updates. He's looking phenomenal and [clears throat] it's never been confirmed or denied that Hani Rambod was still if not officially coaching him then acting in a very very much advisory role uh acting as a second set of eyes giving him recommendations basically unofficially coaching him like maybe not doing as much as a as a 100% on paper coach would do but still nonetheless guiding him. I mean he looks phenomenal. It it's hard to believe. It would be hard to believe that he's not working with him unless he learned everything he needed to learn from Honey Ramad in the years that they've been working together, which have been over six years, going on seven years together, maybe longer than that. I'm not sure. Um, so you could probably argue that Hottie's learned everything he needed to learn. He can he can get prep himself for a show, but we don't know if that's the case. Now, if Hanie was still prepping him, is he still prepping him? Is he able to separate the friendship and the working relationship they had as coach and client uh with a business relationship that he has as sponsoring him, paying him? I'm sure it was very good money as a sponsored athlete to be the face of the brand. And yeah, I realize now with Derrick Lynford gone, I mean, hottie was the face of the brand. We got price, they couldn't wait two week that that's what I'm thinking. Biggest Momo, you know, like again, I'm not a [clears throat] b I don't own a business like that. So, who am I to say? But, you know, we're we're we're looking at it from the lens of this guy's got so much going on with so many people in his country hating on him and being upset with him, taking his pictures down from the gyms, uh just overall expressing disgust with the fact that he wasn't vocal enough, as vocal as they want him to be against the Islamic government over there. Um, so they turn their backs on him and you know if you don't have the support of a huge huge your a large part of your fan base is gone uh in especially in your home country which he's a very proud Iranian otherwise he would have moved out of there long ago. I mean how many he could have moved to the US he could have moved to easily somewhere like Dubai but he didn't. He's been staying in there. He's expressed many times on his Instagram that he loves Iran. He never wants to leave Iran and he loves the Iranian people, but a lot of them don't love him because because again, he wasn't he wasn't really doing enough uh YouTube. I don't want to go to YouTube right now. He wasn't doing enough according to them. Oh, the YouTube. I want to see how the poll was going. I check on the poll and see what you guys are saying so far. So, the poll so far has uh let's see 67% it's just business. So, looks like a lot of you guys understand Ramad's position as a business owner. I mean, it's dollars and cents. It's business. Um, you know, you gota you got to make money as a business or else you're not in business. That's again a lot of a lot of the fans look at sponsorships, supplement company sponsorships as I don't know some sort of charity like he's a good guy and that's why the companies pay him. No, the companies want money. They want to make money and they endorse athletes to make more money. Those athletes are going to bring them bigger sales. What are you guys saying now? Yeah. Why didn't they wait two weeks? I I it it couldn't have it couldn't have made a huge difference but I mean if they are getting a lot of backlash in Iran which is a big big market for them and I assume it is because Hani Ramad himself um he's an immigrant from from Iran and uh has many connections in the country of Iran and I do believe his supplement company is very well established there and does a lot of sales and if they were losing all their sales because Hottie was their athlete uh you know we're talking potentially millions a dollar. Maybe even in two weeks time maybe they were losing they would lose another couple million dollars. Yeah. Will this mess with hottie's mind going into the Arnold? I'll be doing a power hour tomorrow with Giles. Uh Arnold Classic updates at two weeks out and we're definitely going to get into that. So tune in tomorrow for that. Keep your notification. Seems like God is with the people, not how uh Allah. [clears throat] It's all one God, right? If Howdy win the arm, will companies stand in line to sign or stay away? Well, I think there are a lot of companies that would definitely jump at the chance. And now, you know, he might even be getting calls and messages right now from companies, either US-based companies, Europe, Brazil. I mean, there's there's a lot of companies that would, especially smaller companies that are trying to establish themselves or newer companies, I don't want to say smaller. It would probably be a great idea for them to have a Mr. Olympia and an Arnold Classic champion as the face of their company, even if it does come with a little controversy. How will how do he get his visa for this year? He already got his visa. That was that was established uh a couple weeks ago or at least a week ago. I know that we we found out he got his visa, so that's not a problem. He's got his visa, but Hani did always help him get his visa. And you know, I I don't know. I'm I'm not even want I don't even want to speculate or pretend to know if if they're still on good terms as friends. I I imagine they are. Um and you know, who knows? Maybe he gave him a nice severance package, a big chunk of money, saying, you know, appreciate the the the the years we did together uh as business partners or as a as a company and a sponsored athlete, but uh we just have to get we have to get rid of you. It's it's and he and I'm sure I'm sure Heidi would understand. He knows exactly the climate over there. think he'll win with all this crap going. I'll tell you what though, if he does win with, you know, 40,000 people in his country being murdered, slaughtered, protesting the government, and, you know, we cry in the we we make a huge deal out of a couple people. Not that two lives are inconsequential that, you know, ICE agents have killed, but two lives compared to 40,000 lives, that's like a drop in the bucket, you know, and and we're we're not even I I don't see any protests. I don't see anybody that upset over here about what's going on in Iran. Trick is to never leave. Stay out of ice. Never leave. All odds are against him now. I mean, that that kind of makes me want to root for him more because this guy's got so much. He's got his his fan base, huge chunk of his fans have turned their backs on him and they they out and out seem to hate him at this point. um for him to come back and win after all this, his sponsor dropping him, his fans dropping him, it would be pretty pretty astonishing if he's able to pull this off. And I'm rooting for the guy. I'm root I was rooting for him anyway. I like hottie, of course. I mean, I love the physique and I think he's a very humble, hardworking guy. Trains like a beast. Heard even deactivated. No, he did not. That's that is uh that is not true. I'll show you. I I saw that on Nick's strength and power and immediately I went to I went to that and I think what happened was somebody must have been blocked by hottie I guess because when it's blocked it it looks like the account's gone but I was I've never seen his account missing and I check on him every day. Um and I didn't I didn't see him missing from one day there. So we'll see how he should change tot move South Korea. See John Bravo's video on Larry Wills. No, that's a whole other No, Larry Wills. We're not talking about Larry Wills. Definitely have Andrew Jack winning. Now, I'll tell you, Andrew is the heavy is a favorite for a lot of people. Anyway, I can't wait to talk to Jaws about this, but I'm really rooting for Hottie just because so much [\h__\h] has happened to this guy just since the last Olympia. I mean, even at the last Olympia, he won the night show, but he still couldn't make up enough points. So, a lot of a lot of Heidi's fans at that time were very deeply upset that he didn't win. Uh, as they usually are if he doesn't win, but now, you know, a lot of them, they're probably happy he didn't win. He has lost over a million followers. Yeah, that doesn't surprise me. That doesn't surprise me. We're going to look at his Instagram in a second. Hottie Huffy Hottie won't win the Arnold. I have Andrew winning Martin second. Hottie in third. Now, I mean, it would be it would be very hard to believe none of this is affecting him. I mean, he just got I don't know. I'm sure he was making I'm just going to pull this out of my ass and guess. I bet he was getting like 200 grand a year, you know, maybe more, but I bet that's about right. 200 200 to 400 somewhere in that range. That's a big range, I know, but um I bet he was getting that much. Let's just call it a quarter million just out of pure speculation to lose that kind of income. Now, if he wins the Arnold, it's all it's all gravy because that's $750,000. He would walk away with three4 million dollars and whatever Honey had been paying him, he would certainly make up for that loss. Who will Evan sign now? Maybe they won't sign anybody. Nick will win now. Well, maybe they'll sign maybe Martin will dump his sponsor or they'll dump him and he can sign Martin with all going high. He has no choice to get on stero get on steroids. How do you think Nick will do? Uh, I think Nick's going to be probably third place. Third or fourth. I have Hottie and Andrew as my top two still. I haven't changed. I really haven't changed my top four. Although the order, it's either going to be Hottie or Andrew in first. Uh, and then I think either Martin or Nick third and fourth. I think you could swap those first and second. You could swap those. But I I still think Hottie and Andrew, unless all this is really going to affect Hottie's condition, uh, you know, mentally and his mental condition affects his physical condition and he drops down. But, you know, Hottie's a he's a he's a warrior. Nobody's talking about Nick. That's not true. A lot of people are talking about Nick. I mean, Nick cannot be denied. I wouldn't say nobody's talking about Nick. [laughter] Nick's in the car. I mean, Muscle Discord does a video about Nick every day, so they're doing he's he is being talked about. So, that was Hottie when he won the Olympia back in 2022 with his coach. He's only had one coach, as far as I know, or at least since he turned pro. Uh, he turned pro in like 2016, so maybe Heidi didn't get old until a couple years later. Happy New Year, Iranians. That was a while ago. This is an old post. His kids are bigger now. That's the kid. This one here on the right. Now, he's he's probably about a foot taller than that now. He has a mustache. So, this was the last thing that Hottie posted. It was two days ago. At 19 days out, he's super strong on these Smith machine squats. This is six plates. He's doing that at, you know, two and a half weeks out. Less than, let's it was less than three weeks. [snorts] And he does these like butter, as my friend Jose Raymond would say, butter, meaning he makes it look easy. I wonder how many reps he's going to bang out with this. So, I think this is Dubai. I believe he's in Dubai now. He's out of Iran. Uh, you know what? Normally at this time, he would be in Texas. He would be staying with Hani Rambod. And, you know, I don't know if if that's going to be a thing anymore. I I can't imagine they're not still friends and still on a good have a good relationship on that. Okay, he didn't show the whole set, but at the same time, like we said, business is business, man. Let me see how the let me see how the poll is doing now. Uh 59% it's just business. Wow. Okay, let's leave uh I got to leave something up on screen to look something good to look at. Every time I do the translate, unbelievable. 40 days have passing around this burning heat of our children, our dears. Happy 40th anniversary, children and people of Iran per far doesn't translate that well to English. It just doesn't. Yeah, he's looking crazy there. Crazy. This was a week ago. Still had the insurance shirt. So a week ago he was clearly still an Evan athlete. Avenger winning sign now. Nickel win now. I think Nick will do again uh next Mr. Olympia. Why can't he do leg extensions like the rest of us show up? I've seen him do those. He does do leg extensions, but he typically shows the compound movements where he's moving a [\h__\h] ton of weight. How's still not in the USA? Yeah, we would hear there's always a post. It's usually Hani that makes the post [clears throat] on his own page and on the IV nutrition page. Whenever Hadti arrives in the US, he has his visa, so that's not an issue. I'm sure he already has a flight and all that. So, I I don't think this is affecting his ability to get here at all. If he didn't have his visa, then I might be concerned because I'm sure Honey Ramad has always I talked to him in the past. He plays a huge role in in the visa process for he he gets he gets him a lot of help. That's a lot of weight. It's put a lot of weight for [snorts] is already maxed out. Yeah, we've said that before that these other guys uh like Andrew are still improving and hottie is kind of maxed out. He's as he's as good as he's going to get. It's a nice picture of your biggest Momo. I think Hani kept sponsors a favor. How do you have plenty of notice to find the new coach and sponsor? Well, I don't know if it was ever in question that he was going to drop him as a sponsored athlete. Uh he did have plenty of time to find a new coach. I mean, Hadti Hani quit coaching. It's been like a year and a half now. I think it was after the 24 Olympia he he announced he was done coaching. No, nobody's sleeping on Martin. I just can't show you Martin because uh I can't show you his Instagram because he blocked me. How many times am I going to remind you guys that Martin blocked me? I mean, come on, dude. Really? He blocked a lot of people. So, I'm in good company. Sam Cull might coach hottie where you read it first. Well, you know, I don't know where the confirmation I don't know where this came from because I see people reporting on it, but Evagen has not posted anything and Hadi Hadi himself hasn't posted anything, but people talk and people know people and I guess it's it's confirmed through a lot of people who know who know one or both of them that it is the relationship is over and they have released him from his contract. I should have dropped Derek if he still coached Totty last year. The key to making [laughter] making up news. Well, I mean, this has been reported on enough times I felt comfortable enough that there wasn't fake news in reporting on it. Dang. Quick summary. Okay. Pretty much the title says it all. Uh, Hani dropped Hani and Hottie are so similar. I'm always missing that. Eva Nutrition, which is Hani Ramad's company, and Hani has been um Hotti Hotti Chupan's coach for at least seven years I know of, [snorts] certainly for all his Olympia appearances, of which he's been at the Olympia seven times, and has never been lower than fourth was the worst he ever did in 2020. He's won the Olympia. Uh he's been third place twice, and he's been second place for the last three years in a row. Sam got a visa problem. Sam I think Sam lives about a half hour away from where he needs to go to compete at the Arnold Classic. I think he's right in Columbus area. Will this affect how he's prep you know if it doesn't I mean just mentally your your your fans have turned against you. You've lost a million followers on your Instagram. Uh you have people taking down murals and pictures of you in the gyms in Iran because they're so upset with your uh lack of support for the people of Iran against the Islamic government. And now this he just lost a big chunk of money that he was getting every month. Don't know how much, but like I said, just pulling out, let's just say it was 250. I think that's a very very reasonable guess. I don't think anyone here could could give me an exact figure. I don't think any of you are privy to how much Eva Jim was paying Hottie Chupon, but I'm sure it was a very nice chunk of money. Uh, but if he can pull it all together and win this Arnold Classic, uh, two weeks from Saturday, so we're only 16 days away from the Arnold's end. 15 days away, two weeks from tomorrow, it all gets judged. All I know is how he supports the regime. I mean, that's that's debatable. Does he or doesn't he? I mean, I've heard so many arguments against, for and against, saying that uh it was misconstrued that he never really supported the regime, that people sort of insinuated that or inferred that from things like what was on his screen saver on his phone or they say he saluted the flag or, you know, I don't know if he's ever actually supported the regime or if he's just showing support for his country, Iran, without necessarily It's like you can love America and have no love for the president at the time. There are a lot of people who love America, but they they don't care for Donald Trump, the president, or they didn't care for Joe Biden or they didn't care for Obama. On and on and on. You don't have to love the leaders, the political leaders of your country to love your country. Andrew Jack hurt himself lifting a car. What? Sam, exactly. He's right there. Very slight advantage. Yeah. Come on. Let's be without Honey's help. Well, I mean, he's already got the visa. He's already got the visa. So I what I'm assuming there is that Honey Rambad already did whatever he had to do to help Hadi secure the visa. So that's not an issue. He's getting here. That was reported on about two weeks ago that he had the visa. So that's Don't worry about that. He's getting here now. As far as him dialing in for the show, I mean, he looks like he's doing a great job either on his own or or if Honey Rambot has been advising him or, you know, secretly coaching him as a lot of people seem to assume. I've been assuming that the wall is not in place yet. Oh, you're talking about uh the the wall from US to Mexico. Now he isn't with a US company. Well, it's he does have the visa though. So, I don't know if it's it's even matters at this point. Uh they secured the visa at a time when he was an employee of Evagen. So, the visa's the visa is in place. It's I don't think they're going to withdraw the visa. How does a bid on the large size get off fence? [laughter] You guys are hilarious. You have to get over the fence or under the fence. I don't think I think the slats are a little too big for him to fit through. Yeah. Oh boy. [laughter] Funny stuff, guys. So, your mom, if it's never been confirmed he really supports him, it's a dick move. I mean, curious point. Well, even if I mean even if he doesn't support the regime, if the people think he does and it's enough so that they either boycotted ev products or drastically the sales drastically dropped off of Even products in Iran. I I I assume that's what's going on. I I have to assume that it's a business move and and Hani Rambot is a very shrewd businessman. You know, he's he's founded that company on his own. who worked very hard to build that company into a big brand. Uh he's had Derek Lensford was a a sponsored athlete. Jeremy Buendia was a sponsored athlete. He's had some very top names. Sure you're not traveling Columbus on the same plane as Hottie. Will the visa last till the Olympia? I don't think so. I think these are very short-term visas from what I understand because he had a visa two years ago for the Arnold. He got here for the Arnold and then he I think he had to get another one. I I don't know for sure. So don't quote me on that. Will there be any Iranians here for uh I don't know you know we we have a substantial Persian Iranian population in the US. I don't know how they those the guys uh the ones here I think uh like Kamali has been King Kamali is uh you know he's an immigrant. He came here as a kid from Iran way back after the revolution right after the revolution in 79. He's not a hottie Tupon fan based on how he feels hottie did not speak out enough against the government saying future competitions. Yeah. Anyone who knows Jeremy B is back. Oh, is he back? Yeah, they had dropped him. If he really didn't support the regime, wouldn't he come out and just say so? Yeah. I mean, we're looking at it through the lens. You're in Germany, but you have you have freedom of speech, too. I mean, that's our that's our first amendment. Freedom of speech. we can speak out against the government without fear of reprisal. Iran is not like that. Iran will put you in prison or or worse execute you if you speak out against the government. They've they've executed they've they've killed 40,000 of their citizens already just in the past few months. So yeah, you can't just you don't have that luxury of expressing your anti-government opinions over there. I trying to sky himself. [snorts] Ice isn't gonna be after him. What's up? What's up, Ricky? With Debo. Debo as your uh Avatar to Jeremy Buendia going towards the direction men's physique. There's one large old lady. Hottie should get out of Iran. Perhaps a loser. Well, I don't want to call it a loser. Muslim country, but uh I mean, he owns a gym there. I guess he could sell the gym. He's got four kids, so you know, pulling four kids out of school. It's not easy to move, especially out of the country, that would be a very large undertaking, but maybe it would be the right choice. And maybe he'll make some sort of an announcement soon whether he's doing that. Does stress cause water each? Oh, stress. So, yeah, I mean, cortisol is the stress hormone, the fight-or-flight hormone. It's well established in research that high levels of cortisol will cause you to uh have difficulties losing fat and gaining muscle. So, it's it's a horrible horrible thing to have elevated cortisol as a bodybuilder. And yes, it does make people retain water. So, it's been blamed rightfully so. It's been responsible for many guys losing their condition at the last minute, spilling over because they're so stressed. They're so worried about the competition that the cortisol levels rise and the water retention happens and they end up sometimes they try to combat that with going crazy on diuretics and they flatten out. It's just high cortisol is never it's never a good thing for a bodybuilder right around a contest. Sadly we don't have the same freedom of speech right as you do. Germany doesn't we can get jailed and fined for stuff. Huh? Yeah, we can't get jailed or fined. I mean people here say the most awful things. Loser. Oh, looser. You were Oh, looser. I think you meant like more permissive. I mean, Dubai. He's in He's in Dubai now. I I think that's a fairly I guess westernized where you can do more, get away with more. Uh it's not as strictly religious. They don't have I don't believe the the uh the religious leaders don't control Dubai the way they control Iran. Iran is is a fundamentalist state. It's it's run by it's run by the I don't know the terms. The Ayatollah they still have an Ayatollah enough stress cost water. Yeah, absolutely. Being less strict. Yeah, I get that. It's not confirmed. Just rumor here from Hani himself. I don't believe it. I mean the fact that it's all over the place. You think can pass the strict visa scrutiny for a Persian national guardian? He already got the visa. So, whatever needed to happen has happened. He already has a visa for Arnold. Yeah, that was that was reported on a couple weeks ago. So, that's not that's not going to be a problem, guys. He'll get he'll get in here. That's not a problem. You know, he he he did put up these things. That was seven weeks ago. There he is with the sun. That's the kid that was uh shorter and chubbier in the previous picture. So, you know, I tell you, if he posts something today or tomorrow with an Evagen shirt on, we'll know this is all [\h__\h] But, uh, RX, all the all the Instagram bodybuilding news outlets have reported on this. There's his son, Muhammad Hz Shupan. He's got his own Instagram. Yeah, I've never looked at his kids' Instagram. 10 posts, that's all he's got. So, that's Heidi's son. I definitely see some genetics there. I bet he's only like 14, 15. There's boys. Kids got the tries the Look, he's already got little pestrations going on. Yeah, he's a good He's a good dad. I was just curious. I've never seen his son's Insta. Look at this. And the kid's obviously natty. Don't Don't think he's on gear. Come on. I mean, he's got his dad's genetics for sure. For sure. crazy. So, yeah, I'll be done with this in a minute, guys. But, uh, yeah, [clears throat] it's it's sad to see this if it is true. And I I can't imagine all those outlets would have reported falsely on this, although stranger things have happened. I remember when Robbie Robinson, we all thought he was dead. We all reported on it. I remember when Vic Richards was supposedly dead. He wasn't really dead. So yeah, sometimes sometimes we get it wrong. We get it wrong. Let me just check and see how the uh How's the poll going, guys? Uh 62% say it's just business. So most of you guys seem to understand it's just business. See, uh Dubai, Dubai is the Las Vegas of Middle East. It's wild, wild east. Yeah, I mean that's what I mean. We see like a lot of American shows like these Real Housewives show. I remember was it Real Housewives of Beverly Hills? They went off to Dubai and you know they're scampering around in like little skimpy outfits and everything and that wouldn't fly in a a fundamentalist Muslim country where women are supposed to be modest and covered up. So I think Dubai is much much more western probiotics. What? I don't I don't even know how to answer that question. Sorry. How you son should do classic. I don't think he's anywhere near old enough to compete yet. As far as I know, triples move ships closer to Iran. I mean, we've had we've had some skirmishes. We've bombed Iran a few times, although we're not officially at war. Do you drink aminos? No, I don't. I used to. I I don't want to drink anything with flavor while I'm working out. It just upsets my stomach. Uh, that's a good question, Ken. I mean, I think somebody would have to assist him. I mean, if he gets signed by another US company, they would sponsor the visa as as his employer. U but you know, I don't I don't know if he needs to be a US employer. Maybe the fact that he is a high level athlete coming to the USA to compete in a very high level athletic competition because I did see that that was one of the exceptions for the visa ban because most Iranians are banned from entering the the USA right now. But not not the uh elite athletes. Still think they should move the Olympia around. Yeah, they I don't think that's happening at this point. I mean, they've been in Vegas for so long now. It's been there for like 25 years. I don't see them ever leaving again. Stash. Oh, yeah. He did. You could tell he's not old. I mean, I've I've known plenty of kids uh of, you know, like Middle Eastern descent who had mustaches when they were like 13, 14 years old. No, he's not true. This is his Instagram right now that we're looking at. So, I don't know where that came from. I think somebody might have been blocked. Maybe he maybe his Instagram was down for a little while, but I check his Insta at least once a day and I've never seen it missing. We're looking at it right now. This is his Instagram. So, nope. He has not deleted his socials. Socials are still going strong, guys. What else you want to look at? Yeah, this is old. [snorts] That was 12 weeks ago. This old stuff right there. That has to be right before the Olympia. Yeah, that has to be right right before the Olympia. He's definitely like full-on contest condition there. What else we got, guys? What else you got to say? quite easy to look for if you still Yeah, I mean we're on we're on his Instagram right now. It's just by going to Instagram. I doubt he wants to move country. Uh well, he has a gym and you can it a gym isn't I don't I don't want to say it's an easy business to sell, but gyms change names and ownerships all the time in the US. If you find someone's willing to take it over and change the name and it's not that difficult, you wouldn't have to really change a whole lot. you've already got all the equipment there, the locker, you know, everything's all in place. It would just be a name change. So, I don't know. It'd be interesting to see what happens in the next couple months with him. The lawyer Halberu's Samar for California is an expert in immigration. I'm sure whoever's working with Hottie to get his visas is top-notch. Uh, I think he's almost completely deaf. I think he can hear. Well, he has hearing aids. And people who are I don't even know if we can say deaf, but if you're completely deaf, if you can't hear anything, I don't think hearing aids would do a damn thing for you. If you have extreme hearing loss, hearing aids can still can still help you out. I actually have hearing aids right here. Yeah. See? See? These are my hearing aids. I don't wear them. [laughter] I really only need them for my right ear. My left ear hears very well. He's still at 8.1 million. I think he had close to 10, but you know what? Does that really matter? 8 million is still goat status as far as Instagram. Uh 10 million is better. Sure. But you know, he's in that mega influencer bracket. Anything over a million, you're in there. So much for the massive unfollowing. Well, we don't I don't know what he had before. So, if he had like 10 million before, I think Nick Strength and Power said he's down over a million followers, which that's a lot to lose. Would it be okay for Olympia to move next year in Vegas? Vegas isn't everybody's cup of tea. For instance, I I don't like I don't like being in Vegas for more than four or five days. I'm not a gambler. I don't go to strip clubs. Uh I don't care to see all those cirto sole shows and all that. I mean, I just every time I've been to Vegas in the past 25 years has strictly been for the Olympia, it's never been just to to go hang out in Vegas. So, I don't know. Let's see. Mr. Olympia has to make peace, look for some wonderful. No, I know a lot of people in Europe and Middle East would love to have the Olympia move out of the country. Luke Fno, if you're in chat, he's Luke Fno is definitely not in the chat. Contract. Yeah, it's it's I don't know when the So, I don't know when the contract was up for renewal. I found out through AI that he signed with Evagen in September 2019, but that doesn't mean that the contract always came up for renewal in September. I don't know what the terms of the contract were, but you know, I don't we we we have no idea. We don't know what the details of his contract are and what the terms were and how much he was being paid. Vegas a dump. Vegas isn't a dump. It's just uh I mean there's a lot of people in Vegas. So many people like Milos is there. Cutler's there. Uh Neil Hill is there. Uh Hedit Tatada Iris Kyle. I I'm sure there's a list of at least a hundred people that are there from our industry. I think he's been self coaching for the most part if he's losing honey with that. Yeah. I mean, I don't know how how closely they've been working together since the last show that he officially prepped him for was the 2024 Mr. Olympia, which would mean theoretically he's been on his own ever since then. But most of us, most of us still believe Heidi needs a few needs a new tank up. What's up, Xavier? Xavier, to your knowledge, is this story confirmed? Because again, I don't know where the confirmation come came from or where the where the the story came from, but I haven't seen anything officially posted from Hottie himself or from Evagen. So, I'm not 100% sure that this is even true, but everyone's been reporting on it. So, I don't know. Rambad is an astute businessman. His recent Instagram story shows supports running people. Well, there you go. Yeah. So, you know, if he's supporting the Iranian people against the government and the Iranian fans and the people who buy Evision Supplements feel that Hadti Chupan is not doing that, I could totally see why they would part ways as company and sponsor sponsor sponsor and sponsor. I should be coached by Samson's wife. Xavier Tani spreading fake news. Well, I'm waiting. I'm waiting. Is hiding in the US there? No, haven't seen that. I have Mofod in my top five. We're doing Jiles and I are doing an update tomorrow and we'll we'll give our early early picks, early predictions. It's not that you don't really know him or personal. We never hear him talk and translate brings him never gets transl it's a tough language to translate. I think that the gentleman that Honey Ramad has translated for him at all the shows. I think that guy I think he does a great job, but I'm not I don't speak Farsy. [snorts] Yeah. Never thought I was see when Ron is just click baiting us. Well, clickbait is clickbait is when you have to me clickbait means the title, the thumbnail, all that has nothing to do with the actual video, which I've seen that. So, I don't consider this clickbait, but if you want to, it's easy for Honey to be very outspoken. He's no longer living in Iran. It's a business decision. I doubt Honey and Honey are on bad terms. No way of knowing, though. Well, I'll show you guys. I'll show you where I got this. I mean, uh, all right. So this was posted. Armen has a lot of contacts in Iran. He posted this >> the partnership has ended between Hotti and Evagen with Hani. Um I saw this coming. All the sales are completely done in Iran. All the Iranians are done buying Evagen supplements obvious for obvious reasons we spoke about before. Where does this leave Hanie? Uh, we saw him making a video of him crying about the Iranian people. I I didn't think it I didn't think it was genuine at all. Um, it was more about, I think, losing all his sales. And I wouldn't be surprised if Hanie goes back to full-time coaching again because at this point, the Iranian sales of Enigen was making the majority of the money. As a supplement owner myself, the supplement industry is a very, very hard place. and to making the money he was making, especially in Iran. I think Hanie might go back to coaching full-time again. And let me know what you guys think. Does this affect their relationship going to into the Arnold? Because we know Hanie has been prepping him. It's not official like, oh, I'm prepping hottie, but he's advising him what to do, how to dial in. How does this affect the relationship? Is he going to still dial him in? Let me know what you guys think down below in the comments. >> So, I mean, I don't It sounds pretty. He knows he has a lot of contacts in Iran. He probably he might even have an insider at I don't know. I don't know. I mean, uh, everyone's been RX Muscle reported on it. Uh, where is it? Oh, did he take it down? Oh. Uh oh. Maybe. [clears throat] Maybe it's fake. Maybe it's fake. Huh. I don't know. I mean, I I wouldn't be surprised if it's fake news, but it seems it seemed pretty legitimate to me. Beyond the Stage reported on it. Evan drops Hottie. All of his sponsors had dropped him. So, it looks like it is official. I had the update quite a while ago, but it's now in the open. So, how is it in the open? I don't know how this got into the open. I'm I'm curious. I really want to know. Yeah, I mean we don't have a whole lot to talk about in bodybuilding because until the shows start, but yeah, it's a big deal when people switch sponsors. Uh it's switching coaches is a huge huge story all the time. Me and Ramach can do something else. He's not He's all set. Lol. He's financially secure by now. Yeah. Honey Ramad's fine. Don't worry about He's not gonna have to go back to coaching. He's I found out who broke the news. Honey is more than financial safe. Yeah. Yeah, I would imagine. Ron, so Lee Priest texts with Hottie. Okay. Who is Xavier? Xavier Wills uh has a great channel called Desktop Bodybuilding. He's also a part of IFBB AMA, Ask Me Anything, but his main channel that he has is Desktop Bodybuilding. Does a lot of great contest coverage, a lot of watch parties, interviews, stories. He's a he's a solid solid bodybuilding YouTube news source. Alex fitness a big Iranian media outlet. Okay. So, according to according to Xavier's quick research, which I appreciate, he's just waking up at 6 in the morning over there in Tasmania, Australia. Uh Brian Powers just said fake news. Oh [\h__\h] Okay. Well, maybe it's fake news. I mean, if it's fake news, I'll I'll apologize and I'll eventually take the video down. [laughter] [gasps] All right. Well, I guess it could be fake news, guys, but uh [snorts] we'll find out soon enough. We'll find out soon enough. And I guess a lot of people are going to be [snorts] have egg on their face. Me being one of them. But uh appreciate you guys watching. And when I'm on tomorrow with uh Giles, we're doing a power hour tomorrow. If I have more information, of course, I'm gonna share that. Ramad got three million followers, not a No, I believe it. If Walker the qualifying Columbus think he's Detroit bound. Uh, he could do New York again and win that for the fourth time. He could do all kinds of shows. Why have a three million following? Because he's a he's a very wellestablished coach. I mean, Milos, Neil Hill, they all have a lot of followers. I have no clue. Well, it's probably real, but we'll see. And Biden and the president. Oh, [laughter] supposedly Biden did let 20 million people into this country illegally. Supposedly. All right, guys. Well, uh, tomorrow when I'm doing Power Hour and I think we're going to do it live. We'll probably do it live. It's going to be an Arnold Classic two weeks update. Uh, I will pass on anything new that we've discovered and news moves very quickly with this digital age and social media. So, should have a lot more info on that. But for now, it does seem to be the reality that Eva Nutrition has dropped Headi Chupon as a sponsored athlete at less than three weeks out from the Arnold Classic. So, remains to be seen. Uh, calling Rambod right now. I mean, I have his uh good Okay. I mean, I could I don't want to call him. I have his number. I don't want to I don't want to bother him for this, but just curious what the uh the final tally for the poll. 60% of you believe it's just business and 40% of you felt yes, it was a dick move. So anyway guys, thank you so much for watching. Appreciate it. Like, subscribe, share, do all that good stuff. And I'll see you guys tomorrow as Giles and I do Power Hour. Talk to you then.