What's up, guys? Ron Harris here. Hope you're having a great holiday weekend here in the USA after Thanksgiving or wherever you are in this world of ours. So, tomorrow is the final qualifying show for the 2026 Olympia held in 2025. It is the final men's open bodybuilding show of the year. We're talking about the big man weekend in Aleante, Spain. And I want to look at the final updates. There's only 10 guys, only 10 men competing. I think this was a real missed opportunity for some athletes who could have grabbed an early qualification for next year's Olympia. But let's take a look because there are some very decent physiques. I'm going to start with the guy that I think I think this is my favorite. Now we're talking about Damian's Pol Damian Damian Cyan that's his nickname Dian Cuffle from Poland and uh this is the last picture he posted posted it yesterday and look at this man this guy is not missing anything he is big conditioned got a very good balance and flow to his physique uh as far as I'm concerned this is the front runner get to your comments Before I move on, what's up, Connie Alvarez? I did. Had a great Thanksgiving. I don't know how many of you celebrated it because I know we have a lot of guys. Couple girls, mostly guys, uh, outside the US here. Thanksgiving is not a thing there, but yeah, I had plenty of good food. What's up, Zionic? Thank you. Thank you, Scott. What's up, Ricky? Yeah. So, Damian Cuffle here from Poland. Very impressed with him and I kind of missed him. you know, Giles brought him to my attention. He was fifth at the Poland Pro Show a few weeks ago. Giles has seen this guy a couple times and raved about him. Um, this a guy that's going to be winning shows very soon. In fact, tomorrow might be his very first pro win. I would not be surprised. I mean, look at this. He's got the shoulder width. He's got the muscle quality, nice striations, clear, deep separations, the feathering in the quads there. So, here he was at the Romania show up there with Yoan Pradesell's and Andrew Jacked. And uh, you know, he's holding his own. I mean, you can see Andrew is not blowing him away on size. And Andrew is a 280 lb, 285 pound guy. Pradell's also very thick. And Damen's hanging with these three. [snorts] Uh, he probably could have placed even a little bit higher. In fact, you you could make an argument he's thicker. He's thicker in some aspects than they are. Uh I'm not saying he should have beat these guys, but he's he's hanging with them. He's not getting blown off the stage by Yoan Pradell's or the great Andrew Jack. Yeah. So, this was a couple weeks ago in Romania. Look at the conditioning from the back. You don't see too many guys this size. And oh, you could see how tall he is. He's actually, if you look across to to where Andrew's head is, if Andrew is supposed to be 6'2, Damen must be about 6'3, maybe more. I doubt he's more than 6'3. We don't have too many pros that are that tall. But let's give him 6'2 or 6'3. That is a big big guy. And look at the back. Top to bottom, side to side. He's got the thickness in the midback, the lower lats, everything. Glutes are dialed in. Nice separations there in the hamstrings. Real impressed. We're talking about Damian Cuffle there on the on the left in the turquoise trunks. The baby blue turquoise, whatever you want to call it. You can see his back is so much more complete than Yoan's. Yoan's really needs to fill in. You see that big shadow there. It's like a wasteland. He needs to fill that in. But Damen's got it. Andrew's got it. Side try. Good shot for him. There is Zab and thigh is a really good shot. Those quads just really grainy and separated hard. and he hits the I call that the hands clasped most muscular rather than the uh try to find some posing with him. So that's written in Polish, so forgive me if I can't really read it, but there's a translation. This was uh I guess he did Prague, Warsaw, and Bucharest. I don't know what show was in Bucharest. I missed that one. Don't remember a show in Bucharest. Is this his posing? Yeah, here we go. So, I mean, I don't want to dwell on him, but this guy's really good. And [snorts] again, he wasn't I I honestly had never heard of him until these past couple shows, Prague and Poland, but very very complete physique. Very impressed with this guy. Solidarity over conditions for back. No, you got to have everything. You want to have the development and the condition. This guy's got everything. Look at that. Look at how dialed in he is from the back. really good back. Yeah. I mean, well, Robin, hey, what's up, Robin? Robin Strand, really good pro from Canada. Uh, Damen has has no gaps in this physique, whereas Yoan still needs that back to get filled in. Yoan needs to get a much thicker back before he's going to be doing a lot of damage. I'm not saying he couldn't win a smaller show, but I don't I don't uh I don't foresee him winning anything until he gets that back a little bit better. And he's a young guy. He's going to get a better back. Looks like he's staying close to the camera. That's why he's looking taller. Couldn't have been that much. If he was too far ahead of the line, they would have called him on and said, "Hey, get back. Get back." Huge dudes coming down the pike. Yeah. I mean, Europe, there's a lot of guys in Europe that I'm just not as aware of. Giles is because he goes goes to a lot of these shows in places like uh uh Romania and Prague and Italy and Spain and you know, I'm I'm here in the US. Great waste for a mass monster. I agree, Robin. I mean, for a guy that just he's got him at about 280 lbs or more. He's got to be he's got to be close to 300 lb mark. And look at that waist. And I said, if these guys remain healthy and not burn out, we're going to have some huge physique and stage coming year. Yeah, we're seeing the next generation, the next group of great Olympians coming up the pike now. They're not there yet, but you could see guys like Yolan and Damian here and Quinton and there there's a whole flock of guys. You can see they're going to be the ones on the Olympia stage in the top five, top six a few years from now. Genetics have definitely changed recently as a whole. Yeah, I don't know if the genetics have changed. I think we're we're seeing more guys get involved with the sport. The gene pool the gene pool has expanded. Put it that way. All right, so that is my favorite to win. My favorite doesn't have to be yours, but I like him a lot. Uh let's take a look at Mark Hector from UK. Mark's done pretty well on some shows this year. Don't see a ton of recent updates. This was posted yesterday and it's a good ab shot, but then everything else is training and covered up. Um, he did take fifth at the last show, so I'm not super confident. So, he was third in Italy, fourth in Germany. Um, you know, I'd be very happy for him if he won. It's just I'm I'm not sure based on what we've been seeing if if he's in the running to win this thing, but you know, anything can happen. It's another update shot. It's basically similar. It's that seratus, side seratus and thigh pose. Here was the posing in Japan with that awful awful lighting. But this is a good good idea of the the balance and the flow that Mark Hector has. Top-notch physique. Giles remembered when he won the uh British championships a few years back. Uh and he expected him to be up top the way Samson is by this point, but he had shoulder problems. I think he's had surgery on both shoulders. He's clearly bounced back from that, but he's still got a little bit of work to do. I'd want to see some more back thickness on Mark. The limbs are really good. The quads, the shoulders, the chest, the arms. Uh, I I'd want to see a little more back thickness on him, but definitely a top-notch physique. Mark Hector. What are we talking about in the comments? Because I can only read the comments one at a time. We're not like that 20 years ago. I don't know. So, you're talking about 20 years ago would have been like 2005. 2005, we had guys at the top like Cutler, Dexter, Victor Martinez, uh, Gustavo, Bedell was up there at that point. It was the very end of Ronnie. That was the last year he won the Olympia was 2005, his eighth Olympia. Uh, so we had a pretty good crew of guys >> in 2005. >> Something definitely different. >> Seems to have solved the lagging legs issue as a whole. Now, there's still some people that need more legs, but uh, these guys are really good. What's up, Philip? Any insights when the Arnold Ohio lineup? Oh, that won't come out for another two weeks or so. They typically come out with the Arnold Arnold Classic lineup mid December. So, you got a couple weeks to wait on that. Sometimes it's closer to Christmas, but it'll it'll be the it'll be December at some point for sure. It was amazing. Get shredded glutes also. Yeah. If you don't Well, you don't have to have as an amateur, but it has become the standard the hallmark of condition is those shredded glutes. So, Mark Hector, what' I do there? So, let me see if there's any other Yeah, we don't have too many updates from Mark. Nothing too recent except for that one that one shot, but Mark looks really good. Let's go on to some more top guys. [snorts] We're going to be able to look at everybody because there's not that many people. So, I want to go to Roberto Buano from Italy. Of course, he was third at the France the Tsunami Pro France show uh six hours ago. This is his most recent update again. And just solid physique, not lacking anything. Thick, conditioned, no weak body parts, standing out, nothing overwhelming. [snorts] Uh not as massive as some of the guys. He looks to be on the shorter side if I was to guess. Shorter meaning like, you know, nowhere near six foot. We don't have too many guys that are six foot or over. That's pretty rare. I'd say the majority of open men open open men bodybuilders are between 5'8 and 5'10. That's that's the most common height I would say. And then you have a few that are shorter and a few that are taller, but most of them are between 5'8, 5'9, 510. Somewhere in that range. But here's Roberto Guanomo. What's he saying in this? It's I can't really tell you. Here we go. Want to wish all your warmth for the last race of the season. I ask you with my heart maximum sharing support. Are you with me? Quint Beastwood says, "On point, bro." And he does look like he's on point. He's ready. He's ready. I mean, this is uh this is the last chance for 2025 because there's going to be many more chances in 2026 to qualify for the Olympia, but this is the last show. We don't have anything after this until the Arnold Classic in very early March. So, we'll be going all of December, January, February. There's going to be a three-month span with no pro shows. Uh, so can imagine the gossip machine is going to be churning because there won't be any contests to talk about. We're going to have to find things to talk about co who who's dumped their coach who's broke up with their girlfriend. You know, dumb [\h__\h] like that. But Roberto Wom from Italy, quality physique, grainy condition. Uh, side chest looks really good. Nice thick pecs. Yeah, this is a this is a pretty substantial update. He's giving us all the poses. Catch up to the comments real quick. Dude made Larry Wills look like a child. Who's that? Who Who made Larry Wills look like a child? Talking about Sme the Russian dude. Andre was pleasure. Shoot memories. What's Yeah, thank you. Blue ring. Uh, so here's another I I he posted an update the day before that even though he still had a tank top on, it was very impressive because you could see the tremendous thickness of the pecs cuz not everyone's got pecs these days. And look at the quality, the striations going all the way across the pecs there. Love seeing that. I love seeing muscle quality. I don't I don't want to see big muscles if there's no separation detail, nothing going on, just just a lump. I like to see the details. It's like a diamond, a fine cut diamond. There's just so much going on. So much to look at. Quads, deep, deep cuts between every quad head there. You know, this is just clearly bathroom lighting. Looks like it's bathroom at bathroom at home or bathroom at the gym. I don't know where this is. So, that is Roberto Buenomo from Italy. Do we have any uh contest shots of him? Yeah, this was Poland. So here was where did he place in Poland? He was fifth place. So this is the last thing I'll show you on Roberto. This was his posing routine from the Poland Pro a few weeks ago. We had a lot of post Olympia shows. I think there was like eight or more because the Olympia was eight weeks ago at this point and we've had a show just about every weekend. One weekend we had two shows at the same time I believe. two pro men's open shows. Yeah, Japan Pro was the same day as [snorts] See, we had uh Poland since the Olympia. We've had the British Grand Prix and the Mexico Pro show. Those are on the same day. Uh we had the Prague Pro, Poland Pro, Romania Muscle Fest. [snorts] Uh oh, we didn't have anything else for a couple weeks. Big man pro Spain. I feel like I missed a show there somewhere somewhere in there. But yeah, this is Roberto and he brings a condition. Uh this is not the best lighting here, man. Cuz maybe I shouldn't say that. Maybe it's the I' I'd like to see clearer separation, but maybe that's not the lighting. Maybe that's just uh the way he's built. But he's in great that's a great shot for him. He loves hitting that shot. It's a really good variation of a most muscular. And there, look at the delts. Look at that. Nice and full. Everything's full and popping there. Peaked perfectly, as we like to say. So, that is Roberto Buenomo. And now, let's go to one of the hometown guys, Pablo Lopez Munis. So, this is Pablo Lopez, IPB Pro. This was Oh, that's an old one. That's 76 weeks ago. Forget about that. This was an hour ago. This is his most recent update. I put it in the thumbnail dialed in. I mean, these Europe I wouldn't say the Americans don't consistently get in shape, but I'd say the European competitors and the Middle Eastern guys too consistently come in better condition than the American guys. A lot of the American guys, they will sacrifice condition to come in a little bit bigger and fuller. And I don't see that very often with the European guys. Seems like they uh they always come in shredded. So, Pablo Lopez, [sighs] this was Poland where he was third place in Poland. He was fourth place at the British Grand Prix. Pablo, very impressive physique. He could win this too, man. Damian looking great. He looks great, too. Where do I see Sergio Dunlow? I don't see Sergey Dunlow placing top 10. Sorry. No offense to the fans of Sergey, but I it was not a strong show that he won. Um, and I I just I don't see him at that level yet where he's in the conversation to do any damage at the Olympia. Give him some time though. He's a young guy. Forgot it was Brando in similar to Yeah, that does look even facially he looks a little bit like Raphael Bondo, doesn't he? Looks like Luke Sando. Uh, I see the Breno the Raphael Brando resemblance a lot more strong. Nice Christmas tree. Armen and Debbie. There's another look alike. Man, all these bodybuilders look alike. [laughter] There are a lot of similar looks. It's almost natural. I wouldn't say that. [laughter] I've never seen a natural guy looks like that. It's that thick and full and conditioned. I've seen natural guys get into that condition, but never with that kind of thickness and fullness to the muscles. No. Pablo. Pablo's very good. He's still posing. Let's let him go for a minute. We got Pablo, Damen Muhammad. Okay, I want to let his routine run its course. I don't want to cut him short here. So, he's a hometown guy. I'm sure he's going to have the crowd going bonkers for him, seeing as this is in Spain. [snorts] All right, Pablo. Was there anything else I want to show you with Pablo? I think he did have a couple good still photos. Yeah, these are good still shots. Uh that was Poland as well. This was the Poland show. Only knock on them. I'd say the clavicles aren't aren't especially wide. They're average average clavicle widths. You know, some of these guys have just wide shoulders. The clavicle bones are really wide. Uh not to say he doesn't have narrow. If you have narrow clavicles, you're not you're not going to be a pro bodybuilder. It's just not it's not in the cards for you. There's guys like with average clavicle width who build so much muscle on top kind like like Phil Heath would be the prime example that they can overcome. Uh Trunk Clarita, another example, someone who doesn't have really wide clavicles, but he's built so much muscle on the upper back and on the shoulders that it's hard to it's hard to tell. Side chest for Pablo. It's a variation of the side try. I don't know what you'd call that actually transition there. But you can see the really good separation and striations in the glutes and the hams there. Another side tricep variation front relaxed. And there's a really good shot for him. Yeah, nice clean fresh look to the muscles. Got to be a young guy. Still has that fresh thin tight skin. No stretch marks, nothing sagging, you know. Hopefully he stays that way. All right, let's look at uh Germany's Muhammad Msour. I know I got it here somewhere. There he is. Mosour. Mosour. So yeah, he had won. Giles told me which show he won the Monster Zim Korea show at one point in the past and that's how he qualified. He has been he has been to the Olympia. He's been on the Mr. Olympia stage most. So we're very good shape. I love that quad sweep. Really good quad sweep there. Not the most massive guy, but really good shape. Look at the bicep peaks. Nice clean separation between the buys and the tries there. Tight waistline. Quality physique. Very, very good. What else we got from him? Got any posing? So, this was Oh, that's six weeks ago. Never mind. It's too far. Too long ago. This was today. This is his latest update posted 11 hours ago. Yeah, he's not missing anything. He's he's a very complete physique, Mo. Just so much smaller Italian though, right? Yeah, like I said, uh super thick pecs are a rarity these days. They weren't in the old days in the pumping iron days when everybody did the flat bench, incline barbell, flat barbell, dips, dumbbell flies. Uh nobody had a weak chest back then. Somehow now that we have all these cool machines, we do see weak chest sometimes. Chest that just they don't match the shoulders and the arms. Phil, he Phil had average clavicles. Like I said, none of these guys, not one pro has narrow. If you have narrow clavicles, you're never even going to turn pro because you'll never have a Vtaper. You'll never have an X-frame. You don't have the right framework. But you do see some guys with more average. Those are some Christian Bible. H very slowly but surely, Connie. Thank you for asking. slowly but surely would be a very accurate uh response to that. Take a look at some other guys. There's there's so few guys that we can actually look at everybody. There's literally only 10 guys in this show. 10 total. Uh so I found them all. This is Brian Drago on the uh on the in on the the competitor list. His name is Casi Brian Drago. I don't know where he's originally from. He lives in the Netherlands. I don't know where he's originally from, but there's an old This is an old shot. It's over a year old, but you can see the shape there. It's more of a very classic shape to him. Uh he couldn't have been that much heavier than a classic physique competitor at that age, at that at that show. But I think this is when he turned pro, I want to say. I don't know anything about him. I don't pretend to know anything about him, but uh first time I've ever seen him, and he looks looks really good to me. This is Romania Muscle Fest. uh a couple weeks ago. Yeah, not a huge guy, but beautiful shape and symmetry. Physique has a good flow to it. Small waist, wide shoulders, wide back, a little bit of gyno there. That might be something to address in the future if it gets Oh, he's got it on both sides. Yeah, you don't see it all the time, but it's it's noticeable. Needs to work on the posing. posing looks kind of awkward like he's rushing through. Yeah, he needs he needs to work on his posing. He's a work in progress. I don't think he's been a pro very long. Luke center had a great chest. That's where Yeah, Luke did. Luke was Luke would have been a very top Olympia. I don't know if he would have been Mr. Olympia, but he would have been a top three, four, five guy at the Olympia within a within a year or two had he not passed away so young back in 2020. I believe he was only 27 or 28 years old. So that is Brian Drago. Do I have anything else I want to show you with Brian? Any other videos or anything? This is uh this was yesterday. It's most recent update. So he looks great. They all look good. They're all pros. I wish him well. I wish him well. All right, let's go on down the line to the next guy in our 10 competitors. This is Nicola Leonete from Germany. I know it's a very Italian sounding name. This is a big dude. I've never heard of him before. And you know, like I said, on these lists, I almost never look up everybody on the list. Like, if I've never heard of him, I'm like, "Ah, they can't be that great." I would have heard of him. But here we go. This is a guy I've never heard of. But he's very impressive. Big dude, really good shape. Quads are quads are right where they want to be. You can even see the calf development there from the front. I like that. Massive arms on this guy. Uh, if I could find a weak point so far, I'd say the chest could be a little bit better. That was 13 weeks ago. That's an old shot. So, this was this was yesterday. This is a very recent update. That one I think he's messing around with some weird filter there or something. Here we go. That was a week ago. Yeah. Trying out his new posing suit. Trying it on for the Graham. Yeah. So, I'm assuming he's Italian. He's in Italy, but that's a very Italian name. Nicola Leonete. His Instagram is uh Nikico Stallone. Niko Stallone. So, I'm assuming he's a huge Sylvester Stallone fan. This was a week ago as well. Condition looks great there. Okay, there he is in a thong. Uh, so that's when he got his pro card. Was that Romania? Did he just turn pro? Yeah. Okay. So, he just got his pro card a couple weeks ago. This is a brand new pro. Good for him. So, he's already jumping in and doing hitting a pro show instead of waiting a full year. Good for him. Test the waters. See how it is. Yeah. Really impressed with the shoulders and the arms on this guy. really really round and full. So, a 30-m minute drive home. So, hopefully he'll still be on. Probably not because my dog's getting antsy for a walk. [laughter] Think if Nick Walker waited till he was older to go out and body should see more like Phil did in college ball. No, I think Nick I think Nick did things exactly on the timeline that was best for him. Still a young guy and he's he's getting better and uh I wish Nick Walker the best. Carl, let's see while I drive home. Oh, snowy already outside Detroit. We We're supposed to get our first We've had a little like little flakes, but no snow really yet. Uh we're supposed to get some in a couple days here in Boston. Yeah, I don't know how much longer. I'm going to I'm going to wrap it up fairly soon because my dog, as I as everyone knows, my dog needs his walks. He's he's a spoiled dog when it comes to that. So, congrats to this guy for uh what's his name? Nicola Leoneti for jumping right into the to the pro circuit without waiting too long. Okay, we got Nola. Let's look at some Everyone's getting a look today because there's only 10 guys. Okay. Uh I I did Okay, so this is Andre Gersonner. Andre is from Germany. Uh, [snorts] and this was first show in open bodybuilding. Was this Romania? Yeah, I think this was Romania. I don't know if he was classic before cuz when he says my first show in open bodybuilding, maybe he came to us from classic. Condition looks really good there. This is just somebody's iPhone footage from like, you know, third, fourth, fifth row. It's pretty good. This is not the stream. This is not the Gilo footage, but nonetheless, it's some footage we can look at. Yes. So, we're looking at Andre Gersonner from Germany. Looks like a young guy. Let's see what he's got for updates because that was a couple weeks ago in Four weeks ago from classic to open, it said. So yeah, he he transitioned from classic physique to open bodybuilding and I would say very successfully. That's definitely open size. Some of the guys in classic, not all of them. I mean, Urs was big enough, but I've seen some guys jump from classic to open maybe a little too soon where they still could have waited a little longer and built more mass. This was today. This is one day out from Big Man Pro in Aleante. Andre Gersner. See how he's looking. That's a nice thick chest. He's got the got proper chest development. Great taper there. A little bit of a long waist. That's a structural thing. Long waisted, higher lats from the front. Let's see how he looks from the back. Let's get that lat spread cranked. Open it up. Yeah, it's a good lat spread. His lats are Yeah, they're a little on the high side for sure, but that's genetics. There's nothing you can really do about that. He's There's been guys like Dennis Wolf who had higher lat insertions. It didn't it didn't kill them. They still had a pretty damn good career. D al um one day out in Romanan. What's that say? This was one day out in Romania after the sta pre-stage stream of Bruno. [snorts] So that was an update for Romania, which was his first show as an open bodybuilder after I don't know how long he was in classic for. He looks like a very young guy, so I doubt it was too long. All right, that is Andre Gersner. Let's look at our our next guy. And we are getting to everybody. Everyone's getting looked. This is Jordi Benur. I don't know how to say that. Jordi Benure Clo. He is from Spain. Okay, that's a very long name. Where did he get the pro card? Three weeks ago. Wow. Okay. So, sure where this was. He got his pro card, but he just turned pro. So, we got a a few guys who just turned pro in this show making their pro debuts. So, this is Jordy. Some things don't translate that very well. But, uh, another another guy right there from right there in Spain, I should say. A native condition there looks a little lackluster. I'm not really overly impressed with that, but [gasps] I got to be picky, guys. If I don't if I don't give any critiques, what's I should just uh It's just running video. Oh, this was Tunisia. Tunisia in Northern Africa, which you Star Wars fans will know that's where they filmed uh [snorts] the planet Tatooine in Star Wars was uh Tunisia, Tunisia. So, this is Jordy. Strong, strong dude. Let's see who else we got. We got a couple more guys and that's it. Was that it? Uh, we go with Allah Atrice from the Netherlands. Never heard of him before today. That was 27 weeks ago. So that's too old. I can't look at that one. That was 28 weeks ago. That must have been when he got his pro card. Yeah, he turned pro roughly six weeks ago. I'm not sure where this was. Was that Sweden? I don't know. It's hard to say. There's a press conference. A big man. Are they at a press conference? Okay. And he's there with Is that Samson? That looks like Samson Dow to me. Yep. So Samson is there. Uh Mr. Olympia and Arnold Classic Champ Samson Da there for the weekend probably representing Hostile, I'm thinking. And uh, of course, all these competitors love to have someone of his caliber at the show. There's his girl. I guess that was yesterday. Uh, again, not a huge guy, but beautiful shape. Structure and shape are two things you cannot change. You can get a bigger version of whatever shape and structure you were given by your creator or you know whatever fate or whatever you choose to believe. But they are there in place and everything else is sort of built on top of that. Yeah, looks good. Got some got some work to do. He's needs some more size. Was five days ago, but he's he's a work in progress. He's got a great frame and a great shape to build on. Uh, and I'm sure looks like a young guy, too. I'm sure he'll be better as time goes on. Uh, I think I'm going to go back to Damian to close this out because again, he's my favorite. [laughter] If you if you press me as to who I think is going to win this, I'm going to go with Damen Cuffle. I think this guy is phenomenal. And that was that was that how he looked yesterday. So I could definitely see this guy winning. Phil Heath shoulders. Yes, he's got some great one. Do another video on Andreas May. I want to interview him. I need to get a contact for him because I tried messaging him on his Instagram and he's got like a million followers. So I'm sure he's got hundreds and hundreds of DMs and I I don't know if he even saw my message. So, I have to figure out a way. If anybody knows how to contact Andre, hit me up on my Instagram, Ron Harris Muscle, and let me know because I would love to get him on. I know he speaks English and he's a character. He's fascinating. Appreciate live petique. Cold Northern UK. Yeah, you are five hours ahead. So, it is nine. It's almost 10 o'clock at night there. What's up, Don Pump? Write him a Christmas card. Christmas card. Yeah, send him a send him a postcard. See what he gets. You see the shirt? All about the gains. All about say all about them gains. Yeah. One more one more look at Damian's video cuz I was very impressed with this guy. And again, until Charles had mentioned him to me, I did not know who this guy was. So, here he was at the Romania Muscle Fest couple weeks ago, Damian Kel from Poland where he placed fifth. [snorts] And you know, that was no joke of a show. Andrew Jack was our winner there. So, it was a pretty pretty stiff lineup. And he's a big guy. He's got to be about he's he's over six foot. I want to say he's 6'2 because it looked to me like he was at least as tall as on Andrew Jack in that lineup when we were looking at the pictures earlier. So, this has got to be a guy who's pushing 300 lb in great condition, not lacking anything. A lot of times you see guys that tall and the legs are a little weak or the back is a little weak for whatever reasons. There's nothing weak on this guy. He's thick, full, dense, balanced, everything, man. He's got it all. So, expect big things from him. I I have him picked as a winner tomorrow. We'll see. You never know what's going to happen. You never know. All right. So, that's it, guys. Uh the show is tomorrow. Uh I will do some sort of wrap-up uh with the results tomorrow. So, keep your notifications on. Subscribe, like, share, do all that good stuff for the videos. It really, it really helps me out. It doesn't cost you anything. And if you're watching this on a replay instead of this live, uh, please drop a comment. Those help, too. So, everything helps. They don't cost you anything. You can just say, "Hey, Ron, great video." Or, "Hey, Ron, crappy video." Doesn't matter. All the comments are good. They they like engagement on YouTube. So, that's it. That is the lineup for the Big Man Weekend Pro Show in Aleante, Spain tomorrow. there is a stream and all that. You can go to there, look up Big Man Weekend on the uh on Instagram and you'll you'll find all the links you need to. So that's it guys. Thank you so much for watching. Appreciate it and I'll see you next time. Oh, I gota hit end stream. [laughter] My bad. Look at me all posing and waiting for it to