Do me. Hey everybody, welcome to the first episode of Power Hour for 2026. Joining me as always from the United Kingdom, the one and only fantastic Giles Tigeric Thomas. Giles, I want to talk about how we can make bodybuilding better. not make bodybuilding great again. That sounds too much like the Trump slogan, but things we could improve on in the industry, in the sport, just to make everything better. Instead of just bitching and moaning, I want to try to come up with some ideas of how to actually improve situation. So, let's start with one that we both are, it's very near and dear to our hearts, this topic. >> Happy New Year. >> Happy New Year. That's right. Prospero. This is another level. Uh so we've talked about this many many times but this is something I really would love to see with the athletes and their outlook toward the the people in the media is uh these two knuckleheads you guys are looking at right now. Criticism is not hate. When Giles and I talk about you uh and your physique and what could be better, we're actually trying to help you improve and be the best you because we want the best for you. Hard to believe, isn't it? But we actually genuinely love the sport. We love the athletes and we want to make it better. Correct, Giles. >> 100% correct, Ronster. >> And I mean it it's the word hater has become just so overused. It's such a cliche now. um that some guys if say you're looking at a you're doing a playbyplay at a contest and you happen to think one guy is going to beat another guy, the guy who you think is going to be beaten is going to be very angry with you in many cases and call you a hater when we're just expressing what we see. gaming. Uh, I hate to keep going back to Martin, but Fouad Fouad Abiad, who was his former uh, sponsor with Hostile Nutrition, he made a post a few weeks ago questioning, you know, why Martin would be upset with him because he Martin made a post about Fawad never believed in me because Fawad had him predicted his fifth place as the Olympian. Fouad says, "I made my predictions based on what I know about the sport and the physiques and the track record of everybody." And in the end, he did take fifth. So, he was actually dead on. Had he compromised his integrity as a journalist, as a critic and said, you know, I think Martin's going to win. It would have been great for Martin's ego, but it would have destroyed his integrity doing what he does. And you know, that's that's important. We have to say what we think and what we believe. Whether people are going to love us for it or they're going to be angry with us. It's just the way it is. >> Yes. Uh sorry, what was the question? >> Oh god, there was no qu I just I want to I guess we could probably move on pretty quickly from this one. But >> firstly, firstly, Ron, I want to pull you up on the facts. This is something else something I actually well over the last few months. Basically I said that I personally if you want to sit down and break it down there is a big difference between being critical and making criticism and giving critique. I think the two are like polar opposites. Critique is like you said it's about how you can allow somebody to be even better. Like I've had guys um approach me over the years you know amateurs pros and they'll say okay Charles I won that show but how can I be better? critique me. Yeah. >> You know, because the end of the day, like I've said it many, many times, apart from the 1998 Arnold Classic version of Flex Wheeler, literally where it's almost like, how the hell do I critique this? How can I say, okay, Flex, you know, if you want to if you want to look even better than this, this is what you need to do. It's one of those real tough things. But every bodybuilding is a sport of progression. Meaning the top of the mountain is never ever reached. You know, like when um like say look, say Ronnie looked at himself and in in the first Olympian 1998 and say, "Okay, I'm 248 here. I think I'm good to go. I think I'm perfect." >> Yeah. >> Um you know, he ended up becoming what 300, you know, 296 in 2004. He ended up becoming bigger and heavier, you know, and someone and thing is though, bodybuilding, it's ironic that because it's bodybuilding, but sometimes necessarily being heavier and bigger isn't always better. Like how many times we look at physiques and go well even Ronnie says my favorite physique was the 247 248 version in 1998 but he brought you know a dozen other packages pretty much you know give or take on you know diff it's it's it's it's a subjective so it's some people think bigger is always better like Nick Walker he thought 10 pounds bigger at the Olympia arguably say for example I don't know if it was true or not let's not let's get caught up you know was was that a better bodybuilder than you know an arguably was probably in even better condition at the Olympia I think like was that a better version or you know or was it better when he was lighter or 2021 when he was what 250 which is I don't know 10 20 30 whatever pounds lighter was that a better version it's because it is a subjective sport it is you know like some people prefer like a like say people say okay flex wheeler 1993 Arnold Classic 218 no that was the best version some oh the 1999 258 British Grand Prix version is better. So there's, you know, that's 40 pounds. That's a lot of muscle. >> Um, so with bodybuilding, um, it's it's about it's about sort of knowing what is the best version of your physique and how you can be better. Like, okay, let's talk about let's talk about say Hadtie. Say Hadtie had come to me after the 2021 Olympians say, "Hars, I just I'm so gutted. I just brought a fantastic package there. I feel like I was better conditioned than the top three guys. um how could I how could I come back next year and win which is exactly what he did I would have said well mate you know this needs to be fixed you need to address that you know this is how you take steps to avoid this speak to Hannie maybe stop the shots a month out or six weeks out or maybe just avoid the shoulders alto together do deepen the glute make sure it's injected on a part where the trunks kind of cover the glutes you know as an example those kinds of things where you can say to someone okay you need to be bigger see Nick Walker came to me now and said Josh come on how do I how do I in the honor classic, mate. What's my how do I get my best chance? What can I do with the time I've got? I would have said, "Right, mate, you need to focus on the waist. You need to maybe try and bring the chest up so there's ways that you can try and balance it out so it matches your shoulders and arms. Your back's fantastic. It's good to go. Um, you need to bring the quads up, you know, from the front. So, we need to take steps to do stuff like that because thing is it's amazing what can actually be done with the body. Like I know I keep referring back to Rule in 2013 2012 2013 2013 when he ruined the waistline you know like I constantly see stuff that I think sometimes in the sport is unachievable like coming in as an open I didn't see that happening with what you know I just I didn't see that happening. Oh nice example but it and obviously what I saw with Ry do with his waistline in 2016 I mean I was it was stood right in front of me. I couldn't believe it you know. So there's amazing things that can be done with the body that aren't just about, you know, it's not just about. So basically, you know, I mean, I remember Flex Lewis when he used to be when he turned pro in 2007, he was very bottomheavy. So he decided to really back off on the legs um and then just focus on the upper body. And then when he when he started competing as a 202, it almost looked like he was upper body heavy. I remember when he did one of the Tim Gardner shows, I was thinking, "Bloody hell, he's gone the other way now. It's like his upper body is actually, you know, his lower body needs to catch up again. And then and then the year he won it in 2012, I remember because he um he came back and it just like finally the delts were nice and big, the waist was small, the legs look like they matched perfectly in proportion with his upper body and he got it right. Look what Ramy did in 2020. Like I always thought Ramy I I had by that point given up on Ramy to be any chance of I thought okay he's ne not only is he not going to win the Olympia I'm not saying not but it's un it's looking more and more unlikely where we all thought for years this is a guy that if he gets it right gets pulls it all together we know the bodybuilders that once they do those one or two you know once they make those adjustments you know that and if they can do it and achieve it you know that everyone's in trouble >> right >> and then 2020 he did it and everything kind of just fell into place, you know, he he he he because it's also knowing how to improve your physique. Like Ramy had to improve to move up. He dropped what 10 15 pounds. >> Yeah. >> Um who else? Uh Sean Rhoden 252 to 238 when he won it in 2018. >> It wasn't a matter of like got to get bigger, got to get 10 pounds bigger, got to put more muscle on, got to get another inch on my arms, got to get three inches off my waist like Rudy thought. So every single physique has different things that they need to do to improve and it's not always about coming bigger and better and you know we've seen it when guys have come in lighter you know Ramy like just said there Ramy Rhoden what are any other examples >> I mean if you think back to the what we consider the best looks for specific athletes I prefer that smaller the lighter flex wheeler I prefer the the lighter Ronnie Coleman Jake Cutler when he took second to Ronnie that year be many years before he started winning That was one of my fas was that 2002. That was when I went >> with Cutler in 2001 when he took second to run. >> Oh yeah. Yeah. See? Yeah. Yeah. >> Lighter. And when Jay came back to win the title in 2009 when Hanie coached him, he was a lot he was significantly lighter than he had been for years. I I'm sure I only found that out or was reminded of that I think last year because I always just because because when he walked out I mean I didn't think that was there's another time when I just thought that look wasn't possible you know I just you know it was drastically different but you then you find out that he was even lighter that kind of [\h__\h] blows my mind because as you know bodybuilding it is an illusion and sometimes I mean how many times you know before see the 202 and the classic came along we saw how many pros where they would be Um, as amateurs, they look sensational winning weight classes, middleweights, light heavyweights, and then they never really got to turn pro. And then somehow they get their pro card and then they come back and you look them on stage, you're like, "What happened?" I'm like, "Oh, I'm 20 pounds heavy. I'm 18 pounds heavy." And you're like, "But everything about your physique is now gone to shit." >> Yeah. >> So, and then thankfully things like the 202 and the 212 and the classic came along and it's um and it allowed those physiques to kind of, you know, not chase each other. So, um, yeah. So, it's it's funny, isn't it? So every every I think that's a good thing about having a a good coach or good people around you to know to say mate like say I think I think now I'll be honest if if uh Andrew Jacked can put on six to eight pound of muscle keeps going on the right places bring the condition the legs don't flatten out in those last few days I think I think that's a Mr. Olympia. I think he'd be very very tough to beat. Like that version of him there if his legs were just if his quads were just a tiny bit drier. I think I think that would have won the Olympia this year. Last year. >> Yeah. I mean, it was an improvement. You know, I I just before I forget to say it, I changed because of what you said, I changed criticism to critique because I do see distinction. >> Criticism criticism is basically just [\h__\h] on people. >> Yeah, we there's there's tons of that. All social to be honest though I think it's getting it's getting so much now where all media now is going through social media everyone has a voice everyone has a platform like you open up a magazine there's like you know say there's all the columnists you know Bob chicks the Dan Solomon's the mi the Dave Blays the you know the the Peter McGoffs there's there's a variety the George Farah all the you know these different columnists they're all giving their opinion in their columns um and then uh but now you can go and every you know Billy bum [\h__\h] from, you know, East Milwaukee is just giving his opinion as absolute fact and he's stating it with real compassion and he's having a go at anyone that disagrees with him. It's unfortunate now because it kind of it's all in it's all like a big murky [\h__\h] soup. You know, there's there's some there's some nuggets in there. There's some nice chicken nuggets in there, but there's also a lot of floating turds. >> Oh god. >> So, and it's just it is it's like a it's like a blended load of [\h__\h] and gold >> [\h__\h] [\h__\h] stew I think would be the >> [\h__\h] That's what bodybu media is now. It's a [\h__\h] stew. You know, there's some nutrients in there, but lo most of it is gonna is going to give you uh gonna give you a horrible disease. And unfortunately, it is starting to permeate because these look at these bodybu and it doesn't not all of it is going to bounce off them. So, it takes a real special kind of mindset. I honestly now I think it's getting to the point now. I was thinking about this the other day where I think now that all bodybuilders should have their social media handled. I just don't think it's even worth them engaging because like like I know I won't mention names but I know some pros that maybe one in 10 posts is actually written by them. >> Okay? >> You know and I think it's getting to the point now where I think everyone should be doing that because the amount of crap look what happened to Samson you know like Samson was Mr. Olympia and if he' have brought the same package he would have absolutely held on to that title in the same condition that he was the year before there's no way he would have lost that title but instead he allowed the condition condition and I know one or two judges did say to him you need to improve your condition you know because that is yeah that is something that could be better because look at his physique I mean that physique there forget about the conditioning I I find that very hard to critique because the proportion the balance you know that there is no doubt that that physique was the best physique on stage at the finals. I've got zero doubts there um because he ticks every single box. >> But um but I think um I think now it's getting to that point where you know the there it's just so the thing is there's so many idiots that say stuff with confidence. It's and it's and there's too many YouTubers. There's too many people saying stuff is outrageous fact and they've got, you know, they've got the information to back it up and it's just it's all it's all getting so hard. It's like like social media now. I don't know what's real and what isn't nowadays. You got you got you got filters, you got you got AI, you've got this there's so much misleading. It's I I I find it very hard to work out what's fact and and what isn't at the moment. It's uh and I think and thing is bodybuilders aren't going to get off social media. It's just not happening. But I think now I think they should let I think there should be I think for the for the good of them I think it's you know it worked for back in Dorian and Ronny's era they didn't have social media they just they picked up the magazines a couple of months later they had their they had their little they had their sort of their trusted people and it worked for them. It did there was no noise. There was no distraction. Um but now and also there's a lot of people out there a lot of very resentful angry kind of shitty people that are really it's like they really want to it's like there are they wake up in the morning and think right Nick Walker Samson um you know I'm going to ruin their day I'm going to get inside their heads because I just I think honestly people now are very messed up and I just sometimes I mean >> like I've had to literally just put my phone down and go Jesus Christ what is wrong with people >> you know and I think bodybuilding is it's it's worse than ever I mean uh bodybuilding and uh like like film critiques, you know, like film critics and stuff like it's just it's getting it's getting worse, mate. It's getting really really bad. And I don't know how I I do feel for the athletes because the end of the day, they're human beings. >> Um I mean I know I mean to be honest I mean I mean what Derek has been I feel really bad for Derek. I really hope that Derek is spending very little time on his phone because that guy achieved something pretty amazing last year. The three wins after losing the Olympia he stayed quiet. He just announced he was doing the Arnold Classic. He did that. He achieved it. You know, what he did last year was absolutely phenomenal. And I and I feel really bad for the 95%. And the thing is people are just people just follow each other. There's like a mob mentality. They just pile on, you know, and um it's like very few people even want to step up and and and defend him because then they'll get launched at, you know. It's like when I mentioned thing about I mean I you know I'm I've said I said some stuff I saw a comment about Trump because I said I I said something really positive about Trump. Something he said it was really funny. Yeah. And mate, it was going on for weeks. I had to start blocking people and it's like people are just it was so hateful. And I'm like, "Guys, I just made an off-the cuff comment." I had a pro bodybuilder like bloody I won't mention his name, but he was like I messaged him. I said, "Mate, what is going on? I'm just making an off-the cuff comment. What what's the problem?" >> So anyway, sorry, mate. Rant over. >> Yeah, that was a rant. So, let's move on back. >> It's time for me to rant. Um, now I I understand that bodybuilding and peeds go hand in hand. They've been a part of our sport for many, many decades. >> And I understand that people are curious. They have a curiosity to know what do the pros use, how much, which drugs. But it's gotten to the point where there are entire podcasts that almost entirely talk about drugs and nothing else. Instagram pages uh showing clips of those constantly. Here's this guy's stack, that guy's stack. And I'm not trying to downplay the role of drugs for one minute. They're they're definitely a key to the the look that we see on these stages. But nobody even wants to talk about training anymore, nutrition anymore. It's just >> and the people that are obsessed with drugs the most are the young guys who are just starting out. And a lot of them, you know, they're going to duplicate if they see, okay, I'm this is an example. I'm just pulling this out of my ass. I'm not saying Samson does this or let's say Samson says in a in an interview, which he wouldn't. Uh I use two grams of tests, a gram of trend, a grand master. Of course, how many idiots are going to go, okay, okay, that's that's my next cycle right there. And then I'm going to be Mr. Olympia by, you know, maybe next year, maybe two years from now. Um, but it's it's it's gotten to the point where I I really I would love to see people just take the focus off of it a little bit. Just back off. I I understand you're curious, but good, enough is enough. I was I was just I was just training with Matthew there from the Euro muscle show and we we're doing some preacher curls and uh and we actually we spoke about that and he was we're talking about a volume and stuff and I said because he was rushed for time and so I said we basically just condensed the workout dropped a couple of sets off few exercises and just sped it up and he was saying that um like because I said it was so bloody cold in the gym. I didn't really want to be in there for like a couple of hours training you know and I we we brought up the subject of like Lee Priest and I said um and he said oh did you train with Lee? I said, "Yeah, yeah, yeah." It was a lot of sets. Lot of sets. We did arms. We did um what do you do back and arms? I said, "It's just a set after set after set." I said, "Probably at least double what I'm used to." And I'm I'm not I'm not like a one set and done sort of, you know, trainer, you know. Yeah. >> And um and I said back in those days, I said he actually considered it to be part of his job. I said he was big on training, big on eating, but he wasn't big on gear, you know. And thing is like Jay Cutler, Dorian Yates, Lee Priest, uh three examples of bodybuilders that have never really been that drug orientated. They don't really they don't really see much importance in it. And um I mean chatting to Lee like um even from my own example when I do the tours when I do you know I come into contact with a lot of pros I spend like sometimes a week 10 days with them you know you know day in day out and I'll be honest the whole so because I'm obviously I'm interested in every element of bodybuilding. I'm still I still don't really find that interesting a topic because like people don't want to hear the truth. That's the problem. They don't want to hear the reality. Like I mean I God I was I was training 15 years before I competed and um and by that point I did kind of understand that it was a lot to do with genetics and how you respond to training food um you know I mean um you know and uh and yeah so basically things like gear. So, some bodybuilders are very drug orientated, some people are very gear orientated, you know, and some bodybuilders like Jay Cutler talks more about food than he does about gear. Like he was saying um I said we just went I just went for lunch there with with Matthew as well beforehand and I said um I said you know I said you know Jay still said he said he's not he doesn't really enjoy food even today like generally he said he said I don't have a favorite restaurant. I don't have a favorite meal. You know you think about all the money Jay's got and all the nice places to eat he's got in Vegas. you'd think you'd be eating out two or three times a week in the best restaurants. And he said he said it doesn't really excite him. And he he's kind of saddened by that because the amount of food because I said to Matthew, I said, you know, Jay said he spent $100,000 a year on food. >> I said this, you know, like Ronnie was like, "Oh, I used to spend $20,000 a year on food." That was a lot for Ronnie. I mean, think about how big Ronnie was. Yeah. >> But like Jay and also Jay was one of the first ones to talk about um like grass-fed, organic, you know, the types of food. He was one. Now everyone seems to want to know about the quality of their food, not just the quantity. Especially with what's come out in the last few years about glyphosate and all these additives and all these crop spraying and you know all the crap that you've got in your food. So even if you think you're eating a clean diet, it's all the crap that goes into it and caps that goes with it. You know, like I'm diabetic and every time I go to America, I can try and eat as strict as I can and uh my my blood sugar I actually get a bit ill every time I come to America. Wow. Because it is to do with the quality of the foods. Um, it's like they say you can go to Italy and and you can you can eat pasta non-stop and you seem to you don't it's like you don't seem to gain weight. We actually lose it because of the quality of the quality of the foods. You know, McDonald's fries in Europe have four ingredients. In America, they have 11. >> It's the same It's the same food on the same menu. So um but um but like Jay and stuff like talking about like food um I know you get other guys that are very um name your body but that's very um guys like Wesley Viss Cuba Sealan you know very very scientific about their training uh John Dwitt. >> Oh yeah >> John John Dwitt is like super scientific about his training. Um and then you get guys that uh you know that's all they want to talk about is gear and you know and then sometimes you get guys that are all rounders and they pay you know uh interest to every every um I mean like okay let's talk about Ronnie when he made that big jump up with Chad. I think the biggest thing that changed for him, I mean, obviously he Chad bumped his gear up and changed it around a little bit, but I think that he said the bit the first thing Ronnie always talks about, you know, that in the difference in his physique, the improvements in physique, he always the first thing he talks about because he see he sees that as the most significant for his improvements that he made is to do with is to do with the volume of food. >> You know, instead of eight ounces of chicken, it was 12 ounces. Instead of four meals, it was five, six meals. >> Yeah. Um so um so yeah it's uh but um but in terms of um the obsession with drugs um I don't think it's ever gonna end sadly but it seems to it seems to go in waves though Ron like I remember I remember mid 90s you know the people started getting into things like new bane and stuff like that which was devastating for bodybuilding I remember British bodybuilding took a real dip because a lot of people got addicted to it myself included a lot of people got addicted to it and um and then it seemed to be about high doses It wasn't about dieting. And I remember going to the British finals and I remember I remember I was at the British finals one year. It was around 2002 2003 four or something like that. And I literally I wouldn't even say that one in 10 bodybuilders were in condition because it seemed to be the time when only people wanted to talk about all the body wanted to talk about was was gear and they thought the gear would get them in condition. More of this, more of that >> and um and then guys were turning up on stage at the British. Their physiques weren't getting any better. They were getting heavier, but they just look big, bloated, shapeless, and they weren't in conditioning. Um, and then it seems to just it seems to just go in in waves, basically is my point. >> So, you know, genetic, we we both know because we've been around forever. Oh, your shoulder. Genetics are they're they're the primary factor. They're the they're the most important thing in bodybuilding by a long shot. So, to those of you who demand to know what the pros are using and you're upset if they say they're not using the amounts you think they should be using to look that way, I say this to you, use all the massive, you know, this is this is horrible and I'm I'm not encouraging people to destroy their health, but if that's what you truly believe that genetics are not that significant and high doses of drugs are, go ahead and use high doses of drugs for a year or two. Get back to me. Let let me know. Do you look like a pro? Do you look like you should be Mr. Olympia or on the Olympia stage or you're on classic stage? And if not, I prove my point that genetics are far more important. As Dorian says, you could take a bag of [\h__\h] and give it a bunch of drugs and make it a bigger bag of [\h__\h] And now you just have a big bag bigger bag of [\h__\h] >> So that's my thing. >> It's it's like the argument I have with um heavy androgens or things like insulin. Yeah, it'll make the scale go up, but it will it will it'll fill the muscle, but will it build the muscle? >> That's why sometimes, you know, you sometimes I remember the first big natural show I went to and I saw the one of the the top natural bodybuilders. He was he was a judge. I remember seeing him in a polo shirt and this guy was like the flex wheeler of uh of the natural bodybuilder. I remember looking at his shirt going that's not so and so. I was like he looked not tiny but like this guy looked like a giant on stage and then you find out he's like 180 on stage and it's like because they had nice muscle bellies and the muscles were developed but they weren't huge. They weren't fill you know inflated muscles, >> right? Um, and sometimes that's why um, so I remember uh, yeah, I just remember looking at that and thinking, you know, these guys aren't aren't using anything, you know, but it's um, because they're training and the thing is I always found that they paid more attention to their training. Like I remember I used to work with he was like a nationally ranked natural bodybuilder. I mean the guy could squat he would squat five plates on his lunchtime, you know, and and good reps and he was like my body weight. I mean I mean I got to like four four and a half with gear. >> Yeah. >> You know at at my peak but um, like this and and the and the They used to keep everything logged and they were very scientific. They weren't throwing the weights around. It was all very scientific and you know and and real sort of applied effort and research and stuff like that because um and then sometimes you get like a guy that's a complete allrounder that um like a John do it really like the training the nutrition the gear everything's meticulously planned you know um I to be honest I find guys like that really fascinating because you know like say like say Tom Platt all he ever seems to want to talk about is training and the importance of intensity you never really hear him talk much about diet or or drugs. It's like it's like he's not he's not really interested in it. It was like it wasn't as important. That's why it's important I think to you know read and follow all these bodybuilders and uh because they've all got you know because the thing is and sometimes when you know say there's five elements and they're paying attention to three and then the other two get more attention to and then everything just seems to fall into place >> you know or like say um like Kai Green um Ronnie Coleman these were guys that really took their physiques to a incredible level without gear and then when they put the gear in Yeah, they just I remember Rodney St. Cloud. I was in Norway uh as a show over there and he was uh I think it was 200 2006 2007 maybe 20 no 2007 and he said he says Kai he said he's just started using gear. He said must be about and he said he said he's walking around with a little wheelie suitcase full of egg whites. He said he's stinking the gym out because he's eating so much food and he just there's a guy that was training hard training for years and years. took his physique to as as far as he could naturally and then he took in gear and he added a lot more food and his physique just exploded overnight and um I mean that's probably one of the best ways to do it. Ronnie Ronnie said he didn't I remember Ronnie s took he took Anavar and Winstrol I think was the first year 95 I think it was >> 95 I think yeah >> I was in the car with him and he said I said what were you taking he said oh I just took some tablets took some few anavar 20 meg or something it was something ridiculous I mean I've heard of like bloody bikini girls taking more and he said I put like 30 pound on I'm like it was it was probably more than that it's probably 30 pound in a week but um you know it's uh the thing is like I I mean I've seen people I remember I got some years ago. One my training partners and I got him some Finniplex. It was the >> Yeah, that was the vet the veterary trend and I got him what was it? Some deball or something and I put him on one mil a week of it and five dbol or something and he put like 30 pounds on >> and it was just like you [\h__\h] I said like how ARE YOU PUTTING THAT MUCH muscle on? you know, because he said, "Well, I'm just, you know, I'm just eating like hell and I'm training hard, you know, and he's benching four plates and, you know, and it's like I was I was almost like, you know, holding his doses back so he wouldn't overtake me, you know, but >> should have given him some Skittles instead of dbol and said, "Here you go." >> Yeah. Yeah. And he was um Yeah. Yeah. And he and the thing is he'd be out drinking all weekend because he used to pass out on my bedroom floor and I have to drag him and make put and put him to bed and stuff and then he'd be, you know, going get cooked breakfast and I'd be eating my my my my oats and, you know, in water and and my egg whites and stuff like that the next morning and he's barely awake, you know, and and then Monday he's at the gym smashing it and twice the size of me and oh, it's just it's uh it's um it's it's an interesting game, bodybuilding, but there's there's many different elements and um and that's what I kind of like about it as well because it's it's it's constantly learning and this is the difference between the amateurs, the pros, the top pros and the top top pros is that once they start doing everything right at the right time and they get the right guidance and they you know they apply that mindset um that's when the magic really starts to happen and that's why that's why there are literally so many levels to this game. >> Yeah. All right. Now, this is one you didn't have you didn't seem too excited to talk about. So, but gym women, uh, for those of you who follow Joey Swoll, that's the best Instagram page to see recaps of this. It's been a trend on Tik Tok for the last at least two or three years, maybe longer, where women will film a man across the gym who appears to like be gl looking at them or looking in their direction or something and they'll say, "This creep, he was staring at me or he was working out too close to me or how dare he why couldn't he just go, you know, use a treadmill? Why do you have to use the treadmill next to me?" Which, yeah, if there was a bunch of them, I get it. But it's it's a whole trend where women are like, "Ugh, these men, they won't leave me alone." And meanwhile, of course, most of them are dressing. They'll say it's for comfort, but they're dressing just with a little sports bra and shorts where you could see the bottom of their butt ch, you know, I love the the female form, so I'm I'm all for it. But you can't expect to dress like that. And men are visual creatures. We're visually driven. We can't help but look. Now, you can stop yourself from staring, but you can't you can't ever not glance in someone's direction. If if you're a man and there's a there's a beautiful woman with a great body and she's half naked, it's very hard to not at least glance over every once in a while. What? I I just I don't think it's going to stop because that's they get a lot of attention, validation when they put a post up like that uh of these gym creeps and weirdos and these especially especially with a younger woman and the guys older, which you know, me being an old man, I have to really be careful when I'm at the gym blinders because I don't ever want to be that guy where they say, "H, that creepy old guy is staring at me." Um, so I know this doesn't seem to concern you too much, but I don't know as a trend, does does it bother you that that women have basically created this whole genre of content where they just shame men on social media? >> It's not just women, but I just hate the fact that phones are even allowed in gyms, you know? I mean, it's uh it's almost I if I don't know if I had a gym, I'd say no. either no phones on the gym floor, which means I'll probably have no members, but also, you know, or maybe have only allowed phones where you have to swap it for a phone that is is a clone of yours. It has your number, but has no >> has no camera on it. It's just the fact that any sort of filming is allowed in the gym now. In fact, I told two or three hours ago, Matthew I actually told him off because he had his phone in him >> and I said, "Mate, that's really starting to bug me." And he actually went and put halfway through the workout and made him go back to his gym bag and put his phone in the gym bag because I was like and I said I said look around look around Matthew and mine's a pretty hardcore gym and looked around and everyone was on the phone. I said I bet you four out of those five people aren't even using it for music. They're just scrolling on freaking Instagram. I mean it's just it's a whole other subject. It's just about people wanting attention, wanting views. Uh, but using a sacred space like the gym for me is absolutely it's one of the saddest things of modern society. I think it's I think it's a reason why the cinemas and now everyone's just basically streaming everything on their phones at on their TVs at home because to be honest I don't even like going to the cinema anymore because everyone's people just getting their phones out. They're checking social media and to be honest it ruins the whole experience. Uh, and it's the same with gyms now. I find I'm finding it more and more difficult because um Matthew again was taking the mick out me because I've got the Lipod Nano >> and for me it's still cutting edge technology because I've got all my music on there and I use it. I like training on it. >> Um I like uh because usually I train at night time on a Friday night because I just trained arms with him there. >> Yeah. >> And uh and I and I talked about how I said the girl at the counter I said sometimes when I'm finished training I said I'll go back and she'll be smirking or laughing because right in front of her all the cameras. >> Yeah. And I'm uh sometimes I'll go over because sometimes it's just me in there, you know, at that time of night because everyone usually trains six, seven because they want to, you know, do what they need to do on a Friday night. And I like to train there because there's no people. So um and she's like I said, was I dancing and singing again and pulling faces and stuff? She says, "Yeah, but um I specifically I'm training at certain times to avoid people. Um but um the whole I mean I mean I can't believe it was a few years ago I told you that that gym in uh in my area there's there's a chain of them and one of the gym rolls on one of their videos playing on one of the screens was no eye contact no deliberate eye contact with women. >> Wow. >> And I thought that was I thought I laughed. I thought it was a joke and I'm like what? So now like say that I mean there are some women in my gym and and thing is a lot of teenage girls and stuff like that. So I literally if they're train and some of them like training like the ass cheeks are hanging out the shorts and you're thinking I mean she could be 25 she could be 15. So literally I have it now where I will literally turn even if the wall is like there I will turn and stare at the wall. >> I mean usually I'm usually fanning around on my iPod Nano or you know finding next track or something like that. So I'm not really someone who stands and gazes and I'm not stood around for 10 minutes wasting time sort of you know scanning the room. I don't really I'm not really that socialable when I'm at the gym. After training I am, but um but like with women now it's it's oh god it's just it's it is a it's not really a problem but I could see why I can see that out there at certain types of gyms. I bet it's quite I bet it's quite a problem actually because like I think that would be I would hate someone to say something or or accidentally catch somebody's eye and then they get to be honest uh I don't think in my type of gym where I train it's not really an issue but I can imagine it is and I would um I'd hate to train in those sort of gyms. In fact, that's the sort of time I think that's when I would actually find out the quietest times and then train then because you know busy gyms now I mean sound like an absolute nightmare for me. It's a it's a sacred place of solitude and focus and you know it is an hour to get away from my phone because I mean oh my god you know when you get the reminders that tell you spent six hour 32 minutes on your phone yesterday it tells you I hate that alert. It makes it really makes me realize what a loser I am >> because I'm spending so much time on my phone. I'm trying to justify it's like no, I'm researching. I'm doing what I need to do. And you know, it's uh but it's uh I don't know. I don't know how to fix it. But um shaming men on TikTok um I I've never been in that position where someone has actually I don't know. I the whole Joey Small thing, I don't follow all that. And those kind of gyms I don't train in anyway. So, for me, it's not really >> it's I'm glad it's not an issue. Um, but um it's uh yeah, I think that's that's probably why I love my gym so much. And when I train other places, I'm I'm quite picky about, you know, and I'm and I will and like I said, if there are women in the gym and they are close, I just literally turn my back on them. >> I mean, I physically turn my back on them where I literally am staring at a wall just purely to avoid any sort of sit because you got to be careful. You have to be mindful because thing is I don't want to be mindful of anything when I'm in the gym apart from my training and myself. >> Um I don't want to be interacting. I don't want to be, you know, and I'm I'm not single so I'm not looking to, you know, catch someone's eye, you know. I mean, I've never I'm trying to think. I've never met anyone through the gym. It's always been No, I've never Oh, no, I have. Yeah, one or two. Yeah, one or two years ago. >> Well, I wouldn't say relationships, but um you know, not >> Well, I met my wife in the gym uh 1989. So, >> did you Oh, okay. Yeah. Cool. Well, there you go. There you go. But Jim was a different different sort of place back then. Mike, >> I was working there and she was a member. But, uh, I'm gonna move on to one that's going to trigger so many of you out there. Accept the judge's decisions even if you disagree. I know a lot of you are going to say, "No, I'm not going to do that." No. So, again, you don't have to agree. It's a subjective sport. It's judged more like a beauty pageant than it is anything else. It's not cut and dried like soccer, football, baseball, basketball. It's something where judges have to sit there and evaluate and assess what they're looking at and make the best decisions they can based on the criteria that they're they're looking at. And we almost never have a contest where everyone agrees with, let's say, the top five placings in order. People are always going to be either upset about who won or so and so should have been second instead of third or, you know, so I don't know. How do we get people to accept the judges decisions? Because it it's it's something a lot of people we see this when we're doing contest coverage or especially the day after or the few days after any big show. There's a lot of people who are upset at the decisions. >> Is it as bad as it used to be? Because I don't think it is >> really. I mean, >> yeah. No, I don't I don't I I don't know. I think I think because basically I'm more involved with international pro then rather than you know the all the other federations all the amateur federations. I don't I'm not as I'm not as involved or as I you know I I don't go to as many as Ozai as I used to. It's not you know um because like the national scene used to amateur scene in the UK used to be huge. you used to have the main Yukab BFF, you know, the the the Pro League Touch side and then you'd have Nabber and all these other federations or the independent shows and then things kind of changed and splintered off and um but um I don't I'm not as I'm not as involved with the amateur scene as I used to be and I think that's probably why I've noticed a change because the pros are more I think they know as as well. Plus, yeah, but I know it's not as good a look. It's not as it's not a good look for them to be complaining about. I've I can't remember the last time I heard a pro complain about a placing they got online. I can't even remember the last time I saw that. What about you? >> Well, Sarah and Natalya was a big one. >> Oh [\h__\h] Yeah, but that was Yeah. Yeah. I suppose that was a >> Yeah, but that wasn't about a place. That wasn't about a placing. That was about what gave her that placing that she feels was an unfair advantage. Correct. >> Yeah. So, I guess I should have I should have couched this in a different way. I'm really targeting this more toward the fans, not the athletes complaining about the placings. It's the fans who, you know, like Nick Walker, Nick Walker should have won the Pittsburgh Pro. That was all we heard for about a month after the Pittsburgh Pro. >> True. >> Now, he could have won and you could have argued for his win, of course. It's it was that close where either one of them could have won, >> but at the end of the day, you'd have to accept the judges and what they decided. Even if even if you think they made the wrong call, they're doing the best they can. I don't think these decisions they make are politically motivated, sponsor driven or anything like they were a lot. That was very, very common years ago. I think the judges are much more fair and impartial now. >> And you know, when Hadti lost the Olympia, it's because he's a Muslim. It's because he's from Iran. I was we were all hearing that that's why they love Derek. It's because he's American. And Hottie's not American. I'm like, but Potti won before and Ramy won twice and they're both from these other countries and they're Muslims. I go, well, they have no comeback for that. But I'm just saying the judges do the best they can. I I don't always agree with all the decisions either. You don't. But at the end of the day, they are the judges and this is how the sport is. It's judged by judges. That's how we have our outcomes and our results. >> It's a subjective sport. It's a visual sport. Um there's so many even with the 202 the 212 taking the shorter guys into their own category and giving them their own platform. You got the more aesthetic lighter guys giving the classic. So now like like sometimes say oh the the open some open lineups aren't getting very big numbers but if you didn't have classic if you didn't have 212 those all those 212s and all those classics would all be competing and they'd all be probably not making top 15. remember the old Night of Champions uh results >> and you'd see 48 competitors and you'd recognize maybe 10 of the names and the rest would be like who the hell are these guys and it'd be the same guys not placing same guys not placing and those those guys not placing out. So those 33 guys not making the top 15 would most likely be filling up the classic or some and the shorter guys would be the top five in the 212. So there is actually more people than ever. I mean I mean here's actually a really good example of a show where you've actually got four very similar styles of physiques. They're all what 54 to 5'8. >> Yeah. >> You know there's no there's no there's nobody over 5' n there. Nowhere near it. >> Nope. >> So you've got you've got four sort of short shorter open guys. So I mean that's this is a really bad example actually of let's take the Olympia. You got Andrew Jack next to Hadtie. I mean you couldn't get two more different types of physiques. >> Ah true. you know, and then you've got Samson who's um who's um well, he's way too big for classic, but he kind of has classic lines. Um but um but he's more of a mixed bag in most shows, but this one is, like I said, is not a very good example. >> My bad. Bad example. I couldn't find the other one. I >> Yeah. No, but um judges decisions. Yeah. I suppose it's never going to change because it's everyone knows better. Um and and I'm honestly I my I'm so glad that I tried judging um independent shows and different shows over the decades, you know, and I was a guest judge and been a head judge and you know and to be honest it's um it's comp I can't explain it until you actually do it yourself. It's really hard to explain how different it is from being sat in the audience. Like I've said many times, when you're at a show, you'll mere disagree about the fourth and fifth. Shane, it should have been the other way around and every and 95% of people agree, but what about the top three, >> you know, maybe, you know, so you because you've got to place everyone. You can't just focus on um like um Brett Wilin complained about me um focusing only on uh when I was doing the live stream commentary, >> he he commented that I was only focusing on the uh >> the sort of um the how bad I felt that that Keon wasn't getting a proper look in >> because he was just left on the right. And he said, "Well, why isn't he talking about the top two guys, you know, the the the Samson and Martin, right? And it's like because I was I was really really sort of focused on that one competitor and for that few and probably for majority of the time that I was commentating I was focusing on that one guy because I felt like it was really I felt like it was quite a you know for me it seemed quite an obvious thing that he deserved a better look. So, I kind of get what Brett's comment was, you know, because I probably did zero in too much. But if I was judging, I'm like, "Oh, why is and I was focusing about Keon being left on the right hand side. He's, you know, this is why this is why I probably wouldn't be a good judge because you've got to give you've got to you can't be wasting time on on one guy that you feel should be, you know, in a much different position. You got to focus on first, second, third, fourth, a ride up to like the top 15." So, because I tell you what, the thing about judging, it's the speed. It's the speed that gets me. Um, God, look at bloody Andrew there. Sorry. Um, yeah. >> Sorry, I'll get distracted. Um Um, yeah. It's funny how the physics change so much, isn't it? All three of them. Their physics have >> That was the same within That was within the same year. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> I really don't like Andrew's side tricep. I feel like he's getting his side chest a bit better now, but his side tricep is just that's just not that's a really awkward pose for him. >> So, >> yeah, it's the one the side this the side chest and side tries are the two that >> Yeah. >> But but but sorry, Ron, going back to what you're saying about the accepting the judge decisions. I think one of the most fun, engaging, uh interesting parts of being a bodybuilding fan is not accepting the judge's decisions because we like to debate it and that's why we I like it. the fact we have social media. And to be honest, I don't think this is necessarily a bad thing. I think it's good to disagree. >> Um like I sometimes when I'm like, >> you know, like sometimes we make our predictions and the predictions end up being 95% correct. It kind of it it doesn't really doesn't really get me excited because I like to be I like to sometimes have, you know, we both love to be surprised. That's the best thing. >> Look, um the amount of people that have said to me that Andrew Jack should have won the Olympia. I mean, Brian Bulman was the first one and he and I was like, really? Um, and he said, "Yeah, he should have won. He should have won." And I'm like, "Okay." Well, it was the first time I'd heard it and it was news to me because I was watching the live stream and I was like, "Okay, I think I've got Andrew a solid third here." You know, but then you hear it more and more and then you discuss it more and more with different people. They give their reasons why. You give your reasons why >> and uh and to be honest, I think it's the I think it's the fun part. It's like when you know people go for a football game and then they go to the pub afterwards and they're just basically arguing and shouting and screaming and talking about certain parts and like that's the whole that's the whole joy of funing of following bodybuilding is the fact that you can you can have so many different perspectives especially when you've got um you know like um Martin and Samson at the prod like I at the prejudging I I literally was changing my mind every two minutes I'm going oh Martin oh Samson and then you're giving your reasons why, you know, Samson should get the nod and then you're giving your reasons why Martin should get the nod and then a few hours later they come back and their physiques look different, one's got better, one's got worse, you know, and good, you pulled that up quick. It's um yeah, it's uh I don't know. It's to me it's um it's what makes the what makes fun as long as that's the thing you should you should be able to disagree and have uh debate. It's just when people get personal, rude, you know, and they start calling each other names. That's when I, to be honest, that's when I disconnect because I love debating bodybuilding. I love the fact that, you know, you could say, "Oh, Charles, I had Samson winning this." I'm like, "No, I've got Martin winning this one." What about what about um what about Kriso's kind of looking good here? Could he have beaten Samson? Could he have, you know, it's uh it's uh to to me it's um it's what makes Look, I mean, Chris's good, man. Sorry, I get so distracted. Sorry. But um I got to say though I think um I think the way Martin held his peak over two days um like I said that illdico she made a comment about it when we spoke in Prague I've never seen anyone I've been try do you know what you get try and get Stefan for an interview and and if you do get him for an interview ask him how he managed to get because like I said I co very experienced judge she actually commented to me we're at the hotel she says I've never seen in all the shows I judge all these two-day shows all these pro shows goes, I've never seen and I still don't know how he managed to hold his peak so well over two days cuz he he didn't get worse or better on the second day. He looked as good and that in itself is pretty incredible. So, because like like bodybuilders can change drastically over two days. remember how um you know like Phil used to looks look so much better on the second day because he you know and I I love to hear about what the strategy was for achieving that and attaining that >> because it's um like sometimes you know you got bodybuilders say oh I really need to peak for prejudging because I've got to make a good impression against this guy or no I'm actually I know I'm probably going to win even if I'm at 8% so I need to peak for the second day when I know that they're going to be dropping off and that's when I need to really uh nail it down. I mean um at Buzz I mean God that Romania in 22 from the prejudging I mean the prejudging he looked good and it was close between him and Brett Wilkins and then at the night show a few hours later I was messaging Milos I said Milos how on earth did you manage that because you know you you needed to pull ahead to kind of separate him from Brett because it was close. It could have gone either way but somehow you managed to just pull ahead. How did you do it and what was the game plan? Because I personally I find that sort of stuff very interesting. Interesting. All right. Well, guys, I know a lot of you are going to probably lean more towards what Giles was saying. You don't have to accept it as Give me a comment. Drop some comments and they can be angry and whatever. Comments are good for me. So, please drop a comment about that. >> And here's another one you guys have. >> Goodfield health. >> They will not agree with this. A lot of you are going to say, "No, no, no. I'm not going to respect the Mr. Olympia title. I'm not going to respect the winner." And I think Derek Derek Lensford is probably the most disrespected Olympia winner in recent history. >> They've all had they've all had their fair amount of critique, criticism, and disrespect. But I think Derek, it seems to me like he's gotten the brunt of it. Maybe it's because social media is so much bigger now and we have so many more of these casual fans. >> There's more [\h__\h] in the world. >> IT'S TRUE, DOG. SERIOUSLY, there's more idiots talking [\h__\h] and there's no conse. I just I don't know what it is, Ron, but like I feel so like I said earlier on in this episode, like I feel that I hope Derek doesn't go on his phone very because sometime it's funny. I saw a a video of him in his in his kitchen and he's at the kitchen table and he's reading the Bible. >> You know, he's a religious man. I respect it. I'm not a religious person, but I I you know, I respect the fact that he that's what he believes. That's what he follows. That's what gives him structure and and and and purpose and uh and and and guidance and direction in life and you know and everything else. It's it's shaped his personality. It's shaped who he is and he's become the best in the world. So, you know, there's there's there's obviously that's who he is. That's part of him. We should respect that. But I I have never ever I I I do find it quite upsetting for Derek um to see just how far people go because I think it's actually now it's pretty disgusting to be honest. Um you know, and there's so many experts saying, "Oh, he's got this in his arms. He's got that in his this here." And it's like, you don't know what the hell you're talking about. You've probably never stepped on stage. You know, you're just paring what other idiots have put. um you're just a an online expert that um I don't know it's just it's out of it's out of control, Ron. And to be honest, it's um it's it's not that it's spoiling following bodybuilding or following it's just it's just wrong. It's just wrong, Ron. I just I I I feel bad for Derek. I really do. And to be honest, um I I do I I wonder how he manages to deal with this because he should be, you know, he's not doing the Arnold, so he's, you know, he's got a second baby on the way. He's doing very he's kind of achieved the dream that took years to get to. He's built an incredible physique. Um he's never he's never done anything really bad to anyone. He's not known to be, you know, I've never heard any sort of problem where he's been disgusting to fans or he's been rude or he's been a brat or he's he's always polite. He's always friendly. I think he comes and he's given me many many interviews and he's always been very very honest, generous, and uh and decent to deal with. Um very polite. I've got messages on my phone. He's always very polite to deal with. And uh I just feel like it's pretty shitty actually that our number one because the end of the day we what it comes down to I think at the one factor is that we don't we're in an era where there is no dominant champion. There is no Phil Heath. There is no Dorian. There is no Ronny. Um so you have got like I said you're probably going to get the the title changed many hands. It could go to Andrew Jack this year. It could go back to Samson. It could Martin could get it. Hadty could get it. Derek could win again. But there's there's like sort of five, six, seven people that could basically swap the title back and forth, back and forth the next three to five years until we see someone that is going to be like a oh [\h__\h] we've got another Ronnie Coleman on our hands. You've got another Peak Phil Heath on our hands. And I just don't see that happening. So I think so. Okay, so you you didn't like Derek Winn because of this, this, and this. Fair enough. Well, what about Hadi? Well, there's this, this, and this about his physique that some don't like. Uh Andrew has holes in his physique that he's yet to fill. Samson, you know, obviously, you know, his prep went wrong and blah blah blah. But, you know, I think because I think Samson actually has the least amount of all he has to do is that's why I'm saying he could have won last year if he'd have just played exactly the same game plan. But I do respect him for trying something different. Um so, but my point is they've all got their own strengths and weaknesses and literally it is a case of like someone was saying, "Oh, could Nick Walker win the Arnold Classic?" Of course he could. if others coming off, he comes in bang on, you know, the judges are going to look at it, weigh up the negatives and positives and they're going to make their decision. Of course, he could win it. You know, statistically, if you look at for the Arnold Classic, sorry, the Olympia, it's more than likely that if this if those guys all kind of come in with the same strengths and weaknesses and the same sort of condition, he's probably going to be third or fourth. But, you know, things could change and um and it could go any other way. In some ways, I think maybe, you know, people complain when the guys see guys keep winning over and over again or they're winning, you know, as soon as they walk out, you know, it's like, oh [\h__\h] was obviously he's going to win. It's a fight for second place. So, people complain about that. So, you know, uh it's um it's it's just one of those situations where shouldn't you know, you could look at it from a positive or a negative. If you look from a positive, you can say, okay, well, it's uh it's it's likely that um he's going to win again. So, but to to wrap it up, respecting Mr. Olympia title, to me, it's kind of like respecting the president. A lot of people hate my president, Donald Trump. They hate him. But you know what? He's our president. Whether you love him or hate him, you have to respect the title. Uh this is the president. This is the person leading our country that drop a comment. I know a lot of you hate Trump. It's fine. But >> yeah, I I I I like what he's doing. But for people to say our Mr. Olympia champion sucks, he's the worst Mr. Olympia ever. It's just it's not fair and it's not respectful of what he's done, how hard he's worked, the integrity of his character. He he gave me an interview to does he have to give a guy with 11,000 subscribers on his channel an interview? No, of course not. And he did. He did it. So, you know, I I I wish Derek nothing but the best and I hope people would respect him. So, >> me too. Me, too. >> Wrap it up with something kind of similar. This is the last thing I want to talk about. Can't we all just get along? We are such a little tight-knit group. We are a niche sport. There's not many people in this world who give a rat's ass about bodybuilding. They look at us as steroid freaks. Who cares about these guys in thongs? It's gay. It's this. It's that. It's pure vanity. Narcissism. So, everyone else, most of the world already doesn't like us and doesn't understand us and appreciate what it is that we do and why we follow this so-called sport, which they don't see as a sport. But then when I see us fighting amongst ourselves and, you know, trying to assassinate each other's characters and and ruin each other, h I know we can't all human nature, we can't all get along. There's always going to be disagreements and people that that have their issues with each other, but I wish we would just all try to make a little more of an effort to embrace the fact that we are this little weird brotherhood, this fraternity, and we should try to get along because at the end of the day, we have a lot more in common with each other than not in common. >> Um, I see bodybuilding as one big dysfunctional normal as you because like define normal. All families are dysfunctional. Everyone's like, "Have you, how many people have you heard say, oh, my family is so weird and this and that." Yeah. And then you hear stories about this auntie and that uncle and that. It's like, no, you're perfectly in terms of normality, all families are like that. And the ones that aren't, just keep it well hidden. >> Yeah. >> You know, they're just quiet about it. You know, it's um to me it's what like I've clashed with so many people. I've fallen out with so many people. You know, I've um I've made up with different people. It's like it's just I kind of it's but it's kind of like where I feel I belong. Um that's why when you know when stuff like has happened this year with a couple of instances it really affects me because it's like I I sometimes start to feel like am I am I do people really am I am I welcome here in this in this industry anymore in this family in this world do I have a place anymore do I do I bring any value am I appreciated you know um and that's why I keep moving on to all these different types of projects the tours and the the you know stuff like this you know um a couple of times um I've thought, do I just need to just walk away from all this kind of stuff, this YouTubing and stuff like this and and to be honest, I always come back around and I always get back into it, you know? I mean, back in April when the whole loss thing happened, there was a few weeks where I just I didn't really want to show up for this. I just thought I think maybe this is my sign and my time to just move on and, you know, and just look into other interests, other other projects and and stuff like that. But something keeps pulling me back as it has for the because I'm this is 31 years now 1995 is when I started as a photographer then I was a writer reporter you know the supplement business judge competitor bloody what else websites >> everything >> every everything I've done everything the the tour manager show promoter >> uh [\h__\h] every everything you can think of >> now I'm trying to think >> what have you not done in the industry No, no, seriously, I would struggle to find any jobs. I've been like a co-editor. I've I've helped with layouts. I mean, >> supplement designs, I mean, everything. And it's like and and that's why I keep moving on into all the different things. It's like the the podcasting, the, you know, the the everything, the studio stuff. It's um and now like with the with the the tours, I get it. It makes me living. And also, I I get a real sense of satisfaction from it. I get real, you know, it's like there's something really getting those people and connecting with the fans. It's that it's what I I it's like my mind visually, my brain visually records things and I have memories in my head where I'm going that was worth it. that made it all that stress worthwhile and seeing the happy faces and people being inspired and comments and you know it's um and also um like with the magazine work and stuff like that seeing so then when sometimes when it's not appreciated or someone gets upset with me it really upsets me because I'm like my intent my intent >> or they get my intent wrong if they get my intent wrong I'm I'm devastated. It really upsets me. It really actually gets to me and it makes me really question deeply about what I'm doing, why I'm doing it, my my my my purpose, my, you know, my drive for for wanting to do this. And, you know, I'm always waiting for that time where the industry is saying, "Thanks, Charles. You've you've given enough. Bugger off." You know, >> I think the industry still needs you. You still have a valuable place and function. And uh I'd be very upset if you weren't part of this industry anymore. Not just because we're friends, but I think you bring something there. There's not many of us who have been part of it as long as we have. There are some that have even been longer, but you know, we're still that connection to the old days, and I think you need that to bridge that with the current era to have that full perspective. So, I'd be very, very upset if you ever walked away from this, Charles. >> Thank you, Ron. And I think what it comes down to, it's it's it's very, very simple. It comes down to intent. That's when my my intent gets questioned. That's when that's when I my I go on high alert because it's then I feel like I have to try and correct and prove and and and explain myself and you know and it's like you know stuff with me like when all been shouted and screamed down and it's like and you're repeating yourself over and over again and you're being tr and you are being 100% truthful and someone's not accepting it and they're saying no, you know, it's stuff like that. I just honestly it really really like it affects me deeply. So um but then you know and then you go on a tour and then you go on a tour with Terrence Ruffin and you see all these you know and the joy and the happiness and the kind of the positivity that you're generating and you know and the claps and people you know when they walk into the room and you know it's kind of it it is all worthwhile you know and you like you know you do a good power hour and you think yeah we really got some good we got some good discussions going there and you know we really uh and then you see the comments and people are responding positively. It's uh it's just straight away then it flips 180 and you you know you're thinking yeah I'm doing the right thing and I'm I'm doing what I'm supposed to be doing because it's about for me it's all about intent and making a contribution. If I feel like my intent is good and that comes across and people understand that and they believe it and um and I'm making a contribution um then all the good stuff comes along with it and it's it's worth it's worth continuing with. So it's basically it's that it's no more that simple. But as you're talking for infighting, it's it's it you can't stop it. It's like I said, it's like a dysfunctional family. Your family is your family. It's not going anywhere. Doesn't matter whether you love one minute and you you say you love them one minute, you hate them the next. It's it is what it is. It's humans. We're humans. We're, you know, we're it's human nature. We're all we're all complex, messed up individuals, and we're all just trying to make our way in the world. and uh we're doing our best and um you know and uh that's it really. I just there's nothing there's nothing I try to only worry about things I can control and sometimes certainly other people's behavior and responses to things unfortunately sometimes there's there's nothing you can do about it. You can only do your best and uh do it with good good intent. Do it with good heart and um and whatever else happens in response to that nothing you can do about it. >> Well, I can't add anything better than that. So, that's a perfect place to close it out. So, thank you, Giles. And thanks everyone for watching this episode of Power Hour. Drop some comments below. I know you didn't agree with everything we said, so I welcome your critiques, your comments, good and bad. It's all helpful. Thanks to Giles Tiger Thomas as always for providing the perfect co-host to the Power Hour and we'll see you right here next