Hey everybody, welcome to Ron Line Report. Great guest today. The UK has given us superstars in the past like Dorian Yates, Flex Lewis, and of course our current MissO Olympia Simpson Dada. This is a guy I think is going to be up there in that echelon of superstar very very soon. If you don't you don't know about him yet, you're going to. Please welcome Mark Hector. How are you, Mark? >> I'm very good, thank you. Thank you for such a warm welcome. >> Yeah, you're welld deserving. You know, Giles Giles talks about you all the time. Um, he saw you uh when he was over doing the Lee Priest. He was at the gym with you uh you and Lee, I think. Or was it Ronnie? God, he he does so many tours. >> So, recently I seen him when he was with Terrence Ruffin. >> There you go. It was Ruffin. See another tour. It's all these tours he does. Yeah. But, uh I want to show the the clip that's gone viral of you. This was a guest posing that you did about a month ago, I guess it was now. It >> was actually just over a week ago now. >> Oh, that's all it's been. Okay. So, it really went viral. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Can we see it on You see it on screen right now? >> Yeah, I can see it. >> Okay. So, this was at a Two Bros uh event and >> people hadn't seen you in a little since last fall. We'll go over your competitive history soon, but the improvements that you've made since last year just staggering. Uh Giles is raving about you. You know, this is this is going to sound uh silly to some people because to compare you to Samson, but he said when you turned pro, he thought you would be right up there with Samson. And of course, you know, the shoulder shoulder injuries and things that you've had sort of slowed your progress a bit, but it seems like you're past all that and you're really coming into your own now. And what we're seeing here, this is this is a guy that's going to do do a lot of damage. Um, what kind of reactions were you getting from this? Um to be perfectly honest, it's been uh a bit of a whirlwind in terms of like people just reaching out to me and like you said, this is sort of just gone viral. The amount of comments I'm saying, people have been reaching out saying for someone who So this was me at 10 weeks out. Someone saying for you at 10 weeks out, you look like you're two weeks out. >> Yeah. >> People saying, are you going to jump into earlier shows? um is this just a bit of a game plan that you're putting this out there that you're competing later or competing sooner? And um it's been nice to to hear the comments. I think for me sometimes when I'm posing and I'm in the gym setting, I can't appreciate what's actually been built during this short offseason period. But getting on stage and seeing myself under the lights, it's given me that extra fire, extra motivation to know that I'm not where I need to be yet in terms of peak condition, but the added size is there and I'm heading the right way. >> Yeah. I mean, how much how much size a stage weight if you can give us an idea because you uh you did compete last year at the Bigman Weekend show in Spain. What was your stage weight there and what are you sitting at right now? >> So, my stage weight there was 115 kg. um at the moment. So there I would have been probably around one to one kg. >> Okay. So it's about a 15 pound muscle gain because this condition is it's you know this is better than I see a lot of guys on stage in this condition right now. >> And I think that I think that's gone back to why people are saying you got to be competing soon because you're pretty much there. But for me it's it's keeping the size but not rushing the process. So, yeah, I'm sure I could do an earlier show, but I want to make sure I hold on to as much muscle tissue in the in the process, but also make sure that I come in the way I know I need to come in in terms of condition because for me, this is still a way off. I've set a standard myself and my coach Kuba of what we want to achieve and this isn't it yet. >> Okay, fair enough. Uh, I should probably back up and luckily you have a great post here on your Instagram that sort of gives your whole story. Um, but I I love these origin stories because, you know, I like superheroes and all that. So, this is uh this is how you started out. Um, not a mass monster. You were a track. It's it's funny. It's you don't see too many people come to bodybuilding from track. You do see some. Brian Ansley is a good example. Um, but yeah, you started weight training for track. Is that is that right? >> Yeah. So, I was I was pretty good at athletics, sprinting 100 meters, 200 meters. Uh, and then sort of when I went to college, there was a gym and I just wanted to get into to lifting some weights to help my athletic performance. And then I soon realized that I enjoyed lifting weights and when my friends were going off to to maybe go and party or have go and have drinks, like I just wanted to go to the gym. So, it just became a big hobby. Like I would train like five times a week and I just enjoy going to the gym. And that's where I sort of fell in love with the whole side of building my physique. I had no sort of plans to want to compete. Um I didn't want to stand on stage in the little trunks and and do that. But I missed the competitive element coming from a sprinting background doing athletics. I enjoyed performing and I enjoyed the fact that the work I put in was all going to be down to me. It's individual. You can't rely on teammates. You have a coach. you have people who help you along the way, but ultimately it comes down to you. And that's why I started to sort of steer into looking at bodybuilding, potentially competing. And as the story says, I first competed in 2012 in the end. >> Yeah. And you won your first show. >> Yes, I did. So, first show, I think I probably told maybe 10 people I was competing. Didn't really tell many people at all. Just wanted to go under the radar, just go and compete. and I won my first show. I believe there was maybe like 13 people in the lineup. >> Wow. >> And the judges told me afterwards that you have such an incredible physique. They said, "From the first time you hit your front pose, we had you as winning the show." I was like, "Okay, wow." Um, I didn't realize I had that, but I appreciate the comments. And I just rolled with it from then. >> Yeah. It's so funny that most of the guys I talk to who get to your level, at least I should say a lot of them, they don't have any idea of how good they are. You know, when even when you were in the gym, when you started training, didn't were people noticing like you were your body was changing at a rate and it was starting to take on a look that like nobody else there had. >> Yeah. So, I actually trained at a gym where the the owner of the gym was a vice president of the the main bodybuilding federation in the UK at the time. the only federation what would actually give out the pro card. So he was I was under his guidance, Dennis Christopher, whose name is Sugar, he used to um help me with my training and give me the direction and he used to say you're really good, you could compete, you could do well. There were some old school sort of bodybuilders, gentlemen in the gym who would say your muscle belly is really good and your insertions are really good. I'm thinking what are these guys even talking about because I have no idea. All I know is to lift weights and I see my body changing. But I think over time when I started to see the developments with my physique and they had the old school pictures on the wall, so the the golden era of like um Muhammad Makaway, you had Lee Haney and Frank Zayn, all those physiques on on the wall. I was looking at like I like these the Sergey Braves. I like this physique. And that's where I sort of spoke to the owner of the gym with a bit of an encouragement from my then coach um Katie Fen and they just like why don't you compete and I I went to a show and I watched one. I was like I can do this. Not sure what I'm doing with the poses but I could I could defin I could definitely do this. And it it just evolved from there really. >> Yeah. So yeah, 2020 we're looking at your your rookie year. Um, you told me you did two shows, the Europa where you placed seventh. And here at the British Grand Prix, you placed third behind James Hollings and Rean Grimes. And you beat Samson Dow was only sixth. So you you're one of the guys who can say I beat Samson. >> Yeah. Yeah. Um, that that was definitely a a moment because when we competed at the Europa, I believe he placed in like the top five, Samson did, and I was behind him. I remember when I actually did my pro debut, the there was quite a lot of talk like what where's this guy come from? I remember the pro promoter coming up to me afterwards saying wow incredible physique you look really good. Um I was actually working with Abdullah from Oxygen Gym at that time. So in 2020 before sort of COVID hit I went out left my job um I went out there to Q8. I was out there for around six weeks and then COVID hit and that's when I came back to the UK, but I continued working with Abdullah and he brought me in at what I would say is my my best look. It was a really good look in 2020 and I was really happy with how I looked. >> Yeah. I saw an interview that you actually had to quit your job to go to Kuwait because they wouldn't give you more than like two weeks off or something. And >> that's that's right. That's right. So originally when I won my pro card in 2018, there was a team from Oxygen and Gym who was out at the show and pretty much the day after I had Abdullah reach out to me on Instagram saying um some of the team was out there at the British Grand Prix, sorry, at the amateur Olympia. We've seen that you turned pro. They're saying that you got very good genetics. I would love to work with you. I'm the coach Brandon Curry. So he the offer was on the table from then and I said to him, look, I've I've got children. Um I've also got a job. I can't really leave my job, my stability to come out there, although it was a great offer what he was offering me. And we stayed in contact, we stayed communicating. And then between sort of 2018 to 2019, my then coach Ernie Taylor, um, he had a few things going on. So, we didn't have as much progress what we expected. So, I didn't compete in 2019. And then Abdullah reached out to me, said, "How come you not compete at the British Grand Prix in 2019?" Explain the situation. said, "Look, the offer is still there. If you want to come out to Q8, I'm happy to to coach you, happy to help you." Um, and that's when I just sat down with my family, explained what the offer was, cuz you don't get offers like this come around very often, and never mind twice, spoke with my work, explained the situation, asked them if they could hold my job for me for a period of even like 3 months. They said, "The longest we can hold it is two weeks." And I just spoke with my parents. My parents was was just like, "Son, if this is what you want to do, we'll support you. We'll find a way." So when I handed him my notice, I think my work was very shocked because they didn't expect me to leave stability. But I always believe that sometimes you got to take that risk, what what what might seem like a risk, and just go after your dreams. >> So you went out there and you had to come back quickly because of COVID, but um that was that was five years ago. How many times did you did you go back? How many more times did you go back out there? >> I didn't go back. And part of the reason why I didn't go back cuz my children was getting a little bit older and I realized that I still needed to to be a bit more present. So that's why I decided that I needed to coach a little bit more local, just someone who I could see in person because I I do feel like that really helps me. I'm still in regular contact with Abdullah. Abdullah's a great guy and I've got so much time for him. Um, so I didn't go back another time, but I do miss QA. I liked it. the the fact that it's just all bodybuilding, the lifestyle. I actually came back to the UK um after being out there and I felt pretty depressed because I love the whole lifestyle. This is what I wanted to do. >> Um so yeah, I've never been back, but I would never say never to doing a training camp anyway out there. >> Yeah, I mean that that's what everyone says. It's it's like boot camp or training camp, you know, like boxers go off in a mountain for six weeks before a match and they train in isolation in a camp and it's just pure bodybuilding. Eat, sleep, train. Right. >> Yeah. I loved it. I loved it. I wasn't prepared for it because sometimes we training twice a day, but I was there with one mission and that was to do a job and it wasn't a holiday for me. I had some people reach out to me say, "Oh, how do you feel you not got like the luxury of maybe being in Dubai? like I really couldn't care less for me. I've got a job and a task to do and this is helping me get closer to it. So, I'm happy to be doing what I'm doing. >> In six weeks, did you make substantial gains? >> Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure there's some pictures somewhere on my Instagram, but um I've made a lot of progress. >> Okay. I got to find those. But, uh I want to show this because uh I just had a shoulder replacement. So, anytime I come across someone who's not only had severe shoulder injuries, but has overcome them and come back better, which is so rare, um, man, I have to talk about it. So, this is, uh, what you put up. You missed 2022 and most of 2023. No, from you didn't compete at all in 23 24. It wasn't toward the end of the season. So, severe osteoarthritis in your right shoulder. Um, so last year you had did you have two different surgeries in the same shoulder? >> Yeah, I think believe it was two surgeries in the space of like five months. I had keyhole surgery on the same shoulder. And so the first operation was to try and just clean up the joint, try and free up some of the space because of the osteoarthritis. I've also got something what's called like a bone spur and the size of the bone spur is very very big. So that's what was limiting the range of movement that but that can't be removed but what was said was we can clean up the joint try and free up the inflammation and hopefully that will give you enough to get the range of movement and the early signs look promising but it then started to flare up and it got worse than what it was the first time. So that's why I had to go under a second time. And if I'm being totally honest, going under the second time, I wasn't very optimistic at all just because I thought the first surgery was going to be enough and it wasn't. So now you're asking me to do the same procedure again and hope that it's going to be all right. >> Yeah. So, and they they told you so you were you posted that November of 2024. Was it November? You were lying in a hospital bed and they told you you're never going to compete again. So in November 2024, I went to So I was seeing different surgeons. So the first surgeon I seen, Alien Nurani, very very good. He mainly does keyhole operations. So he's worked on people like Eddie Hall before. Um he's done Nathan's biceps before. So he's a very very good surgeon. And he said the next steps for me would be to see another surgeon for potentially open surgery because what I was experiencing was still wasn't quite right. So there was conversations about doing a a replacement of some sort. So a partial replacement. So I went to see someone who actually trained him up at one of the leading hospitals in the UK and I had consultation with him and his first initial thoughts on just looking at me. It's like how you managed to maintain the size that you have and still being able to train with the limited range of movement you you've got because I couldn't even lift my hand above my head. >> You see, you can see there in some of the abs and thighs, I couldn't get my shoulder up. >> There's pictures I've not posted where I couldn't even I couldn't even do a bicep pose. >> There's so much behind it what I've not actually released. And he said, "How have you managed to do to do what you've done?" And I said, I've always lived in hope by the grace of God that my time will come. So I need to be able to control what I can control because there'll be a time where if I didn't do what I was doing now, when that day comes when I have got that range of movement, I regret not doing and controlling the variables what I can control. So he went away, spoke with his team. I went back again to see him in person, traveled down um to see him and he said, "Look, we spoke extensively about your shoulder and we can't give you a replacement of any sort." He said, "Because because of your size, there's too much risk and complications. One thing we could do is potentially you could lose 30 kg and then we could potentially have this conversation again for a replacement of some sort, but you won't be able to build back the size you had before because you your shoulder won't be able to take it a replacement. >> Yeah. >> Or if we was to operate on you, the likelihood is that you'll hemorrhage and bleed to death just because of the complexity of what's required. >> Wow. So just before I actually went to see him, so I was out in where was it? Budapest with my fiance. So she was actually competing at a show and I was already dieting because I was on a bit of a mini cut anyway. And I remember I had a Thai massage out there and I was just sending over checking pictures to my coach. I was like, I feel like I'm getting a little bit more range of movement now. I'm coming down in body weight from where I was before. and he looked at the pictures and was like, I'm sure even though you got limited range of movement, you could win this many shots out of that many shots and that could be enough for you to win a show. And that kind of stuck in my head. So when the surgeon said to me that you basically your career is over, he started to say, can you get like a pass at your shows to say that you don't have to do certain poses? I was like I was like it just it just doesn't work like that. You you need to be able to do it. Yeah. >> So, when he said to me that there's nothing else they can do, uh, I spoke with my physio, Radu, who's been amazing with his support and his help. It really helped me to to get back to my best. And I reached out to my coach and I pretty much told him the story and I said to him, he said, "Where's your head at?" I said, "Well, there's a show that I believe there was still Romania to go and there was the one what Chris Bumstead competed at." Prague. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Prague. There was still Prague and there was still the big man weekend. I said to my coach, I need to compete. If they say I can't compete again, I need to go out on my terms. So, he said, "Let's go for the big man weekend." Because I've been dieting already. I was quite lean. Um, so we had five weeks on top of that to to get myself into peak condition. It was never going to be a proper prep, but I wasn't that far off. So, that was the plan. And I thought if this is my last show, I'm going out on my terms. So that's Monica. She works with a lot of uh pro alete, amateur athletes. So backstage, this is what we're doing between prejudging. She actually stretched me out trying to keep my shoulder mobile before I on stage. So this is >> this was what was happening. >> Geez. Yeah. It's it's funny because you you I went through some of the same. So you call it keyhole, we call it arthoscopic. >> Yeah, that's right. >> So you had what was called because I had the same surgery called a decompression. >> Yes, that's right. So you wore out I'm assuming you wore out the cartilage between the joint. >> Yeah, but pretty I've got practically no cartilage in there, >> right? So that's when it's bone on bone and that's that's osteoarthritis >> and um you know the pain the the loss of range of motion. I wouldn't wish it on anybody. It's it's horrific. Um I'm amazed that you were able to do what you've been doing without a replacement because Yeah. I mean, maybe it wasn't it was yours wasn't as bad as it eventually would have gotten because at some point the joints just obliterated. There's nothing left. >> And this is exactly what the surgeon had said. Um, the one who was potentially going to do the replacement, it's like, I don't understand how you could still be doing what you're doing because it's unheard of. And for someone for your size to still be able to do it, it's unheard of. So, this is a clip just there where I'm working with Radu who is the physio who's helping me. the best physio I've ever seen. He's really helped me to get back to my best with all of his sort of support and knowledge. And he actually had a machine what's called a EMS. It's a primo machine and it really helps with the inflammation and it helps the range of movement. And because the machine's so good, I actually purchased one myself. So, it cost me a few thousand pounds and I use that daily just to keep on top of keeping my shoulder as healthy as possible in the meantime. I wonder if that's the same thing that the like they remember Dexter Jackson was using it a couple years ago. Um it's called a newbie. There's I'm sure there's different brand names. >> I know what a newbie is. So this one's slightly different. So this is uh so it's got electrical impulses but it's also got a ultrasound head on it as well. So it really works deeply on the osteoarthritis and inflammation. >> The biggest guy with a crutch I've ever seen right there. >> Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Yeah, this is this is a crazy comeback. I'm I'm so shocked because shoulders, you know, that that when your shoulder is is in horrific pain, like you said, you couldn't even hit you can't get it up for an ab and thigh. You can't get it up. I mean, I bet your front latch spread was like offkilter everything because it just doesn't doesn't move and rotate the way it's supposed to. I've got so many pictures where at some point when I achieve what I need to achieve this year because I do believe I will qualify. So that's the machine being used there. >> Here we go. Y >> say I do believe that I will get my pro win and when I do I'll show these pictures because even up to competing at the big man weekend. I think it wasn't until maybe like the last week before the show where my body weight came down, that's when I was just able to get into my bicep poses. And there was one point when I was thinking, I'm going to go on stage, I'm not going to be able to hit a bicep pose on the right side where that's the shoulder what's affected. I'm just going to hit on the left side and thought if that's what I got to do because I've got to go on my terms, that's exactly what I will do. But it just worked out well. >> Wow. Yeah. I mean, this is great because anyone watching, if you don't have shoulder problems now, I hate to say it, but if you're a bodybuilder, eventually you are going to have some kind of pain or or injury. It's almost inevitable because, you know, as as you know, Mark, when you hurt your shoulder, then you realize just how much your shoulder is involved in everything. Everything. >> Yeah, that's right. I think having a a good coach and a good support network has really helped me. So, people used to always say you're upper body dominant. So in this period of what could I do to work around it? So some of my upper body movements was very very limited >> but it gave me an opportunity to really focus on my legs and I started working with a new coach in 2023. He's also IFBB pro Kuba Killan and he literally destroyed my training tore it apart even down to like ling leg curls like you need to do this better you need to do this that better and I'm always a person who's open to learning. I'll never say that I know it all because I don't. So when I started to strip things back and started to connect better with the muscle groups, I started to see the difference in my legs. So when J see me at the ter roughing when I was on stage was like, "Wow, you that's my coach there." He said, "Wow, your legs have really come up." And it's because I've paid more attention to my form and execution. And a lot of people reach out to me on Instagram saying, "Oh, wow. Your form's really good. You controlled in such a big weight." And that's really down to this person here, this coach, because he's made me challenge myself to be a better athlete, not just in the gym, but outside of the gym as well. And it's just translated into what you're seeing here now. >> Yeah. Giles said Kuba was he gave Kuba a lot of credit because you know when you started working with him he was you know optimistic but skeptical because sometimes these these partnerships work out well and sometimes they don't but this seems to be spectacular you guys you know this is a you you've leveled up as we say >> you looked really good a couple years ago but this this is a package >> I could see this on the Olympia stage top 10. I could see it. >> Thank you very much. So, one one of the reasons why I went to Cuba is I had a previous coach who was really he was good. We didn't quite hit the mark in 2022 even though I placed second and we became really good friends. And I think sometimes when you become friends, it's it's harder for certain decisions to be made. And I knew Cuba through being a trained by JP athlete. We both are. And I've watched him over the years and I've seen how he dedicates everything to bodybuilding. And I thought if I could get a piece of that and translate that into me with my drive, then I'll be going places. And one of the reasons why I wanted to go for him, he's although he's someone I respect and we we get on well, he's not a friend. And he will call me out if I need to be called out. And that's absolutely fine because I think if you want to truly level up and be the best version of yourself, you need someone who's going to tell you like this is what you need to do. >> And that's exactly what he has done. And it's it's unfolding really well right now. >> Yeah. Because you're a coach yourself, correct? >> Yes, that's right. Yeah. >> So, you know, from experience, you can't get too friendly because then you have sympathy for them. And if you tell someone that you like and they're you consume a friend, I need you to do another hour on the step mill. I need you to go no carbs the next 14 days. >> Yeah. >> You feel guilty. You feel bad. But if it's a professional relationship and you're not friends, then you can say, "I'm doing what needs to be done to get this person to reach their goals." And I if if it's going to be uncomfortable, so be it. That's just it's just what's going to have to be. These are some this one of your clients right here. >> Yeah. So that's one of my clients who competed at the Tunisia show just uh recently. >> Oh, yeah. >> His first proqualifier. >> Someone peeking out the corner. >> Yeah. I I'm just curious. Uh actually there was a training clip here. Are you able to train exactly the way you were years ago or have you had to sort of make modifications? >> Yes, so training's definitely changed a lot. So I can't train my upper body the same way I used to train it before. But I think the difference from when I competed in 2024, so I had a 15week offseason before I went into prep this year. This is the best I've been able to train my upper body, I would say, since 2022. So because I've been able to train my upper body better, the progress now what I've seen in my upper body even during that 15 weeks of a short offseason has been unreal. Like even doing this exercise here, I couldn't move I couldn't move my shoulder that far on the right side. >> I was doing a lateral raise and it was it was literally like this. That's all I could do for the best part of two years. And that's exaggeration. And >> yeah, >> although I've changed my training from an upper body perspective, it's also my lower body as well. So, a lot more control using less weight, but you'll see that the weights what I am using it, it's it's not lightweights, but the control and the range of movement. I have people message me who want coaching just because they see how I train. >> Yeah. Know it. Yeah. You know, that's I'd say one of the social media is a great thing, but one thing I do see is a lot of people putting a ton of weight on whatever machine or what they're just moving weight for the gram to try to impress people. >> And you know, if I'm seeing somebody deadlift 700 lb or barbell row 500 lb and they have no back development, I'm saying you failed as a bodybuilder because that's as a bodybuilder, you're supposed to be developing the muscles and it doesn't matter the weight you train. But I mean, even with your clients, do you have to sort of get that through their heads? Because that's a that's a huge huge misconception. >> Yeah, definitely. So, one of the things I do with my clients, I get them to send me training footage so I can feed back to them to see it directly. I also have a private exercise library of myself, my training partner, going through a range of different exercises with tips and cues. So, it's for my coaching clients, but also my training partners clients as well, Carlton. So, they can actually see how we perform the exercises. So they have a reference point for how they need to actually uh train as well and execute their training because I think it's all well and good writing a training program but if they don't understand the principles around how to actually perform that exercise it's going to be a lot harder for them. So that's myself and Carlton right there training. >> Oh yeah. Look at that. It's a lot of weight on that machine right there. >> Yeah. Everything's controlled. Everything's controlled. So it's funny because in when when did Carton reach out to me? Colton is actually coached by Cuba as well, but he's been coached by him for about four or five years. And Colton, I've known him for a long time. And he reached out to me to say, "Shall we do a training session together?" And because everything what was going on with my shoulder, I literally ignored his message for the longest time. And then when I finally reached out to her, I said, "Yeah, let's let's do a training session together." And then afterwards, we we pretty much didn't speak for the whole session. We just his set, my set, his set, my set. At the end, he was like, "How was that?" I was like, "Yeah, you want to train again tomorrow?" And if it wasn't for him being in my corner, especially during the period of like 2023 when I was going through these operations, I think my motivation to go to the gym would have been even lower because I didn't want to leave the house. And that's me being totally honest. >> But because I knew he was waiting and expecting, I had to be there. >> And that's equally the same with fiance. If if I could have just stayed in bed and sort of just curled up in the room and not at my food, I would have done that. But I had a great team around me who wouldn't allow me to do that. And also, I always thought things will improve, so I need to control what I can control because this can't be the end. >> Yeah. I mean, it's this is a it's such an inspirational story, though. That's a this is a tough machine, too. The pendulum squad. >> Yeah, that that machine is the he it's a it's a very humbling machine. I should say as well. >> Definitely. >> Yeah, cuz you can look at all those leg press plates you had on. You You can't put those kind of plates on a pendulum. >> No, no, no. And that's straight after the leg press >> and look at the form. Full range of motion, total control, no lock out of the knees. You know, I wish every I should force everybody to watch this because >> So, that's how I've trained since working with Kuba. And I wish I was training like this before because the progress I've seen during this time is is unreal. And the progress what I made from 2024 when I last competed during the 15 weeks like we've been so patient with food. So even when people when I did the guest pose, Terry said to me, "When are you competing?" I said, "I'm not competing for like another 13 weeks." He's like, "But your condition's really good." It's like, yeah, because my coach doesn't allow me to get soft in the offseason. So, even when I guess pose, I had people say to me, "Oh, how come he wasn't wearing like the the little shorts like the other people guess?" And I was like, "Well, I'm here to guess pose, so I'm going to show my physique for what it should be." >> Yeah, the little shorts. I mean, that that's such a go-to for a lot of these guys. >> Yeah. >> Oh, man. Yeah. So, and that I also want to Why didn't you Why Why wait? You're competing in Italy in September 7th, but man, this condition right here, uh, you could have been in Dubai. You could have been there's a number of shows. Did you even think about doing something earlier or or did you have a whole game plan you and Cuba? >> Yeah. So, I I've come I went back and forth with him even before we started prep because I remember when I finished competing in 2024, I was on a podcast with Dennis James and Milos and we were speaking and they were saying, "Look, you've got everything you need. All you needed to do at 2024 when you competed was just come in sharper. And I explained why the prep was such a short prep and not really a real prep. And he was like, you can compete early in the year and you can do well. And I spoke with Cuba on it and he said, I understand what you're saying, but we still got gaps to fill. >> And it's like, I don't want to to leave anything anything to chance. Let's have this short offseason, but make it as productive as possible. So going into prep, I I said to him, look, there's there's some shows in America. What I really want to compete in America, what's to this? And he said, I do think we can do it, but I just don't want to rush your timeline because I want you to prep, hold on to as much muscle tissue as possible and be inside out, shredded, but hold the size. And even this prep now, so I am now into week 13 of prep. When we first started the the dieting phase for this show, there was one diet change at the very start and I've had only one other diet change in 13 weeks and my condition just keeps on getting better. >> The first the first two weeks I had cardio in I think it was five days a week at maybe 20 minutes. Then that got pulled out and I do daily steps of 12,000. But in that period there's days where it was say instead of 12,000 steps we used to do 6,000 steps or limited steps. Um, he might say, "Right, have an extra 125 grams of carbs, clean carbs." The management of fatigue during this whole prep is what's needed for me to bring my best. And this is why we're not going to rush the process. I I do generally believe that if I wanted to be competing in America at one of the one of the early shows, I could 100% do it. >> Yeah. But I also believe that I've got what it takes to to get the results in the shows what are available when I'm competing at the end of the year as well before this year's Olympia. >> Yeah. Because I mean I I this is no disrespect to any competitions or competitors, but this would have won a few shows I've already watched this year. Several shows I've seen this year. That look would have won right there. But, you know, you got to plan. And I I applaud you and Kuba for being patient and being selective because um I've known Hani Ramad for 20 years and he says sometimes the hardest thing for both the coach and the athlete is to not compete because the temptation is there. You're looking really good but you're you're looking you know there's still like he said there's still gaps to fill. That's a that's a really difficult thing to step back and say you can still be a little better so let's wait. >> Yeah. And and and that's it. We we had honest conversations myself and Cuba and and he said, "Look, I've I've given you my viewpoint. If you decide that you want to do something different, I'll support you, but I've given you my approach as not just a coach, but someone as a friend who I believe you have what it takes, but I don't want to rush the process." And when it's all said and done, I've believed in everything he's done so far has worked perfectly. So, I don't want to go against the grain. And sometimes when you're the athlete and you're in that bubble of I've got to do it now, >> yeah, >> you're rushing the process. You're rushing your time. And I believe what I'm seeing now, even today when I've trained and I looked at my pictures postworkout on my phone, I was like, wow. Because these pictures look good, but what I'm seeing now is like I understand why we had to wait because what what I'm seeing now is is exciting because I know it's not even the final form. >> Wow. Yeah. You know, they say shows are one from the back. Look at that. >> I mean, there's not many backs out there like that. So, yeah, it's it's just one one piece of the puzzle that that is going to be a ace in your hole in these shows going forward. I mean, so what's the what's the plan? I mean, assume let's assume you win this Italy show. Let's just be crazy and say you win, but >> uh more shows. Would you wait to the Olympia or you just gonna Obviously, you're taking this one day at a time. Let me what's going through your head. >> Taking it one day at a time, but I'm feeling really fresh. And because I'm feeling fresh and I've not competed for a while, I want to do shows. >> Yeah, >> there's more shows at the back end of 2024, but it was only the one show. I was ready to go again. And this is where having a coach who understands the importance of not fatiguing the body and putting the body into a position where it's compromised really helps. So in my mind, I know that winning Italy will get me to the Olympia, but there's going to be shows still before the Olympia and shows after the Olympia. So once the body's fresh and I'm in condition, it's just managing that post show being controlled, which is absolutely fine because this is what I sign up to be as a bodybuilder. >> Do more shows. Why? Why not? >> Yeah. No, I love that attitude because you're a professional athlete. Why do these guys just do one show and then they disappear till the Olympia when, you know, I hear people say, "Well, he he's won a show. He shouldn't compete until the Olympia. He's going to take the qualification away from somebody else." Well, it's not a participation trophy Olympia. It's supposed to be the best of the best. >> If you win this show and you go to another show and they can't beat you, oh well then why did they don't deserve to go to the Olympia because they're not at that level yet. So do do that, man. That that's that's I wish everyone had that attitude. You know, these shows should be stacked. It should be >> the best of the best at every show. >> It's like even when I competed in the amateur days and I competed at the Worlds, there was like 25 athletes on stage. >> Yeah. >> When I competed at the Europa show, my pro debut, there was over 20 athletes. >> 2024, the big man weekend, I think there was like 25 athletes. It It's a lot of athletes. And that's how I remember bodybuilding. Even as an amateur, when I went to my first British, you there was no space on the stage, there was that many competitors that the first impressions really count. And this is where you got to do your homework when you're posing to get noticed. So, yeah, I can't wait can't wait to compete. >> Yeah. I just want to ask you real quick about Samson because, uh, you know, you guys had a Mr. Olympia champion in the 90s for six years and then nothing for 20 years, right? >> Yeah. Um, it must have been it must have been a good feeling, especially you've competed against him. You must know him a little bit to have someone from your neck of the woods be the best bodybuilder in the world. >> I think it's amazing when you when you look at his story and even what he went through during the COVID period where he was out in the hotel and he he didn't have the equipment and when you see someone go through the hardships to to do everything what they possibly can to be the very best. I remember I think I watched a interview or a podcast where he was saying at one point he's thinking I don't know if I can like continue doing this and he carried on and it it's during those hard days where you realize your strength of character and because you continue you then start to to knock on that door when once that door is open you walk through it. So I'm really pleased for him that he achieved what he achieved because we both came through the amateur ranks for the federation where at that time only one person could win a pro card at the time >> turn pro before me but the tools are all there and it's nice to see him evolve but it's nice to see that it's such a humble person doing well as well and yes I might have beat him back in 20 2020 but that's that doesn't even how like you look at this physique and I to me that's the physiques I really admire and I think he's just done great and what he's done for British bodybuilding putting his back on the map as well is great to see >> yeah I mean you I I I think you're going to add to that going to is this just a steal yeah I mean it's so hard it's still a lot harder to turn professional in the UK versus the US we give out close to a 100red pro cards at some cont at one contest across divisions But >> I think the fact that it's so hard for you guys to turn pro there's not many pro cards being given out means that if you turn pro in the UK, you're pretty damn good. You're probably going to do very well as a pro. Whereas in the US, there's a lot of people turn pro, they're never going to do well. They're never going to make top 10 at a pro show. Um, so you've had you've had a tough journey, but it's this is an older what is this 20? So, this this is actually 2022 at the Arnold's and I'll be honest, um I had very high expectations of myself and I fell short here from a conditioning standpoint. And I'll be honest, I've not watched these videos back a lot because something what's always been in my mind, I missed the mark. And for me, I need to make this year better because that year I felt like I should have achieved much more and I didn't. And then it was almost taken away from me until 2024. So one thing what's always been in my mind even when I'm training and during those hard days is like I need to correct this look because I'm better than this. Oh, >> I mean you've you know the we've been watching the footage from just a couple weeks at that guest posing and you're so much better now than you were at that Arnold UK in 2022. It's it's like night and day, you know. It doesn't almost doesn't look like the same person, you know, and it's not that much. It's the size isn't really that much different. It's it's just the the muscle quality. You have put size on obviously, but >> yeah, >> you have a whole new look now. >> I think it's it really comes down to my my training. My training for my execution been so much better. Um during the the period when I was working with a previous coach as well around that period, I wasn't eating the best foods. So, some of the foods I was eating just to get the weight on wasn't the cleanest of sources. where working with Cuba, he literally has grilled me to the point where even when I have an off plan meal, which was like once a week during the offseason, it was so regimented. It was got to a point where I was like, I need to make sure that I'm not doing all my hard doing all my hard work because I need to stay so on point. So, even going into this prep after the 50 short offseason, my hunger is through the roof because I'm still at the back end coming out of show. And for me, even speaking with my sponsors, Jordan Peterson, when I went to see him at his gym, he was like, "What you're doing right now is not what a lot of people can do because post show people say that's my downtime, but it's like you've stayed on it." And this is where I know Cuba will challenge you to be that person. So, even going into prep when I was hungry, it's like, I understand why I'm hungry, but to get to a point where I've not been to before requires me to go through something I've never been through before. And I've been through the hardships of my shoulder and everything. So being hungry is just being hungry. I've been through worse, but the end result is what I still keep focusing on. And that's when my first show. So when people see the condition now, they've not seen the backstory of how accurate I've been to get to this point. >> Yeah. Because I mean offseason there's a lot of guys that they'll just go hog wild. They'll eat whatever, you know, as long as they're getting their protein requirements, they'll eat the pizza, the burgers, the ice cream, cookies, donuts, whatever. They figure it's offseason, but it it does take when you don't have a contest coming up in any near foreseeable time. You're, you know, six, eight, 10 months away from a show to eat strictly. That that takes something special. So >> that's that's even like when we were speaking yesterday, I said to you, it's 8 o'clock here. Um, I'm going to turn off my phone now because I'm going to go to bed. It's like this is my routine. So, sleep is important. So, it comes to a point where in the evening I'll put my phone on flight mode and you're not getting through to me because I need to sleep because this is what my sport requires of me to be. And it's having that routine and that discipline. And for some people it's too much, but for me it's this is everything. And I feel like I've been given a second chance and I don't want to blow my second chance. So, I need to take the opportunity what's been presented. And if that means that some people don't understand my decision- making, that's fine because this is ultimately what I want to do. And I've got a short window now. So, I need to make sure I grab my chance and take my opportunity. >> Right on, man. Uh, great story. I I love comebacks. I love people that have overcome these challenges. It's just it's inspirational. You know, when somebody looks great, but they've really haven't had that many difficulties. and you can appreciate the physique, but it's not really motivating. It's not inspirational. Someone's been through, you know, I especially with with what I've been through with my shoulder, someone like you, man, this has been an amazing interview. I thank you so much, Mark. >> Thank you. Thank you. And for me as well, so my fiance, she competes in the Pro League, so I'm sitting here behind me. She won the Romania show last year, so she's qualified for this year's Olympia. So, >> I'm in a household where we are very focused on our goals and it's great to be sharing this journey with her and it's ironic because through the years people will always say Mark's going to make it and not her. So, she's made it first and I'm so pleased that she's made it because again she was someone who people wrote off, oh, you're never going to do it. But it goes to show what dedication, persistence can actually do. And I'm just waiting for my turn this year so I can be there with her our first Olympia together. >> How great would that be? That would be so cool. >> And we both we're both competing in Italy, the first show together as well. >> Wow. But man, I mean to be in the Olympia together, to be flying off to Las Vegas together and going through all that. Wow, that's going to be so cool. And I see it's going to happen, Mark. It's going to happen. >> Thank you so much. Thank you. >> All right, guys. Follow Mark on Instagram as he's uh already looking fantastic, but he's going to be getting sharper and sharper by the week as he gets closer to Italy and then God willing, the Olympia. So, uh I wish you the very best of luck. I'll be following along closely and uh that's it, man. Thank you so much, Mark. >> Thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate you reaching out to to be on here. >> All right, everybody. Thanks for watching Ron Line Report with this man Mark Hector and we'll see you next