 What's up, everybody, Ron Harris here, and we woke up to some really good news, in the form of a post, from Martin Fitzwater, now, even though I can't see these posts, people do send all these things to me, and it was all over the Instagram, so, take a look at what Martin said, he has apologized, and this is what he posted at 4 a.m. Texas time. What happened last weekend was out of character, and I take full responsibility for it. I've always been someone that struggles with losing, but the past couple of years, I've worked hard toward a better version of myself to learn how to handle these moments better. This weekend, I failed at that. I'm someone who has always worn my heart on my sleeve, but that is not an excuse for the way I acted. I'm a professional, and in that moment, I didn't represent myself or my team. For that, I am sorry to my true fans, the sport and the Arnold stage. The truth is, I'm human like everyone else. I have struggles and things I'm working through. The difference is that my mistakes happen under a microscope. That doesn't excuse my behavior, but it does remind me how important it is to hold myself to a higher standard. I owe that not only to myself, but to the young athletes who look up to me and to bodybuilding, which has given me so much. So really, really happy to see this. As most of us have said, we're not looking to see Martin canceled or out of the sport. We think he's got a tremendous physique. He's clearly going through some things and dealing with issues, which I hope he's going to get work on. And what we wanted to see with the first step was just an apology. Now, is it the apology that some of you wanted? Some of you guys want him to apologize directly to Nick Walker. Others, you know, this might not be enough. You wanted him to be a little more contrite and so forth. But you know what? It's a great, great start. He's put himself out there. He said, I'm wrong. He said he's sorry. So I sincerely hope this is the very beginning of Martin's redemption path. I think he will get picked up by another major sponsor very, very soon. And that's all people need to know is that you're trying. You're trying to do better. At least he admits he was wrong. And he said he was sorry. Now, let me know in the comments, guys. Are you happy with this apology? If not, why? If so, why? What else would you have wanted to see in that apology? Do you think Martin wrote this himself? Not that that really matters. But the one thing that a lot of people have already harped on is him saying this is out of character. Some would say the events of this past weekend at the Arnold Classic were in character based on the way he's acted over the few years. But you know what? We've got to give this guy some grace. We've got to give him another chance because he is one of the best in the sport. He is young. He is making an effort to get past this situation. And he's finally owning up to the fact that he did make mistakes. He did display poor sportsmanship. And that's all we really wanted. You know, I didn't want this guy's head on the stick. I didn't want him in prison. I didn't want any of that. I just want him to say he was sorry. He's going to work on it. And it looks like that's what he's doing. So guys, let me know what you think in the comments. Appreciate it. And we'll see you next time.