What's up, guys? Well, wrong hair strikes again. I did not think uh Martin could pull it off, even though I did feel his condition was significantly better than Samson's. I thought Samson's overwhelming size was going to be the deciding factor, but Martin Fitzwwater pulled it off. Here were your final results. In Prague, defending champion Martin Fitzwwater holds on to the title and gains a qualification for the 2026 Mr. Olympia. Samson had a settle for second place. Creo in third, Keon Pearson in fourth, moving up a spot from where I thought he was, and Jean Pradell's from Spain in fifth place. So, let's take a look at the final comparisons between the guys. So, this was the confirmation round, the final call out. Of course, Samson and Martin. And man, I I still thought it was going to go to Samson. I just thought he had too much going on. But Martin was full. He was shredded. Not missing anything. Samson does beat him in a couple poses, but guys, it's not about who beats who wins x amount of poses. I know a lot of you guys think it it's that's how the decisions are based, but it's an overall impression that the head judge and the other judges have to arrive at that conclusion based on all the factors, structure, shape, symmetry, mass, proportion, condition, presentation, and they decided that today Martin was the better man. I still think uh Samson's back is not all the way regained. It's it's thickness that he had earlier in the season and at last year's Olympia. He's still down in size a little bit in the back and the legs. Definitely a lot better than he looked two weeks ago at the Olympia, but it was not enough to get past Martin Fitzwwater. Martin Martin got this one. So, I'm waiting for the results to see how close it was. Whether it was like a one or two point decision or whether the judges had Martin in first place all along. be very curious. Martin looked EAW. I don't know what that means. I don't agree with the result. Change up the judges. They were comparing notes. Uh oh. Martin looked great. Iron. They both look quality. It was very close. Well done, Martin. So, did Samson need more conditioning or size this time? He needed both. I think today a little more conditioning would have helped him out. I mean, I'm I do think it was very close. I had Samson winning earlier. Yeah. I mean, it was very close. It it had to be a a tough tough call for these judges. Samson looked a lot sharper. Not sharper than Martin. He might have looked sharper than he did yesterday, but he was not sharper than uh than Martin. Okay, here's a look at the top five, the final comparison before they whittleled it down to the top two. See Jean John Pell's Keon moved up to fourth. I had him in fifth, but fair play to Keon. He moved up a spot. Uh Increo in third. Can't really argue with that. Creo looks fantastic. Yeah, he does have that thick waist, but I mean, he's got so many other great things going on in his physique. So much mass condition was bang on. So many impressive body parts. It's a great physique. So, I have no problem with that. I don't know who that is on the right. Is that Joan? Do they move him again? See what you guys are saying. Martin is crowned, but it applies and purse again. I don't know what that means, but these guys look better compared to Olympia. Yeah. I mean, and that's saying something because Martin I didn't think could look any better than the Olympia. I thought he looked great at the Olympia and I had him beating Samson at the Olympia and today that's exactly what happened. Martin could have beat Derek with this look, man. I don't know. I don't know. That's questionable. So Derek beat everyone else. So you're saying Martin would have beat Hottie and Andrew Jacked and I don't know about that. I don't know about that. I don't know if he's quite there yet. Since that water tension, bloated, couldn't keep the stomach in. Martin with the win. Got to give this kid some major momentum leading into the Arnold. Oh yeah. I mean, the thing is though, Samson's still not back to 100%. He probably was at 70%. If you want to call the Olympia 60%, we're throwing numbers around. Martin wowed me more than Samson, especially all the extra details. Yes, if you're a fan of detail and condition, that was Martin all day. Samson winning for the show. Martin played well. I totally had Samson winning. I mean, even after watching the the judging footage from yesterday, let's take a look at some more more stuff on Instagram. This is from the rep one page. This is Martin speak >> here that are very very special to me. My girlfriend Alexis and my coach Stephan Piesel, boss of Outlaw. Um, those two, my corner. I wouldn't be here without them, guys. I love this sport with all my heart. I'd be in jail or dead if it wasn't for bodybuilding. And before this, I worked construction building houses. I worked 70 hours a week and did this for fun. Now I get to call this my job. And I'm the luckiest man on the planet. So I get to do that because of people like you and the support that you give bodybuilding. And I just want to thank you so much. I love this sport with all that I am. I hope you can see that from the joy that I show on stage. Uh, but I want to give a huge thank you to these guys for putting on amazing shows like this to give me the opportunity to display my physique, show an even better physique than I did two weeks ago at the Olympia and get to see the best fans in the world. So, huge thank you to you guys. Alexis, come here. Where's boss? Get your butt over here. >> Bring the girl over. >> I want to say two special things about these people. I wouldn't be able to do this at home without a beautiful girlfriend that understands this sport, takes amazing care of me, keeps me in line, and most of all, she's my backbone. Whenever I start to fall apart, she's who's there for me. She keeps my head in check. And then this guy right here, you guys can say whatever you want. This is the best coach in the world, and I'll stand on it day in and day out. Him and I are going to change the sport together. I believe in what we're building. I believe I believe in the physique that we're putting together. We're bringing something new to this sport. And I promise we're going to continue to bring that '90s conditioning with some fullness that you guys haven't seen before. We're having fun. We're having our passion. And we get to do this as a group. So, as much as it is me standing on stage here by myself, this whole team around me, that guy behind the camera is the reason that I get to do this and the reason that I'm successful. Without these guys surrounding me, I wouldn't be here. So, huge thank you to them. I have so much love for you guys. There's no words that can put that into into uh into it, but I'm completely thankful. Backto back jam, baby. All right. So, you see, you need a beautiful girlfriend to win. An ugly girlfriend would not do it. So, here was him at finals. Yeah. I mean, I'm I'm thinking this guy is a future Mr. Olympia. Potentially. Potentially. There's no guarantees in the sport. Um, but he definitely has the tools. I mean, he just beat Samson. Granted, it was not the best Samson, but still, Samson stock is alltime low. So, now I I really think you let me let me know what you guys think. I think Samson's going to move. keep going. He's gonna have to go to either Poland next weekend. I think he's gonna go to uh Romania two weeks from today to take on Andrew Jacked. Uh just to show that he's he's still capable, but that's two more weeks that he'll be able to full fill out. I think in that amount of time, he will be almost back 100% to the Samson that we know. That'll be a full four weeks since the Olympia. I do believe he'll be able to regain like 95% of the size that he lost uh over dieting for the 2025 Olympia. Stepping on stage st hold poses. Uh Martin has no width to his lat. So boy Raymond Raymond, you're not a Martin lover. You're a Martin hater. If Samson couldn't beat Martin, you should forget about win anytime soon. I I disagree. I think Samson at 300 lb in very decent condition, not shredded. I don't think he's ever going to be shredded regardless. I think he could still be Mr. Olympia again. Don't write Samson off. Samson's quick fix revive his fullness didn't come with quality. Yeah, I mean, he did sacrifice a little bit of conditioning to to to get the size back. I didn't think he was going to be more conditioned in the Olympia. That was not going to happen. But I figured he'd be about as conditioned and bigger. Martin will one day win the O. Yeah, Gregory, I'm not arguing that. I think it's quite possible. What does Samson do now? Either he shuts it down uh until next year's Olympia or he shuts it down for for not very long, like another six to eight weeks and then starts prep for the Arnold and the Arnold UK. Pick up some money, go for those wins. Best physique in the world plays fourth. How do you explain that? Keon just did not look did not look big compared to these other guys. Uh going back to the judging footage from from yesterday, uh Keon by himself looks huge when he's standing next to these bigger guys. I mean, if if Samson's like 290, 295, let's say he's 290. Keon's probably a little under 220. So that's about he's given up over 70 pounds. Creo's probably about 260 to 270. Martin's probably about 250. this Jawan guy, he's enormous. He still beat he ended up beating Jawan and he beat everyone today except for uh Martin Samson and Crezo. So, not a terrible open debut at all for a guy who's I bet he's like 215 to 217. I doubt he's much heavier than that. And you know, he didn't really need to be. Didn't really need to be. Okay, back to that top two figure. Yeah, we're not not talking about figure. Just no time. Keon is too small compared. His midsection in trouble. Only get worse. If he continues to get bigger and bigger, I don't see that midsection getting better. I see it getting worse. Not a Samson's front lat spread. Yeah, he is pushing his It's not the best pose for him. It's not the best. It's not Martin's best pose either. Samson won just as many shows as Quinton this year. Meaning zero zero. I do like Martin though. Top bloke. Good for Martin. Cool. Love it. Uh, will Samson get inspired by James Hongstead and fire his wife? No. Does he need a proper coach? I mean, I don't think it could hurt to try a different approach. Maybe boss of Outlaw. I'm sure boss of Outlaw Stefan fake humble. I'm sure Boss would love to work with Samson. And he seems to be able to multitask. Boss seems to be able to work with tons and tons of people. Well, that's the guy I was trying to think of who said, uh, I can work with so many people because I just keep it all business. He doesn't waste a lot of time communicating with people talking about their dog or their weekend. What's up, Oz? Open body. Good. Good to see you, too. Classic class show is so good. 212 is overshadowed by classic too much. You're saying if by what best coaching genetics in the world that's uh that is boss of all Stefan Keenel. He did say that he snitched on his own homies and caught smuggling drugs. Who's that? You talking about Martin Simpson zero for three since he won the Olympia. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. Uh he didn't win the Arnold. He didn't win the Olympia and he didn't win today. Martin won fair and square expectation. It's all because some was off. Martin has been still is a great ambassador sport. Yeah, I mean that sounded like pretty pretty good acceptance speech. See what else we got on that. Rep one gives the best uh great stuff there. Some more HD footage of the top two. Keep that on the loop as we talk with Alder Martin saying he's definitely going to change the sport. Yeah, I mean, I don't think they're going to change the sport, but, you know, good on him for at least being ambitious. Uh, 90s conditioning with better fullness. This was the best Martin I've ever seen. He's getting better and better. I know he's still a young guy, and I would expect that anyway, but I do see consistent improvement from this guy from season to season. Like I said, if you would ask me three years ago when he was uh younger in his pro career, if he would ever be beating a guy that had just won the Olympia the year before, I'd say, "Come on, don't be ridiculous." No, I was so sure Samson was going to take this. No, they're not. They're You gota guys got to stop with the conspiracy theories. If you're going with conspiracy theories, they would have given it to Samson just because Samson, he's a Mr. Olympia. He's just, you know, a more popular athlete, a bigger name. If they were going to go by quote unquote politics, they would have gone with Samson. They're not doing that stuff anymore, guys. They're not. Samson shut down and get a new coach. Yeah, I' I'd like to see him do that, too. I'd like to see what a just with a different coach could do for Samson. Shut it down and wait for the O. Samson doesn't need to keep competing. Yeah. I think the thing is is that Arnold Classic Columbus is $750,000 and he has beaten all those guys before, all the guys that are going to be in it. So, he's capable of beating them again under the right circumstances. So, turning that down. Then you got Arnold UK a week or two later. Not the money's not quite as good, but still decent money and it's right there in the UK. Martin won fair and square saying athlete won because someone was off. Martin is a great ambassador sport. Yeah. You know what? And even if somebody was off, even if this wasn't the best version of Samson, that's not Martin's fault. You can't blame the winner for the people they beat not being at their best. Everybody knew what day the show was. They knew when the show was. And if they didn't bring their best, that's on them. That's not on Martin. So, you can't take anything away from Martin. Ronnie Coleman never saw on stage. He and Chad gonna change the sport. Yeah, I agree. It's It was a little silly. Samson need to bleach his skin or he will never look shredded. So yeah, the complexion doesn't help, but I think it's more the texture, the thickness of the skin. Martin got a great midsection. Yeah, great quads, great midsection. Samson loves competing and see jumping into something sooner rather than later. He'll get another show before end of the year. Keon should stay in 212. I I don't think he's ready for open. He's he did pretty well, but he's not ready to win. He could win smaller open shows, no doubt. uh when he's up against guys that are top five in the Olympia, the open Mr. Olympia, that's when I think things kind of fall apart for him. So, no, he's not ready to to crush all these guys the way Martin and Hottie were as 212s. Not Martin, not I meant Derek and Hottie. Here's Crezo. Creo looked fantastic. Look at that conditioning. Dry as a bone. Yeah, the wide waist. That's his only real flaw. His back is a lot better than he used to be. He just doesn't have a great Vtaper, but it was still good enough to beat everybody today except for Martin and Samson. So, give the guy his due props. Give him his credit. Ke's too small. Tells me a peeled and full Nick Walker can win the O. Ko is so effing white. He's a monster. A peeled and full Nick Walker. Well, Nick was peel and peeled and full at the Olympian. He didn't do any better than six. Creo, where did Carl Pickford come in? I don't even know who that is. I'm sorry. Partardell's was fourth. Yeah, when I take away your comments, you can see the placings. It was Martin winning, Samson second, Ko third, Keon fourth, Joan fifth. Uh, where do you think this Martin would place at the O? Uh, fourth. I don't think he would have beat I still don't think he was beating Andrew Jacked, Hottie Chupan, or Derek Lunsford. I know a lot of you guys don't like Derek and you would say everybody should beat Derek, but I would had him fourth. And I had him fourth at the Olympia anyway. I know he ended up fifth behind Samson. I thought he beat Samson fair and square because he looked about the same. He was a little sharper today, Martin, than he was at the Olympia, but Samson Samson was a good deal flatter at the Olympia. I really had Martin beating him at the Olympia. Congratulations to Martin. The best he's ever looked. He's getting better and better, man. And it's all about improvement. Talk about Martin. I heard he snitched on his homies. I did not know that. I heard it on Iron OG's with King. I mean, I'm I'm not I'm not verifying that. I don't know. Got there today water. I miss dominant Olympian. I don't miss that, Johnny. And it's because it kind of got boring. You know, a few years into Lee Haney's reign, a few years into Dorian's reign, a few years into Ronnie, Phil Heath, you're like, like I said to Mike Cox earlier, it's like time for somebody new. I mean, you want to change. I like the way the Olympia has been going with rotating champions. We had eight different champs. I'm sorry. Seven different champs in eight years. And then Derek won it again. So, it's it's still seven champs in nine the past nine years now. Yoyo, Ron, that's me. Sam defin a lot, but Martin definitely beat him champ. But let's look at Samson. Let's give Samson a good look. I mean, that was I give him a lot of credit. He's he's improved a lot in two weeks. That's a much closer version to the Olympia winning Simpson than than we saw two weeks ago. I'd say he's like halfway back. Another two weeks if he does Romania, I think he could be threequarters of the way back. Look at me in my mouth. You're my boy. Creole. Creo look great. Dorian Yates who rightfully broke the mold and revolution of sport. Never I know, man. I know those guys never never talk crap. So, I get what you're saying, Kalan. Boss says he doesn't get close to Zen treats Ursen Martin. Well, I mean, he can't help but get close to a couple of them. Samson needs to take a long hard look at America because he's staring down the barrel of mediocrity. He's still scorecards out. They were not. Let me see if that has changed. Let me see if they're out. Right before I I went live, I took a look. Oh, okay. Wait. I thought I just saw it. I thought I just saw the the results were out schedule pro schedule Olympia results. Why can't I go to any other tabs on that pro results still not out? No, no scorecard out yet. No, I'll keep that up and I'll refresh. I'll go back to it later if if we're still if we're still in Urs the Mountain and Martin the Storm. Samson Derek doing too many shows. They're looking off. Derek not as best recently. Um he's still pretty good at the Olympia prize money for Creo. Don't know. All I know is the 30,000 that Martin won because it was written on the big novelty check. Nobody else got a a check like that on stage. Someone was live streaming results. I'll tell you later who I saw Larry Pollock was doing. It was and um it's just not a smart thing to do because you can lose your channel. Uh every time there's an Olympia Olympia weekend, a lot of YouTube channels lose their channel. Either gets copyright strikes and they can't go live for a few months or they lose their they get their channel taken down. I am not risking that guys. No, no, no. This is one of my sources of income and I do not want to lose it and I enjoy those Buddhaime. Don't they have predell's? There's Roughing, man. Ruffing's routine, of course. Brought down the house. Jileles told me Jles was right there in the front row doing the uh playbyplay for the pay-per-view. You know, supposed to be the future of open bodybuilding. Yeah, Johnny didn't quite work out that way. Didn't quite work out that way. I don't think Nick was at his best. Pittsburgh was better. I agree. Samson number one. No, he was number two. Absolutely. Love Martin's conditioning. Yeah, he was he was looking pretty damn great. I need to get that down. We're looking at Terence Ruffin now. Your classic winner. Any day someone can be. Yeah. I mean, when we have a lot of guys who are very close to each other, it's any given Sunday, as they used to say in football. Any given Sunday, somebody could win. Dorian was gifted his Olympias. He was first couple got synthol champ. He wasn't gifted his first couple. Uh you could you could make valid arguments for some of his wins after that. 92 was a clear win. 93 was a clear win. After that, that's when you can start making cases for perhaps other people should have won. I want to see if they have one of Joan up there from the finals. Joan Pellis, because that youngster really impressed me very much so. No, they don't. Not from finals, but uh I'll go back to him from the judging. Joan. Yeah, this this is a this what keep an eye on this guy. Joan Joawan Predell's from Spain. He's going to be winning shows very soon. I I bet next year he starts winning shows. Good for Martin. I thought Cruz looked fantastic. He did. What's up, Jeremy? How are you? Samson looked to be better than his Mr. Ro showing. Yeah, I mean, I thought he should have beat him at the Olympia and that that makes me really even double down on that. I now I really think he should have beat him at the Olympia. Welldeserved victory from Martin. I'm sure Jaws would have had Samson winning. No, I don't know. I haven't actually talked to Chance. This in a podcast without Tiger. He is at the afterparty right now. It is 11:26 p.m. over there in Prague. You think it's good Martin wins because he needed the Olympic qualification? Sure. I mean, Martin needed to qualify somewhere and this way he's doing the Arnold anyway. I'm almost certain. I don't know if he's announced it, but why wouldn't he do the Arnold now? He just beat Samson. Who's to say he couldn't beat everyone else? I mean, Derek's not doing the Arnold. Hottie's may or may not do it. Uh, Andrew Jack is probably going to do it. This copyright search happening all over the place. Biden Discord. Yeah, I saw every time I tried to go to I was at the gym when this when the results came out and I was going to uh EP09. I was going to uh desktop for Xavier Discord. I was looking to see what was going on in the show, what the coverage was, and their their videos were gone. So, I don't even think they were showing video, but if they were, I don't any of those three guys, they all know they're not supposed to. So, I don't think they were, but their videos got taken down. So, that's why I'm I'm very overly cautious. I wait till the show's over. I take footage from Nick Strength and Power. Thank you, Nick. Appreciate that. Uh, and Instagram, so I'm not taking anything from the actual stream, the live stream, the pay-per-view. Welld deserved from Martin Simpsons. Just can't nail the conditioning. Martin matched him. Yeah. So, here it is again. Comments. Martin matched. Yeah, Martin's condition was far better than Samson's. Do you think good veto can pass Martin one day? At the rate they're going, no, I don't see anything's possible. What's up, Donald? Anything's possible, but I don't see Veto getting ahead of Martin. He's He's like two years behind Martin in terms of development, muscle maturity, stuff like that. Veto is still a work in progress. He looks damn good, don't get me wrong. He was top 10 the Olympia. Um, but Martin's Martin's at a higher level. I don't see Veto getting past him. Martin has the the most upset. He's still 28 years old. Yeah, think about how young that is. 28 inbody. Samson's going to be 40 in a couple weeks, I think. Great showing for Martin. Conditioning should be a requirement. Andrew Jack's FIBO win was a real low point. Spanish prize Joan is a force to record with. You reminded me of taller version. Yeah, Mike Francois. There's a name from the past. Pardell's is big. I was very impressed with them. Has there been a weaker Mr. Olympia reign than Samson's? I wouldn't call it a rain. It was one year. Do you think Creo with the Spackers would have placed six at the Olympia last week? Would he have beaten Nick? Yeah, I mean he would have been top 10 for sure. Would he have beaten Nick Walker? I don't know. Y'all need to sit down. Martin takes the win. Y'all y'all the reign of Martin has begun. Harris says epitome of YouTube streaming etiquette. Thank you, man. Appreciate that. Ka, hello Martians. What's up? What's up, EP? EP, what happened? Did you lose your stream, too? Davey M, what's up? Happy for Martin winning. This has been his breakout year. He'll continue to improve. Yeah, Davey, that's Bayou Muscle. He owns a supplement company. Check that out on uh Instagram. Sponsor ZP09 channel. Um I was not on the Martin train until this year. These past two shows, this this past Olympia and this show have really got me on the Martin Fitzswwater hype train. I'm very impressed with his physique. Uh go back to the other one. Here we go. This is the top five again. Comments. What do you make of Joan finishing? Uh, I had I had Joan ahead of him. Um, personally, uh, I don't know what the judges saw. I don't know what happened there. I had I had him third. Message me later. We'll chat. Okay. EP09, what happened to your stream? Yeah, he doesn't want to say it publicly. That's fine. And again, I don't He I'm sure he wasn't streaming the the pay-per-view. I'm sure he wasn't doing that. So, I'm not really sure what happened there. That crab most muscular Martin is world class. Yeah, Martin's crab is incredible. That is a crazy crazy shot for him. That's his best pose, I think. Oh, copyright strike. Sorting it out, though. Yeah, I mean, I'm sure it wasn't even warranted, obviously. Do you think Samson should do the Arnold or shut it down to the Olympia? That's I I don't know. I'm I'm torn on that one because the the Arnold is such big big money. But would he be better off just resting up, letting the body rest and recover, having a little having a good offseason, maybe getting a new coach and coming back really strong at the Olympia? I don't know. Uh Martin's condition pushed him over for sure. I I believe it was it came down to condition. And if we look at this will show the top two again. Actually, I can go to I'll go to this this there was one here that was just focusing on Martin and there was a clip here that just focused on them. So, we'll just leave that up. That'll just play on a loop. Yeah. Sorry to hear that. I feel like Nick's not that impressive next to KZO. They have similar weaknesses. Cruis's taller and doesn't have the ugly veins. Yeah. I mean, they both have issues with the midsection. Nick has kind of a bubble gut going on now when he's not keeping it sucked in. And Kiso's waist is just wide and thick. It's not a bubble gut, but he has a wide waist. Just the game on YouTube is a ridiculously good show and most exciting. Yeah, I got a copyright strike uh in the 2024 Olympia when I had something like 200,000 views and they cut it off and I lost all the views and all the money I would have got from that. So, I was pretty bummed. Yeah, maybe do the Arnold UK shut. But uh who else? D Martin's German coach. Coach, uh you can go to Stefan Kingsel. The boss boss of Outlaw. He coaches a lot of top people. Second place 15,000. Very good show. Was it 30k first, 15 for second in Prague? Yeah. Let's come back to stage next year. Okay. I like both guys. Think Sam des served the win more size height. Still good conditioning. Sam said Martin by 70 pounds, but it doesn't show. I think it was 70 pounds. So if Samson was 290, you think Martin is only 230? That might be right. That might be right. It's hard to say. I really don't know what he weighs. Martin probably is like between two I I want to say he's about 240, but I really don't know to be honest with you guys. Really don't know. Yeah. Well, Martin had the peak of the year. Yeah, this was a great great Martin this year, man. Martin no less than 240. I agree. Creo should have been fourth. Let's go back to Martin from the finals. Yeah, look at the confidence. I mean, he knew. He just knew he brought 100%. He knew he was just untouchable this time. Last year in Prague, when he tore his hamstring the first day during judging, it really affected him and he was off and uh wasn't at his best. Even when he came back the next day looking better, this is so much better than he looked at Prague last year and even better than he looked at the Olympia, which two weeks later and traveling all the way to Europe. That's that's a feat, man. That is not that's not easy to do. Crystal should have been fourth. Yeah. Damn, this is bad for Samson. I I agree. It's not great for Samson. I agree. He finally got it right, though. Anyway, another 10 pound on Martin's frame for next year's Olympian. He could upset everyone. Yeah, I I wouldn't I wouldn't count Martin out for winning this thing, man. >> Samson needed to show for momentum. Unfortunately, he didn't get it. Unfortunately, good for Martin. Yeah. All right, guys. Uh yeah, we got there. Dorian Hammer, what's up? Samson should stop chasing weight now. He's smaller, working getting tighter. No, I I think uh he needs to be back up to 300. I I actually disagree with that. I think 300 pound the way he won the Olympia last year probably would have beat would have beat Martin today. I still think so. But he's not he's he needs to put all the size back on. J got this one right. Keon deserve fourth. Sam Zabs are better than Martins because Sam has a 10-ack 10 pack. Martin's getting the separation like Keon. Now I don't see that separation. I don't see any. Maybe like a little tiny bit. Happy for Keon though. Martin looks great. He's taking his time. Yeah. Anyway. All right guys. I'm gonna go. I actually I'm so hungry. I went to the gym and I haven't eaten yet. So, you know, you guys know you know how that goes. I'm going to do one last check on the results to see if the results are out. Results. Results. They don't have the They don't have the results yet. No, the results are still not out. Still not out for Prague. What's that? Martin looks great. Anyone who see Martin work out with Brett Wilin knows he'll put in the work soon. You think Sims could have won also and block window closing on Ron Harris. That's right. Go eat Ron. All right guys, Sims should have won the hot take. That is a hot take. All right, guys. So, that's it. Congratulations to Martin Fitzwwater again. tremendous job today beating 2024 Mr. Olympia Samson Dada. Curious to see what Samson does now. Will he do the Poland Pro next weekend? Will he do the Romania show in two weeks to try to beat Andrew Jack? Or will he just shut it down all the way into the Olympia or at least until the Arnold US and the Arnold UK next year? I'm sure he's going to do some sort of announcement within the next couple days and let us all know. Samson's good like that with the transparency. So, that's it, guys. Appreciate y'all watching. We'll be doing a hopefully I'll get a power hour with Giles because he was front and center for this in person live and Meatthead podcast. I got Jose Raymond coming up Wednesday night. Jose Raymond going to be on the Meatthead podcast with me and Big Mike Cox to break down the results of this show. So that is it guys. Appreciate you watching. See you next