Hey everybody, welcome to the Ron Line Report. Great, great guest today. I've been waiting a long time to talk to this young man, rising superstar in the classic physique division. Please welcome Matt Grego. How are you, Matt? Good. Honor to be on. I've been uh a follower of your since the MD days. Wow. Yeah, that wasn't that long ago. Um, yeah. But appreciate that. Yeah. I mean, I remember Matt Jose Raymond telling me about you probably like four or five years ago. I think when you were just coming up because what what year did you turn pro? I turned pro in men's physique in 2020. I did my first classic physique pro show in 23 New York Pro. Oh, wow. Okay. I think it might have been at the 23 New York Pro because Jose was there. Yeah, that's when I met him. Yeah. For the first time. Yeah. We were seeing together. Yeah, that's right. And he was like, "Watch, you got to watch out for this Matt Grego kid." I'm like, "All right, we'll see." Sure enough, very That's what they all say. That's what they all say. Very, you know, he he actually, when Jose says that, I tend to believe it because if someone's not very good, he just doesn't even mention them. He doesn't bother. He only mention you if he sees something special, and he did. Um, but man, so first of all, congratulations on the latest Pro win in Detroit. That was very very uh I want to take a look at that because that was it wasn't the first time you beat uh Wesley Vissers and you know I I love Wesley but he's a big name. So for you to beat him two two shows in a row. This was Matt versus Wesley right here. Yeah. Yeah. So um first of all this lighting man awesome lighting. Buad Paul and Ben they just really they went all out for the show. They really did. Yeah. So, um, yeah, what what did you what have you done differently for this season? Because you look great last season. Uh, and I've been seeing you for the past couple years now, but you're really coming into your own now. Obviously, you're hitting your prime. You just told me you're 30 now. So, that's that's kind of like the age when I think most physique competitors start to really look their best, and it's going to keep you going to improve and improve for the next few years. But, do you feel like this is it? Like you're really hitting your stride now? I feel like I'm starting for sure. I feel like I haven't hit my full stride yet. I feel like I'm starting to kind of like, you know, I came from men's physique and coming to classic, I was still trying to learn how to pose. I was learning about more training and everything. And I think now what's really come together is I have like the right team around me with Chris Seed leading the way of my coaching. I'm surrounded by like, you know, my training partner is Derek Lunsford. So, it's like you can't ask for a better person to be around, but like that's an elite champion. So, it's like it's a blessing. So, I think I have like the best team around me from my girlfriend to my training partner to my coach. It's I just have like the perfect synergy right now with everything. I was going to save the Lensford for later, but now that we're on it, how did that happen? How do you go about training with Mr. Olympia? We just like we built a friendship naturally. I was at, you know, we were training at the gym together and you know, one day we were just having some fun after the gym. We weren't training together, but we were like, you know, maybe we should work out sometime sooner or later. And we did, I think we did this session, this leg session right here. and we did that and we didn't really train too much after and then just randomly I think it was when I was prepping for Pittsburgh um we just aligned one day and it was good chemistry. We both train really hard and he was pretty much saying we should we should do this every day. I'm like why not? And then we just started training every single day. Wow. Yeah, that that's awesome, man. I mean it's the dream of most guys like man I wish I could train with Mr. Olympian is it's a blessing. It really is. It is it like a regular thing like every week you guys train a few times together? Yeah. I mean, for like uh for the Olympia, for example, we trained every single day together. Wow. That's awesome. It's brutal, man. People don't understand how hard he really trains, you know? Like, you kind of get idea from the YouTube videos, everything, but when you're actually doing it, like it's a whole different world. Like, it's just it's a brutal way. I've seen him. I've saw him train. It was granted it was like there was Hector was taking pictures of him, but he was really going through shoulders and Yeah. I mean, he's strong as hell. Of course. Uh, getting back to you though, men's physique. So, you turned pros men's physique. How how early on did you realize this isn't for me. I think I want to go to classic. You know, I my best example when I was I had my my points like I need to go to classic is I got some feedback from the judges. Um, I believe it was 22 and they're like, "No more arms. Like, you can't grow your arms anymore." And mind you, I wasn't training arms the entire year. So, I'm like, well, this might be a sign to move on. Wow. Yeah. I mean, that that's funny because there's so much controversy now about the men's physique division that they're getting too big, right? Some of them some of them are bigger than the classic guys because they they did set a weight cap on men's physique. Correct. Yeah. Now, now there's a weight cap. So, I don't know if it that's necessarily, you know, accurate, but there was a time where some of the men's physique guys, you look like, how are you like, how is this men's physique? You guys are so big. Uh there there's a few of them out there that uh they're bigger than a lot of the guys I see in classic. So, right. Did did you also feel like I remember talking to Logan Franklin who also came he was actually fairly successful in men's league for a few years before he transitioned, but he said you know what I don't like not being able to pose and my muscles look you actually don't get to really see my physique and the musculature until things felt he wasn't able to present his his full physique. Was that kind of how you felt? I I I'm 100% on board with that. Like I feel like when I get into a pose, like with men's physique, you kind of stand there in a front and a back shot. Yeah. And you can't really show the the the nitty-gritty of the physique. And when I would hit things like a front double, I can pull a vacuum or a front lat and side chest and back double. You would see all these details that you couldn't see when I was doing men's physique posing. And I'm like, you know what? I really need to give this classic physique go. Like I I need to give it a a shot and see where it could take me cuz I feel like I have the the possibility really well in it. And when I started working at Chris, he from the get-go, he believed in me. Like he's like, you can He's like, I know you're not here yet, but you can go all the way. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. So, I'm curious because I've watched you grow over the years and I know I think it was in 2023 when Jose told me, "Look out for you." He said he's nowhere near the limit yet. So, at that point, how far were you away from the the limit for classic physique for your height? And are you right at that limit now? So, in the 2023 Tampa Pro when I won, I believe I was 18 or 19 pounds under the weight cap. Wow. Yeah. Wow. Um, now I'm very close to the weight cap, but I do believe that I could add probably like four more pounds with like a next level conditioning and I think that will really set my look to where it needs to be. Okay. Yeah, I remember having that conversation with Bion many times, Bion Hinsley, because he was struggling very very hard for for the last few years to to get to 180. They moved it up to 187 near the end, but and I said, "How can you how can you put on more size and and still get to your weight?" And he's like, "Well, I can always be more conditioned." And I'm like, "Dude, I don't think like you, how you can't be much more conditioned than you are. You're pretty damn shredded." I think I could I think there's another level I got to reach for the Olympia personally and I know I can get to it. Fair enough. Fair enough. I don't doubt you, man. So, I want to I want to get this up. This was this was one of the coolest things I've ever seen in all my years. They let uh the show's all over the Detroit pro and they took you the classic physique winner and William Bonak, the open bodybuilding winner, and they ran you through comparisons. So, uh from what I understand, this wasn't it wasn't really pre-planned. They sort of did it at the last minute and they had to ask everyone's permission. So, how did this come about? So, I don't I think it was finals maybe. Um Fouad I think he he asked me he's like hey for the winners of the you know both the the pro categories we're going to do a pose down for the overall and he said that I instantly smiled because I'm like let's this that's awesome like let's do it you know I'm 100% on board with this because how you know they always people always say they want to see that like the open and classic I2 like all kind of battle on stage. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I mean they did a vote which I thought was cool. And no, William got it was about I think it was about twothirds William one third but I tend to think the people voting were like bodybuilding fans because uh like if you went to my gym I go to a pretty big gym with a lot of young guys in it. I think you would have won the vote among that crew. Different demographic. Yeah, different demographic. Totally. But uh yeah, I mean that that's the cool one of the coolest things I ever saw and and they they did get permission from did they I think from what I heard they had to ask all the competitors like is this okay with you guys? Yeah. I mean I I don't know why anyone would say no. I think it's so cool. Like that's something I feel like a memory even I can look back on like how awesome is that? Yeah. Now I want to see it at every show. Me too. I mean, because, you know, for years we've been saying it, why why can't we have like the 212 Olympia champ and the Open Champ posed down for an overall? Obviously, that's ridiculous. That's never going to happen. But, you know, this was again, it's two very different looks. But, you know what? I actually gave you I gave you the front lat spread over William. Nice. I'll take it. I'll take what I can get. You know, obviously I'm a meatthead. I give him like every other pose, but I said front lat spread. Matt's actually got him all day in that one pose. He's got so much. And this this was a really good William. Like this was a really good William. He has so much thick dense muscle. Like when you're on like on stage with him and you look when I looked over I'm like oh my goodness. Like this guy has like the lats just like hanging down in the in the the side leg. I'm like this is wild. Yeah. Legend. I mean I'm amazed he's still at it. He's actually not that 42 these days is not as old. That's not like 42 used to be. But but I feel like you kind of revitalized his career. Like he was kind of going down. Now he's like going back up. Yeah, I he had that leg injury a few years ago. I thought he was done. I thought that's he had a great run and to see him coming back and still winning shows and still be top five at the uh at the Arnold and everything. Good on him. But um I I have I have no in no no info on your background at all. How did you get into bodybuilding? I always like to hear the origin story. I just was, you know, as a young kid, I was into sports and everything and playing like video games and stuff and I was like, you know, one of my friends was like really jacked and I was like, you know what, he's jacked. I kind of want to look jacked. So, I wanted to start going to the gym. And it just kind of something I built, you know, upon where I was like, you know what, I want to improve my physique here and here. And then when I went to college, I'm like, you know, maybe one day I'll get on stage and I feel like I have the potential to do well. And then it just kind of translated to me want to do men's physique because to me that was what I felt like I fit best. I don't I don't even know if classic was I think classic was just coming out but there was really only men's physique. Yeah. It's a very new division. It only it was it was started in 2016 so it's not even 10 years old yet. Yeah. We've only three Olympia champs in that time. That's it. Yeah. Shout shout out to everyone who's uh lead you know led the way in classic and my my goal obviously is to lead the way in the future as well. That's that's the the bigger picture here. Yeah. So you know at what point when you were training back in the early days did you realize I I have a little bit of a gift for this. I'm looking I'm developing differently than pretty much everyone else at the gym. I think it was like maybe when I was like 18 or 19 and you know it's like you have roommates in college and we're all doing the same stuff, right? like we're going to the gym, we're sleeping a little bit, we're partying and doing all the nonsense you do as a youngster and you know we're we're we're doing the same stuff and my body was like just rapidly changing and theirs was kind of like staying the same in a sense and I was like you know this definitely may be a sign that I could do something with this all and that kind of gave me the spark to kind of just like you know all right I'm going to learn what macros are you know what different training styles are like what's the volume and how to hit your your rear dot this way, how to hear your side the the side dot this way. So, it's like I just became a student of the game. Um, even like watching like all the fitness YouTubers and uh things like MD, like I said, like all that stuff I kind of started to become a student of just watch everything possible to absorb information. Yeah. I mean, another thing that strikes me as I'm looking at pictures and I checked our YouTube channels you're training there where you train with Mike Summerfeld, you train with Ramon. Um, I've noticed there seems to be a lot more camaraderie among the classic guys. I don't know if it's because you're younger in general than most in a lot of the open guys or it's a younger division, but it seems like you guys all get along really really well. I I like to think so. I think, you know, we have a really good group of top classic athletes and we all kind of uplift one another and and I always say the same thing. When we're on that stage, all bets are off. We're coming to win. It doesn't matter. you know, we're we're good friends off the stage. When we're on the stage, we'll come and win. But when we take a step off the stage, we're backstage. We're all brothers, you know, we're all brothers hanging out, you know, uplifting one another. And I think that's kind of what makes Classic so special. I don't I can't really speak for open because I'm not in open, but I know with Classic, like we we work out together, we we uplift one another. And you know, I've trained Raone, Mike. I mean, Ramon was here for in Florida for like two weeks, and we like we we hit it off. We had a great time. you know, there's a language barrier where we can't even really speak that well, but we could just connected so well even though that we're going to be competing together at the Olympia. I was going to ask if his English got any better because it was, you know, he spoke, he speaks a few things, but you know, it's better. It's getting better. He's definitely still struggles to if you say a long sentence to Raone, like he's going to get like 20% of it. So, you got to kind of break it down. Well, we don't speak Portuguese, so you know, we can't really talk [\h__\h] right? Yeah. You can't talk [\h__\h] either now. So, I'm looking at this picture here of you and William and every classic guy gets this question. Um, do you ever intend to go open or are you very happy with classic physique and you love the division? Like Bumstead, he did it for a lark. He did it after he was retired, but he never had any intention of leaving the division. And I know it's still fairly early in your in your career as a classic guy, but what are your thoughts on that? I mean, yeah, I don't know where the road is going to take me. I mean I I do have that objective of winning the Olympia and Classic. That's you know the number one priority me but I will say that I mean if if my body moves in direction open I have no problem going towards it but I think I have the potential to be that champion in the classic Olympia. So that's my main goal but I do get excited to fact of you know being on stage with the big boys too. Yeah absolutely and I mean you're you're about six foot. Um I'm like ranked or 5'11. So, it's all the same from down here, trust me. But, uh, so what what what's your weight cap for classic at at that height? Uh, 219. 219. Okay. And, um, yeah, like I said, you've you've put on Gez, 2023, you said you were almost 20 pounds under the limit, right? Yeah, I was like 200 pounds. Wow. So, you've you've definitely obviously your body likes to grow and you're still a young guy. Um, you know, you're young in the sport and like I said, if you've been at this for 20 years, you probably don't have a lot more muscle that you're going to gain, but I think potentially if you wanted to, you could probably put on another 20 30 pounds beyond what you have now. I have no doubt. I think so for sure. But I think, you know, to be competitive at the open level, it would require like 30 35 pounds to even, you know, be in the conversation. I think. True. True. So, you know, winning the Olympia obviously because you were like, like I said, you were 10th place last year, but you're not going to be 10th place this year. You're moving up. I I Thank you. I would bet the farm on that if I had a farm. So, when you when you look at these shots, when you look at the posing, the photos and video, what do you see that you want to still improve on? What do you think you need to improve on? Is your your division is it's tough, man. Somerfell's no joke. Ruffin is looking crazy. You still have Raone. You still have Urs. So, some very good guys to get past. So, what do you what do you need to do physically to do that? To get past these guys? I think for me and this kind of feedback I've gotten, you know, Tyler and Steve and the the judging panel, it's it's just pretty work on my my back and you know when I did the Olympia, I spoke to Tyler and he's like you you were nasty from the front and it's just your back that's kind of taking away from you being in that upper echelon the Olympia like that top five like we discussed and everything. So, it's I feel like already since Detroit, I've been utilizing the rebound my back cuz I've made some good progress because I my body does like to grow. I think by the time the Olympia comes, I think my back double is going to be a really strong shot for me and that's going to be kind of what separates me from my previous showings. I think it's going to be a full balanced look. You know, it my front shots are very dominant, but when you go to the back, it's kind of what I'm lacking. But I think for by the Olympia, I think that's gonna be a big difference. Okay. And you know, you're training with a guy that's Derek. Derek's got one of the greatest backs of this generation, period. You know, when people say he's got one of the greatest backs out there, I go actually think who's got a better who's had a better back than than him in the past 20 years. I can only really think of maybe Ronnie, Dorian, Joe Stubs. I can really I I can count them all on one hand and still have a couple fingers left over, right? What's back day like with him? It must be pretty crazy. It is. He He has like these little cues and little tricks that I've started to adapt that have been like such a game changer. And even like the way he um orders his exercises, like it it makes so much sense to me when I started to do it. I started to feel like my back actually working, you know? I felt it working. But he's he is such a hard trainer and like the workouts are brutal especially back you know when he saw that I need to bring my back up there was like this one day for Olympia like we we started with a wide grip pull down a close grip pull down then we went to a a seated cable row then we went to a bar row a key bar row a rack pull I'm like over there dying I'm like Derek how much more do we got bro because I'm not doing too good. Wow. Yeah, that's great because, you know, obviously he's got great genetics for back, but it doesn't matter. You still have to train it very, very hard to bring out whatever genetic gifts you have. Of course, and I mean, your back looks pretty damn good to me. In fact, you know, I was thinking it's come up a lot. You know, I've made a lot of progress to it. I just feel like they really give my physique what it needs. It needs to have a little more lower lat, um, a little more pop, even a little more hamstrings. I think that will really do it for me. Yeah, because I mean honestly uh when I'm watching Detroit there was, you know, it was I I think I think Wesley pushed you. It wasn't like a a domination type of win, but it was the overall balance. Um go to that go to that video real quick. You know, because I I think upper body he's got you in some areas. His arm his arms are ridiculous. Uh he's got this crazy chest. Legs, you have him all day long in the in the legs. But it was really the overall It was the overall balance, I think, because front, you know, top to bottom, you had a more complete balanced physique. No, thank you. I I I agree. I think this is a really good look for Wesley, too. I think this is I I think his Arnold look when he won was his best. I think this was his second best. And I think that, you know, he he's overall a great athlete. I think what gave me the nod the nudge was I think it was so close at prejudging. I was a bit off at prejudging, honestly. And at the night show, from what I talked to the judges, I I came in a lot sharper. I fixed some posing and I kind of slam dunked it there. But, you know, Wesley's a great athlete overall and I really wish he kept going to do the Olympics. I feel like he belongs there in that stage. So, I I'm excited to see where he goes. Yeah. You know, there conspiracy theories abound. I I know how judging works and I know what what wins and what doesn't win, so I don't buy into them. But people were saying, "Well, Wesley said he wasn't going to Olympia, so it was close and they just gave it to Matt." Like, "No, no, I don't I don't buy that. I I I would agree with what you said. And I think it's all the categories right now. They're going for balance, right? They, you know, look at Derek Luner. He wins the Arnold. He was the most, in my opinion, the most balanced physique. I think I had a more balanced physique with Wesley. And I think that's what gave me the edge. I mean, if if he had your legs, he would have beat you. But you have your legs. So you Yeah, I mean they like from the front you you have that quad sweep where he doesn't I'm not knock I'm not knocking West guys. I love West. I'm just saying this is this is what he needs to improve on to really move up and be where you know he's already won the Arnold but you know he could I am curious though with him because I I have heard that he's very close in the weight cap too. So it's like how do you bring you know such a big body part like the quads up without adding a good amount of you know weight? I mean, if if I was a gamble, I'm pretty good at body weight and how much muscle is going to weigh what. For him to build the quads, he needs more quads, but he really needs more hams and glutes. Those are It's from the back. It's from the back that his legs look really weak compared to you. The side, they don't look that bad. No, he has good side shot for sure. It's when he turned around. I'd say that's it's got to be five to five to eight pounds minimum that he's needing. So, they want him to move to open, too, though. Of course, everyone's got to go open. Everyone's got to go up to open. How do you feel about that? Because it's like I always want to say, why can't people just stay in the Why is open have to be the holy grail, right? Why can't you know classicist? Look at who's got all the followers out there. Chris Bumpstead, Sam Sull, they have way more followers than any of the open guys. So why do you have to go open? Why can't you guys I don't know. I I think Classic's such a marketable division, too. Like it's it's a great look, you know? So, it's like I I I would prefer to stay as long as I can, you know? Yeah. I mean, I don't want to see everyone leave classic. I want to, you know, because I'm I'm from that old, you know, I'm I'm I'm 55 years old. I remember when we had guys like Francis Benfado, Bob Paris. I mean there was we had a lot of guys with this beautiful shape and yeah they were getting outmasked and stuff so they didn't always win the big shows but you know we appreciated those looks and then we sort of got lost in the mass monster era but now classic has really been revitalized the whole industry I think I think so too. I mean you can look at the posing routines for the open guys and they're starting to really pick up. They're looking I mean look at Derrick's routine was great. Samson, Andrew, a lot of these guys have great routines now and it's awesome to see because I think it's it's great to see a big man on stage with like a just a theatric routine that's just like, you know, just so appealing. I think it looks great. Yeah. Well, you know, I like to see them have a routine because I've seen so many guys get up there and they it's clear they had nothing planned. Most musculars on most musculars and then they got to put their hand up to their ear. I'm like, dude, if you got to ask people to cheer for you, it's you've already lost. already lost the battle. I I do want to switch gears because there's something I was reading on your social media that that really hit hit home because we have a generation of young men right now that are dealing with uh a lot of things that previous generations didn't have to deal with uh you know things and stress and and just the way the world is now. And so we have a lot of anxiety and depression. We have almost like a lost generation. And I know you went through your own struggles with that and I know you were able to get out of that. So, can you talk to me a little bit about what you went through and how you were able to to get yourself to the point where you're at right now mentally, physically, spiritually? Tell you what, like you know, when I kind of made this commitment to myself to pursue bodybuilding. I was working a pretty good job. I was doing personal training the side and I quit everything and I kind of gambled on myself. You know, my girlfriend was pushing me. She's like, "You can do this. You can make it work." I'm like, "You think?" She's like, "Yeah, I know you can." I'm like, "All right, if you believe me and I got have the self belief for myself to just achieve this, you know, let's do it." So, I quit everything. I went all in on bodybuilding and I'm like, "I'm going to make this work." I got my pro card. I started to make a good amount of money. It was great. But, I think with the fast success and how fast everything just came to me, it kind of just like blew up on me in a in a sense. And I didn't know how to handle everything. And I went through this just absolutely brutal time in my life where I had so much and I couldn't realize it number one and I just kept telling myself like you're going to lose it. You're going to lose everything, Matt. Like everything you just got, it came so fast. You're going to lose it just as fast. And it didn't make any sense to like anyone else. But just it's something I kept telling myself on repeat like you're going to lose everything. And it just caused this spiral where I had a self-fulfilling prophecy where I did start to lose things. And I I went through this period of like trying to figure out what's wrong with my brain. And I was going to, you know, doctors and trying to figure out, well, there's got to be a reason. It's my stomach that's causing this. I couldn't eat cuz I was so stressed, so full of anxiety. I'm like, it's my stomach. And then when I figured out the stomach was an issue, I'm like, well, what the hell? Cuz I was in the morning, I was so worked up. I would throw up every day. Wow. Every single day, I'd wake up, I'd throw up, and I'd like got to be something around my stomach. And I found it wasn't. that kind of like spiral me. It's like, well, I can't figure out what's wrong with it. So, like, what am I going to do? And it caused me to go this crazy depression. And honestly, part of it was I tried to work with doctors to get on the medication, but the medication I took just it honestly sent me off the deep end and put me in this horrific dark place in my life where I couldn't even function. Wow. Yeah. I mean, did I'm curious. So you have, you know, you had you had your girlfriend and everything, but I think a lot of men don't have any kind of support system. Whereas I think women are encouraged to sort of, you know, confide in each other and lift each other up and get each other through tough times. And men, we're supposed to do it all on our own. We're supposed to be stoic and tough and resilient and not ask for help. And that's it's terrible because I think there's a lot of guys out there who will never get help and they need it. Yeah. You know, but so what what do you think was a saving grace for you? How did you manage to bounce out of this? I started to kind of like I the there was a 3 month fourmonth period where it was like ground dog groundhog day hell. Like I remember this church fellow golf at 9:00 and I would sit in bed cuz I had the luxury cuz I was working for myself or I could just not get up right away. And I would try to just sit there for an extra hour to kind of stall the day cuz I was so afraid to battle with what would go on in my head. I was like I can't I can't do this. So, I'm just sitting in my bed for an hour and just have these crazy thoughts. And it was like that for so long. And I would go to the gym forced by my girlfriend. She's like, "You got to go to the gym." I'm like, "No, I can't. I can't let people see who I am right now." Because, mind you, I lost much muscle. I looked different. I wasn't getting a haircut cuz I was afraid to go to the barber because I was afraid of people going to find out what I was going through. Like, all these different variables. So, I would go to the gym with a full jacket on, pants, I would have my headphones on with a with a beanie, and it was just it was a mess. And I would be in the gym parking lot like crying like to my girlfriend like, I can't do this. Like, I can't go to the gym. Like, I can't get people to see who I am now because I was so high and now I'm so low, right? And that went on for about 4 months. And then I was like, you know what? I got to get out of this. So, I went to a psychiatrist. Um, and I kind of started to figure out, well, what is going on in my brain that's causing this because I can't live this way. I have a beautiful girlfriend. I have a beautiful family. I have so many things that I can achieve in life and I can't let this end here. So, I figured out some things mentally that was making sense to me. And when I started to figure that out, I'm like, "Okay, this is starting to make sense. I can start moving forward with certain things." And I had a close friend of me who was like, "You know what, dude? He saw me at the gym. He's like, "You need to get out of your routine because this routine's not helping you." And he took me into his work. He's like, "Just come hang out at my work and just do some work with me. Do this." And I'm sure in like a month or two, you'll be out of it. And he was right. And by the grace of God, I don't know if he was my guardian angel that God sent down for me. Yeah. It like got me out of my routine. I started to kind of get my myself back. I started to look in the mirror be like this is the mat like I I know in the past because I honestly would go on my phone and just like look at pictures of myself in the past and would cry because I'm like I'm so like upset like because I'm not the person I used to be. I used to be on top of the world and I I and I had this crazy thought to myself like I have to quit bodybuilding now. Like I can't be a bodybuilder. I can't do anything. I I literally I cannot even do what I wanted to in the past. And that would honestly spiral on me too. So it's like just the right people around me reaching out go not not having an ego with it all and saying you know I can go to psychiatrist figure out things mentally what's wrong with me I can lean on the people I love I can find you know I got closer to God for sure I was really close to God but I got closer to God and all those things kind of snowballed into me getting my life back together and honestly getting it back to there better than I thought it would ever be. Wow. Awesome. Man, that that is so so wonderful to hear because like I said, I think there's a lot of guys who they never get out of it and they're sort of just stuck in their own in their own heads for indefinitely. I mean, this is this is the post you made and that on the left there, that's that's how you looked when you basically were coming out of that that dark. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. I I think that's another thing is it's people in those those of us in the industry if you know if those of anyone who's competed, anyone who's had this awesome physique and you know you still have a lot of great years. You're going to be looking great for many many more years but there there comes a time in everyone's life eventually when you're 40 50 60 uh whatever you're just you're not going to look like that anymore. And you know I think and believe me this is I'm speaking from I'm speaking from experience. I'm not judging anyone. It's hard to not identify with that physique and the attention and the the accolades you get for that and make that your whole identity because one day that's going to be gone. You're going to get injured. You're going to you know whatever something's eventually you can always look good and work out but to look like this it's just not sustainable for for forever, right? I mean I mean how mentally and you had a little taste of it where you know you weren't looking in your head you weren't looking like that at at one point. So do you do you talk to other young men in the industry about this because I think it's it's something that we're all going to have to face. Right. I I I'll tell you what, it's so cool and it's an honor and a blessing to have so many young men, even women of all ages, just say that I had an impact on them by talking about my story because I didn't realize how many people in the our current generation are just struggling so much mentally. Yeah. And you know, obviously social media plays a factor because you see everyone living their best life on social media and it's like, well, why isn't that me, right? You know, it's it's it's a blessing and a curse, but it the amount of messages I get, you know, daily basis of people just talking about what they've been through, it means a lot to me because I love to give back any way I can. And I know that one person at a time, I can help save them as my friend saved me. Yeah. It's it's interesting that you say that because I I I I as much as social media is a wonderful thing, uh, you know, it's given people so many opportunities, it's it's linked the whole world together. When I was your age, when I was 20, when I was 30, I didn't have to see everybody with their Bugattis and partying in freaking Aiza. You know, I knew there were people out there that had these great lives, but I didn't have a billion of them on my phone. Anytime I opened up Instagram, they go, "Oh, no. This guy's this guy's way better, making more money than me. He's got more girls than me. He got Oh, everything. So, you know, I I try because I try not to judge the Gen Z's. I have my son's 25, my daughter's a millennial. She's 31. But you know, you guys you your generation, you would be a you would be a millennial, right? Yeah. Millennial. Yeah. You're you're one of the youngest oldest millennials. Yeah. Or youngest. I think it went to went to Gen Z shortly after you, right? Yeah. I mean, as much as we say, ah, you're that these Gen Z these millennials are a bunch of bums. And no, you know what? They have a whole different They have a whole different set of challenges that we never had to worry about. So, I I try to try to remember that anytime I get into my angry uh grumpy old man. Jose's like that, too. We're both like I love Jose, man. He's he's a comedian. Rusty old man. Um getting back to the Olympia, man. Uh one one question I have for you because you had you your division has 99 pro shows this year. Classic. 99. Wait, is that is that an actual number? That is an actual number. Now, there are some of those that are masters only shows. So, those aren't I don't think those qualify for the Olympia. And of course, of those 99, I think about 15 of them are after the Olympia, but generally speaking, you have a huge huge group of guys at the Olympia. I think it's always around 60 or or more. Crazy. So, you know, if if let's say Jim Manion called up said, "Matt, I want you to figure out what to do. What should we do about this? If anything, what would be your solution to Would you have like a a cut round the day before? Because sitting through, you're up there with with with 60 other guys. It must be brutal waiting for your call outs and then you got to wait for another call out and you know, what would you do to to make things a little flow a little bit easier at the Olympia for your for your division? Honestly, I I have no idea. I I just compete there. I don't know. Oh, it's I'll tell you what, it is a lot of competitors and it's a lot. It It's hard to kind of manage that timing when it comes to being backstage cuz you go out individually or you go out for your comparisons and individually and then you go for call. So, it's like it's a pretty big gap. I mean, I don't know if a cut round is the best idea. I do think it's kind of it's it's not the best to have the athletes, you know, I feel like that'd be really stressful number one. Two, that I don't know if it's the safest thing to have them compete um those two days in a row. I know the open guys do, but I don't know. I feel like some like, you know, Tyler and uh Jen and Steve, they're all doing such a great job. They'll figure out if it needs to be changed or if it doesn't. You know, I I think they're all doing great things in from all regards. Yeah. I mean, they're the Olympia's in a tough spot because the Arnold, they can they can eliminate divisions and they have eliminated divisions. They're also invitation only, so they cap out every division at 15 people. Yeah. So, it's it's easier. they have a huge advantage in making things go a little faster, more smoothly. Whereas the Olympia, that's that's the Super Bowl. You have to have every division. And everyone that earned a place there, rightfully so, won a pro show. You can't say, "No, there's too many bikini girls. There's too many you can't you can't do the Olympia this year. Sorry. Come back next year." And I mean, you can't say, "What are you going to say? Only if you win this level show can you go to the Olympia or maybe your division you have to win two shows or three shows get the Olympia, right? You know, there there's all kind people come up with the the the craziest ideas trying to figure out what to do. But as long as you're okay with it, I mean, you're the one that's got to be up there. Hey, if you win, you're in. You deserve the right to step on stage. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, Olympias, you you're what what's the what's the plan? I mean, as far as like did you have do you have downtime? Do you have time for an offseason before you have to start Olympia prep? Yeah. So, this is the funny thing. This will be my first time having just time to rest and grow since I went to classic when I decided in 2022. Wow. I did I did five pro shows in 23. Didn't have much time off and then I started prep for the next year pretty much right away and I did Pittsburgh, New York and the Olympia was in October so I didn't really have much of a window to kind of rest, grow and do all that. Yeah. And now I finally have like an extended time to kind of reset, recover, spend time with my loved ones and everything and then grow. And I think that's going to be a game changer for me for the Olympia. Absolutely. Were you tempted to do this Pittsburgh pro? I was, but I know to bring my best to Olympia. I couldn't do that if I did more shows, you know. Yeah. Well, what do you think about Derek doing it? I mean, you're not gonna say he's an idiot, of course, but but I mean, it's a gamble. If he pulls this off and wins Olympia this year, wins his title back, it's going to be the greatest year ever. Arnold Classic, uh, I don't see anybody beating him at the Pittsburgh Pro. I No, he'll have I think um I think that Derek is kind of with Chris in the corner now. He's kind of learning things and he's learning his body. Not say he didn't learn his body with previous coaches or anything, but he's learning it now like truly and he's stepping into his own. crazy as it say it sounds, but he won the Olympia and everything, but he truly is stepping his own now. And I think that that Arnold was his best. Yeah. And he's in Germany right now. And usually I'd be like, "That's a bad idea, Derek. That's not good." But I think he's going to be his best at Pittsburgh. And I I don't know who's doing the show, and I I respect all the athletes, but I don't think they're have a chance of beating him respectfully. I think Derek is the full package. I think he's got so many bells and whistles like the best back ever almost if you want to make the argument. I think he's going to be only getting better with Chris Learning's body more. So I think it's going to be another victory in Pittsburgh for him. Go to the Olympia. Another victory there. Historic year period. Yeah. I mean, like I said, if if he wins the Olympia, this will be everyone's going to say everything was a great idea. That's how it's hindsight is 2020. I don't see anybody beating him, of course. You know, you guys have the same coach, Chris Aceto, right? have to commend Chris and Derek as a team because getting it right 100% first time working together. It's rare. You know, it takes usually takes a couple shows to really figure someone out perfectly and peak them. But this Derek versus the one we saw at the Olympia last October light years better. The the the fibers in the quads, the the the waist was tighter. The back was everything was better. you've peaked better than I think this is his look in my opinion was better than when he won the Olympia. That's my opinion. I agree. I to I've said this a few times. I've gone on record. But let me let me ask you this because I I don't think he's ever gone on record saying quote unquote what went wrong. But that was not the normal that was not the usual Dark Lensford we saw last October. You were training with him. So you saw him every day. Was he doing too much? because he looked just like over overdided, depleted, and flat to me at the show versus what I what I know he's capable of looking like. You know, I I don't want to speak on everything, you know, because that's between the parties, but like I think that the peak obviously went wrong. Um I do think that he things could have been pulled back a little bit a couple weeks out. I think he was ready to go. Derek was so conditioned for the Olympia at four weeks out. I looked at him like, what is there left to do? Look, the diet's over. Like, you're you're absolutely peeled. Like, what's you know, I'm looking at this guy pose. I'm like, you what's left to lose? Like, you could honestly just start to add calories and just cruise to the Olympia. But that's not what happened. But I think that Olympia was a blessing for me. And I think it all happened. I was just meant to. And, you know, I hate to see how upset he was. Even I was upset, but I'm happy it happened like that because it just made Derek be more light and carefree and just enjoy bodybuilding more. And it's it's been awesome to see him because mentally he's on a different level than he's ever been and his body is showing it. And I think it's all because of what happened at the Olympia. Yeah. No, I I I honestly believe everything happens for a reason. And I think him getting knocked down at third was probably the absolute best thing that could have happened because look at look at how dominant this Arnold Classic win was as Pittsburgh, no offense to Nick Walker fans or Martin fans. That's going to be AI don't see that being a problem for him to just dominate that show, right? And then you know the Olympia, he's already Samson's no joke, but unless Samson somehow really suffers and gets shred out of his mind, I don't see him beating Derek at the Olympia either. So I agree 100%. See what happens, right? We don't know. You never know what's going to happen to this crazy business. It all comes down to game day for bodybuilding. Yeah. But I mean, you know, and you've got your own you've got your own thing to focus on. Uh but it's the title's wide open. Uh you know, Bumpstead was he wasn't unbeatable, but he was pretty close to unbeatable. Uh for six years, he had a strangle hold on that title. And I think it's exciting now that it's it's wide open because just because Mike took second, you know, I like Mike a lot. It doesn't doesn't mean he's guaranteed anything. Nobody's guaranteed anything. I mean, Ronnie Coleman won the Olympia and he had been like ninth, eighth or ninth the year before. I think it was ninth. I think it was ninth. So, nobody saw that. So, you know, I think you have as as good a chance as Thank you. I'm I have every intention of winning the Olympia as I feel everyone who's on that stage show. You shouldn't go to these shows thinking I'm I'm gonna participate. Like, what's what's the point? Yeah. And I mean, I wouldn't I wouldn't say you had a chance. If I didn't think you had a chance, I would not even have brought it up. Believe me. No, I know. I don't do that to people because uh you know there are guys and you're I gotta say though when I say there's 60 guys in it I'm always impressed even with the last call out guys you always see some great great physiques up there look great they look good it's true it's a tough tough I think your division is you know maybe fitness is tougher because they have to do a routine and flip around but uh I think your division is the most competitive because every year every year we have breakout stars you know this year you're one of them you're one of the guys people are going to watch out for you got Ruffin coming back. He's going to be looking better than ever, Mike. But every year there's at least a couple guys you've never I've never heard of ever and and you know, suddenly they're like being talked about as as Mr. Olympia, potential Classic League Olympia champs, right? It's not something you see in open very often. It takes I think it's the deepest division. Personally, I think the more it has most depth overall. I agree. So, for you to succeed in that division, you know, you really have to be good because dude, there's there's a million of you. a million. So many good athletes. It's never ending it feels like. Yeah. And I like and I think a lot of the talent pool, it used to be, you know, when I started out, it was all bodybuilding. So anybody with great genetics just went to body. That's all we had. But now I think a lot of those people who would have been great open bodybuilders, they're perfectly happy to keep that aesthetic look and the small waist and and stay in classic. So yeah, your your division is packed and stacked. Absolutely. It's only going to get better. Yeah. And you know, you know, it's you're part of the reason why you're one of this the young guys who's really vers you know it's a lot. Terrence, Mike, it's it's a great crew you guys have and every year it's going to be better and better and better. I think uh your division is only nine years old. So, it's still a little baby. It really is. It really is. I mean, wellness is younger. Fit model is uh just came out of the womb. It just literally spat sped out of the womb. Yeah, Vision is still fairly fairly new. Very new. So excited to see where it's going to go and where you fit into that. You know, you're definitely one of the main main characters in that movie. Yeah, I like it. I like what I like that I must start using that main characters. Yeah. Well, you are, man. So, uh that's it, Matt. I I appreciate you doing this very much. Uh glad we finally got this done. I've been meaning to contact you for a while, but I'm one of those procrastinators. So, appreciate you, Matt. And uh congratulations on the Detroit win. belated and wishing you the best of luck in this offseason and prep for the Olympia. Thank you so much, bro. It was an honor to be on here with you. All right, guys. That has been the Ron Line Report with this man, Classic Physique star Matt Grego. Thanks for watching. We'll see you next