Hey everybody, welcome to Ryan Line Report. Great, great guest today. I've been waiting a while to talk to this man. He is the top ranked classic physique bodybuilder in the world right now. Pro in the world right now. Just won the Arnold Classic. Was runner up to Bumpstead at the Olympia a few months before that. Please welcome joining us from Mexico of all places, Mike Summerrfeld. Mike the badass. How are you, sir? Hey, how are you doing? Thank you for having me. Yeah. So, I've I haven't interviewed you in years. It was uh geez, I remember Neil Neil Hill pulled me aside. I've known Neil for about 10 or 15 years. He said, "I have this guy this this young guy from Germany. He's going to be really really good." And I was like, "Oh, every coach says that." But he he was telling me, "This guy's going to be the champion someday. You watch." I'm like, "Okay." you know, Neil Neil Neil knows potential and he was right. So, uh, before we get into the Arnold and all that, I want to start with the Olympia because I haven't I haven't had the opportunity to talk to you about the Olympia at all. Um, so here it was. This was the final call out. You had been eighth place the year before. The year before that you were fifth place. So, to move up from eighth to second was a tremendous, tremendous jump. Um, you know, were you surprised at how well you did and how a lot of people thought you were really pushing the the champ Bumpstead at this show? It was incredible. And I still have no words to explain how I feel. Seeing this video right now is, is it really me? And I'm like, yes, it's me. Wow. Yeah. So, you know, Bum Bumstead, a lot of people thought he was unbeatable. And, you know, I mean, look at the scorecards. usually had a perfect perfect score for his wins, but you got a lot of support at at this show and right after the show, people, you know, especially with him retiring. Um, but you know, you you said something in um a different interview with Fouad, uh, where you said you you were sort of happy you didn't win the Olympia. You you you weren't really ready for it. Can you kind of explain why that was not the the right time for you to be the Olympia champion? It's difficult to explain. And I'm really I'm trying to reflect myself every day. And the year before I placed eighth, so there's not much going on after the show. Of course, you get incredible amounts of messages and social media is going crazy. But second place, right next to Chris, the first guy who got some points, my Instagram was exploding. I had like 15 16 17,000 messages for one day. 200,000 new followers and my my socials were exploding and I answer every personally. So I had a hard time 3 weeks after the show just answering messages. I didn't really sleep that much just in order to give back. you know all these messages they come from heart and I want to answer at least you know saying thank you and being just appreciate the attention and all the love and then obviously many many people were reaching out to me with new opportunities and a lot of business and you know it's not about me anymore it's about me and my family so I have the chance to provide for my family one day if I make the right decisions But what is right, what is wrong, I have no idea. But the time is now. I have to make decisions now. And it was quite hard. But I was lucky. I had Neil with me all the time. So I was able to talk to him. I was able to talk to Chris Bumpsit himself because I was so overwhelmed. There was just to be really transparent here. There was a lot of money on the table and I had to leave my supplement company and they supported me for almost 10 years even before I turned pro. So they believed in me. They tried to make everything possible for me even when I had no money to compete actually buying flight tickets and hotels. I literally had no money and they gave me the chance to compete and be my best. So I had to make a decision. I cannot I can take care of my family now but at the other side I'm feeling horrible because I need to leave the company who supported me for so many years and then I had to ask Chris I I asked him like Chris what what what can I do now? What is the best solution here? And he said hey you know what just listen to your heart that's the right decision and then everything was clear. So, I canceled all contracts, possible contracts. I stayed with my old company, even if they're just in Germany, a little company. Yeah. But they supported me and now it's time to give back. And that's what I did. And I'm feeling great. Even if I don't make millions of millions of money, but Sheru from India said one thing to me. He said, "Loyalty over royalty." And he's right. He is right. So, and then now I have the chance to maybe grow the supplement company with me because I'm international now. I'm living in so many different company countries. So, it would be quite smart to just connect them and grow together. And this is what I'm trying to do. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't realize you had lived in these countries. You've lived in Dubai, Spain, and Mexico so far. Uh yes. We we left Germany three and a half years ago. Then we lived in Mexico in Play Carmen. Beautiful, beautiful city. Unfortunately, one of my close friends, he got killed right in front of the gym. I was just talking to him and they shot in his head in his heart. And then I said, you know, it's my responsibility to take care of my wife. She left everything in Germany for me. So I had to make a decision and I said, maybe it's not the best place to stay here. Yeah. And then we moved to Dubai and that was crazy. Dubai is a crazy crazy city. Yeah, I remember that. I remember like Generation Iron making a post about that bodybuilder getting shot, you know. It It had to be the same guy. I don't know. He was not that famous. He was just like he was a local guy, but we were good friends, so he was not an influencer or something. Okay. Okay. Um Yeah. But I literally talked to him. I left the gym and then somebody sent me a Facebook post where he was lying dead on the street and was like, "What?" Wow. That's awful. That's awful. Yes. I was in shock. And then I was like, "Okay, life could be over like this. They don't care. Sometimes they just drive by, shot, bang, bang, and that's that's it. And this is not what I want for the future." Right. So I'm I'm just curious a random question, but you must speak obviously you speak excellent English, you speak German. Did you did you learn Arabic and Spanish as well? So I'm not fluent in Spanish, but now I understand some things here and there. I know some bad words obviously. That's the first thing they tell you, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But I'm trying. I think it's disrespectful going into a country and don't you you you're not able to say hello, thank you, how are you? These small things, you should know that before you enter a country and this is what I did. But Arabic is really hard to be honest. Yeah. But Spain, Spain is okay. Um, German of course, English and listen, I was a really bad student. The way I learned English was watching bodybuilding was this is how I learned speaking English. Wow. Yeah. You you've done a tremendous job. I mean, geez, I speak like three words of German. Oh, yeah. That's a long time to be married. Yeah. And you've uh you know, your your wife is a a huge part of your career and your life and everything. I love seeing that. I'm AI'm a family guy. I got my kids are Let's see. How old are you? 30. 30. See? Yeah. So, my daughter is going to be 31 in a couple weeks. So, you're definitely young enough to be my kid. Uh, when is her birthday? April 7th. April 19th. Oh, okay. So, she's like two weeks older. Yeah. So, you born you were born in 94. Exactly. Oh, wow. So, I I I see pictures of your dad there and your dad was a a bodybuilder himself, right? Oh, listen, that's a funny story. He competed against Dennis James like 25 years ago. They were on the same stage competing against each other. And my mom, she went to school with Leroy, which is Dennis brother. So they know each other for years and years and decades. Wow. Yeah. So, you know, your dad was obviously he was he was muscular and you saw that as a young kid. Was that your inspiration to become a bodybuilder? Yes. And I just found the picture two days ago where I was taking a picture in front of the mirror. I was like maybe 12 years old and the picture was pretty much the starting point and I told my mom, I'm going to be better than this guy one day. H wow. This was the official starting point. Wow. So did your dad help you? Did he did he show you the ropes? Show you how to train, how to eat and all that? Yes, kind of. Um so obviously I asked him, "Hey dad, how can I get ready for a show?" And he was like, "Yeah, it's I was eating Greek yogurt and chicken." I was like, "Okay, so I'm going to do that as well." So my first diet for eight weeks was yogurt and chicken all day. Nothing else. Two different food sources. Wow. But I I won the show. Uh I competed the first time when I was 16 and it was a it was a super funny story. I fainted on stage. Wow. I I asked I asked the guy, "How can I get rid of the water?" And he said, "Yeah, stop drinking." I was like, "Okay, so I don't drink any water for two days, right?" He said, "Yeah, that might work." So, I didn't drink any water and then on stage, I had not practiced posing that much. And all the, you know, the hot lights, you haven't drank for like two days and you're sweating and my ah I felt horrible. And then after the fourth pose, I fainted. They pulled me from the stage and I woke up backstage and was like I I thought I was dreaming. I was like, "Oh, that this is how a bodybuilding show show looks like from the backstage." Then I saw a competitor. I was like, "I know these guys. That's that's a weird weird situation here." Then I remembered, uhoh, I just competed. Why I'm backstage and then I was running on stage, did the final poses, and I won the show. Today, not possible. They would just Oh, yeah. They'd send you to the hospital. They should. I mean, that's someone's life is in danger. Yeah. Yeah. Your uh your Wi-Fi is a little spotty over there in Mexico, so we'll do what we can. You can hear me still, right? Wi-I is right now. No, no worries. Now I can Yes, it's coming back. Yeah. So, um I I know Giles was at the show in London in 2018 where you turned pro as a heavyweight bodybuilder. Um so, obviously Classic had already been around a couple years at that point. Were you were you not a fan of classic in the beginning? Because why didn't you try to turn pro in classic to start with? Competed 91 kilos, which is roughly 190 pounds. And u I won the overall luckily against guys who were like 100 kilos to 20 pounds. Yeah. And still until today my heart beats for bodybuilding even if I compete in classic. Classic is an amazing division. I love it. But I grew up with people like Ronnie Coleman, Jay Cutler, Phil Heath, Kai Green, but now I'm a classic guy. Yeah. I mean, you know, it's I I've I've taken some heat because I say, you know, Mike Mike is a bodybuilder and a classic. When I say he's a bodybuilder, talking about you, it doesn't mean that I don't think you have beautiful shape and symmetry and proportions. It means you also have the mass and the fullness that I think you could you could step on on any bodybuilding stage and you'd do very very well. Whereas most guys in classic, you can't say that about them. They would not do that well. I mean, that sounds like a compliment. Like Chris was also doing the open and he plays very well. So that means that I'm looking complete enough to compete in different divisions. Yeah. So what is your weight cap and is that what what's your weight cap? I don't know how tall you are. Remember I think you're around 5'7 to 5'8 like me. Is that so? 59. So 5'9. So my weight cap is 212. Okay. And are you were you 212 at the Arnold Olympia? No, I was a little bit lighter. So I was weighing with my clothing, with shirt, with a with my pants and I still made weight. So we could maybe grow a little bit more, but Neil said we don't need to grow more. My muscle look really full and round and plastic, so we don't need to grow more. And this is actually better because I don't need to think about making weight all the time. The struggle before the show, just crashing down weight, that's a lot of stress. And if we just stay under my weight cap for two, three weeks before the show, perfect. Yeah. I mean, a lot of people were wondering, how does this guy make the weight? cuz you look you look like it's I know it's all an illusion with the muscle shape and you have very small joints, but it does seem like you're way too big to possibly be able to make the the weight cap for classic, but clearly I know they weigh you guys in publicly in front of everybody. So, you really are that weight. I mean, but it's it's it's crazy what an illusion you present. I mean, if I saw you and you said 5'9 and I didn't know what you weighed, I'd say like 220, 225, maybe more. Thank you. Thank you. But no, actually it was I think about what 209 210 maybe. Okay. Wow. So I heard on a clip I think was someone else's Instagram you were talking about you hadn't had an offseason for a long time but 2024 you finally had the chance and you put on some some good size. So I think I heard 40 pounds. Maybe I'm confused. Did you actually put on 40 pounds in the last offseason? No, it was 70. pounds. What? So, we're talking about 30 kilos. Wow. And it was super easy to do. So, I was prepping. I had my offseason in Dubai. And Dubai is a perfect place for a bodybuilder. You have the biggest gym in the world. Every piece of equipment you can imagine. They have multiple different meal prep companies, therapists, barber shops, supplement shops, everything you can imagine in just one gym. The gym is literally so big, it's like a small city. It's crazy. And what I've done was I dedicated every day just to do bodybuilding. I trained twice a day my cardio in the morning. I slept during the day. I slept 10 hours every day. And I was eating the highest quality food I can get, like super high quality salmon, beef, eggs. And I increased my food from 3,000 calories to 4 and a half thousand. Just one and a half thousand more. Yeah. Which was enough to see me growing day by day by day. And I kept my shape. So my my midsection was not growing. I still had abs. I still had straated glutes and and legs. But obviously I needed to cut down the weight again. But we were able to I would say from Olympia to Olympia to add like 8 kilos, which is 18 20 pounds. Wow. And my shape was even better. Like my conditioning was better. So I think it was maybe 9 kilos from 23 to 24. Incredible changes. Neil made a great job. He guided me because I had not had any offseason for like 3 four years and my body really wanted to grow. I was hungry every day for four years and since I increased my food it was crazy. H Yeah. Because, you know, I I vividly remember after we had our interview at the Olympia like four years ago. I watched you on stage like this guy's really good, but he just he needs to be bigger. You know, you're as big now as you ever need to be. So, what was your highest offseason weight in pounds? Like 270. No, I think 240 245. Okay. I mean, that's still a lot of weight for a a classic guy. Um, I I think again I might be wrong about this, but do you train on an upper body all at once, lower body, upper, lower split, or do you break it up like in the traditional kind of bro split or push pull legs or something like that? Oh yes, Mike Smeld is training a beginner split. I did upper lower every day for six days in a row and had one day off. Wow. And the reason for that, I can tell you it's the best split you can train for one simple reason. If you know what to do, if you're on the money and you're precisely enough, this protocol will help you to gain incredible amounts of muscle. The reason for that is high frequency comes with high high recovery. If you're able to recover that fast, I was sleeping twice a day, maybe 11 hours every day. I ate food more than my body really needed. So, it was a calorie surplus, high like incredible quality of food. And the only thing what I did was really intense workouts, short times, twice a day, every day, upper body, lower body, upper body, lower body, and I recovered. Bang, bang, bang, bang. So there was just one way to grow. Huh? So So does that mean every body part got hit seven times a week? Or am I am I screwing this up? Three. Three. Three times. So I was training push in the morning, pull in the evening. Okay, got it. The other day I was training quats in the morning, hams in the evening, and then I just repeated. I had push A and push B, so I was able to do PEX flies and incline. The next day I did flat flat bench press and cable flies, for example. Okay, gotcha. Um, I'm curious how long you've been working with Neil Hill, uh, the legendary Yoda. And how did how did that start? How did you how did you get introduced to him? Oh, that's a that's a great story. Um, I need to explain it more in detail. I worked with Patrick Tour and from 2014 to 2018 and he was the guy who made me pro. Unfortunately, one month after I turned pro, I was walking outside the day of my birthday. I was walking outside in the sun in Germany and my skin felt like burnt chemically really bad. So I had huge pain and was it was burning everywhere and I I was scratching my skin and then I found out that all my skin is under my fingernails and I was bleeding. I was like what what happened? Like I went to hospital right away and they took blood they did all the checks and then the results like after 3 4 hours the results came back in and they said that that can't be right. Like there's no way you walk in and out here you should be already dead. My liver failed. I My liver enzyme levels were like 980. But I was not in conscious prep, nothing. I was chilling. So I was super confused. Why is my liver failing? And then they found out that I have a genetic sickness. It's called pferia varagata. Very very rare. Only 0.0000.1% of humans have that kind of disease. And they live in South Africa. So European doctors, they didn't even know what it is. And after 2 years of researching, they got some information about it. And I'm a hobby nerd, too. So I was basically sitting at home researching for 2 years. Blood tests, I took medicine, I took medicine out, I changed my food, I changed my intensity levels in the gym, I changed everything. So week by week, I did different triyouts and compared the papers and then I found out it's from the oxygen production. So to build hemoglobin it takes seven steps and the last one is called po corpo porferine and this is not at the right place at the right time. If that's not going to happen this hemoglobin breaks into pieces and these pieces are toxins they went into my liver damaged my liver and then all the toxins went into my skin because that's the next organ in line would probably could filter these toxins and these toxins react with UV light. So every time I'm going into the sun, I I going into danger, hurting my skin. But now after so many years, Neil and me, we found a good good way to just keeping the levels low. So Patrick, he told me, "Mike, I can't take the responsibility to coach you anymore because you might die. Our way will end right here. and I would recommend you to stop doing bodybuilding just to stay healthy for the rest of your life. And I was like, "Okay, okay, Patrick, that's fair. I appreciate that." And I truly understand. I would do the same as a coach. If one of my clients get really bad, like hurt really bad. And I had no idea what it is. I would say, "Hey, the best idea is to stop doing it. Stop pushing and get healthy." That's what Patrick did. So, hands down, great decision, but I don't want it to stop. I literally said to my doctor, "It's going to be the devil or me. We will see." H wow. They said, "Hey, my congratulations. You just turned pro, but that's going to be your last show." And I was like, "Nope." Wow. That's not my last show. And then New Year's Eve, 31st of December, I wrote an email to Neil. I said, "Hey, Neil, this is Mike. You don't know me. I just turned pro. Blah blah blah blah blah blah." Luckily, I met Flex Lewis four years before 2014 at the FIBO in Germany. He was sponsored by BSN. I was sponsored by BSN. And we had a conversation. I said, "Hey, Flex, what do I need to do to become pro?" And he said, "Nothing. Just do the thing you're doing. You're good. Like, do that." And from this conversation, Neil asked Flex, "Hey, do you know this guy?" And he said, "Yes, this is Mike. He just turned pro." And then he texted me the very first day of January, like few few hours after New Year's Eve. He said, "Hey, Mike, I know you. I already talked to Flex. If you want to work, let's have a conversation." Wow. Then I called him and you know Neil, he's really straightforward. Yeah. He said, "Okay." And he he and Patrick, they were friends for years. Yeah. So he knew my situation. He said, "You know what, Mike? I'm going to work with you, but we need to make a deal. we're going to work together, but as soon as your levels go up again, just by 1%, we're done. We're not even talking about it. We are done. I was like, "Okay, coach, that's a deal. I will do my best to be healthy." And since the day we got healthier and healthier and healthier, and even I'm telling you, two weeks after the Arnold's, I'm one of like I'm the healthiest I've ever been. Wow. That that's crazy because Bumstead has a a hereditary kidney and kidney affliction as well. It's a different burgers disease. It's different, but wow, what a coincidence. So, maybe the upcoming champion needs to have a disease, maybe. Um, man. So, uh, yeah, I'm just curious. Did you ever compete as a 212 or did you go directly to to classic? Yes, I competed in 212 one time in Roman Romania 201. Yes, 2019. But obviously I'm too big. Like I'm too high. My height is, you know, so even if I had two 12 pounds, but I had no two 12 pounds, I would look too small. Actually, compare me with K Pearson. That's a huge difference, but the same weight and we are basically the same height. So he said, Mike, you know what? I see you competing in classic. Your bone structure is basically made to be classic. white clubs, small waist, try do try do um classic because the weight was already there like we just need to go down a little bit and that's it. And then we competed in Frankfurt Dennis James show back then 2,500 people sold out. My very first show classic in my hometown which is like 30 minutes where I was born in Frankfurt. It was an amazing experience. My very first coach was the athletes manager backstage and they called my name for the individual posing round and he said, "Hey, Mike, stop. This is your moment right now." Do you remember 10 years ago we were talking about the moment right now? I got goosebumps. Oh my god. Oh my god. And then I went on stage and the crowd went crazy. I was I felt the pressure from screaming. I felt the wind. It was one of my best best memories of bodybuilding and I got second place. So I was just to get the Olympia qualification and I thought okay coach that's it let's do classic. Yeah. And from there we developed and here and there a little bit more a little bit less and you know the precise stuff. Yeah. And you you the following your British Grand Prix you got a runner up there as well to llo the guy the youngster from Hungary. When did uh what was your first pro- win classic? Um it was not a win. I took second or third place at the European pro show from Alio. This is where I got my first qualification for the Olympia. Then I did the show in Romania, got second place and another show got second place. Hm. So, but I had the um qualification in the time of co there was a special room rule that the first three guys get the Olympia qualification. Right. But my very first win-win win was I think 2021 the Tijuana Pro show in Mexico. Oh yeah, that's right. I forgot about that show. I don't think they ever had it again. I think it was a one a oneoff show. Um, yeah, it's funny because I I, you know, Tyler Manion actually made a a a detailed explanation because people were saying, you know, Mike Sefeld's not not classic. And Tyler explained, "Yes, he is, and here's why." Tyler's great because he actually takes time to explain things to people who might not understand. And he breaks it down in a way that people go, "Oh, okay. Now I get it." Um, so Olympias in the past, Arnold Classic, uh, when did you know that you were going to do the Arnold Classic? immediately after the Olympia or or was it was it weeks and weeks later? Please tell me again. The connection is so when did you decide to compete in this Arnold Classic? When did you was it right after the Olympia or when did you make up your mind to do the Arnold? Yeah. So, how did the Arnold Classic? Can Can you hear me? Yes, now I can hear you. Okay. Yeah. So, uh, when did you decide to to do the Arnold Classic? Well, honestly, it was in the room for a very long time because I competed at the Arnold 2022 and I placed fourth. We had in like it was such a trouble. We went from Dubai all the way to Ohio, which was like a 28 hour flight. And me and my wife, we got married. So her passport changed and obviously the number on her passport and we didn't had the Esther. So we made the Esther based on the old passport. But then we showed up there at the airport and I said, "No, the number is not matching. So I need to leave my wife in Dubai and I would never ever leave my wife somewhere." But the fact that it's Dubai and it's the safest place in the world, literally I can tell her 3:00 a.m. in the morning, you can like go to get a haircut, no worries at all. Dubai is the safest place ever. So we booked an Airbnb. She stayed there overnight, but I had to leave alone. And obviously sitting in the plane, I was not able to sleep. So there was no digestion at all. I was not moving. So my weight did not drop. And then she came a day later, which was the night before the weigh-ins. So I had no sleep again because she lost her luggage. We need to get her luggage back. And then it was like 600 7:00 a.m. in the morning. We need to get ready at 10:00. And then I was overweight and I didn't make weight. And they said, "Okay, 30 minutes and I was running running did the sauna. I was like almost killing myself but I made weight. We made it. But I had a huge stress like my body looked not fresh and I was really really exhausted and all these mistakes we did in the past leaded to great new tools to know to get better. So I wanted to do the our notes again just to prove or actually learn from all the mistakes and that's what we did. So we came in early enough. Um we have many many experience already knows Neil knows exactly what I need to do. I I know exactly what to do. So I had a really bad bad food poisoning six days out from the Arnolds. Oh no. in the plane. In the plane, I lost like 8 pounds and I was not really able to train, but I had like a baby leg workout and it got better and better and better. We deleted all food sources which could probably give some inflammation. So, we're basically just eating rice and white fish and just suini. And this was my carbing up too. So, just plain rice, white fish, and some veggies. That's it. But it went went well. So we made it. I'm really lucky. I'm really happy about it. So this told me that even if I have difficulties, I might find some solutions. Whatever might come, you never know. But I had food poisoning already. I was late already. We didn't make weight already. Um we had so many problems in the past, but we already made it. Like we know what to do now. There's nothing what? There's nothing we can not find a solution for it. Yeah. I mean, Neil Neil is a he's a mad genius. I mean, he's he's somebody so good. Flex Lewis could have worked with anybody in the world, but he never left Neil. And, you know, I I could see you staying with with Neil hopefully for the rest of your career. Uh because I think he's he's just he's a guy who really cares about the clients. I mean, he's not just he's not just in it for his own glory or anything like that. He cares about the clients more sometimes I think more than they care about themselves based on what I've talked to people about. Totally agree. So this year was actually the year he turned like I would say from last year. Last year until now he turned from being a coach to be part of the family. Um my wife she calls him stepdad literally. And like for real he we don't talk pretty much about bodybuilding. We're talking more about family and journeys and memories and all that. He's more about I if I don't had a dad, I would say he's my dad. Like we talking every day. We we make it fun. We It's not about hey, did you eat your chicken? He knows that I'm on the money. He knows that I know my job. So if when we're talking obviously he makes sure that I'm on on the money, but it's more about it's hard to explain. He's he's just such a nice guy and whatever it is I can call him. He always has good advice. He's really really honest and this is what I like. He's not your cheerleader. Never. He's still the guy who kicks your ass if needed. But he's also the guy who pushes you to be your best. And I love that. Neil is such a great person. And so many people don't know him because he's such a precise, precise, straightforward guy that many people don't see his real personality. He's such a strong strong personality, but he's so warm-hearted and so sweet sometimes. It's incredible. Yeah. You know, I I don't talk to him often. It's every few months, but we end up talking about our kids. You know, he's asking, "How's your daughter? How's your son?" And I mean, we don't talk about bodybuilding because we we talk about bodybuilding all the damn time every day to other people. So, yeah. I mean, he's a family guy and uh and he's also just an amazing coach. So, yeah, I I see a great great partnership between you two that I hope continues for many, many more years or however long. You're still a very young guy. I mean, geez, 30 30 years old. You got you've got a lot of good years. Yeah, I I can tell you and I already told Neil, if there's any situation in my life that I'm not coached by him, I will not do bodybuilding anymore. There's no way I'm going to do bodybuilding without Neil. Neil is a part of my bodybuilding journey 100%. I don't want to have any other coach never. Even if I place last at the Olympia, we got to place last together as a team. That's powerful. So, you know, every every great classic guy gets asked this. Will you ever do an open show or 212 show? Like maybe let's say after you possibly win the Olympia this year and there's another show maybe the next weekend or two weeks later. Have you thought about it? Because you wouldn't have the weight, you wouldn't have the weight limit, but I don't think you need a lot of extra weight. I think you would do really really well, you know, with the look that you have right now. So, what what's what's your what's your what's your thoughts on that? I I haven't thought about it to be honest really. I I haven't really thought about it. It's I'm trying to create something new in classic. You remember that after every era and this was literally the Chris Bumpset era. Yes. Same as Le Haney and then the new era was Dorian Yates. Yeah. And later Ronnie Coleman and then Phil Heath. So there must be something new. And this is what I'm trying to do. I don't want to be the random classy guy. I want to be a new era of classic physique. I want to be wide, full, round, powerful, strong, aesthetic at the same time. So I try to do the Dorian Yates thing in classic. M I want to be that guy walking on stage and everybody's like what the and it already started. People asking me how is he making weight? He's way too big. He's like there's Mike and there's nothing else and then second place. This is what I'm trying to do and this is what you need to do in order to become a Mr. Olympia. It's not like yeah maybe this guy, maybe this guy. You need to be a standout athlete and this is what you're trying to do. Yeah. I mean, when when Bumpstead was I knew he was I knew that was going to be his last year. I knew it all year. He not that he he didn't tell me or anything, but I just knew it because he'd had the baby and you know, different things. I said, "I guarantee you guys, I'll bet you a thousand dollars, whatever. He's going to announce his retirement." Sure enough, he did. Um, you know, it was obvious. So, he got his hair transplant. He got a baby. He got his kidney fixed with stem cells and exoomes. M why should you continue in asking so much from your buddy? He has so much more to do than just competing. Now he's a dad. He's a business owner. He is I mean I understand that competing is fun but competing is hard and he can win maybe 10 more Olympias. He's an outstanding athlete. Yeah. But I think it was the right time for him to say thank you for the past but now it's time to move on. And now it's on me and it's on all the athletes coming up to be the next phase of classic and this is quite hard to do especially after a guy like Chris. Yeah. I mean that that's what everyone was saying is like what's going to happen to Classic now that Chris is gone because they felt that he brought so many fans and so much interest to the division. But I think we're in good hands. We have still have plenty of guys like you. We have Urs. We have Ramon still around. Um, Terrence Ruffin coming back this year. Tons of great guys. I posted it on Instagram. I literally posted it today. So many people are, "Who's next? Who's going to be the winner? Is it draft? Is it Ramon? Is it URS?" And they compare us like literally every day. I got like 30 texts on Instagram every day where we get compared. Yeah. And I said, "I personally don't care who's going to win the Olympia. The best guy will win and that's fair. If it's me, if it's Ruff, if it's Urus, if it's Rammon, if it's one of the 50 other competitors, everybody who was on that stage deserves to win. Everybody had a hard time. They did their job. They worked hard to be on that stage is already a win. And if I'm not the first place, congratulations. You are better. You deserve the title. Yeah, this is bodybuilding. And we don't need to talk about 6 months before who's going to win the show. Even a day before, you don't know. Even 5 minutes before the awards, you don't know. Because the judges know what they're doing. That's their job for decades. If they call you as a winner, you are literally the best person in bodybuilding, in classic, on this planet Earth. And that's fair. That's okay. Yeah. I mean, that that's a great point. I'm just curious. Do you wish you had had a chance to are you are you sad in any way that Chris left before you had a chance to beat him? Because I know a lot of guys talk about I would love to beat Chris. That was like their dream. Not just to beat Mr. Olympia, but to beat the GOAT, the guy who's the face of the division, the poster boy for the division, you know. Do do you wish you you had that chance or or does it not matter? I thought about it a few days ago. just imagine myself winning against him. But it didn't satisfy me because I think he is the best looking classic physique guy we've ever had and he opened so many doors for us upcoming champions. If I go somewhere to barber shop and he said, "Oh, you're doing bodybuilding?" I said, "Yeah, sometimes." Ah, you know Chris Bumstead? I said, "Yes, I was competing right next to him." Was like, "What crazy blah blah blah." He's like I say he's the Arnold Schwarzenegger of 2024. He is such an incredible ambassador for the sport. He's such a nice humble guy and this had influence to each and every one of us and to beat him would make me feel sad. So I would not I would not get the the satisfaction of beating Chris because I would feel bad. Wow, that's a that's a really interesting answer. But I appreciate your honesty. Uh, I just got to give one last question because you've been very generous with your time. You were an underdog last year. Nobody was expecting the guy that was eighth place the year before to really be pushing for the title, but now you are going in as the heavy heavy favorite. You won the Arnold Classic and you were second to Bumpstead, which means Bumpstead's gone. Mike's the next in line theoretically. Uh, do you feel any pressure now? because last year nobody had any expectations for Mike Somerfeld, but now everyone is expecting you to win. I love the situation I'm in right now. I have incredible, incredible pressure. I'm always breaking, but this is how diamonds are created. If you cannot handle the pressure, it's not the time right now. But still, until today, I can handle it. I know how to take things and I'm not I'm not upset if somebody says something bad because that's their job. I understood that there are two types of persons. One type is working basically. Let's say soccer players, right? They do the matches. They kick the ball. They do the work. And there are people like journalists. They have to talk about the people who do their jobs. And this is what social media is doing. We are the bodybuilders in the gym. we're doing the work and at the same time there are people their job is to talk about what we're doing and it's they can talk whatever they want in the end it's what I bring to stage not what they have talked before so as I understood that it gave me so much more peace in my head and the pressure is needed if you don't have pressure you're not developing fast I need to be ready at the Olympia I need to be ready to be a champion and it's not about I don't want to be the who's just holding the trophy and say, "Hey, goodbye." I am going to be the ambassador for Classic. I want to represent a character, a person who everybody wants to look up to. I want to be inspiring, motivational. I want to be the guy people saying, "Hey, if I'm going to be a bodybuilder, I want to be like him. And I'm not there yet. I have to work a lot. I'm not focusing on changing my body tremendously. I know what to do. That's not the hard part. But to become a champion, I have no idea what to do. I can't be the next Chris Bumpstead. There's no Chris Bumps 2.0. But there's a new mic. And I want to be the best version of myself in order to be the best ambassador for the sport. This is why I try to do so many seminars, talking to people, connect to people in different countries, continents. I literally just finished my seminar and tour in Mexico. Six different seminars. I did four seminars in a row. I hit the plane in the morning, did the seminar, to the plane at night, overnight to another city, did the seminar, same thing for four days. I haven't slept pretty much. And I enjoyed each and every second. From here, we will travel to Guatemala in two days to do a seminar and to promote a show. From there, we're going to go to Pittsburgh to talk to people to promote the show. From there, we're going to go to New York, talk to people, promote the show. I want to give back. I got so much love, so much support and attention. And this is not just for me. This is the bodybuilding community around the world. And if I can be a positive influence in that, just one single percent, I'm happy. This is what I want to do. Right on, man. Yeah, you know, I mean, like I said that there's never going to be another Chris Bumpset. There's never going to be another anybody. There's only one Ronnie. There's only one Phil. there's only one mic, you know, but you know, to make your own legacy and to to make your own you have a you have a a it's it's not going to be an easy road, but I can I can see that you're prepared to to level up and to to be this this person that the sport needs because classic there's a void right now with Chris gone and a lot of people are just sort of looking around like wondering what's next, who's next? And you know, I I I I think it could be you for sure. I hope it's you. um you know regardless of what happens uh you've already excited a lot of people with the this is a new look for classic that you bring it's a whole you know I think even even bodybuilders who kind of like look at classic I was like they're those are the guys that couldn't be bodybuilders they weren't big enough to be bodybuilders you get a lot of respect from those guys I I've I've read I've read their comments and stuff so you know you are bringing something brand new to the classic physique division and you know I'm I'm very excited to see what you and Neil can put together over the next couple years. You know, who's to say another another legacy couldn't be Couldn't be you. Could be Mike. Exactly. And this is why I have so much pressure. But I love it. As I said, pressure is needed. And I just released a t-shirt. My wife designed it. Amazing shirt. It's called pressure and diamonds. Ah, pressure is a good thing. Problems are good things. Problems will lead to solutions. Solutions will give you the tools to be your best one day. As soon as you understand that problems is something good. I love problems. Food poisoning. Great. I closely died six years ago. Perfect. Since the day I closely died, I put so much focus on being healthy. And now doctors call me and ask me for advice. Wow. Because I know these things. I know exactly how I need to read a blood work. I need exactly what kind of foods you need to eat, what kind of supplements, what kind of medicine. I know everything just for from the moment I closely died six years ago. So, thank you. It's it's a great thing. Even if I if one of my athletes had had a food poisoning seven days out from the show, I know what to do. I can tell them and I can tell it to everyone. This is why I love the seminars. I'm trying to share all my experience what I've been going through the last few years or decades better said. And this is so powerful. If I had the chance 10 years ago to talk to Kai Green, how he trains, how he eats, how he does all the things in his life, that would be great. But now I'm in a position to do that. How cool is that? Yeah. Oh, you, like I said, it's exciting. It's an exciting time for you. you know, a few years ago, I didn't I didn't know that you were going to be at this level now, but it's I I'm I'm always privileged to be on the sidelines in this industry to watch people watch people sort of sort of rise up through the ranks the way you've done. And it's it's I know we're nowhere near the end. You still uh you're just at the beginning of all this. You know, you've you're just just getting to that that part of the mountain top where it's going to be an exciting climb from here. So, I wish you the best, man. You know what's really interesting now as you're speaking about it, I don't feel uncomfortable at all getting all the pressure. Like years ago, I was thinking, "Oh, is it the right way? Do I really make it? Is it possible or not?" I mean, you played a video as we were talking before they handed over the awards and I closed my eyes. I was looking upwards and I was saying something and I know for a fact that I was talking to my grandpa. He died in one of my preps before, but he was the guy who told me, "Mike, there's just one thing you need to do, and it's work. If you work hard and you work honest, great things will come. There's no way around. That's a logic consequence." And every time before they hand over the medals, lost him there, but I'm going to go back to that uh footage he's talking about right there. There's a there's the moment he was talking about, guys. I think we're losing him. Yeah, he was had some spotty Wi-Fi there in Mexico. He's going to come back. This will be our final final comeback, I think. And can you hear me, Mike? Can you hear me? Yeah, you're there. You're good. Yeah, I just showed that moment again when you were talking to uh talking to your grandfather on stage. I can talk to Chris or Flex or like I have so many good people around me and that gives me so much peace. Yeah. Yeah. I mean that's you know no no man does it by himself. Every champion I've ever known has had very good people around him. A small group of you know very small circle of people usually that they've known for many many years that they can rely on to be honest with them and never to to [\h__\h] them or anything like that. So yeah, that's another reason I think you're destined for for greatness in the sport. You know, you have you have a solid team of people around you, real real people. So I'm gonna wrap it up. Uh appreciate you taking the time, especially dealing with all the issues with the Wi-Fi there. So that that was I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. I wish I could be more professional, but you did the interview while you're in Mexico, man. I appreciate it. So uh have a great trip. You're going to Guatemala next, you said. Then Pittsburgh and so and New York. So, New York and LA. My very first time in LA. It's going to be interesting. All these years. Wow. Good times. Cool. So, uh yeah, I thank you so much, Mike, and wish you the best. Congratulations on the Arland Win. I don't think I ever even said that. Congratulations. That's you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. And, uh, you know, wishing you wishing you the very best of luck at the Olympia. I know it's a long ways away, but everyone's already starting to talk about it. You know how we are. So, that's it. Follow Mike on Instagram at Mike the Badass. I love that instead of IFBB pro Mike Somerfeld, he's Mike the badass. And that's it, guys. So, uh, that's it. Thanks for thanks for the interview, Mike, and I wish you the best. And that's it. Thank you for watching. And see you see you at the Olympia, hopefully. Yes, hopefully. Cool. All right. Thanks for watching, guys.