Hey everybody, welcome to Ron Line Report. Today's guest, someone I've known uh I knew a long time ago. I haven't spoken to in years. Very, very happy to be talking to him today. Please welcome all the way from Phoenix, Arizona, Mike Morris. Mike, man, hey guys. How's it going? So good to see you and talk to you again. It's been god 20 years maybe. 20 years or more. It's my pleasure Ron. I'm really glad to get a chance to talk to you again. Dude, time flies. So, just to refresh the readers because readers, there's no readers anymore. Viewers, uh, so Mike turned pro back in 1999. He was the overall North American heavyweight overall champion. Back in those days, one guy got the pro card at that show, correct? Yeah. You had to win the overall. Yeah, the the overall there and at the USA. Yeah, these days it's like the top 20 in every class, but uh it's tough to keep up with, isn't it? Yeah. So, we put up this footage. It's not the greatest, but it's all I could find on YouTube. So, uh Mike went on to compete as a pro from the 2001 to 2005 seasons. Did 14 pro shows that I could find records of. Maybe there were more. Um made top five at the Australian Grand Prix in 2005 where Lee Priest won. final show. I was there. I was at the 2005 Olympia Wildcard Showdown. Um, which was a very emotional from what I recall. Uh, we'll talk about it because that I wish I had footage of it, but I I remember that show vividly, very vividly. I'm just leaving this up on screen because it's the only video I have of you. Uh, quick question while this is up. Mike, if there had been a 212 division back then, because there wasn't, you had to go open. Um, do you think your career might have lasted a little longer or you might have done better? Uh, no. When I turned pro, I was, uh, I turned pro at 219 and then when I did my pro debut, I was probably a little bit higher than that, maybe 224 or so. So, uh, I probably would have had to diet pretty good to get down to 212. Okay. So, I probably would have stayed, uh, in the heavyweight. Yeah. Let me show people how good you looked when you turn pro. Sometimes Sometimes people's best is when they turn pro. You put a lot of size. So, this was you say about uh Can you Is it on screen now? Yeah, that was right before I turned pro. That was probably about two weeks before I did the North American. Yeah. And you took a full year off after this before you before you made your pro debut, right? I did. I was always, you know, my training style and from where I built my body up, I was just uh wanted to be bigger and better. I always wanted to come in condition, but I always wanted to be bigger. And you know, 1999, like everybody was chasing the size. We had Nasser and Duran and all the mass monsters and uh you know, rule and and I was competing with them and uh you know, so I took a year off and put on some size. Um if I could have gone back and kind of you know, trained myself a little bit, I probably would have said stop chasing the size because this right here is really good. My waist is really small and I think from putting on just a little extra weight since then I think my waist got just a little bit thicker which I've heard from the judges kind of did detract from some of my placings. So yeah, I mean I I I did I was I guess I was going to say it because I I can't I can't lie to people. I like this look better than the way you looked as a pro. I really do. Yeah. Um just the lines, the shape, the taper, the shape, you know, but back then like you said everybody was chasing mass. It was the Dorian Yates era, the Nasser, some somebody era, Marcus Rule was was coming up. So, I think guys like you felt you had to get bigger. You didn't really have a choice. Yeah, they were they were in every show I did. I mean, the Toronto that I did, like Art Atwood, you know, uh, Rest in Peace, like he was another one. So, there was always some giants that I had to compete against. Um although the winner of a lot of the shows I did was Durham Charles and Durham Charles um you know beat all those mass monsters and he was shredded. He was a he was a a giant killer. So yeah was probably if I don't know exactly but if I was to guess height and weight do you think he was like 5'8 heightwise? Uh Durham Charles. Yeah. He was a little taller than me. I'm about 5'7. Um I 5'8 5'9. I I bet he wasn't more than 215 on stage. No, he was he was I remember he's one of those guys that you know look doesn't look like he has a lot of size. He shows up the at the the weighin with regular clothes and you know he was all sunken in. He was shredded but I mean you know with clothes on didn't look that impressive but then once he starts peeing off backstage and you know you see him on stage. Incredible. Yeah. So yeah you did you put the mask on because I think I I think I remember talking to you in your offseason you were like 270 around there. 270 was my highest, but I mean I was rolling around 260 for a good while. 260, 265 when I was pro was kind of like my cruising weight. I do want to add one thing though, like after I turned pro is where I feel like I kind of got mixed up in some of the painkillers and some of the new man and stuff. And I was I was going there, don't worry, Mike. Okay. Well, I was gonna say I think that also contributed to my gut getting bigger. Really? new veins, the painkillers. Well, because I mean, if you're, you know, your body's getting that toxic and you're, you know, your body's kind of fighting all that toxicity, you know, you're going to get inflamed in some areas. I just I can see what my waist looked like before I turned pro, before I got mixed up in that. And also after. So, I mean, I'm sure there's a lot of contributing factors, but right, you know, I'm sure that opiates and painkillers, it doesn't help in any way. Put it that way. So I I I've seen previous interviews where you said you had sort of dabbled in the New Bane thing, but uh you were living in New Jersey. That's where you that's where you're from, but you moved out to LA. Uh I don't think even you were sure about the year 02 01. It was around 2002. Okay. And that was like Yeah. I I I always heard about it, but I wasn't I never when I knew a lot of the pros back then, but I I never asked them about drugs, recreational, or or performance enhancing. just to me that's just like I didn't even want to know about it but I I know it was huge back then that the New Bane especially in the 90s toward the the mid and the late 90s was probably the height of the New Bane epidemic among the Los Angeles bodybuilding scene but clearly it was still going strong when you got out there. Yeah. Yes, it was. Yeah. I mean I was already taking New Bane uh when I got out there and um but when I got out there is when I started doing it basically introvenously regularly. So it's almost kind of like I stuck it up a notch. So explain this to me because this is what I never understood about New Bane. There's all kinds of things people perks oxies you know obviously you got heroin you got all kinds of recreational drugs. I never even heard of how do you think Newbane became like the bodybuilding opiate of choice. Um you know what that's a that's a really good question. You know, there were some people that were touting benefits, you know, where it says if you're going to like subdue your pain threshold, you can train harder. You can obviously work around injuries and stuff, which also isn't good to do. Um, but there there were some benefits that people were saying, but um that wasn't necessarily uh why I took it. But um it it's something that people should never take. I'm I'm not sure why it took off so much. I mean, other other than it it makes you feel good. And a bodybuilder that's into being bodybuilding, you're not going to go home and drink, you know, beers every weekend because that doesn't that's not part of my protocol. But if you start taking a little bit of New Bane, then you realize this guy's doing it, this guy's doing it, this guy's doing it. It's like, oh, well, everybody's doing it. Then I can just sit back and relax and just enjoy my new Bane that I take every day. I think you hit on a point there is it it sort of became from what I understood I did talk to a few to a few guys like Paul Deo was uh was the one person I I did talk to because he was from Boston he lived out in LA for a while too uh in the 90s and they used it you justified it as like a training aid like just another thing this is going to help me train through pain it's going to help me re recover better because I can sleep better you know there were a lot of different justifications people made for using it But you know, I don't know if you use other types of painkillers, but how does did it is it a lot more mild than than something stronger like like Oxycontton or or Yes, I believe so. I believe so because there's kind of a threshold to how much Newane you can take. And for me, if I took a little more than what I should take, you know, it would just make me nauseous and kind of you wouldn't get that good feeling. It would just kind of go into like a a bad feeling. But it's definitely nothing anybody should take. And you know, I will say, you know, we touched on like, you know, you talked to every people and they're taking it, so you think it's okay. If I would have spoken to other bodybuilders and and all of them said like, "Oh, what are you taking that stuff for? You shouldn't take that's awful." So, if I had just two or three guys say that to me instead of, "I'm taking it to then I'll be like, "Okay, I need to I need to get this out of my," you know, but I didn't think it was hampering my career. I didn't think it was um and and it kind of was for me it kind of took years for me to realize like hey this is this is affecting my training this is affecting you know your sleep everything so yeah so I mean that you know it's like you said it's not one thing that led to health problems it was it was a number of things as it always is I don't think it's ever just one thing I think it's a it's like a things stacked up against each other but as far as the gear I'll just get it out of the way what how how much were you using at your high point in terms of like grams of this, grams of that. Um, at my highest point, I know when I was living in California, I was taking like about a 3C shot about four days in a row and then would take a day off. And that three cc's might be a combination of uh, you know, a cc sustenon 250, a cc of um, siponate and a 200 milligrams of deca. And I would do that every day and then usually take a day off. And then there'd be orals on top of that, maybe like dbol or Anadrol or Prima Ballan or depending on if it was on season or offseason. Did Did you ever do the math and add it all up? Um yeah, it's probably about uh well 600 600 750 times 4 700 28 three grams. How about three grams a week is a good Okay. In just injectables. Okay. I mean, that that doesn't sound that outrageous because we hear about we hear about guys supposedly I I think it's it's on one hand it's good that we have this transparency now, but we also have people claiming they know everything the pros take. And I know you've been on the scene for a while, but they claim this goes back to like the guys of your era, four to four, six grams a week like standard for everybody. And you're telling me three grams and you you found that to be a hefty amount. So, when you hear the I don't know if you how how closely you follow the social media and all this stuff, but they will tell you you'll hear guys say, "I know what every pro takes. I know a top coach and they all take four, five, six grams a week of gear plus 15 to 20 I use growth a day." I mean, how much of that do you think is exaggerated? Because I I can't imagine. I know guys who had no reason to lie to me and they were two to three grams a week at their high point. A lot of them. Well, two to three. That's kind of what I took, right? So, I mean I mean look at how look at what you look like. You're freaking massive. I I think uh maybe a lot of it is exaggerated. I can only tell you what I took and I know what I took, but I can tell you that from the other pros that I've spoken to, whether it's in the gym or training or out to eat or just in a one-on-one type of situation. I was kind of surprised at some of the bodybuilders I spoke to that says, "Yeah, I only take about 600 milligrams a week of this or you know, a little bit of Primabone and stuff." Um, so that always kind of made me think, boy, I guess I'm taking more than a lot of these guys because I, you know, you're from, you know, Lee Priest, I'm sure. Obviously, you competed against him. Yeah. He comes out and says, I only did this or that. And I, it's like a less than a gram a week. And everybody says, "Bullshit. You liar. You're just, you know, you're trying to make yourself look like some hero like you didn't use." And it just it boils my blood because I know there are people who respond very very well to very moderate amounts. But I say it's it's these guys out there that are doing a gram of trend and a gram of test and a gram of equipo something every week and they still they look natty. They they barely look like they work out. So in their minds these guys must be full of [\h__\h] But they don't understand. They don't I think it's too hard for them to admit everyone does not have these gifted genetics. Yeah. I think that's just the kind of the human mentality. I've seen a lot of the Lee Priest videos where he's saying that and I believe Lee Lee's not he's not one to lie, you know, but it's also surprising to me too hearing he's only taking 400 this or 600 this but it's only a testament to how great his genetics are. But you also have to take into account, you know, there's genetics and then there's your diet and then there's your workout program and your sleeping protocol and how much you're willing to cut out out of your life. I mean, everything has to be 100%. You know, um I know I cooked every meal for myself. I prepped all my meals, ate all my meals, and sometimes I would, you know, hang out with some other bodybuilders and I'd be doing shows with them, amateur pros or otherwise, you know, and we'd be both maybe three or four, however many weeks out from a show and I'd see the things they're eating and then I'm like, I'm sitting here eating plain chicken breast and rice and you're eating like looks like meatloaf and casserole like like how are you looking like you are, you know? Or maybe they would look better if they were more tighter in their diet. So, uh, I can only speak for myself and I know I tried to do everything, uh, 100% and, um, you know, I did. Yeah. I mean, looking back, obviously the you did eventually have health problems. We'll get to that, but your competitive career, I mean, is there anything you would have changed? I mean, you put everything into it, you know, did you look back, maybe I should have done this or that. Is there anything you would have changed as far as the way you ate or trained, gear, anything? Well, the only thing I would have changed is is absolutely stayed away from painkillers. Okay, that's AI think that would be a given. Um, and the other thing I would have done is I would have controlled my blood pressure because I know every time I went to the doctor, you know, I was one of those guys that would get blood work done and check my blood pressure and go to the doctors, but I mean, I really wouldn't listen to what they say. I have some some doctors that say, "You got to stop all this or you're going to kill yourself." And I was like, "Well, I gota I got to turn pro. I got a goal." Um, but I would have controlled my blood blood pressure. I would have taken something to control my blood pressure and I would have been a healthier bodybuilder and I probably would have performed and competed better controlling my blood pressure. So those two things and then just what we talked about earlier, I probably wouldn't have tried to because once I turned pro and I got my pro card, you know, I really pushed hard, you know, to put on that little bit of exercise and like we were both just talking about, I should have just kept everything on autopilot because I had a winning combination, a winning package, like everything I'd done for, you know, 15 years to get to that point. I should have just kept on going and seeing how I did with the pros. But sometimes we had this mentality, once you turn pro, I'm going against all the big guys and you are. and you want to step it up, you know, it's just a natural thing to to do. So, yeah, I I heard that doctor story before another interview of yours and it kind of got me thinking that's that's the doctor doctor not doing you not doing their their job. Do no harm. If they saw that you had high blood pressure and you made it clear, uh, I'm doing this these PEDs or whatever for my for my body career and I you don't really have a choice. if you want that look and you want to be on stage with these guys, you have to do that. What they should have done is said, "Okay, well, I can give you a med to lower your blood pressure since you're not going to stop doing these other things anyway." But instead, they just said, "Ah, you're going to die. You're going to die. You're looking looking back." That's what I remember. I remember a few people saying, "You got to stop all this." You know, that was kind of like their words. You need to stop all of this or you're going to die. I think one wanted to put me on Lasix and you know like 80 or whatever it was 40 milligrams of Lasix a day and I was like that you know I've taken Lasix before to to do a show and I I can't my calves turn into cinder blocks you know so I was like you want me to take that every day like so I there was lots of times where whatever they said or you know I kind of discredited them you know but I just I never had a doctor that was very real with me like hey I get what you're doing I see you want to turn pro I see you're motivated about this my job is to keep you healthy you do what you got to do and let me prescribe you this blood pressure medication so you can so I can try to keep you as healthy as you can because a doctor can only tell you, you know, here's your meds and you're still in charge of taking your medications, you know. So, um, but yeah, it's great because like I think you even said another these days they they don't hesitate to to write you 40 different prescriptions. I mean, doctors are like crazy about writing prescriptions these days for they probably get kickbacks. I'm imagining a lot of them, too. But back then, we're talking 20 25 years ago. Especially for bodybuilders, because I remember once I started using gear and started seeing doctors, their whole attitude toward me changed. They looked at me like uh like I was a bad person. They wouldn't like if I had asked for blood pressure meds, I didn't I only had high blood pressure a couple instances, but I don't think they would have given it to me. you know, they were very discriminatory towards there were times, you know, when I was um a late teenager, maybe it was early 20s, you know, where I would go to my doctor and I would ask him for gear. I'd be like, "Hey, I want to do this." So maybe I had a few years and seen a few doctors doing that, being like, "Hey, can you prescribe me some test?" Like, "I'm going to do this anyway. I'd rather get it prescribed by you and observed by you and you can check my levels and all that." But every they they just didn't want to hear that. at all. But now, you know, kind of times have changed and now there's doctors that do do that. So, um I don't know. It makes me a little jealous when I think back and all these doctors I and now they got, you know, clinics where they do that. So, everybody's on TRT. Everybody. Yeah. You're you're almost as old as me. Are you 55 yet? I'm 54. Oh, you haven't had your birthday yet? Yeah. Uh it'll be December. I'll be 55 in December. Yeah. So, I mean, everyone our age everyone our I'll be 56 in September. Everyone I know from my from the bodybuilding era that's like our age is on TRT now. Everyone. Yeah, you got to be. You got to be. I mean, with I went through a 10-year period after I retired where I wasn't training and I wasn't taking any TRT because I just wanted to get all out of my life and was, you know, going through the process and still going through the process of healing myself. And I was like, I just don't need this anymore. But my testosterone was in the the dumps. So, um, you know, TRT, as long as you're taking TRT doses to keep your testosterone in a normal range, I think is a great thing. It's really a great thing. Yeah. Um, you talked about junk food, too. A couple times a week, you used to go to McDonald's. This blew my mind. You could eat 10 hamburgers in one sitting. I think it was 12. Wow. The fries and a shake or no, just the burgers. I might get one fries. I think I used to get the because back then the hamburgers were I think were like 89 cents or 99 cents. So I get like nine or 12 of them and then I would take all the hamburger patties and put them all on one BUN. So I'd make like a couple like nine triples or however many triples. You know, I'd probably get one fries to wash it down. I was always really good at not about not drinking soda. Thank goodness. I think soda's a bad for anybody. Um so I'd probably just get water. Fair enough. Fair enough. Uh insulin is something you had a runin with. I mean, everyone everyone insulin is so readily available. So many people use it. I think it's I I don't even think you need a prescription for insulin. I could be wrong about that, but you didn't when I first got it, but I I think you do maybe now. I haven't got it or taken it in a while, but I do know the price has gone up. I think in my bodybuilding career, I think I bought one bottle of insulin and I think it was like 20ome dollars and then it, you know, uh lasted me basically my whole career and then now let's flash forward to I don't know how long it was 10 years ago or something and I had a some client that I was helping bulk up and as mentioned like insulin I was just go and get at the pharmacy and I think he said it was like $180 or $190. I was like no it's not that can't be right but apparently with diabetes now all that stuff is going up. Oh wow. You'd think with like half the country diabetic, it would be cheaper. You would think that, wouldn't you? But that's the medical and the pharmaceutical company. Yeah. So, you had one pretty scary experience with insulin. Can you tell us about that? Yeah. Well, I had a couple of them actually. I think the one that you were referring to. Um, I believe it was right before I turned pro and I think it was about two weeks out and uh I was going to the CVS and I was getting all my stuff and you know I'm very familiar with my body and I can tell when things start to come on. I'll start to get flush. I'll start to get thirsty. My tongue will start to feel like it has tingles. So, I left right away and just drove home and I got pulled over and I was already kind of just like focused to get home to my meal which was prepared and then the cop pulled me over and then uh yeah, one thing led to another and I had an episode the year before. So, I think he called for backup and another cop from another department came by because I was right on the border. The towns in New Jersey are very, you know, kind of small. So, so anyway, when they showed up, um, luckily they kind of knew what was going on and that I just wasn't some big freak freaking out. But anyway, they all started to, um, they called the ambulance. The ambulance wanted to obviously take my blood sugar level. And it kind of just hit me all at once like the they're just going to take my blood sugar level. It's going to be low and they're going to make me go to the hospital. Yeah. So, I just kind of started to panic and started to, you know, get erratic and stuff and uh I ended up just like hulking out and just running away from all of the police officers and uh made my way home and got to my oatmeal and ate that. And Wait a minute. Wait a minute. You're in a You just sped off in your car? No, I ran I ran away from the police officers. Did you leave your car? I left my car right there. No, my blood sugar was low. I wasn't in a very bright state of mind, but I think I went to somewhere like after my show and I saw that police officer and he came up and was talking to me and he was laughing because he was having a few drinks and stuff and he mentioned like, "Yeah, when you got when you did that like we're all standing around and we looked at each other, it was like you want to chase him or shoot him. It's one or the other." So, it was really funny. So, yeah. Well, the other story I I didn't hear that story. The other one was I think you were home, right? And luckily your I was home. I was home and I think I had a girlfriend at the time and I think I just kept passing out and again I was getting erratic. I don't remember it too much but apparently I was like throwing dishes and stuff and all that but um I think that she called the police and the police showed up and uh I just ended up eating food because that's all I really needed to do is get some food into my system. Yeah, but I've explained this before where when your blood sugar gets so low and your brain doesn't have sugar to function, um you can get delirious and you can actually just pass out on the floor or fall down. Yeah. And then I've I've had that happen a few times where I kind of just come to on the floor and I'm sweating and it's like I know what's going on. I have clear mind on the floor like just get up to the table and have your oatmeal with your banana. It's right there. And then I would stand up, but then the blood sugar would drain out of your head and you'd fall on the ground again. Wow. So, I'm not sure what happened there. Maybe I just kind of kept trying to get up and then I got frustrated and then I just started to like get erratic and throw things, you know, maybe a little bit of low blood sugar plus roid rage, maybe. Yeah. I mean, we've had people die. I mean, I can't remember his name. Uh, so I don't want I don't want to say his name because I don't want to throw it under. There was a guy, I think he was training in in Long Island and he crashed and died on the way home from the gym and people speculated he had just taken the insulin and he didn't he didn't time didn't have enough carbs or something. He just passed out while driving home and that's how they think Dallas. I don't think we've ever heard exactly why Dallas died. But people think a heart attack, but you always hear all kinds of rumors, you know. I mean, I heard he was I've also heard that he choked to death because he was trying to trying to get the carbs down because he was crashing and he passed out with a bunch of food lodge in his throat. So, I don't know what's true, right? I always try to keep juice on hand because I've kind of learned that, you know, first of all, I learned to have food and candy and stuff on hand, but juice is better because then you can just kind of drink it down. You get a glass of cranberry juice, you can down like, you know, however many carbs in just a few swallows. Yeah. I would I wanted to ask about this the Milos back the Milos contesting and because we're talking about insulin he's kind of the one that introduced insulin use into the bodybuilding world but you had a great story about the Hungarian Grand Prix in 2003 where you saw him go through the most incredible 60minute transformation of a bodybuilder I've ever heard of. Plea please recount this crazy crazy story. Yes, we we talked about this on the uh Dennis James podcast a little bit. Actually, he brought it up again. Um, but anyway, um, I saw him backstage at the Grand Prix and, uh, I didn't think he was competing. I really didn't. And he took off his clothes and he looked like he didn't have a tan. And we did kind of talk about on the podcast where, you know, I I thought I saw him take some injections, you know, and I thought it was like a cycling and insulin and I saw him take all his carbs and his whole, you know, routine, you know, but he did clarify that, you know, and I've taken insulin before and now I do believe that this is true that when you take in or a cycling, you're going to take that the night before and stuff. So, that was one thing that he kind of clarified, which was kind of cool. Um, but yeah, I just I watched him transform, get his tan on, eat the baby food, pump up, and just turned into a rock-hard bodybuilder in an hour's time. That's I guess he's the he's the scientist, you know. So, let me let me clarif younger viewers, Esacan, is it pronounced? I never knew how to pronounce it. Is it cycling? I might be pronouncing it wrong. I I always called it a cycling, you know. I've been calling hypertrophy, hypertrophy, my whole life. Now I heard it's called hypertrophy. Yeah, because uh you did a podcast in Venice like geez 10 or 11 years ago and so anyway, let me explain. It's like a temporary inflammation agent that bodybuilders, it was really big in the 90s. They would put it in on show day, shoulders, arms, calves, and it would just swell everything up for, you know, for the show. And you said at that time he had two guys helping him. It was like a NASCAR pit crew. Like that's how many that's how many injections he needed. So it must, you know, looking back now, I was probably embellishing a little bit, you know, makes makes for a funny story, you know, but I do know that he was taking an injection, you know, backstage, but you know, like I said, he clarified the not going to be taking a cycling an hour before you go on because it doesn't really work that fast. You usually take it like a day before and uh to my recollection, it usually lasted for about 48 hours or so and then it would kind of fade away from there. But it's a kind of a tricky substance because, you know, it came from Italy and it came in little ampules, little 2C ampules. And uh, you know, sometimes you would do it in your bicep and it would swell up your bicep. You get a great peak and it would look great. And then other times you do it in the wrong spot, now it looks all lumpy like you just inserted a hot dog under your skin. And you know, you've seen bodybuilders on stage where their delts just look a little a little, you know, so if you're doing a cycling uh, I guess I want to say correctly, you're not going to notice it. you're just going to see a bodybuilder that looks great with round muscles, you know, but if you see someone that does it wrong or not necessarily wrong, they just get a bad injection and then you notice it now, they're going to look bad on stage. So, yeah. I mean, you said the same thing about SEO, you know, synthol was the main brand. That's like we call diapers pampers, but that's just a brand. Kleenex is just a tissue. But anyway, SEO synthol, whatever you want to call it. You made a point that some guys could use it and it looked it gave a fantastic result where their bodies absorbed it differently or something. Other guys it would just give that really lumpy unnatural fake look that you know you could spot it a mile away. You tried it and and it wasn't for you. You didn't stay with it. No, I I've got maybe it came in A-50 cc or maybe it was a 100 cc bottle. Wow. But I think one of those I think I don't think I bought more than one or two of those. But then I kind of just learned that it's just oil. So then I was like, well, if I'm taking three cc's of test here and three cc's of susten on here, why not just take that and use that for sight injections? Yeah. I kind of found over the years that, you know, it just was uh wasn't really reliable and it does make it kind of puffy and and then, you know, I never did injections in my quads and I I learned that because I did a few injections in my quads and I couldn't train. Yeah. Done some on my lats before and then it hampers my training. you know, biceps was a little different, you know, because I don't know. I guess I could still for me, I could still train biceps and triceps with injections in them, shoulders, too. But for me, there's certain areas where it hampered my training, and that for me was a was a no-go. So, yeah, I tell people stay away from your quads two two times in my life, three times. I've done and this is how I'm just making myself sound very stupid here, but the night before I had to help somebody move. Uh, an elderly woman. It was my my wife's grandmother had to help move. I did a shot in my quad. The next day I'm I'm supposed to be there with my brother-in-law. Oh my dude, I was just in agony trying to move stuff. And another time it was I had to help my son move into his dorm room at college. Four flights of stairs at UMass Amherst. Oh. Oh. Anyway, so guys, stay away from your quads. Yeah, I would tell people to stay away from their quads, too. I've had I have a lot of clients that be like, "Hey, should I do my quads?" And I'm like, "No, you shouldn't. You got two glutes and two delts. That should be enough, you know, landing space to to put your gear." So, I'm the same way, Ron. I I did my quads, I don't know, three or four times before and I was just felt like someone punched me in the leg and had a Charlie horse for four days or however long it was, but it just was not for me. Um, you talked on this. So, I'm going, this is like a 2014. It was like an hour and a half podcast. Uh, I don't think we even called them podcasts back then, but it was talking about the partying scene in bodybuilding and, you know, you were part of it. I was part of it. So, I'm I'm not I can't judge. I was literally right there with you at a lot of these parties and clubs doing the same drugs, you know, the the ecstasy, the ketamine, whatever it was. I don't even know half the [\h__\h] that I used. Do you looking back was that was that a problem in the same way as the painkillers or did not that not really affect your health in any way? Oh yeah, that definitely affects my health and everybody's health. That was not something that was you know I think the first thing was affecting my kidneys was not controlling my blood pressure for years. I don't know when I first got my first high blood pressure reading was geez probably in my early 20s. Wow. Um, so, um, it does run in my family, too. So, blood pressure is not good for your kidneys. You know, steroids and tren are not good for your kidneys. Rolling around at 260 is not good for your kidneys. T amount of creatine that I was taking is not good for your kidneys. Um, and I shouldn't have to tell you or your audience that going to the club and and doing however many ecstasy and ketamine is not good for your kidneys on top of all of that other stuff. So, um, yeah. So, not a not good for you, but part I mean, you know whaty does? It's it has that name for a reason. I mean, it was a it was a really fun time. I mean, besides being in bodybuilding and a pro bodybuilder, I'm also a bodybuilding fan. And when I would compete, I was there to compete. And, you know, you got your game face on when you're backstage and you compete. But, for some reason, when you go to the club and you're in that, it's a whole different environment. And now your competitors that you know, not that you dislike them, but they're your competitors. They're the the enemy in a sense. And now you're just out and you're on ecstasy and you feel on top of the world. It was just a nice uh I'm just really glad I got to uh experience it. So yeah, I mean I don't want to promote it and make everyone say go out and take ecstasy, but I had some great times. My god. I mean the you said the music the music sounds better, you know. I can remember going to like the the sound factory after the New York Pro or something or Night of Champions. whatever it was. And you know, normally if if a bunch of guys all juiced up or drinking alcohol, it's it's not always a good time. No. But on Ecstasy, nobody was hating anybody. Nobody wanted to fight anybody. Everybody got their shirt off, sweating rivers, pupils dilated like saucers. But, you know, good great memories. Yep. Everybody loves one another. You know, you share stories. It's a it's it's a great time. And I just remember being in the club and you know every time you wait for someone to walk in like oh here comes Chris Cormier. Oh here comes King Kamali. Oh it's Bob Trarillo. Yay. You know it's just like a giant class reunion in a sense you know. So I think you get to express your love and your um admiration for people in a much better way. You know when you're on Ecstasy. Again I don't want to promote No. I mean I want to make sure people understand. I I I think if they did any research at all, they would understand it destroys like your dopamine receptors. Yep. Uh so I was only I I was once or twice a month for probably about five year span. And I got to the point where I was like it would take me like two days to recover. Like I just felt like dog [\h__\h] Like I didn't want I would crawl under a blanket with a fan on. I couldn't sleep. But I didn't want and I ended up being on Wellbutrin for a year or two just to try to get my serotonin levels back and then you know couldn't couldn't use it anymore after that. Yeah, it does really affect your your dopamine levels in a big way. I mean, talk to somebody Monday or Tuesday after they went out to the club on Saturday and you have a major dopamine crash and, you know, you're depressed and uh yeah, there were some times where, you know, I was basically, you know, at some point, you know, suicidal after that. You know, I remember at one point after partying on the weekend and I was shopping, I'm just like pushing an empty cart almost like crying, you know, through the, you know, yeah, shopping center just because, you know, just because your dopamine levels get so low, it's it's um it's the opposite of being on ecstasy. And uh you know, it can have uh lasting effects the more you do it. So yeah, if they if here's your like natural I don't know uh peak of dopamine or whatever and they put you way up here, then they're going to crash you below where you normally would ever be, too. So it's only it's science. It's medicine. You you pay for it pretty much the the amount of uh ecstasy you're going to feel, you're going to pay that price for. They kind of say that about drinking, too. If you drink, you're you're robbing joy from tomorrow in a sense because you're going to have a hangover. And so I kind of, you know, live by that rule as well. So tell me, it's it's time to talk about where you got to the point with your health where you knew it was either stay bodybuilding and not live much longer or put all these drugs behind me and get to live a a longer healthier life. How did that all when did when did it all happen at once or was it a gradual thing? Um, for me it really kind of all happened at once. I came back from the Australian Pro and um, I was having like pitted anemia in my legs. That's where your ankles and your feet kind of swell up and if you push your finger in, it'll make a little divot and it'll kind of stay there. Now, I've had that before. I've had that before in years past and I usually think to myself, oh, I've, you know, you know, when we break our diet, you know, we go from however many calories a day and now we just go, you know, go to the wall and eat cake and stuff. So, I was like, oh, I kind of overdid it. And I also had the long flight back from Australia, so it was a little more, you know, worse. Um, but I went and got blood work and um, I was going to read my own blood work, but I think the friend of mine who I was getting the I think it was a chiropractor who I was getting the blood work through, he sent it to a doctor. But anyway, he mentioned to me, you know, hey, you need to go to this doctor because he needs to talk to you. And this doctor was just, he was from California, but I mean, he was honest with me and he just kind of spoke to me differently than the other doctors did. And he said to me, you know, we just have to get you ready for dialysis in like the next year or so. Wow. And I was living in California and I was saw Tom Prince every day and knew he was going through dialysis and knew I didn't want to go down that road. Um and uh yeah, that was when he said that I asked him I was like well what do you need to give me? What do you need to do? He did mention controlling your blood pressure and I think he was one of the doctors where he's like you need to take Leinipil, you need to take Norvvisac and you need to take Lasix and I was like that just seems like a lot but I did take the other two and I didn't take the Lasix and I wanted to ask him what else can you prescribe me and what do I need to do and he didn't really give me any course of um healing myself you know so I just kind of did my own research and uh it was a really kind of come to God moment where I really felt like, you know, God kind of spoke to me and said like, you know, you need to make a choice here. You know, it was just it was made very clear in my head. I could see the road I was going down, the bodybuilding road that I've been working for for so long, but it was almost like the the road to hell. Like, you're going to kill yourself if you continue to do this. If you want to heal yourself, you got to do healing yourself 100% just like you do bodybuilding. you can't do a little bit of bodybuilding and I'm going to control my blood pressure but continue to take train and all this gear. Um, so I decided to just retire and stop everything I was doing. And then I had to stop all the gear, stop all the painkillers, stop all the partying. I mean, I did continue to do partying after that because um, you know, there was also a period where I retired and then it's like, hey, celebrate. I'm retired and I was still going to the Olympia, still going to the USA. And um so the the the partying was almost kind of just like taking off at that point. Um but that's kind of how uh you know that's what made me turn around. I just knew that if I continued in bodybuilding, I knew I loved it and had such a passion for it. I would just be wishy-washy and flip-flopping my whole the rest of my career. You know, I might take off seasons and, you know, not take as much stuff to think like, oh, this is better for my kidneys. But I I just knew that I was at the point where, you know, you do need to just stop bodybuilding and stop all the things you're doing for bodybuilding that are affecting your kidneys. So, we we both know plenty of guys who didn't stop and they're no longer with us. Yeah. Um and I know a lot of you because I've struggled, you know, I used I cycled pretty heavily. I was never a pro. I was never anywhere near your level, but I was walking around 240 most of the year. And I got addicted to just being that big and the attention you get and the validation you get. And at a certain point I realized if I do this I think it it was very late. I I I I'm ashamed to say how late in life this came to me only a few years ago like three years ago that I said I everyone's dying. This is like COVID remember. And we don't know if it was a shot. We don't know why if it was a company but regardless every week it was like two or three people that we knew were dying every week. And I said, 'I don't wanna I don't want to be one of those guys. I remember Jerry Ward. Remember Jerry Ward? Who the late? Yeah, he was a he was a journalist. He did he did podcast. He was an MP MPC judge. Anyway, he had a podcast uh BIOS 3. Anyway, he made a video talking about because I talked to Branch and he said Branch is still big and he's he's gonna die if he doesn't stop. And then he said, "And Ron Harris is another one." And he Jerry who had he had downsized. He ended up dying like two weeks after he made that video. So then I said, "Okay, well maybe this is a sign. Maybe this is time to stop." But how do you You were so massive. Was it hard for you to say goodbye to that? Hard because you walk down the street, people like, "Wow, look at that freak. Look at that beast." And you get used to that. How do you reconcile? How do you get to the point where you could say, "I'd rather just be alive and healthy than be that freak and be maybe I could die next week or or a month from now?" Uh because I think God just made it very clear to me. You got to let that all go. And I just kind of came to terms with I'm going to lose size. I'm going to get smaller. Um but saying it and you know, I'm 100% kind of person. So if I say I'm going to do it, I'm going to do it. And that's what I did. But saying it and like like showing somebody the door and walking through the door is two different things. So I was preparing my mind to to lose all the size. And I do remember one time being at Gold's Gym where I was still going and doing workouts, but I was wearing a shirt that was normally super tight on my arm and I was doing like the incline press, but now I saw like my t-shirt was drooping down a little bit. Um, but it's it's still an ongoing process, Ron. I mean, I still deal with it, you know, every day. You know, I I for 20ome years, I got used to, you know, walking into a diner and having every head turn around or walking into a a gym and being like, "You don't have to pay a membership. Come on." You know, all all these different things. And uh and now, uh you know, you don't have that anymore. So, it's a it's an ongoing thing. But, I mean, my faith in God has you know, um made me a a born again, you know, person. The old me has kind of died away and the new me is born. I mean, I'm still the same Mike Morris. Yeah. You know, but um I'm transformed, I guess. You know, it's the best way. Tell me how how did that happen? Because, you know, religion is something either it's just you're brought up in a religion, a faith or whatever from your parents, you don't have a choice or more rarely is the way you came to it. I don't know if you were like raised Catholic or whatever. Uh but you clearly came to your own faith much later in life. So, what was the turning point for you? uh coming back from the Australian Pro and having coming to terms with seeing Tom Prince in the gym every day and and seeing firsthand what um um you know dialysis looks like and having the doctor say clear as day and I can read the tests and I can see my creatin levels at a 3.9 and my BUN levels at a 60 or so. So, I mean, the the writing was was on the wall. And um I was raised Catholic, but I mean, that was just uh and and before that, I've still had God would always kind of give me signs here and there. He's always there. He's always accessible. You know, it's up to us to kind of reach out and for him. And that was just my, you know, reach out for him moment. And uh but it hasn't been easy. It still isn't easy. I still deal with it now. I mean, I still have to get blood work done in a couple months to see, you know, where I'm at. So, it's an ongoing it's an ongoing thing, but, you know, with my age right now, I mean, I'm middle-aged and um, you know, I think we all start to kind of contemplate our own mortality when we get to this age, but me even more so since what I've been through in bodybuilding and the things I've done in the past, I was like, "Oh, man. I gotta I got a lot more healing to do. I got I gotta, you know, make sure I live my life clean now." Now, I'm not saying I don't enjoy a few drinks here and there. Um, because I do, but um, you know, I try to live a a clean life and do everything I can to, you know. Okay. So, you have, uh, looks like you have a family now. So, you know, how how long is that? I How long you've been married? When what are your old kids? I know nothing about your family. I I have no kids. Oh, I have no kids, Ron. That is my wife there, Ninda. Um, but I do have AI'm have an Italian family, you know, so I do have lots of uh nieces and nephews. Um, but we do have three dogs, you know. We call our dogs our kids. Um, but no children. Okay. Yeah. This is This is your wife here. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. That was taken in Vegas. Yeah. Yeah. It looks like Vegas. Cool. Yeah. Well, I mean, she looks I don't know how old she is, but you know, you can have kids older and older these days. Do you want kids? the personal question. Okay. Well, I'm I'm not able to have kids because of uh you know the the gear that I've done. I've taken my um test and and at this point I don't I don't produce sperm. So, yeah. So, that was a very personal question. So, I I I apologize for that. I should probably should have asked that. It's like you women I think women get hit with that question more than men do. Like, what about kids? Like, we just assume. I actually think we're getting to a point in our society where we're not people aren't expected to get married and have kids like they used to be. No. No. It's kind of changed a little bit. You know, when we were kids, that was it. That's you had like you almost had to do that like kids and white picket fence and all that, but not so much anymore. So, yeah. This is the lowest birth rate and the lowest marriage rate by far in uh American history right now. Yeah. Yeah. Interesting. Um, so you're in Phoenix. How did you end up in Phoenix? Um, well, that's kind of a cool story. Um, I was living obviously in Venice Beach. I was living right on Venice Boulevard. And, um, when I retired, I was like, I don't need to live here anymore. I don't need to pay rent. I should probably buy a house. I don't need to train to Gold's Venice anymore. And I had a friend of mine, his name is Grant, and um, he's a a wealthy guy with a wealthy father. And his father had given him some information. Now, this is 2005 2006, mind you. He's like, "You should move to Phoenix because the uh real estate market is going through the roof. You can buy any kind of property and it's going to go up 10 $15,000 every single month." Which was true at the time. Wow. You know, in 2005 before the economy bubble kind of crashed. But, um, Grant put me in touch with a um with a realtor. His name is St. Tran. He's still my realtor to this day. He's a great guy, a Jewish guy from New York City. He moved out here in the 70s. But he got me into my first house here in 2005. That's what got me out to Phoenix. Um, I had a It was so funny because back then they were giving out mortgages like nothing. You know, I was a personal trainer at the time and and just making my money from that. So, they had at the time what was called a no dock loan, which means no documentation. Just like, "How much money do you make a month?" I'm like, "Uh, $5,000 a month." And they're like, "Okay, well, here's a mortgage and a second mortgage at 12.9%." But anyway, it got me into the process to buy a home and I got my first home and that's what brought me out to Phoenix. So, and you know, you grew up in Jersey, similar to my area here in Boston. You lived in LA like I did, too. But I always shied away, you know, people people have been telling me for years, Arizona, Arizona, Arizona. I'm like I'm terrified of the heat. It's it's like 120 degrees for for half the summer there. It was I think it was 104 today, I think. Oh, and we're in May. Um, if you don't like the heat, you wouldn't like Arizona. Now, uh, for for the other I'll say seven months out of the year, it's gorgeous. Um, we get lots of sunshine. You know, I mean, some people I think they think California is sunshine, but I lived in Venice for two or three years and every morning is gray and cloudy until it gets to be like noon and then it gets to be sunshine, which is kind of cool because you wake up kind of blue and all that and then you eat your breakfast and you go do your workout and when you come out from the gym at 1:00 in the afternoon, it's gorgeous outside. Well, in Phoenix, it's sunshine every morning, every every day. But, you know, when we get into the summertime, uh, you can wake up at 5:00 in the morning and it's probably going to be 100°, you know. Yeah. Sometimes it's just it gets hot. I think the hottest it's been since I've been been here is like 124. Wow. Yeah. But it's a dry heat, Ron. You know what I say to that? So is an oven. It's exactly like an oven. There's sometimes when you walk out the front door and it hits you like an oven. Yeah. But you know what? You love it. A lot of people I a lot of people I talk to, they love it out there. So, you found a great place to live. Uh I'm curious, do you still follow Pro Bodybuilding at all or does it not interest you? Uh I've just gotten back into uh it in just the past couple years because I got on Instagram and obviously the algorithm knows what you kind of pay attention to. So, I have been getting into it just the past uh the couple years. Um, I know they had me on the Dash James podcast and we were making predictions for the Pittsburgh Pro and um, you know, I'm a bodybuilder at heart and it's tough to make predictions from looking at pictures online. You know, back when we competed, you know, we went to the junior nationals. So anyway, it is my goal to make it to the Mr. Olympia this year. We already have our room booked. So, um I think I'll be much more into it when I get to see these bodybuilders in person and I get to speak with them and I get to see them on stage next to one another because you know as well as I do you like pictures here and there like what was the lighting here you know and now with the internet you don't know if there's filters and all this stuff. So until those two bodybuilders are on stage next to each other under the same lighting at the same time you know that's when you can make your decision. I even see on the line since you know I have been getting into Instagram and it's a neat thing um people will show comparison pictures of this guy and this guy you know and they'll put like Arnold next to whoever or whoever next to whoever and then it might be two carrot guys but they'll have one guy that's like however feet tall and the other guy you're like you're not even given a good representation of how tall they are like that picture is obviously so it can be very deceiving so um I am getting back into it and to answer your question yeah because I mean it's it's a different era Now, you know, we remember I got into it when Lee Haney was Mr. Olympia. That's eight Olympias in a row. Dorian, six Olympias in a row. Ronnie, eight Olympias in a row. Little later, Phil Heath, seven Olympians in a row. And we have had seven different Mr. Olympia champions the last eight years. I don't know if you realize that. Yeah, I have heard that. Yeah, it's incredible. It's it's a it's there's nobody really dominant now. What do you think of the physiques nowadays? I mean, there's some I It's I don't want to [\h__\h] I don't want to be that guy that shits on the guys. Now, I think there's some amazing physiques. Now, that being said, I still think Ronnie at his best would crush all these guys right now. Dorian at his best would crush all these guys right now. Lee Haney, no, I think he would he would suffer in some areas compared to these uh guys. You know, condition, we do see some really good condition, but we also are seeing some guys with big not they're not lumpy delts or arms, but there's no there's like no separation or detail. You do see some guys that have tremendous like Kriszo, the guy from uh Slovakia. He's got all kinds of stripes and notches and everything everywhere, but other guys, I don't want to put him on the spot, but like Derek Lunsford hits a a double bicep, just a big blob of a bicep. Yeah. And you know, I don't want to speculate as to why. U but there are some amazing guys right now, but I still look back and I think we were very lucky to have been around during an era where, you know, you were a big fan during the 90s as I was. It was just God. We had Dorian, we had Flex Wheeler, we had Chris Cormier, Nasser, Vince Taylor, and on Kevin Levon, Shawn Ray. Yeah. Just an amazing group of guys back then. And just like the 80s, you know, the bodybuilders were like characters. You know, you had Lee Priest that was five foot, whatever he is, and Ronnie's kind of tall. And back in even like the 80s, you had like Burle Fox who was giant and thick, but you had Bob Paris who was like this aesthetic masterpiece. So you had these bodybuilders that look different. You know, I look at the lineup nowadays of the, you know, Pittsburgh or whatever show it is, and they all just I mean, they look great. These guys are incredible. And I'm sure if I saw them in person, I'd be like, "Wow, the size is at a new level." But they just Yeah, it's tough to They do kind of look I don't want to use the word like a blob up there. But um it it it just doesn't have the the crispness and the lines um from back in the 90s when you had like Flex Wheeler and Shawn Ray and uh and even Dorian. Dorian has size, but for some reason like the separation in the muscles and the graininess. Um, I I kind of have a theory, you know, because back in those times when we had testosterone, you know, it came from Steris Laboratories, like it came with a box and insert like you knew this came from an American pharmaceutical company. We got Parabon from ampules, you know, um, you got sustenon uh, preloads down from Mexico. So, we got all this stuff that like you you knew it was good and real. And a lot of the the gear nowadays is you're getting powders from China. It's getting manufactured, you know, maybe in someone's bathtub, you know, maybe they have a facility in Mexico where they're doing the best standards they can. Like, you just don't know. I mean, I know when they first powers first came out, people started compounding their first things. You know, I would know that some dealers would get the compounds, get the bottles, get the labels, start slinging bottles to everybody, and now the money's flowing, everything's great. And then all of a sudden, the powders from China all of a sudden dry there. Something happens, and you and they can't get them anymore. Now they got all these bottles, they got all these labels, they got all these customers, you know, now what are you going to do? Oh, maybe I'll just chop it in half, you know? But then all of a sudden, like now your guys are noticing, oh, I'm not getting as big. Like what's going on? So, it's um I'm just explaining it the best way I can, you know. Well, I think that's another reason why we have these people using grams and grams and grams of stuff now because it's it's nowhere near as potent as what people had access to many years ago when it was legitimate pharma gear. So, when you hear about kids using four grams a week, are they really? You know, what are they how many grams are they actually getting out of that? Yeah. I mean, uh, I I I'm Are you mortified at how many young kids are are using like a gram of tren a week and crazy stuff like that? If they are, then yeah, absolutely. I mean, they're I mean, your your receptor site can only hold so much of the the drug, you know? I don't think a lot of people understand that. Like if you're going to take an or sustenon or priabone, it has like a certain the receptor site can only hold a certain much that stimulates the muscle cell. And any more that you're going to take is just going to get processed by your liver and make you hold water and your body's just going to have to dispel it from your body. And uh I think people need to realize that there's there's kind of like a sweet spot of, you know, where you're going to get the maximum growth and um the the least side effects. Yeah. You remember Mike Quinn, of course, the late Mike Quinn. Yeah. From Massachusetts, I might add. He he told me in an interview he said he compared what you just spoke about to a glass. He said you could keep pouring water in a glass you can fill up the glass but if you keep pouring the water it's just going to spill everywhere and that's your side effects and your health problems. Yep. So I I do remember that. Yeah. That's a great analogy. It really is. I wish these kids would you know like Lee Priest said a lot of people try to be try to talk sense because these kids are going to do it anyway. But a point I try to try to get across and a lot of other people like Lee is start small. Start low. Start up here. How do you know this wouldn't have given you good results and now where do you go now? You got to go up up up every time you do another cycle. Yeah, exactly. I mean when I started I started small. I started with just Diana. I think my first cycle was somewhere around 1989 or so. Yeah. Um I think I was like 18 or maybe 17. I've been kind of thinking back on it more and it was probably right around 17. But I started small but everything was a constant progression of taking a little more and you know I competed from that that time all the way until 2005. So what's that from 89 to 2005 um 15 years you know that's a lot of cycles to you know go from this little bit to to going higher. So, so the last thing I want to ask you about is your final show. Uh, let me let me bring it up here. So, I was there. I was lucky lucky enough to be at this. It was 2005 and they only did it this one year, I believe. Yeah. It was called Wildcard Showdown and it was it was held I think the th was it Thursday night? Friday night? I think it was Friday. So, the winner of that you're right. I can't remember. But I think they also started the um that was when the competitors could also in the Mr. Olympia they could call like hey I want to compete against this guy in the side chest and challenge round. Yeah the challenge round. Yeah. So you were in that and it was your this was your final contest right? Yeah. So the Australian pro so this was in October. Um the Australian pro I believe was in I don't know July or or maybe um maybe June. I I don't remember. This was about six months or so um after I had retired, after Australian Pro, after I retired, after I moved to Phoenix, Arizona, after I decided to stop taking everything. So that's me 100% natural. I And you know what? As soon as you came out, I said, "He's natural." I said it to myself. I go, "Cuz I knew you. I knew what you looked like." And I said, "He's off everything." And I didn't know what you'd been through. I I didn't know the the whole story or anything. You know, years later, I would find out. But it was a moving mo. It must have been more emotional for you. It was you were the one going through it, but I remember distinctly when you were done with your posing routine, you got down and you kissed the ground because you were on that Olympia stage that every bodybuilder dreams about from the time we first pick up a m Well, there were there's no magazines now, but you know what I'm saying. Yeah. Um, so what was what was that what was that experience like? It must have been just so so emotional for you. It really was. It was incredible. And you're almost bringing tears to my eyes bringing that back up because I remember I I was telling people that I was going to do this and I got down on my knees and I kissed the stage, you know, it was kind of a kiss to the Olympia stage and and a kiss goodbye honestly. Um, and the song that I picked was called Insight by Tesh Mode. I even have it right up here on my Let me see here. These are the words to the song. I had a calligrapher. I don't know if you can see that. Write this up. Huh. But um I think it's also on my um Instagram page. I can repost it. But um you know I I mean I knew that this was going to be my last show. A matter of fact, I think it was Robin Chang who was one of the promoters of the Mr. Olympia at the time. Yeah. After I retired, I was already living in Phoenix. I was already cleaning myself out, not taking anything. And he called and said, "You're invited to come to the Wildcard Olympia." And I was like, I'm retired. I don't. And he was like, well, you're invited if you want to do it. And I did was I was was conf conflicted at that point. I was like, you know what? Maybe I will just take a little winstrol and a little primabone. Maybe I can take luterol. Maybe I can take growth and I'll just go and I'll do the best I can. Um, but I decided to stick to what I wanted to do and uh just stay natural and and cleanse my body and just go in and and see how I did. and I did place ninth out of nine. But um it's just I think it's an incredible story because if you would have told me at any point during my career, you're going to make it to the Olympia stage, you're going to get on that stage, you're going to be there and you're going to compete and you're going to compete 100% natural. I would have been like, you're crazy. There's I would never have believed that. But yet here we are. Look how amazing God is that works in such incredible ways. Yeah. I mean, like I said, that's it's everyone's dream. If I had turned pro and if if I got some wacko invitation, if there had been some crazy circumstance where I could have stood on the Olympia stage, even though I would have, you know, I I if I if I had managed to turn pro, I know I would have been a [\h__\h] or awful, awful pro, horrible last call out every show. But if I could have stood on the Olympia stage, there's no way I would have said no. I'm like, "Oh, hell, I'm going." Oh, yes. I'm gonna go on the Olympia stage. That's the Olympia stage. So, you know, you did it, Mike. Yeah, that's exactly what what I was like, I can't miss this opportunity. The only decision I had to make was was I going to take a little bit of gear or was I just going to do it natural? And I'm just so happy that I did, you know, stick to my guns and and keep that decision, stay natural, because all these years later, it just makes the story that much better, you know? It's really incredible. Um, I think uh it was David Henry that won that show. Yeah. And uh I've competed with him a lot of times before and uh that guy is a giant killer. He beat me every time I competed with him and it always pissed me off. It always got me so frustrated because I was competing around 230 240 and I don't know what he weighed 179 or what whatever it was. He's still doing the Mast's Olympia this year, isn't he? Yeah, he competed last year. He's still going. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. He's doing the Mast's Olympia this year in Japan. I don't. So, my point was like, uh, even if I decided to go full-blown and blow up, you know, and pull a Kevin Leone and see what how how kind of shape I could come in, I'm not sure I would have beat David Henry. And that would have been a tough pill to swallow, you know, giving another second to him and then damaging my health even further, you know. So, um, I think the story is really perfect just the way it is. So, I mean, you must be in such a such a place of gratitude right now that you you came out the other side. You have your health, uh you have a beautiful wife, you're out there in Phoenix, you're coaching, you're training people, you're giving back to the sport in that way. Uh you know, whereas so many guys either they're they're dead or they have major major health problems or they're just I talked to some of them, they're just really bitter and jaded. you know, bodybuilding sucks and and they're just they trash talk everything even though they willingly put themselves through all that but because they didn't turn out like Arnold and became a movie star or something. It's yeah, it's the universe's fault. Um, but you know, I'm I'm so happy that you you weren't one of those casualties of war of the of the sport because you know, you made a statement that LA can chew up and spit people out and I was out there and I saw it left and right. people got into that party scene and they never came back. That was that was it for them. Yeah. I thank God I I was I was saved uh you know by God. Um because it is a is a is a rough city and um you know it is tough turning around from you know where I was. But I am so grateful. I am so thankful every morning that I'm alive and well and stable. Now, like I said, of course, it's in the back of my mind because, you know, at the age of 55, you're always going to think about, you know, how am I gonna how am I going to go? And um so, but I just appreciate each day and uh live healthy. And um you know, do everything I can to give my kidneys a pampered life at this point. And uh I'm just thankful thankful to still be involved in the sport in bodybuilding in some way. Yeah. I'm I'm glad you're I'm glad you're th alive and thriving and doing so well cuz yeah, we we both know so many people that didn't make it didn't make it at all. Um yeah, I don't want to end you on a downer. I want to say stay positive. So, you know, it's a great story. It's uplifting and uh I hope people listen to what you said and take some take some lessons out of it, learn, apply it to what they may be going through, painkillers or whatever the the case may be. Um addiction, you know, I lost a sister to opiates. uh almost 20 years. Is it 20 years now? Yeah. Wow. It's 20 years this year. Geez. Um so it's it can happen to anybody. You know, drug drug addiction can hit anybody from any class of society, any race, whatever. Um so, you know, have sympathy, guys. And if you're going through it, get help. The help is out there because, you know, life life is worth living. You know, every every day above ground is a good day. I like to say Yeah, that's true. All right. So, uh, if guys, I know Mike does some coaching. He's sure he's he's, uh, got so many years of experience and knowledge to offer. IFBB Pro pro Mike Morris, his Instagram. You can reach him there. And, uh, again, man, so good catching up with you, Mike. Yeah, I really had a great time, Ron. It's really good talking with you. Cool, man. So, enjoy the Memorial Day weekend. And, uh, that's it. Thank you, Mike, and thanks everyone for watching, Ronort. See right here. X