 NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NACI NAC you being even interested to find out what I think. I've just been at the Kotler podcast, I told you. I just came off of it, so this is going to be interesting. Because, of course, I decided to give my opinion to many people, including coaches like Neil Hill was at the Kotler cast, and he has many guys competing. I always give my unbiased opinion, and especially now when I don't have any athletes, so I can really give my opinion. So anyway, I know that you are very much aware of everybody. It is Anthony, how they're looking. I've just glanced at YouTube, and I've seen, apparently you've seen the pictures of Andrew Jack. Yes. So I didn't have that pleasure. But you tell me, what did you see? So to me, he looks very similar to what that Romania look was. And I could tell in the pictures, he was really flat, probably real low on carbs. I know what he looks like when he's flat versus full. So I could still see more separation in the arms, like between the biceps, the brachialis, triceps, more stripes in the shoulders than I've seen lately. I think he's put on a little bit more muscle if that's possible in such a short amount of time. Unless, you know, even if Hadi's at his best, I don't know if he's going to be able to beat this. But then we also have, you know, my top four, I think it could go any way because we've both seen so many shows where somebody we thought was definitely going to be third or fourth place ended up winning, and someone we thought was going to win ended up in third, fourth, fifth place. I'm curious, did you give predictions at the end of Jay's podcast? Yes, I did. I was the only one doing it. Jay tricked me into it. But, yeah, so if you don't mind, I would like to go with you into a little bit deeper analysis of everybody. I respect your knowledge and your experience, and you've seen so many shows. So if you're already saying that it's going to be hard to beat, Ender Jack is going to be hard to beat, even if Hadi is at his best, that tells me enough. I'm hugest Ender Jack fan for many years, ever since I saw him. And, yeah, I would love nothing more but to see him win because for me he represents bodybuilding. This is it. You see Ender Jack, you've seen bodybuilding. That's how I look at it. But Hadi Chopin, since 2019, keep proving to us that he is one of the very best, if not the best. You know, so here, okay, if we analyze, he's not a huge guy, but pound for pound per square inch, width, thickness, V taper, density, polish, front double out of this world, light spread out of this world. He creates such illusion of the width. Okay. Posing is masterful. I mean, he really has that aggressiveness and power and take a look at me, I'm a champ. Boom. You know, side chest, these two versions, very good. He doesn't have a tick chest, but has a striated. Yeah. Back was criticized, but this is, you know, not the same condition from the back, like from the front, but this is magnificent. He has so much muscle, so much thickness, so much detail. Glutes were striated. These poses are ridiculous, even though I hate the vacuum, but he does both. Yeah. I'm curious, Milos, did you have him winning that last Olympia or did you have Derek winning? Yeah, I would have him winning. You know, I don't want to say this because I love Derek and Derek once pointed out to me, like, Milos, you know what it feels like when you win the show and somebody tells you that you didn't deserve it? And so like, yeah, but you can't look at it that way. There was a rightful three winners at the Olympia. It's just which way you're going to go. If Andrew has won, nobody would complain or very few people would complain. Right. And I see how judges gave it to Derek. I see it because he came, improved. He looked thicker. Legs were powerful. Look at here. I mean, legs are way more powerful than normally. His legs go up and down. Yeah, go up and down. Here, they went up and that's what they awarded. For, you know, okay. Yeah. Here was, Samsung would usually beat Andrew in the side chest for a thickness, but Andrew came bigger, better and Samsung was a little smaller. Right. If you're looking, okay, if you're looking right now at Heidi, because Andrew, they are competing. That's going to be a dogfight, especially from the back. Okay, so, oh, you're going to go this one by one. Stop right there. Good, good, good, good. Okay. No, I can't stop it. You can't watch it. I don't know. Yeah, it's a super set man did this. I didn't, I don't know how to edit. This is a, but you can't like click and stop it. No, not on this particular thing that I'm using. It just goes, but I mean, yeah, it's, you can, I think he's pretty dead on with who wins each pose. So the front double, I give the front double to Andrew. Front lat, I give the front lat to Andrew. I think he does too. Side chest, I'd give to Hottie. I think he does as well. Yeah. Rear double. Hmm. I think I'd give that to Andrew. Yep. He gave it to Andrew. Rear lat, I think I give to Hottie. He's, he's got more thickness and density in that shot. Andrew could still use a little more back thickness. Yeah. So Hottie takes that. Side try. I'd probably give that the way. Yeah. I'd give that to Hottie. I don't like his side shots as much. Ab and thigh. Hmm. I get this. Andrew. Oh, he gave it to Andrew. Okay. Muscular. I'd give that to Hottie. Yeah. So four and four. So they're even matched. And as far as this guy's concerned. Yeah. I mean, not bad. The super fat man. Yeah. I kind of agree also. Yeah. But it's different when you see them in person. I mean, here, Andrew still looks maybe not as big as he is in real life. You know, so I don't know if you're going to be at Arnold Classic. No, no, I'm not going to be there. I promise you, even though you heard this million times, it's not the same watching live and watching on TV or a phone. And I mentioned this so many times. I was sometimes at the first row and then I'm looking at my phone and I'm looking at the stage and it's not even close. Like, wow, why? Andrew is a guy that in person looks stupid big. You know? Yeah. Yeah. And I think you guys mentioned something like he was like 310 pounds. Yes. This is Romania. And I heard you say something. He is that size and a little bit more conditioned. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, this is physique that is super hard to beat. Front, double biceps, front, large spread, magnificent poses. He's criticized here because he doesn't have a thick hamstring. Right. You know? And he's so tall. The femur is too long, so he needs to fill it up. But those are big legs. Yeah. There is some tie-in going on between hamstring and glutes. And there is enough sweep on the thighs. They're good calves. Back and arms and shoulders are magnificent from this view. And last spread. And also, he opens up and goes all the way. This is like super good. Yeah. All the way. If he, a couple of times, yeah, he didn't, but he does it. Now, side triceps with that questionable pose, he has very good side triceps. If he hits it perfectly. Oh, he didn't even do it. Okay. Ab is among the best in the world, probably. Mm-hmm. And he has another super, super good ab and tight, you know, Hadi Chopin. That's probably the best ab and tight in the IBB right now. Those two guys. Yeah. Who the judge is going to go for. I don't know. You see, I like this most muscular. I kind of told him to do it. It's not conventional, but people don't. Oh, yeah, they're supposed to. But this way, he show most muscle. And he doesn't show his lengthy forearms. And you're supposed to be looking at what? Most muscle, shoulders, arms, chest, crazy abs. I like that pose. I know that a lot of people criticize. That's not conventional crab or a claps. Most muscle, but I like it. Yeah. I don't know which, I don't think the crab would look good on him because he's got such long arms. Yeah. He's going to play. Do you, do you know if he's been, I know I should know this, but do you know if he's been working with a posing coach? Cause you know, a good point you made about Hadi is he just commands the stage. He's got so much confidence and polish when he poses, even the mandatories. And Andrew still looks like someone it's, it's clear that he hasn't been competing anywhere near long as Hadi and hasn't been on stage as many times, but still. And also, I mean, Andrew knows how good he is because he can see his body, right? But I'm sure that he doesn't practice as, as much as Hadi does. Hadi probably does our day hundreds of times, the same pose and every breath, every stance, every angle is perfected. Okay. When I was with Chris Asido in Ohio last year, and we were both watching Andrew Jack pose, when you call it, he would do it perfectly. And Andrew doesn't even look in the mirror. So we were both encouraged like, Oh shit, that looks crazy. Chris Asido was going berserk, like the way he looked, but then on the stage, he didn't do it exactly. And if you just lose a couple of inches here and there, and it's not the same. So I must say that I want Andrew to demand the stage, like Hadi Chopin does. Hadi lives on the stage, lives for the stage. And you can see that he lives bodybuilding. He is not interested in anything else. You see how he trains. I mean, Jesus Christ, super heavy, bend over rows the other day. Yeah. Look at that. Yeah. For a guy that's probably about 225 pounds, 230. That's what, that's what I estimate. Also, I don't estimate he's over 230 and he's like a 3% body fat. Yeah. And right here, this is like super danger. God, you know, at least he's standing up. He's not really bent over much. Yeah. But still, but eight places, eight plates. Yeah. That's, you know, that's a 765 pounds. Yeah. Yeah. And then the same thing for, what do you call it? Smith machine squats, whatever he was doing. And he loves those machine squats. Yeah. He did also that. Heck. a machine for before the Olympia. And I was watching the strip set. It was super crazy heavy, you know? So. Okay. Let me ask you pound for pound. Okay. Who's going to look bigger? I think hottie because he's, he's denser. If you're standing next to them, it would be, if you're in person up close, it'd be Andrew. But if you're watching on a tablet or a computer screen, you probably go with hottie. He's, he's thicker because he's, he's got shorter limbs. He's a much like seven inches, eight inches shorter than Andrew. But, you know, I, I want to ask you this. Do you, I don't know how well, you know, hottie, but, and I'm, I don't want to get into all the Iran politics at all, but do you think he is able to shut all that out and still focus a hundred percent on the preparation with, with all these distractions and everything that's been going on with him in the past couple months? It's easier said and done, but I think if anybody can do it, he can do it. That's why he's doing it. Otherwise he could have very easily pulled out of the show. Yeah. He takes the pride of everything he does. And I think he takes the pride of representing Iran as well. Uh, so, uh, he has a lot to prove. Sometimes it's, uh, misunderstanding, miscommunication, God knows. And I was warned not to say anything because, uh, you know, I have a lot of Iranian fans and they told me just to stay in the friend, like, don't say anything. Yeah. But, uh, uh, to answer your question, hottie is driven like nobody else. And, and now this is personal for him. There's $750,000. There is, on top of it, there is, uh, on a classic title, establishing himself back for Mr. Olympia contention and probably prove something to his country, man. I mean, uh, uh, I, I just hope for the one big happy ending as far as all that goes. Oh, a hundred percent. I mean, yeah, I love Andrew and I want Andrew to win, but I'm, I'm rooting so hard for hottie. And I know some people are going to get mad. Some people that are angry and upset with hottie are going to be upset with me for saying that, but the guy's been going to go through all this while you're trying to get ready for the biggest payday bodybuilding has ever seen. We've been dreaming about the days when first prize was getting close to a million dollars. It's almost there. Uh, we talk, uh, uh, today, uh, Neil Hill, manager, Matt and Jay about, uh, prize money. Jay was winning like what, hundred thousand dollars. And that was like, you know, mind boggling back in the day. This is $750,000. Jesus Christ. Right. And I mentioned this, that, uh, for some of our normal, uh, competitors like myself that never tasted the big victory and big money. I don't even know what it means, but Hadi has received that, uh, check for Mono Classic 2024. Right. So when you get the money and you know, it's real and now you can have another payday. Look at this. Okay. I don't know if this was USA or UK. I'm not really sure. He won both. He won. Uh, USA because Arnold is there. Okay. Gotcha. And yeah, this condition, this is, this was a flawless. I mean really dissect every micro move that he makes. Dissect his breathing. Do you see any air coming in and out? Uh, leg separation constantly on from a hip flexor, sartorius all the way down to lateralis medialis. Look at that. Every striation, deep abs. Here, he, we criticize him for not having the same, condition on the back that he has from the front, but this is still magnificent. I mean, we got, well, I mean, we criticize Derek for not having the same condition from the front that he does from the back. So it's going to, everyone just loves to criticize, but yeah, this he's, he's when you, when you think of a professional, everything about this man on stage is professional. Never relaxes his belly. Never, never relaxes anything. It's, it's from the minute he's on stage to me. He leaves that stage. He knows from every angle he has to look good. And he's, he's, he delivers on that. And what else do you see? I mean, this is not the arrogance. This is just supreme confidence and enjoyment of presenting his body to the masses, to the world. Like, okay, here it is. I'm Hattie Chippen and that's what I got. Beat that if you can. I mean, listen, here's the smaller guys challenging. There was always Cedric McMillan. There was big Rami. There was, you know, whoever else. Right. And he keeps coming. And it's like, oh, he's not as big. He's only 200. What did we say? 225, 225, 230. Like, how can he go against the 300 pound monsters? And that's what Danny James said before. When he stands next to Samson Duda, who is 300, you don't see 80 pound difference. No. No. You know? And that's why I ask you specifically, pound for pound, who do you think is going to look, bigger and more dense, Andrew or Heidi? Because of a long limbs. Okay. And that Heidi is for sure going to look thicker. Yeah. You know? Yeah. I mean, Andrew, Andrew is probably going to be right around 300, maybe a little less at this show, but for him to look as thick as Heidi, you probably need to be like 320 or something. It's, but you know, it's, it's an illusion again. Yeah. He does have the long limbs, but that's why a lot of people prefer, that physique because it's more streamlined. It's more, you have a greater taper because you have more space between the clavicles and the waist. So it's, it's apples and oranges in a huge way. I mean, it's probably top three, the best arms in the world. Right. And the back. So of course, when you look at just, okay, we do the front dollar biceps comparison. Okay. Okay. How do you go with, we both like Andrew Jack because yeah, he has those crazy arms. He has a weight taper. He has a crazy abs and lines. Okay. But this little guy is thicker. Little guy. Yeah. He's. Yeah. You know what I mean? Right there. If you can stop. He's definitely, I wish I could stop it. Oh, yeah. I could see many judges giving to Heidi. Even though I said that Andrew Jack is best loss spread of all time, you know, cause I got overly excited and said that, but then when you really analyze, Heidi could possibly beat him in that post too, because of long lips and legs not being as powerful. you know, so it's so questionable. Judges are judging from their own aspect and views. And maybe they see Heidi, like side chest, who women, Superman gave it to Heidi. I don't disagree. Yeah. I give that to him. Yeah. Back double. I mean, that's, that's great pose for both of them. They would not beat Derek Lansford, but now these two are going to be battling. And then back double biceps, Nick Walker is going to be there to, to beat them in that pose. And Martin is going to be super competitive. Also, I've shot those two guys, miles ahead of anybody. I mean, millions of miles. So I guess in my mind, if they're both a hundred percent, it's the top two is going to be these two guys. That's, that's how I feel about it. But then third and fourth, unless something goes off with the preparation of, of either Heidi or Andrew, I think third and fourth is going to be a huge battle between Nick and Martin. But look at this. This is the prog version of Martin, which by far the best version of Martin Fitzwater we've ever seen. If he can bring this to the Arnold classic, this exact look, or even, I don't know what could be improved upon with this look. Cause the condition was perfect. The fullness was right there. You know, I have issues. I'd like to see a little more detail in some areas like the chest and the arms, but I can't argue that this is a, this is a world-class physique. And to say that he's incapable of winning, I would never say that, but I think Heidi or Andrew would need to, they would both need to be a little bit off for Martin to beat them. But tell me how you feel. I feel the same. Just like you said, that's top notch world-class physique, nothing missing, you know, thick, powerful condition round. He poses very well. He poses like, I love his side tricep, side chest. I mean, all this, he's a showman too. He, for me, he goes a little bit on the arrogant side, not like, you know, I never liked arrogance, but again, it's a thin line between arrogance and confidence. So, I'm not going to criticize him for that. Front double, I didn't like too much. He positioned his arms like a small, man, double bicep. He needs to open up probably a little bit more. He doesn't have a greatest abs. So, of course, I understand the vacuum because if you don't have a greatest abs, you just want to show the small waistline. And as much as I hated, it looks great to many people from the whole biceps with the vacuum. I hate it, but it looks good. Look at the side triceps. This is great. Yeah. I love those quads. The quads are just so strided. It's dry and detailed. So, you see, quads, yeah, that's what might bring him into the fight. He beat Andrew Jack before. You see, one time, I did make that comment that I don't think Martin would ever be able to beat Andrew, and then he did. Yeah. I think a couple of times, not just once. So, Martin is having every reason to be super, super confident. Okay. The only person he didn't beat was Hadi, but even in his first Olympia, 2024, he was four-man call-out. He had a chance to sit next to Hadi. Do you remember? Yeah. I don't know if you can pull that. I mean, that was such a favorable comparison that, oh my God, first time Olympian, and he was in a top four call-out. Was that, that was 24 was his first one? Yeah, 24. Yeah, yeah. You know, and he plays fourth in the first Olympia, Jesus Christ. Oh, wait, I think I do have that. 24 Olympia. 24 Olympia, yeah. He beat the Under Jacket Olympia. Well, he just beat, he beat him in Prague as well, but that was, you know, not the. You know, that was, that was, yeah. Okay. Martin beat, this was, no, that was Prague. That was 2024 Prague. Very similar look, but this was, this was Martin in 2024. Prague, I didn't like him to 24. I like him 25. Yeah. Remember, 24, when he beat, Chris Bumstad, a lot of us, kind of, wouldn't complain if Chris Bumstad won. Yeah, that's, and that ended up being a big deal. Martin didn't, Martin wasn't too happy about that. The people were, were talking, saying those things. Yeah. Okay. I mean, Ron, you did compete before, so you know how it is. Yeah. And of course, if somebody would tell you, oh, you shouldn't have won, and all that stuff, you wouldn't like hearing it. But, I mean, I lost 71 out of the 72 shows. I was never bothered. I said, yeah, it's, it's just opinion of the few people called judges. Right. Okay. Yeah. And I mean, if, if we're saying, if we're saying we thought some other person won, that's just our opinion, and these shows are close. And even if the, even if the score sheet says perfect score, we both know, that doesn't mean it wasn't close. Yeah. It just means in the end, the judges, they might've all felt it was close too, but this guy edged out the other guy, and so they had to give him first place drugs. Exactly. It could be all nine judges, for example, giving him by a hair, you know, like, oh, flip of the coin, but every coin flip on, on the head side. Right. Right. So I think that Samson was super close to winning that show. If they went with Samson, I'm sure nobody would complain. So how, how do you think, you think that this was like a slam dunk? Oh, for the last show, the last Prague show. Yes. Yeah. Last Prague. I thought, I thought it was decisive for Martin. Cause Samson still wasn't back to the real, the a hundred percent Samson. He was, I think he, he said he weighed, he got most of the weight that he'd lost back, but you don't, you know, that's just, that's just a lot of glycogen and water. He didn't rebuild. He didn't get all the muscle back that he lost for the prep in that amount of time. But this is still Samson's body. I mean, that's still Samson shape, you know? So did Martin out condition him? Of course. Yeah. You know, so, but look at that. I mean, compare, you know, so if they went for the Samson, I would have a zero issues. I wouldn't, I wouldn't have been upset either. I mean, Samson, he's got a much, he's got more size. He's even here when he was still, wasn't the real a hundred percent Samson. Yeah. He was still back to, I think what he say he was, he was, he had gained the weight back, like I said, but it just wasn't, the condition wasn't quite there yet. Yeah. So let's focus then on Martin. Martin probably doesn't like that. Nobody is really putting him in a top two predictions. And that might fuel him to prove all of us wrong. I mean, and I hope it does, you know? Yeah. So I like this kind of adversity. It's like, okay, nobody believe in me. And I approve it. Nobody believe here. He can take Samson at the Prague. Right. No. I mean, I thought he should have beat Samson at the Olympia. Yeah. Few people said that. And I encourage you when you have a time, if you do have a time, I often go back and review. And I changed my opinion when I watched second or third or fourth time. I was also like, oh, Samson didn't look like Samson at the Olympia. But then how much was he really off? And then when I realized, okay, if I didn't see Samson for all these years, and this is the first time he's competing, I would be impressed. But because I know him from before, okay, we were expecting whatever. He is Olympia champion coming back. He did that guest pause in six weeks out looking crazy. And we were expecting something that he didn't deliver. That's why. But I still think that he deserved for it. Even though I said many times, Brandon Curry for me, if he was considered, really considered, he could have been as high as fourth at Olympia. And I'm not joking, and I'm not saying this so easily. Brandon Curry impressed hell out of me at the Arnold Classic last year. And then he came to Olympia and he looked even better. And what is this? That's the last Olympia. Look at Brandon. I mean, that's that Brandon Curry shape. I think he should have beat Nick at the Olympia. I would have had him in sixth place. 100%. And, you know, if right now you're comparing him and Martin, there is a lot of arguments, a lot of arguments that Brandon could have beat him. Yeah. Let's talk about Nick for a second. What version of Nick was your favorite? He's been a pro now for five years. What was your favorite version of Nick Walker? 2021 Arnold Classic. Okay. Fair enough. Yeah. That was his three. That would be over Pittsburgh. I'm dead serious. I watched his, I think pro debut was New York pro. That was, or Chicago. Chicago. Yeah. Chicago. When he, when he plays fourth. But, but Nick doesn't have to worry about a single muscle except midsection. This is Pittsburgh. This is when. This was the Olympia here with the bald head. The midsection. It just, to me, it ruined the whole physique. He couldn't control it. He was letting it pop out in transitions when he was going from side to side of the stage. It just, to me, it ruined it. And I, I heard he was like 270, somewhere in that range. I hope. What do you think he was when he won 2021? My guess is like around between 250, 255 is my guess. 55. I would, I would say. I'd love to see that version again, if it's possible. I don't know. I was classic when he won. Yeah. He was, uh, posing similar to how did chop in 2024? Everything on the stage was perfect. I was blown away. At that time, I was not a huge fan, uh, thinking that, oh yeah, he's just going to walk in and, and kill everybody. There was, uh, I think it was Steve Kuklo and, uh, Jan Valliere and, uh, who I was, was competing. I think Bonjak, William Bonjak, supposed to compete, but then he didn't, uh, end up competing. And Nick was so confidently, at that time, 2021, saying he's going to beat William Bonjak. And everybody thought that this is like, so far fetched, like no way. But then the way he showed up at the, that time of classic, there was zero doubt. I mean, zero doubt. Everything, everything was perfect. So now consider he's a freak, consider he is one of the biggest, thickest, and consider that he controls midsection, uh, like when I point out to you, look at, uh, how did Chopin, you cannot see him breathe at all. The stomach doesn't move at all. And that's, that's what I tell my guys. Okay. Now flex your abs, squeeze your abs. Okay. And now let's have a conversation. And don't let me see your abs move. So breathe from the back. Like this now, it looks perfect. Oh my God. And all this, but I don't take pictures as a, uh, checkup. Okay. I can get the perfect moment. Okay. It's transition from one post to another, the cost, Nick, many times, right. Even in Pittsburgh, I heard it. He's pretty much, he was winning in Pittsburgh until they, they catch him breathe through the stomach and, and things were, were you there? No, I didn't go to Pittsburgh. No. Few guys that were there. That's what they say. I mean, it was so close and Nick was kind of winning, you know, by many people's opinion. And then he started losing it. And that costs him. So, you know, with all that criticism, because he, he has, he's heard all of that. Come in with a smaller midsection. It's control the midsection. You would hope that he listened to all that and said, okay, well, that's what I need to do. And if, if I see him doing all that stuff again, I'm just going to say, God, he's, he's just not getting it. So he's got all the muscle in the world, but he doesn't have, wasn't blessed with a really small midsection. And I don't know. The only thing he can do is, is, you know, listen to what you say, keep the, keep your belly button glued to your spine and never relax and all that. I just hope, I wish he would do that. Yeah. Yeah. You see it. Everything else here, like, does he need to take care and pay close attention for his shoulders or arms? If he doesn't squeeze them, they're going to look exactly the same. Yeah. You know, wide shoulders, thick chest, yeah, chest variations. If he squeeze it, you can sell the arms are crazy. Everything is crazy. The whole world is watching his midsection. You know, that, you know, that Sean Ray's and Bob Chikarillo's and, you know, other people, that's, the whole focus is right now midsection. And even here walking, walking, you know, so walking on the stage. So you don't squeeze your abs 100% because you're just walking out. You have to. No, I'm serious. You have to. And he, very difficult. Difficult, not impossible. But, but Ron, so let's say that you are Nick Walker right now. And when you say you were so close, I saw him week before Olympia. No week. There was three, four days before the Olympia. He was still training in New Tech gym here. And I came there to say hello and check on him. And of course I referred to the abs and he immediately pulled the shirt and show me the abs, abs in check. And, and when he showed it to me, there was like flat and deep. Okay. And that's for that moment. Okay. That moment has to be there for 10 seconds and 20 seconds and 30 seconds and 40 seconds in one minute and two minutes. Right. For a duration of the prejudging, he should be like this. Look at this. Okay. Look at this physique right now. Yeah. Look at this. That's great. Okay. This Nick puts everybody in trouble. So this ab control and depth and everything, this puts everybody in trouble, including Hadi and Andrew. Yeah. And he's, he's won this before to say just because he's never beaten Hadi before, it doesn't mean he can't beat him this time. Thank you for finding this picture. Like this is exactly exclamation point. Voila. Here it is. Bring that. And then you're in business. Milo, do you think his legs are that much of a liability? Because I, I think they've gotten better and there's, they're not as great as his upper body, but they're not, it's not like they lag way behind. Yeah. Yeah. Tamiya. Oh, his legs are big, thick muscular. Oh my God. It's way improved. It just, when you compare, uh, waist, circumference and, uh, and legs. Okay. Like, I would make my legs look bigger than my waist, you know? And he has to have a huge, look at, look at this size of his legs. Okay. Look at that. It's like a, it's like a human body in there. It's ridiculous. It's like, holy shit. And you can appreciate that size from the side and rear view, from the front view, not exactly, but hey, you, you know, this is that muscle is all there. And, uh, the picture that you just showed previously, I loved it because that's front relax. That, uh, is mass monster, but he was looking symmetrical. Yeah. He's been, is ridiculous. Okay. The legs look great there, but he's got his feet turned all the way out to the side. Yeah. The back feet, back feet. If his quad sweep was like that with his feet forward, I'd be like, wow, you're done. You're all set. And, and I'm just going to say it. I don't trust the pictures. Well, you can't because, you know, as even people send me my own pictures, you know, from back in the day. And I look like, God damn, I didn't have a, such a bad arms. Like I thought I did. And then I realized they photoshopped my arms. And like, there was a couple of those photos. Like, Hey, you know, I'm happy with it. But then I realized, oh, that's fake. Okay. Look at that. Look at that. Look at that. Okay. So now I imagine this, this abs. Okay. Then I still in, in. Okay. Look at his abs. I said that today in a podcast, you can flex the abs. And with that, you're flexing also the abdominal muscles. No, no. This is the only muscle you flex in. Every other muscle you flex out. Hmm. You know, and stomach is your flex in, in. Right. So it's not the same. Oh, and I just, I just watch on my Instagram right now. Like a couple of days ago, I reposted with, uh, Mauro Sarni from 93, uh, Niagara Falls. He posts the video. And I look at my abs and I want to scream. I want to slap myself. Like, well, I didn't squeeze it. I didn't flatten out. You know, I just, I know I had a good abs and I didn't pay attention. I could have make my abs look a hundred times better. Now this is for, for Nick, all these pictures that you're, you're showing. This is among the best arms in the world. That's among the best shoulders in the world. Right. That back double biceps is among the best in the world. So he has all among best in the world. Conditioning can be among best in the world. Okay. So why is he not best in the world? I think it's just the structure. Just, he just does. If he had a narrower waist, if his hips were more narrow, I think he'd be. Okay. Stay on this picture. Please stay on this. Yeah. For the love of God. Okay. If you can just keep the abs like this throughout the prejudging. Okay. Is this possible to raise the arms in the front of the biceps and keep those same abs? It is possible. If you practice. Okay. It's difficult. And actually he is the guy. If you remember, he doesn't do the stretch front of the biceps. He actually does front of the biceps with the abs, which a lot of people don't like. I like it. For me, Ron, and tell me if I'm wrong. Well, you don't like vacuums. I know that. I don't like vacuums, but listen, just zero in and focus now on the mid section, middle of the body. Six small, deep, symmetrical muscles. It's like your eyes have to go into the mid section. And whoever has a mid section, you know, you're going to like it. That makes the physique completely different. All the other muscles. Yeah. Beautiful. You have thick, you know, this and thick, that and widen, you know, if this, the rest of the body does not connect with the perfect mid section, completely picture is distorted. It's not the same. This Nick. Okay. He can, he can win a frontal expose. Yeah. Okay. This Nick. He could win the symmetry round. I was going to say that, right? Yeah, I would. Yeah. Look at bagel biceps. Okay. Yeah. Very complete. Look at side chest. It's got, he's got some of the best poses, you know, it's, it's hard to find faults. There's, there's not many poses that he's, that, that are not incredibly impressive with this guy. Side chest. He's going to beat Andrew and, and, and Harry side chest. Most muscular. Probably. Yeah. You know, bagel biceps. More than likely. He's going to beat them in the, in that pose. He's going to lose. Lots of spreads, both front and back. Yeah. He's going to lose ab and tie shot. Yeah. But, uh, yeah, look at this. Look at this. So we've got our top four. I think we're in agreement that the four guys we've been talking about, that's probably the top four in no particular, in particular order. So now the question is, Milos, who do you think has the best chance of being fifth place? Brandon Curry, but go on the Brandon, um, Instagram. I mean, that last update is like, wow. I haven't seen anything new with him in a while. Yeah. Check it out. Check it out. The story. Yeah. Stories. No, no, no, no. No. It's in his, is it this one? I think so. Yeah. That's the one. It was yesterday. No, check, check out the shoulders. Okay. And you're going to see the eyes. Okay. And you know, he has a crazy back. Yeah. Uh, look, look, look, look, look now. Hmm. Strided. Titans. Tick, tick, tick. Arms, tick. And then look, look at the abs. Let's see. You know, but, but even here, what I was telling you, he's squeezing the stomach out. Squeezing the muscle instead of, you know, flex it in. And then, then he creates more differential between the waist and shoulders. And he's going to need it against guys like Nick. Right. So you have to bring all your powers that you have. When you're going one-on-one. You see here, it's ab shut. Muscles of the abs. He's pushing it out. He didn't push it in. Everything else you push out. Waist is pushed in. So you first put the abs in the position you want, and then you can play with anything else. That's how I would suggest. They criticize his legs. Look at his legs. I think his legs got better somehow. I don't know how. Way better. Is he 42 or 43 at this point? I think so. He's up there. You don't typically see guys. He's been a pro for, geez, how long now? I think it's past 10. It's closer to 15 years he's been a pro. I think he turned pro in 2008. Does that sound right? Probably. Yeah. Yeah. So he's still hanging in there. He finally got knocked out of the top five at this Olympia for the first time in a long time. I think, no, he, last year, 2024, he didn't, he placed eight or nine. Oh yeah, you're right. You're right. Yeah. And, but up until then, 2022, 2023, he was beating Ender Jack. So, right? He was in the hospital the night before the 23 Olympia. Exactly. Or four, whichever. Four. That was three. That's the last one I went to. It was 23 because that's the last one I went to. Yeah. So, can he mess up somebody from a top four? Absolutely. Who do you think he has the best chance of beating out of the guys we just talked about? Nick. Because of epistetics, you know, so if they're going to go with the Shapely, Andrew and Shapely, Martin, and of course you have to give Hadi a combination of everything. He has just enough shape, just enough size, just enough density, you know, everything. Hadi is complete. Yeah. Jay and I once mentioned before the Arnold Classic 2024, like, oh, he maybe looked a little boxy. You know, that's exactly how Jay worded it. And I agree with him. But then he showed up on the stage and he pulled the vacuum and it looked X-framed, V-taped or crazy shapely. Jay used to be called blocky all the time. Except when he came, when he showed up lighter, he wasn't blocky at all. That's why I really want Nick Walker to come in lighter. I don't, I don't want to see him come in huge and with a belly and, and get the second call out. You know, if he comes in looking the way he did at that last Olympia, he's, he's screwed. There's no way he's beating all these guys that we're just, we're talking about. But if he comes in, like he did at the 21 Arnold, and now that he's his own coach, he's got no one to sort of tell him, you know, we want you big, full. We want you this, that it's all up to him. He's making all the choices and decisions himself. I'm really curious as to what version of Nick Walker we're going to see next weekend. I hope we're going to see the best version. Really. I honestly believe that. Now I was with Neil Hill just like hours ago. Yeah. He was telling us that Rafael Brandao is really, you know, putting things together. And now he's excited because he sees things this week that he hasn't seen going into, throughout the whole prep. Yeah. I know he had been, I talked to Neil, I interviewed him like 10 days ago. And I bet Rafael had been sick. Yeah. It took a while for him just to get back to the point he was at in the prep before he got sick. But the Brazilian fans have been telling me on Instagram and YouTube that you start, don't count this guy out. He gets in shape very, very fast. Yeah. So this was posted yesterday. I mean, the condition to me, the condition here still looks, I'd be very nervous if this was me at nine, 10 days out. Yeah. Yeah. I agree with you. It's not stellar. You see, he has a deep separation and the guy with a deep separation like that, if he's dehydrated, the separation comes even more prominent. So you can create illusion. You see, this is just enough fullness in adults and arms. Chest is obviously not full. I've seen him much fuller, but this is a front view that is always good for Rafael. His problem is the back view. Yes. But I mean, so he did, he did change a lot. Cause this was a week before. So this was a week before what we were just looking at. And when I saw this, I'm like, Oh no. Yeah. He's way, way behind. There's not one line in the glutes. The hams look soft. I was like this. He's, he's going to be like, there's only 10 guys in the show. So I'm thinking eighth, ninth, 10th place, eighth at best. Ooh. Well, but you know, he probably has one of your favorite physiques. Like he has one of my favorite physiques, you know, in the whole lineup. I mean, that's for me, aesthetics, uh, that I, uh, I aim for, you know, uh, I think he's got a tremendous physique. Yeah. No weak points, beautiful shapes, nice, clean cut separations. Uh, but the fact that he lost a whole year last year with the digestion, digestive issues, you know, I keep waiting for this guy to rise to the next level. I didn't know that he had that, but, uh, okay. Another guy, uh, Muhammad Foda. Yes. Can you find him? Yeah. He's, that's my pick for fifth place. It's, it's super, they're dangerous. Okay. So this is the most recent thing. This was a week ago. Yeah. Absolutely. Beautiful. Jeez. Yeah. I mean, he's, he's gotten a lot bigger. He posted, I want to show you the, did you see what he posted from Dubai pro, which was July of 2025. Yeah, here we go. So these pictures are comparing three weeks before Dubai, which was July, 2025, five weeks before Ohio. So this would have been like late January. So that's only, that's about a six month difference. But look at how big, how big the, he's up. He's posing the back differently. He's hitting the shot differently. Now. I'm just going to say it, you know, bluntly. I don't believe in these pictures because it's so, he's so unbelievable. There's for a reason. Unbelievable. So maybe he out angle himself a little bit. You know, and God knows there's no Photoshop on stage. So if he's doing anything funny, it's, it's only going to backfire. It's also waste. Waste is thicker. Right. You know, pay attention to just legs. Waste and, you know, and I'm sure he didn't get a, take away. So just maybe different kind of camera, different kind of filter, different kind of something. Yeah. The lighting is different and everything, but it's still, you can still see he has made improvements in size. He's definitely bigger versions. I love his physique. I love, uh, uh, shape that he got. If this is his new back, then he's in business. Yeah. That's all. He doesn't, she didn't show us. Oh, there it is. That's his old back. That's all back. That's when he won, uh, Chicago in 2024. These, these pictures, he's got them pinned because they're from, uh, 64 weeks ago. Okay. So look at this picture on this side. Traces. What do you see that you would want to improve? Uh, chest, chest thickness. I don't, I don't, I don't see much chest thickness, especially the upper chest. Uh, delts. It's a bit, the lighting's crap, but I want to see some more detail. I'm not sure where he was in his prep here. Yeah. Okay. Every time when I look at the video or a picture, like right now, that, that side traces go back to side traces. I'm going to just point out something. Yeah. Okay. Uh, besides a little bit bigger, go back to the chest, uh, chest could be a little bit for, but chest is not his problem. But if he blow out the air and make his stomach super deep into pastels showing, and then move that right shoulder into the picture, which would squeeze the right back into the fibrotic stride of chest, you're going to see a little bit of shoulder, a little bit of arm. So he's going to create the illusion top heavy, which everybody wants to be like massive at the top. Yeah. It's kind of little details. If you're really analytical, his hamstring glute tie in looks good. His quadriceps look thick calves. Excellent. Right. Arms is great. So, but this is winning or losing. Oh, he does the other side side chest. So chest. Yeah. You see the other one. Yeah. It's great. If you can do both sides. Yeah. Who does that? Cause you, you only have to do one side. Yeah. I like this side better. Yeah. Do one more to the left because there was a crazy shot of his abs. Here is. I mean, yeah, yeah. Look at his abs. Oof. Yeah. Deep. Okay. Okay. So this is where I would stop if I'm Mohammed. Hold on. Like I can make my abs look like this without even trying because he's not trying here. He's not focusing on his abs, but abs are that good. Okay. Hold your breath. Don't move. Okay. Okay. Keep your abs like this. And then do the abs shot with maybe a little enhanced, just blow, blow out a little bit more. These are crazy abs. And I didn't see crazy abs on his physique on the stage in too many poses. I don't know if you did. Many times I was like, Oh, what a beautiful physique, but like here. Okay. Is this even him? Yeah. When he won the Chicago pro. Yeah. You see abs are better in the other picture than here. He is here now on the stage, raising the trophy as a winning physique, but his abs are not perfect. Well, he has to be perfect. Yeah. Is there anyone else in the open division? Anthony Williams. Oh yeah. The A train. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's crazy. I thought he was going to get last, but now I think he's actually going to beat a couple of people. Now that I look at him. There's also, Akeem is competing, right? Yeah. And Hassan is competing. There's a lot of guys, but this particular guy, I have never seen in person. So. He's never, he's only, this is pro debut. So unless you watched the amateur last year, you wouldn't have seen him. I didn't. So what is your first impression? I mean, beautiful physique. Oh my God. Right. He's, he reminds me of the late Sean Roden in a lot of poses. Okay. So if anybody reminds you of Mr. Olympia, that's a very good. Yeah. Comparison. I mean, this is. Astonishing, beautiful physique. Tion's. Shape is wonderful. It's just like, is he big enough? I don't think he's big enough yet. I don't think he's big enough yet. Well, here's, here's, well, look at that, look at that double bicep though. Jeez. Yeah. You see, uh, double biceps is not really a power pose because, uh, you know, it's, it's more like shape pose. So you can't really determine the size and here, like that's, that's, he looks great. The power poses are when, uh, you can, uh, show your chest and shoulders and, you know, thickness and muscularity and density. Ab shot is wonderful. Also, ab shot is not power pose. It's aesthetic pose. Can you go down on the, okay. Ab ab shot is not powerful. It's aesthetic pose to your shopping list. You can find it. Was that Alexa? Alexa. Yeah. Oh my God. There's a no bodybuilding. Yeah. I mean, this guy's, I think he just needs to, he's, he's put on a lot of size. If you look and see the pin, the photos are when he won. So that's when he won a year ago, the amateur, he's put on some good size since then. He just needs a little more time. I think he's somebody that's going to be coming into his own in another year or two, but this is going to be a great debut for him. I do think he's going to beat a couple of people. There's only 10 guys. Oh, he's going to be a super competitive. I think he's going to be super competitive because, uh, uh, John Jewett is, uh, preparing him. Yeah. John Jewett is master of, you know, manipulation of that, all that, uh, carbs and water and, uh, um, sodium and everything else. So if he looked that good, like, I didn't see this picture, uh, from, uh, Arnold Classic, 2045 amateur, and just put like a few more pounds on, on that physique in this kind of condition, he's going to be super competitive. He might surprise and squeak into the top six. You know, I would love, I'd love to see it. I love to see surprises. I love when people I wasn't even thinking about, they weren't on my radar and they just, they show up and you'll, you say I said, until the day of the show, we're looking at all these updates and pictures in their bathroom and at the gym. And we're looking at past competitions, but we don't, until you're there and you'll be right up front till you're there, you really can't say what's going to happen. Who's going to beat who, but yeah, I'd love to, I'd love to see this guy. Cause he's so humble. I asked him for an interview and he said, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not ready to do interviews yet. Maybe after the season. Oh, okay. You know, he's, he's that humble. Yeah. And then we have a Kim and Hassan, the season pros, pros bringing kinds of muscle. And, uh, I don't even know what to say about a Kim anymore because, uh, he is a static freak, you know, thickness, freaky body parts. He just all is like, Oh, he's back. He's back. He's back. You know? Yeah. I mean, it is, it is, if his back was as good as everything else, he's done very well, but he would be, he would have done much better in my opinion. Cause they still look at these shots. So side, the side, rise up and side chest are some of the best in the, in the business right now. Absolutely. Yeah. It's going to probably be, you know, beating even our, even a top two guys would have a, uh, trouble with a Kim from a side view. Side chest, high triceps. Yeah. Uh, Heidi and Andrew would have a, their hands full with, uh, Kim. Look at that. Those arms, those legs. Yeah. He's been a pro for a long time too. He's, he's, he's been in this well over 10 years at this point. Yeah. Now the only other guy is a Hassan. There's only 10 guys in the show. Hassan looked to me like he was way behind. And I don't know why, or what's going on. Nicest guy. So I wouldn't even begin to speculate, but this is a, let's see the, this is the most recent update. So that was three days ago. I'd be very, very nervous if that was me 10 days out, 11 days out from the Arnold classic. Actually, he tightened up a lot since a couple of weeks before that, but it's still, it's not where you want somebody to be. If you were his coach, you'd be in panic mode at this point, looking at that, wouldn't you? I mean, not panic mode, but yeah, I would be concerned. Very concerned. Yeah. He knows. He has plenty of size and thickness. He's just conditioning. And if he has to live on a treadmill or bike, it's okay because he has a huge legs, he can lose them. You know, you have a lot of concerns about overdoing the cardio on the people that don't have a, enough size on their legs. So he could give up, he could give up two inches on the legs and nobody would notice. Yeah. He can easily. This is a picture that, that worried me. And I don't even know if it was recent because it might've just been an old picture where he was wearing this Jed North top that he was, when I saw this a week ago, I think it's old for sure. He couldn't, cause look how smooth the legs and everything are. He's, he couldn't have gotten in that much better condition that quickly. I think that. Hmm. Hmm. Yeah. That's gotta be an old picture, but this is, this is not, this is new. This was posted, uh, three days ago. So that's his, that's a good indication of what he looks like right now. When I interviewed him last year, he had put on another 15 pounds of muscle from the year before. And I was like, why you already have so much muscle. Yeah. It's like Nick Walker. You don't need to be bigger. You don't need to be bigger. You need more muscle. Like you need a heart attack. You know, you don't need it. I mean, this was a good look when he won Vancouver. Oh, that's that. Yeah. He was great here. That was a good look. That was a good look, but I don't think he's going to be, I don't think he has time to, there's no way he's going to look like that this quickly, but you know, there's more shows as Detroit, there's Pittsburgh, there's New York, there's, even our own UK. There's plenty of other shows. I don't want to write him off for this show, but based on what I'm seeing, I just don't think he has time to get it together. You know, now you're saying like, you're not sure when this picture was taken today. they, they don't put the new pictures of Mike, the bad ass. Oh yeah. Let's go to Mike. It's old. He doesn't, you know, they don't. Oh, the ones we're seeing, the ones we're seeing of Mike, they're not new. That's what, that's what Stefan said. Cause like, this was posted, this was posted a day or two ago. Yeah. So I guess, I guess that's what he said. Well, you know, you're at, you're there, you're in Vegas. You see these people. Yeah. When, actually this even might be that one time when he asked me to check out at the exact same place in, uh, uh, you gotta know in, uh, Dragon's Lair, this is not the place that you're supposed to pose. That's like in the middle of a gym, you know, people around. So that's not exactly, uh, where you would be posing, but he asked me to see him pose at that place. Yeah. And that was shocking how great he looked. Actually. I think he looked better than this. So maybe it's not the same. Do they have a, do they have a posing room at Dragon's Lair? Yeah, they have it. They have it. Or you probably saw me, I would, um, there was Michael Crizo and there was also Andrew Jack, uh, with Flex Lewis and Steve Weinberger when, uh, he was posing and that side, uh, you know, away from the center. Okay. You know, at, uh, Dragon's Lair. This is crazy. I mean, holy hell. So Neil, uh, Oh, Neil said that he was just in Vegas. So maybe that is, well, he's, he's, he's staying in Vegas for, uh, the last, I think six weeks leading up to the Arnold. Yeah. Mike is, but, uh, guy, uh, Nile. Oh, Nile. Now, Naga. Yeah. Yeah. He was right next to him. And who is this? That's Mike. And this is, what's his name? Uh, the two 12. What do they call him? Korean guy. Yeah. What do they call him? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Whoever his real name is. Yeah. And there's Nile again, I think. Yeah. Now that I think of, uh, now said he was in Vegas. So this is probably new. Okay. So I guess, but you know, the, it was, it was kind of hard to talk about this part with Neil, because when he won the Arnold last year and they had his height at over five, nine, I think he was allowed to be two 12, something like that. And then if they have him right at five, eight, he has to be like one 97, which is what happened at the Olympia. He was a lighter weight. So we're not going to, we're not going to see the, the version of Mike that we saw when the Arnold last year, uh, which was fantastic. But we're going to see the version that plays second at Olympia. I think that version had very, very flat legs. Cause they had to, they dropped 12 pounds in five days. I don't think of those legs. I mean, they were, he lost a lot of fullness from the legs for that Olympia. Um, and I hope he's able to, we, we haven't seen him since the Olympia. So I, but he's had time to make adjustments knowing that he's going to have to be a lot lighter. So it's not a last minute rush to lose a bunch of weight. Like it was last October. Uh, this is, um, the legs there were really flat. Yeah. Comparing. Yeah. I agree. it's like, they look almost half the size. Cause I can imagine how much cardio and they were probably on zero carbs. And who knows? Cause he was already in shape when they found out he had to drop another 10, 12 pounds. So what do you do? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's amazing that he pulled that off. And he still got second. Yeah. Close second. He was, uh, I think there was a point, right? But you can see the legs were gone. Yeah. They were gone. It's not Mike's, Summerfield's legs. But we're looking at these pictures. I know Instagram is not the same, but I think when I see the pictures here, they look like they're back to me. They look like this is crazy. I mean, this quasi ridiculous. I get he's to me. We can talk about Wesley. This is to me. This is if, if you said, Ron, you have to put $10,000 down on the winter classic. I'd say, okay, Mike, put it all down on Mike Summerfield. Yeah. And especially because of the legs. Yeah. Right. You know, we argue about what's classic and what's bodybuilding. And I don't know. He's got beautiful shape and symmetry and structure. He's just as classic. Classic doesn't have to be just one look. There's no, there's no one look that's defines the division any more than any other look. Otherwise we would have this. Well, we did have the same guy winning for a long time, but I don't think we're going to see any, the same guy winning classic every year. We're not going to see that again. That was a Bumstead thing. Yeah. Interestingly, when you talk about classic, we think of, of course, shape. And then first thing that you think about a shape would be a V taper. Okay. But then you don't even have poses that, uh, example, five V taper, the most front and back last spread, which is such a nonsense for me. Like, okay, why did you take a lot spread out of the classic physique? I mean, isn't that like a point of, uh, when emphasizing a V taper, look at that pose. And he can't even do that pose on the, on the stage, uh, to be compared. Well, can't do the front lat either. You're right. I don't understand. I mean, I could see why maybe most muscular that's, yeah, you could take that out. They took out, they don't even, they don't, they don't hit a side tricep. They don't hit the rear lat. It's yeah. You tell me, uh, Ron. Okay. Because you could be analytical. So if you, if you bring two widespread poses like you're supposed to, and a side triceps, okay. How many seconds do you think would take extra for a comparison? It'd add like another three minutes to the judging. No, no, but, uh, 30 seconds, even maybe add 30 or 40 seconds per comparison. And you don't have a, even a 10 comparisons. Okay. So like you said, it would be three or four minutes extra, but you have an ability now to judge. Every physique, a little bit deeper. Oh, let me judge you from a more, more poses. Why don't we do the front last press, back last press, side triceps. It's beyond me. See, I complain about the, the shows take too long, but I would just get rid of divisions that I don't like. Cause that's, that's, I would add poses to classic. I would add the symmetry round back in for open all that. I would just get rid of, I don't want to say the divisions cause they're all going to hate me, but there are some divisions. I don't even, I have just zero interest in. It's more, more the hell out of me. I agree with you. Yeah. I don't want to. I know they all work hard, so I don't want to, I don't want to say they, they don't deserve to be up there or whatever. They're all pros, whatever. But yeah. So Mike, Mike's the favorite as far as I'm concerned, but Wesley is, Wesley's got a very unique look to him. And he just posted some new updates too. What I love about Wesley is the, the detail, the thin skin. You can see every striation, this man's body. It's insane. Yeah. Yeah. Let me post it. Yeah. Can you put the, yeah, let's put Wesley up. That's like bodybuilding. At the, at the best. Like this is like, how can you not love? Did he post something newer? Did I saw him? Rx. He posted another update today. I think not on his, maybe this is it. Yeah. Look at that. He's six foot four. I think. Super dense skin. Yeah. So this is how he looked when he won. This was two years ago. Legs are, legs are on the light side. Do his legs bother you? Do you, do you, do you feel like that's gonna, that's gonna be an issue up against Summerfield? I mean, that's where he's gonna, if he's gonna lose, that's where he's gonna lose. Here was just enough. And I was at that time on classic. And I didn't count him going into the show to be a potential winner because there was Urs, there was Brian, there was Ramon, right? Yeah. But on that stage that day, he shined and legs were just big enough. And with separation, uh, he was showing enough. If you remember, Ramon didn't have a good legs at that show, didn't squeeze him properly. And, uh, that's how he squeaked in, but he has to have a bigger legs or just, at least this, this big. Yeah. And even that, would that be enough? Uh, I think that, uh, Jake Arthur told him, I don't know how many months ago, uh, to put really good offseason and, uh, put some muscle. And I think he did. So I expect him to be at his biggest because he was still far away from, um, way cut. He still had a room. I forgot. Oh, he's not, but he's see, I didn't know if he struggled to make weight and maybe his legs flattened out at the end. Cause he had to lose. No, I think, I think he had the, because he's so tall, you know, look at this. Delta is G. Jesus. Awesome. Yeah. It's, it's like the, the, the only, the other guy that he reminds me of with the thin skin, the details, Chris. Yeah. That's exactly what Jay said today. Exact comparison. Cause so many of these guys have no detail in their arms and shoulders now, especially the arms, you know, Derek and Derek and Martin. I, I hate to call them out, but they don't have much detail in their arms at all. And I, I always want to see those separation between the biceps, the brachialis, dry steps, the splits, the fibers from the front. Yeah. If you see an atomic chart, you know, that's how it's supposed to be. If you're lean enough, you should look like an atomic chart. Yeah. Yeah. And this looks exactly, this looks exactly. Look at the, what you were saying, tie in, you know, biceps, brachialis, triceps, delts, you know, this, it doesn't get better than that. It's crazy. There's no SEO in these shoulders, guys. There's absolutely nothing. There's nothing there. Yeah, exactly. My, my life on it. There's none in there. So that's the top two. Who do you think has the best chance of beating either Wesley or Mike? Is there anyone in that lineup? That's. So there is an Andrea Italian guy. There is. Mamoli. Mamoli. Yeah. I don't know anything about him. He's a mammal. Andrea. Andrea. Yeah. I think Nick strength and power did an update on him. So is this recent? I mean. Oh, that's old. When I see it's like 60 weeks ago. There's him in Ramon. Let's see. We got any physique updates. Andrea. Andrea, like Andrew. Is that the name? Same name. Isn't that the Italian version of Andrew? Yeah. Yeah. Six days ago. Look at that. Yeah. I mean, that's. He's not a massive guy, but classics not supposed to be about. Sure. It's supposed to be a perfection. And. I don't know if you're going to show the video. But look at his midsection here and abs. Like perfect. Wow. But then he also does so much that bullshit vacuum thing that I can't stand it. I'm serious. I believe you. You got to have a word with these guys, Milos. Yeah. But you're going to tell me to shut the fuck up. Well, this is the last video. So that was a posing video. Yeah. Look at that. Jeez. Look at that vacuum though. You could stick it. Look at that. So what's good about vacuum? It's just, it just looks crazy. But what looks crazy? Are you showing me the bones? Yes. That big old hole in the middle of the body now? Like. It actually, it doesn't look appealing to me. It just looks, it's insane to me that there's that much space in there. Exactly. It does not look appealing. So why would you, in a classic physique, where you have to appeal, your look, your, your, your, symmetry, proportion, aesthetics should appeal to the public. And then you make it unappealing with this vacuum and, you know, show me the bone. see, I think you've, you've talked about this before, but they have the options in the abdominal and thigh. They have the option of doing a vacuum or actually hitting the ab shot, the proper bodybuilding version. I don't think, I think you can show me the abs or you can hide them. So it's like, okay, you can do the double bicep pose, but you can relax your, your bicep. Like. This kid, he's a kid. He's, you can see he's very young. He's, he's got a great chest. I think he's probably going to be third place. He might even be Wesley. If Wesley's legs are, you know, if he shows up with the real flat, smaller legs, which I hope he doesn't. Okay. Brazilian guy that also starts with M. Now I can't think of his name. Benigate. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. He's, he's very good too. Yeah. Okay. He's Brazilian. They're, there's no joke. Mataias, man. I got the, so these are all that's old. That was the last Olympia. He's got the Bumstead mustache. There's another one. It's not a huge guy, but just very well put together. Shape, symmetry, proportion. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Legs of, a little bit ahead of his upper body, but beautiful. So, oh God, no, you speak Portuguese, right? No, you speak a lot of languages. I know that. But, okay. Then, yeah, this guy is very competitive. Kim Angel, right? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. And Kim Angel, I know he was in a man's physique forever. And then when you realize that he had almost phenomenal legs, like, I trained him legs at, uh, uh, powerhouse gym in, uh, in California. And I was killing him, you know? Uh, so he'd remember that for sure. But, uh, I was saying like, what the hell are you doing in a man's physique with the legs like this? It's like, he's hitting man's physique poses right now. Oh no, he's not. This guy gets peeled out of his mind. Peeled. Like, you know, you're a conditioning guy. Yeah. Yes. You and Giles and. Conditioned snobs. Conditioned, condition, condition. I hope, can you find something with, uh, his crazy condition and quads? Yeah. I don't know if he has now. Uh, not. Uh, those are artsy photos now. Forget about the artsy stuff. All right. So this was a week ago. Okay. I didn't see it, but, uh, okay. Look at that. Yeah. Look at man's physique legs. And he was hiding this forever. Were they that big back then though? Yeah, pretty big. Yeah, almost. Cause you could see, you know, some guys, they have that stupid shorts, you know, you could see that it's filled up and some the loose. Yeah. And I train him legs. And that's why I asked him, why would you train legs in your man's physique? Like, legs don't matter, but he wanted to be held on legs. So I train him. Uh, Raul Carrasco is his coach. And Raul Carrasco prepares, uh, uh, Jose Munez. You know, the, Oh, Josema. Josema. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's the 20th. Like, holy hell. Josema is great. Yeah. I love that guy. Same age as Sulek. Who? Uh, Kim? Jose, no, Josema and Sam Sulek are like, they're both, I think they're like just a month or two apart in age. They were both 23 last year. Yeah. You know that, uh, Josema was competing at the open like two, three years ago, three years ago, maybe. Charles told me that I didn't, I had no idea. And he was third or fourth in whatever European show. Uh, we'll probably go back to open someday. I think so too. That was two weeks ago. He's got a big, he's got the frame. I could see him, especially the upper body. He could put another 15, 20 pounds in the next few years on that upper body. Yeah. I mean, he's going to be competitive for sure. I agree with you that, um, Mike. Summerfield is going to probably win because he's, it's just very hard to beat perfection like that. Uh, Vasily is so wide and conditioned, but he has to bring the balance after a lower body. And his waist is not the tiniest. Okay. Here, Sam. The most popular guy competing at the Arnold classic. He is. Yeah. You see all the, the meet and greet, the three people that they're going to have you meet are, he was Jay Cutler, Ronnie Coleman, and Sam Sulek. Right. So did you ever talk to Sam? I wish. No, I'd love to. You love him. Yeah. It seems like, I'll tell you what, I was a hater. I was a hater. Cause I'm like this. He said, nobody drinks chocolate milk and eats all this crap food. And just got the long brock, the long hair. Then I actually watched, started watching his videos. I'm like, this kid loves, loves bodybuilding. Yes. He lives and dies and breathes just like we do. Passionate about it. Yes. It's the nicest guy. I promise. And he is a, of our Slavic origin. I forgot where from. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. I got, I got Moldova, Romania, Ukraine. So I don't know if he's, maybe he's related to me. Yeah. But look at the conditioning. I mean, he is bringing it. Right. With no coach. Yeah. Yeah. This is, this proves you don't need coaches. That was my Liam parish initially. Yeah. But he doesn't post a lot of full body shots. You know, that's, he doesn't have the most, he doesn't have that gifted shape and structure that these other guys in classic do. Yeah. The top throws, but he'll be peeled. He might beat a couple of people. Yeah. I mean, he doesn't even need to, he can place last that he's still winning. You know what I mean? He's so popular and people love him. And rightfully so. He's a good kid. I'm excited to see him compete, you know, because, uh, as long as he doesn't get overly excited and forgets to, flex his legs, like he did in his first contest. If you remember, they criticize him, like, oh, you have no legs. And then next show, week later, he showed up to the great legs, just because he learned how to control them. So everything on the stage has to be to perfection. Oh, that's great. He's with the Chris. I hope Chris Bamsa gave him some pointers. Yeah. I mean, he's, it's crazy because any, I'm sure, would you, if, if, if he had asked you to coach him, you would have coached him, right? Of course. You know, anybody, any top coach, he, Asito, any of these guys, Neil, whatever, but he just wanted to do it on his own. He was here in the torture gym about a year ago, maybe. And then, it was close to the, you know, closing and I was going out and I've seen a lady, I know this lady and I couldn't remember. And then I realized, oh, that's Sam's mother. So I went there to talk to her and she just mentioned, go, you know, why don't you have him over for like a week in training? I said, I would in a heartbeat. Great. And if Sam is listening, right, of course, he knows my kind of training. Yeah. I would train him in a heartbeat because I would like to see and challenge him into areas. I'm going to look what needs to be done. Right. He was doing a chest incline presses on the Smith machine and a super strong guy. Okay. But I could still see, I didn't want to correct him. I don't know anything. I just came there and to spot him a couple of reps. I could still see that he didn't put everything on the chest. So these kinds of things, when you analyze his physique here, right? Um, he has that squater chest. You would want to have a field, you know, chest is a power muscle. It's supposed to be big and powerful. So this is how you look at it. He does this twisting back shots and I love it. Yeah. He loves those. Yeah. I'm always, anytime somebody needs more size or body part improvement, I go, they should go to Vegas and stay and train with Milos for like three months. Yeah. You know, at least in a week, if I go through every body part, you know, that's pretty good enough time to, to give them little tricks of the trade. They can use it later. But yeah, this is off topic. It's not really off topic, but when you train these people and they, and they learn these techniques from you, how many of you think can actually train that hard on their own as they can, when you're right there pushing them in person? It's impossible. You have to have a good training partner. I am impressed with all these guys that do it themselves. And he was doing it himself, self-motivating himself in a gym, doing pretty heavy weight and all that stuff. But it's different when you have somebody right next to you to push you that extra mile, extra rep, extra something. Yeah. You see, I was super, super excited, but Regan Grimes moved to Vegas because I thought I'm going to train him every day and twice a day and all that stuff. Right. But then he escaped very, very soon. Where'd he go? Well, you know, he just didn't, didn't like it. Wow. Of course, if you puke and you can't breathe, you know, those giant sets, they must suck. There was, there was that one line because I can't breathe. I say, you don't need to breathe, just squeeze. You have a lot of quotes, but you know, you know what my favorite me little star chef quote is? Yeah. It's when guys complain that, Oh, I can't train twice a day. You said, what is your profession? Yeah. Like from, from 300. Yes. But I'm serious. Yeah. I know you are. Yeah. I mean, Ron, I never ask you because you are from my era. Okay. You're younger than me, but you came right after most of us back in the day, train twice a day. I don't know if you ever train twice a day. No, I tried it once. I was like, ah, too much. This sucks. Yeah. Well, I never had, I wasn't, I was always working full time. So I didn't, I never led the body of the lifestyle, but even if I could, I didn't like being, I didn't like being in there more than once a day. You know what? I didn't realize I was like in the dark. Yeah. Cause we haven't really seen you much. I've been pulling up all these pictures of the other guys so much. Oh, there we go. The thing is, I remember that one, I didn't even look in the, in the screen to realize that I'm in the dark. I think you got dark while we were talking. I think that's why. Yeah, probably. I don't. Losing you. Losing your wifi. Yeah. By the end. It was in like complete darkness. Now I realized that I was the same. Cool. Well, so we have, I guess we'll wrap. I'll give you my top five. What I think, the way I think it's going to go. And then if you want to do your top five, that'll be a, that'll be good. So I have right now, I have Andrew, I have, I have Andrew, Hottie, Nick, Martin, and I'm being crazy. And I'm going Mo Foda in fifth. Okay. Something, something crazy. Okay. And then you're going to give me a classic too. So I'm going to give you the, my, I think Hottie is still Hottie and Andrew, even though I would like Andrew to win. Okay. But Hottie, Andrew, I'm going to put Martin third. Okay. Cause I think he's going to be like, just too good. And fourth, Brandon Curry and fifth Nick. Okay. Yeah. That's fair. And I, nothing, nothing against Nick because, and I, I think hopefully Nick can surprise me and go move all the way up, but I'm a shape guy. That's why I'm putting a Martin and a Brandon ahead of him for that reason. That's fair. That's fair. So classic, I'm only going to do top three. I got Mike Sommerfeld, Wesley Vissers and Andrea Mamoli. That's my top three. I think so. I agree. Exactly. In that order, even though Andrea, if he shows up perfectly peak, he's a little bit more classic balance did, vastly. Yeah. But we didn't see them next to each other. See, I don't know if you've seen vastly winning our classic on the stage. He impressed the hell out of all of us. Chris Cormier, Dennis Jameson, the Jose Raymond on the stage. I mean, he had a dominant presence like Arnold. Yeah. And the width. So when they open up, like they don't have a last friend pose, but front double and especially back double vastly is like, Jesus Christ. What do you have? It's like Andrew, Andrew's six foot. When you see somebody that's that tall and has that much width up top and such a narrow waist, it's just shocking. Yeah. The first time I saw Andrew Jack compete was that when he did his, the Texas pro in 2022. To me, once he walked out there, the show was over. Yeah. That guy right there. That's it. We're done. And he hadn't even hit a pose yet. Yeah. The same second he stepped on the stage. Exactly. That's it. He was the winner. Yeah. And that show particular one, Dennis James and myself, we were both by computers. He was in Phoenix. Yeah. And like you said, as soon as he stepped on the stage, Dennis was like, Oh my God, the show is over before he started. So I'm very, very much looking forward to this Arnold. It's a great lineup. I really, I can't wait to see Andrew versus hottie versus versus Martin, Nick, Brandon. It's a great, great lineup. And yeah, appreciate you taking the time, you love, because you always, you, you come up with things you look at, you, you bring up things that nobody else would bring up, like the midsection, the importance of it. And, you know, not only that, but you actually give advice during these things that the guys, if they're listening, they should, they should take heed and put it to practice. I would. And that was always the case. I would help competitors of my athletes. And some of my athletes got pissed off because I'm giving, I said, no, no, no, you don't understand. I have to be true to myself. I would like to help everybody. Yeah. On that note, I never had a single secret. Anybody asked me anything I would share, you know, but especially about this posing. You heard me say this a million times. I'm going to say it again. It's not what you have. It's what you show. It's what you show. Yeah. And when you want to show Nick Walker, right? Midsection, most importantly, don't worry about anything else is going to be showing. This has to show properly, you know, and the guys, they're not thick. They have to do the angles to make themselves look thicker. And the guys that need to be wider need to open up, you know, these kinds of things. Guys with no arms have to lift the biceps above the shoulders. So it creates illusion of the peak, you know, smaller things, but how many guys really analyze? And I said it before. I'm going to say just one more time and we can finish. When you post and you see your own video, then ask yourself, is this anything else? I can change here. I can change it to improve. And then try to change, even if it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make you feel comfortable because this is not what you do. This is how you do all the time. Change it. And then look, and you might be like shocked, like, holy shit. And I did this myself a few times. I was so uncomfortable, so pissed off. The photographer told me to do something and I didn't want it. Yeah. And then he showed me a Polaroid and I was, holy hell. So, you know, I didn't know because I would just never go there. Right. I know what I'm doing. We've seen that with Andrew. His side poses are getting better. Yeah. Yeah. He's fixing his side chest and his side tricep. They're still not perfect yet, but they're getting better. So, you know, what is weird about that? I'll tell you. Yeah. Because the first time when I've seen Andrew pose in a gym, in a dragon's layer, in a posing room, Flex Wheeler was his coach. So, I went with Flex there and we watched him and Flex would make him do 10 seconds each pose, 15 seconds, even 20 seconds. And then he would turn to the side. That chest is stupid chest. It's like so much muscle. You've seen it. Yeah. Top to bottom, everything is happening. So, you would expect when he turns into the side chest that that's going to look ridiculous. And, you know, it's, it's not really. And then you wonder when he relax, it's like right there when he hits the pose. And we both tried many different things. And it just, we didn't hit it right. So, now he's finally, I think, getting there. Maybe Kamal is instructing him. And maybe he can see in the mirror, just change a little bit of angle and it's right there. Yeah. Kamal, Kamal's been doing wonders. Anyway, yes. So, I'll wrap it up. You've been very generous with your time. Appreciate it. You're going to be there. You're going to be in Columbus, right? Well, I'm not going this time. Well, that's not going. Okay. And by the way, I don't want to say, I got this t-shirt from somebody from Serbia that gave it to Jake Hasler, the manager, Matt, at the FIBO in April of last year. And I just got it today. It's like Serbia, America thing. You know, is that a Robert Reefer, Chris Lund photo? That's Chris Lund photo. Yeah. Yeah. The original is in color. I believe. No, actually it's black and white. It's black and white. Yeah. I don't have a good copy of it. You know, you've had bad photos. You know, I have thousands of photos. I have all the CDs right here, but actually my best photos were on a hard disk that my ex threw it away. What? Yes. Actually, you know, like when you select it, they have the best photos. Yeah. And then you sometimes make the doubles and triples and so on. So now I'm, I'm, I'm getting from those doubles and triples, but not my selected best photos. Maybe you need a good photo for a thumbnail. Did she throw a, did she throw away the disc on purpose? Just to be evil. Yeah. Okay. Like my trophies and everything else. Yes. She threw all those away. That's why I don't get divorced. I can imagine what she, she threw away of mine. My gosh. It did burning flame. Ron. Cool. Yeah. For a thumbnail. I don't know if I'm going to go with, current Milos or old Milos. I haven't decided. Yeah. Whatever. But yeah, I'm glad that we talk. I did talk about, I don't classic with the, Jay Cutler and with the Dennis and Chris. So I might be repetitive, but again, there's different audience. Yeah. I mean, I'm grateful to have you, even if you said it on another podcast, when my viewers, they want, people tell me they watch like all the podcasts anyway. They watch Jay, they watch Fuad, they watch, you know, six, six to eight different podcasts, Dennis. This is always different. People say different things. Yeah. You're consistent. It's just, yeah, we started. And then we, we got disconnected. You had, you have a pictures of actually Andrew Jack, what he looks like right now, right? I do. I can't show them anyway. He just accidentally said, I promise I'm not going to show anybody. I promise Giles. I promised. Yeah. I promised. And come on. I'm going to, I'm going to text. Andrew. Yeah. Text Andrew. Andrew will send him. What is it? The East coast? Eight. It's eight 46. Yeah. It's not that late. They're not going to send me because they know that I'm dangerous. Right. Andrew might do it for you. Who knows? Andrew. Yes. I would love to. Okay, Ron. All right. Thank you so much. Thanks guys for watching. Arnold picks and predictions from the mind Milo starship. See you next time.