What's up everybody? Welcome to Power Hour. Usually it's just me and Giles Tiger Thomas. This week we are joined by a very special guest, the mind, the Serbian superman, Milos Sharv. What's up? How you guys doing? First, you probably didn't see my post. I was nominated and and announced to be greatest of all time classic king by uh Tuh Alindi, Landa Murray, and Tim Wilkins. So, please hail to the king. I want to be called classic king from now on. I gotta show that. I think they only mentioned you and a couple other people I believe, right? It doesn't matter. I I I'm You see? Yeah. See, now my favorite. I'm gonna go with Charles Claremont. Me, too. I like that. I I want to go with, you know, I think that that second segment where we were talking about some of the greats like um and and also Milos Milos Seria Tim. I'm gonna pick I'm going to take two also and I'm going to go Milos and Lee Labrada. Okay. I have been a fan of both of those guys for what 40 plus years and uh they're just everything they did was iconic and memorable and it's it's still going today. I'm going to pick two as well. I'm going to pick Milos. Okay. And Tierry Pastel. Oh, nice. So, I guess since all of us picked three Okay. Yeah, Terry Pastel. There's a blast from the past. He was amazing. He ruled the 212. He was just gonna say, "So, let's conclude. Mil is the classic king." Oh, did they did they really do that? Well, he said that. Oh, the whole time. I'm just kidding. Listen, listen. Let me ask you two experts. Who is your expert? Classic King. Oh, boy. I think um you'd have to put um I think Flex Wheel, let's say 93 Arnold uh 88 Barry Demay in there. You'd have to consider those two as well. Uh, I got to the Bob Paris all the way undisputed king of classic. Yeah. And uh, I mean when you consider that Frank Zane was like 180 pounds at soaking wet and winning three Olympias and and having those classic lines, I I would say definitely Frank and Bob Paris. But anyway, I want to give my What about Francis Benfo? Yeah, Francis. Yeah, listen. Charles Clarmont, I agree with you. Flex Wheeler, it's just hard to categorize him in a classic, right? But he is Serge Nubra, I mean Leila Brad rightfully you know Francis uh I will go back to uh Steve Reeves. I mean we don't mention you know those guys but you know let me tell you there's so many greats. Anyway, so no more the mind. I am a classic goat. Don't forget. God bless. So, uh, I I guess while we're here, why not uh why not talk a little bit about New York Pro, uh, since it just happened. Yeah. Actually, you know what? I haven't talked to Milos in forever. So, I want to go back to Pittsburgh. Uh, all right. Yeah. Pittsburgh Pro. How did How did you see that show? Most people had Nick winning, but some people did have Derek winning and it was so damn close. Milo, how did you see that show? It all goes with that uh uh notion of hashtag bodybuilding and hashtag musclebuilding. The Superman physique beats uh Hulk every day uh and 17 times a week if you ask me, you know, uh for for me that's bodybuilding. But you can't deny that uh Dorian Yates, a Hulk, beat Superman's like uh Kevin and Flex and Sean and Chris, right? That uh Jay Cutler also as a Hulk beat a static guys. So I understand. I mean I I absolutely do understand it's a mix and match. I I had a crazy debate with Bob Cherillo again. And I was super mad uh because he is the one that influenced the changes of judging. Gave a proposal to take out the symmetry round and and the presentation round which in sense like you don't change the soccer rules of football or basketball rules, right? Those are bodybuilding rules established by by uh a federation to establish three different physique rounds. They were all physique rounds and at first was a superman round aesthetic shape right muscularity and then they they all talk about posing posing posing like posing was choreography dance and it's not it was physique round that you do the poses other than mandatories that that glorify your physique show the strengths that has nothing to do with the ability to move yet choreography makes it more interesting so this member able routine. But anyway, uh if that judging uh was applied, obviously this image around Derek would be favored because he has the aesthetics and shape and proportion and balance, you know. So uh I think there would be different argument if you see the score sheets and you see somebody winning in the muscularity, somebody in the in the symmetry round, but it was super close show. Uh, I didn't see the real good footage until I went to Jay Cutler podcast and it was played in front of me and I could see the argument that uh um Nick Walker could have won but it was ra racer sharp closeness. I mean uh I didn't hear your review and I don't know if you were there Ron. I was not I wasn't there. He wasn't there because we we all the same just watching in the footage and video and what did you two think? I I I gave it to Nick by by a hair. I thought he was that good. Um the critiques they both have their flaws. They both have their strong points. Derek's legs were down again just like they were at the Olympia uh last October. They weren't as bad, but they certainly had downsized and lost fullness from the Arnold Classic. Um, the back shots. I still gave Derek the back shots, but Nick was really holding his own, which very few people can do next to Derek Lungsford. I mean, it came down to, like you said, an extra round that doesn't even really exist. It had to be they had to do a tiebreaker around the sudden death thing where it came down to just one judge, one point where it was already tied to to give it to Derek. And, you know, politics, people cried Nick was robbed. I don't think anybody was robbed because if it was a robbery in politics, Eric would have had a perfect score all day long. Uh he he wouldn't got Nick wouldn't have gotten one first place vote. But I still think just he brutally outmasked him. His condition was as good. Uh his legs were bigger and fuller. I mean, people knock Nick Walker's quads for years. He had better quads than Derek at this show. If you measure his leg, he has a huge leg. I hear an echo. I'm good. Yeah, you're good. So, uh, Nick's leg from a side view and especially rear view are monster legs. Tree trunks. Holy hell. But from the front, I mean, he's still I don't think he positioned them that well. And then the other thing is waist to quads ratio, you know. So, it doesn't help that he has a little bit wider waist that makes his quads look a little bit smaller. You know how that is? If you have a smaller waist, then ta is sweeping more. But uh you gave uh back poses to Derek. I did too. But even Tyler Manion gave back double biceps to Nick, which which was surprised. But I do remember talking to Nick like three years ago almost, you know, before we knew that he pulled out of the last two Olympias, but he was saying my back double beats Derek all day long. you know that was two three years ago that he was Yeah. Anyway, uh Mr. Expert from England, what did you see? Um I gave it to Nick and you know I like the more aesthetic physiques, but um I mean I think if Derek had looked like he did at the Arnold Classic, I think he could have I I maybe would have picked him as the winner, but he didn't look like like Ron said, his legs were like they were at the Olympia last year. But um I just I think I think Derek did really good to kind of hold on to some some somewhat of a peak, you know, being on prep that long. I thought he looked really really good. But um I did I did give it um I I was just more impressed with Nick. I just um and also I mean I was really shocked that um Tyler gave the rear door bicep to Nick because I think that's Derek's money shot. I think that's his major shot. So when I saw that, that's when I thought, okay, I think you can actually include Nick as a part of the conversation for be the Olympia being a four-man race, not a three-man race now. Because I think we've all been talking about Derek, Haddie, and Samson, Derek, Haddie, and Samson for six months, and I think now you have to throw Nick into there as well. I mean, yeah, I agree. But listen, uh, back level bice when you really cover the upper body, I say this all the time and I encourage you guys to do it and then just look at lower body and then you could see a huge discrepancy. Uh, when uh Derek would squeeze the hamstring along with his glutes from the rear, it looked big enough, but he was focusing on squeezing the glutes and many times he didn't show those lines on the hamstring. And uh it it looked okay. Not here, not on this one. Taste. So, who who would you give that one to? Sorry, Ron. Go. Let's spread Let's spread Derek all the way. I mean, he's so much wider, you know. So, and uh biceps, shoulders don't get into the play in this. Uh you see each pose has a little bit aesthetics or a or power poses like uh last spread is a static pose. Back double is a is a power pose. Most muscular is a power pose. Abs and thighs is aesthetic right. Uh side shots especially side triceps is more aesthetic. Uh even though side chest could be but you know I mean you have a uh poses that you have to consider oh what they looking here and what would shine in this one like most muscular who cares about aesthetics right you know that's why I was against like let's say even doing this one aesthetic uh one arm shot it's most muscle that you want to present. So anyway, I I I do think that um up until Arnold Classic this year, I didn't see Derek as ever potential winner again of the Olympia, but he presented it at Arnold and uh I saw him next to Samson and like okay, he beat him at the prejudging, you know, quite convincingly at finals. He didn't. I think uh if Samson showed up like this at the prejudging of Arnold, we would still have him as a winner and and Derek is okay improving but not there just yet. The legs that he brought at Arnold, he didn't bring again even though it was interesting. Jay Cutler saw him month before and he actually posed with him. I think it was a feeble whatever that there were. This is a wait until you see uh Derek's legs got monster legs and that's coming from one of the greatest legs of all time. Right. No. And then he didn't bring them, you know. So there's obviously something that happens. Flattens out. Flattens out. Yeah. We seen Derek going on the Pittsburgh guest posing like two years in a row and the monster legs and then he comes to Olympia and they're scaled down. So he still have that issue, you know. Uh, and another thing that I don't like and I encourage you to look at it. I said it at Jay Cather podcast. When he hit like most muscular shots and keeps the legs closer, his legs look bigger and better and separated and feathers and everything. But when he sticks that uh one leg right leg that is smaller out his first admission to the judges I know I don't have a leg so I have to keep it like this you know which is is kind of you should be a poker player not uh Milos did you um did you take it pose by pose at Pittsburgh with Nick and Derek yes I I did okay I I wish I We have that footage so we can look at it. I can find it while while you're go ahead. Okay. If you can find it. So, uh, Bob Chrilla said something that a lot of people don't didn't agree, but I agree. We know their physiques, right? You don't haven't necessarily see them. Of course, you know, now on that day of the contest, you have to compare it. Yes. But in general, we've seen Derek front bices so many times. We've seen Nick. We kind of if if we are experts we should expect something okay in general. So before they step on the stage, what would Don't play yet. What do you agree with this? Maybe you're gonna agree with this. Uh Ron and And by the way, by the way, by the way, I have to clarify this. Uh I had a little uh confrontation with Giles on my Instagram, right? And then he got so offended. He says, "Oh, Milish, you want to be uh agree and you want everybody to have the same opinion as you do, don't you?" No, I don't. Why would I? That'd be boring. Why would I want everybody to think like me? And uh difference in opinion, you know, brings a conversation and analysis and then maybe, you know, we get somewhere. So that's uh uh for sure. And then I have something else to say about that, but let's focus on on uh here. So you two have seen everybody a million times. Could you assume that going on the stage Derek at his best is going to beat uh Nick at his best in front of a bices based on shape uh x-frame b taper uh that wow factor of of uh physique as far as uh uh aesthetic shapely physique. I I would think Derek would win that every day all day. Okay. Before the show. Yeah. But he wasn't Was he at his best though? He wasn't at his best. Yeah. Okay. So So this is how now uh you can deny it's called from double biceps. Double biceps. And the reason why I'm saying this uh about judging. Now I'm going to have people think a little bit. Why did they choose mandatory poses from front side and back and and with specifics? Because they want to scan your whole body, every muscle proportion and balance, how everything you know flows. And then strength of biceps, strength of chest, strength of tricep, strength, you know, there were poses picked to show your whole physique. You you can't hide in this eight poses. There's nothing you can hide. But front double biceps. Okay. Yeah, biceps should be a huge part. And it's no comparison between uh Nick and uh Derek in the biceps, but flow and shape. Yes. So, shut the lights. Look at the silhouette. Derek wins. You know, of course, I want to I want to ask you because you're you're not going to shy away from anything. I know you Yeah. Derek's arms from the front, his lats from the front. people have. You're not gonna We don't know if he shot up anything in there or not. But why do you when you see that complete lack of definition, you really have to wonder. There's like nothing going on there. They're like blobs. Yes. But we can't assume that, right? They were they were they were pointing out on the lads like back in 2023 Olympia, right? Yeah. And and uh listen, we all bodybuilders, we all all been there. We all inject steroids somewhere. Okay. As many guys injecting the lats for a purpose of widening the lats. I mean thousands or hundreds of thousands of people. I know hundreds of pro bodybuilders. I know my athletes who asked me before, should I? I said, "No, no, no, no." And then like Dennis James was like one of the first ones that like when I look at the results like god damn. Okay. And then he even showed me how he does it. And then I talked to some other guys and really it widens your back. I mean at the Mr. Olympia uh right now you think how many guys the top 10 you think never shut their lats just because he doesn't look okay hold on the best example Dorian Yet shot everything in the lats. Could you ever assume he he had a single shot? No I wouldn't assume he shot his lats. You see, and he told you openly he shut the lights constantly. Oh, Dorian did say that. Oh, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Go ahead. Yeah. I I I'm not as crazy on Derek's front door bicep as I used to be. When I saw at the 22 Olympia, even the 23 Olympia, like his front door bicep, I remember when he came out at 22, I was sat there second row and he hit that. Remember when he um he got the special invite and he did, you know, he didn't do a like tamper or anything. So, we got the big reveal when we saw him. And when he did that front relax, the frontal bicep, it like we all gasped. Everyone in the audience just went. But now, if you if you like that footage you just showed from the Olympia, Ron, when he does the frontal bicep, it was like he he's not as confident hitting and the crowd I remember watching the live stream. The crowd was like silent. And I think it's because now his arms have gone a little bit flat. Like that shot used to be holy [\h__\h] like an that's the first shot you would hit and it's a great first impression, but now I think it's gone from like a strong pose. I think it's actually I wouldn't say it's a weak pose for him, but I don't I'm not as wowed by it as I used to be. I agree. 2022 he was uh 212 wonder. Nobody knew what to expect. I mean, none of us none of us knew didn't know. And then when he showed up at that front legs like you said and frontal biceps like there was breathtaking moment and and the temperature changed like holy hell. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I agree and he still has it glimpse of it but not as powerful and as wow as he used to. So, if uh judges I I don't even know that if Tyler gave it to uh Derek or or Nick, but if Nick beats him in front of biceps, I'm all for it. It's just Yeah. hashtag muscle building, biceps building, and he had a hard he probably had a more balance upper body, lower body, uh because Derek's legs were down. Yeah, I agree with that. You know, so you could you could give argument and give it to Nick. Front last spread still goes to Derek. Yeah. I mean, uh, yeah. Okay. This was surprise of the show for me. Wait. Oh, can you can you stop? I'll go back. Which pose are we? Side chest. So that's another another thing. Us experts going before we saw them on the stage. Star chess. All three of us would instantly say Nick probably. Yeah. It It wouldn't even be like, "Oh, let me think about that one. Oh, let me think about that one." I mean, uh, Derek's chest was fuller, bigger. And even in comparison to Nick, fuller, bigger. I mean, I know you're going to say, "I'm out of my mind. I wasn't there." But, uh, Nick has a flattish chest. He does. He does. So, in this pose, detail on the hamstring. uh for for uh Derek. Yeah. Uh he nullified the size difference there. Uh you know, this is still power shot, but uh he does it aesthetically. I mean, I would still give it to Nick, but I was going back and forth, back and forth. And probably you two have the same same thing. If I look at three comparisons of two guys, I might go first comparison with Nick. Second time they do it, I give it to Derek and third time, you know, I give it to somebody else. Yeah, I've been there many times and I'm sure the judges see that too. But it's like you say hair difference. Okay, what am I looking? Okay, by hair, Nick. This this is how I look at here. By hair. Yeah, I I I think Nick needs to work on his side poses, how he how he positions himself. Yeah, Derek is so much more polished and positions his his his waist, the way he's twisting, the way he rotates his torso a little bit more away from the judges. Every everything about his posing is better than Nick's posing. Um, I think I think Nick just But I think actually at this show anyway, I think this was a poor shot for both of them. Fair enough. Okay. Awful shot. They suck. Here we go. See, so the reason I I I thought Derek blew him away here only because of the thickness of the back. Okay, from the waist down, Nick Nick destroys Derek size-wise in the legs. Not just that. Okay, let's forget a torso. Let's look at the limbs. Okay. Okay, so really forget about torso and look at the limbs, legs and arms. Okay, it's no contest. M okay. So if uh Derek and I love Derek's back double biceps, I I would still give it to him. But then many times when I focus on the legs, like hold on, I didn't I didn't realize it's a that much difference. And then Dennis James and whoever else was there in in uh Pittsburgh, they said like, "No, no, no. on a stage and I experienced that Nick live is much better than Nick on a you know screen. So look at the legs. I mean really uh thickness sweep of a quad separation even hamstring. I I mean I see the argument that Nick can win as Derek didn't present himself perfectly and lost the legs a little bit. I I think um I think the takeaway obviously Derek's like actual back itself and his glutes are very impressive, but I think my eyes are drawn to Nick purely because I think he's got better balance. I think overall I think he's got a nicer X shape and I think the legs and the arms because like Derek's arms look a bit undized there. Um, and I just think I just think more I think he's better balanced Nick in this shot. Like I never would have thought that I would be saying that Nick has a better because that's Derek. That is Derek shot. That's the shot that kind of shuts the door on everyone, but I think I think Nick looks superb in the shot. Fair play. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, I mean I'll I'll backtrack on myself. Nick I'm sorry. Derek has the better back, but it's a rear double bicep shot. Nick has the better biceps, the better everything from the waist down. I think I think we kind of get like just like with Flex Lewis. Flex was great. I'm not taking away anything from him, but the conditioning from the back that Flex had, I think it it really just overwhelmed people and you couldn't you couldn't take your eyes off it. Some of the back shots, Flex really wasn't winning, but you still were so drawn to the detail that he had back there that you would give them those shots. Okay, here's the question. Don't change the slide. Okay, I asked this question because there No, no, no. But Nick is so much bigger and he has so much bigger back. So say, "Hold on a second. You want to tell me that if we remove the lats and back of those two guys and put on a scale that Nick is going to have more muscle?" I don't think so. For me, I mean, there's so much more width here on Derek that he he has to, you know, Yeah. have a bigger back. What do you think? Well, like I said, Derek has got more. You can see there's more around the traps, the midback, the the the on the lats. There's there's there's a little bit more development and pop going on. But I think, like I said, overall for me, I mean, he has got a better back than than Nick, but I just draw on to Nick for the symmetry. How about bigger, dancer, thicker? Yeah. Yeah. Derek, you mean Derek than Nick? Yeah. I mean, overall in the actual back, the actual back itself, I think, but then I look at like Nick's in that overall shot. I like Nick's shoulders, arms, legs, calves, everything. Hamstrings are dug out. I think looks awesome. Yeah. But it goes back to the argument muscle. Is this bodybuilding or is it muscle building? How much are the aesthetics and the structure and the shape going to weigh versus somebody like Nick? Nick structurally is he's never going to be any anywhere near as pretty as Derek. I think he looks very pretty in that shot. That's what you know that's probably one of his best shots. That might be his best 100%. It's amazing shot. 30 pounds of muscle on him with maybe Now I'm thinking Derek must be only about five. This is for sure Nick's best shot. For sure. Now that you ask. Oh, what's that? For sure the best. They say most muscular. I don't think so. This is by far the best. Do you think Oh, hang on. Do you think Derek's just not rotating his arms back enough because his shoulders look his arms look flat in that shot? I just think he's not rotating back enough. Okay. To to answer this, he just doesn't have a bice peak. You know, remember front double, you will analyze front double. He doesn't have that peak. You see, he's uh lengthening and shortening. He could externally rotate a little bit more maybe. Yeah. But but look at left biceps of a neck. Look at this. They're halfway up his four of them. You know, it's it's beautiful. It I do see what Charles is saying though. does look to me like Derek is losing some external rotation mobility in his shoulder because his his arm you can see he's tipped forward just a little bit. I don't think he can crank the arms all the way back. Nick, I don't think Nick can either, but it's much thing is if that's Derrick's best shot, you want to hit it right. Yeah, but you know, he can be experts on the chair. We not on the stage. God knows why he did. I I was saying that Derek has one of the best of all time back door biceps. Like I really didn't think that anybody can touch him in that pose, but then I saw that Samson is closing in on him, you know. Uh and now Nick uh I love Hardi to death and is good back, but still I think that he's going to lose that shot to uh to Derek. Yeah. Yeah. Derek has better conditioning from the back than Hadi as well. had he's only bought real real crisp conditioning in his over in all his back at the two Arnold classics. If you look at the Olympia, he always lacks detail in the riddle bicep. Um you're kind of overwhelmed by the size in the real spread and you kind of overlook it, I think, because he kind of your eyes are drawn to him. But I think um like I think if Hadi brings a total package this year, I think they're all in trouble. You know what is interesting? 2021 when he was uh not winning, he plays fourth, right? Yeah. Uh, that conditioning would blow away 2022 when he won, but but it didn't matter. I know. I agree with you. Look at those legs. Okay. Look at those legs. Wow. And now compared to uh uh Nick and Derek right there alone. Right. Look at the waist to quad ratio. What I'm talking about. You see what I mean? Yeah. Quads are almost the size of his waist. I think they're bigger actually. Milos, do you think that do you think I mean obviously since um was it 23 I think we started to see a bit of a disparity between his left and his right leg. Do you do you notice Do you think that's noticeable or do you think it's I noticed years years before 21 wasn't it? 21 22. Yeah. I I I noticed this way before. There was always a little bit you know the way how he even the way he poses and his master of uh you know uh trying to hide. I could. But I mean, this this is great. Now you can't really tell anymore, you know. Really, you have to nitpick to see it. Yeah. All right. Back to our guys. So, rear latch spread. To me, this was Derek all day. Yeah. Derek all day. Easy. His lats insert like at the his hipbone. Crazy shot. Somebody challenged me. Okay. If you think that uh Nick's legs from the rear killed Derek, why why are you giving him this shot? Which, you know, it's a good argument, you know, like, okay, I mean, you make a point, but here he squeeze the hamstring. You see, he did the other lines on the hamstring, you know, it's not such a discrepancy in uh size. And I can't believe this that uh Nick out angled uh Mr. out angling champ of all time. Eric, you see they're about the similar heights and and Nick look like uh five inches taller here. I'm actually I'm really trying to nail down the heights because I I you know I'm not very tall. So when I stand next to Nick, I'm probably five I'm down to 5'7 and a half. I think Nick is right at 5'7. So I'm gonna say Derek has to be 5 foot five and Heidi must be right around 5'5, too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, we agree that uh Derek then they won this shot. I think I think this guy even superset man. Nope. Super set man gave Derek gave Nick that shot. Oh well. Oh well. What do you know? Super this was a this was a weird one because obviously we know Nick has much better triceps arms in general. Yeah. I don't know man. I I This is Derek although Nick doesn't know how to pick this pose right. Look at him. What is he? Do you think he was just tired at this point? Because it looks like, you know, sometimes when you see him and they gone through round after round and then they just they're not flexing their abs and their intercostals and they're just it's like I think I think he was just tired by this point because I I'd love to see maybe some of the early comparisons. I don't believe this is how he hits his side tricep. Yeah, he did. He did. J for some reason Nick changed his side triceps into presentation like this, right? I don't like it. I don't like it. Yeah, I don't like it. I know. Trust me, I've seen it in in every rotation and Derek mastered this pose. It's beautiful. This is now that aesthetic side triceps looks beautiful and looks powerful. I mean chest the pull. He moved that left shoulder so there is thickness at the top hanging. I mean he won there's no argument. He he won on a basis of posing mastery. He doesn't have a better arms than than Nick. Uh, he's not wider than Nick. He had a little bit fuller chest than Nick here. But if Nick positioned himself a little bit differently, why is Nick not rotating his scapula back? Because like Derek hits, you see where Derek is. And then he's hitting the intercostal shot and he's hit it beautifully and then Nick's just kind of scrunching down and kind of not even straightening the arm properly. It just looks really sloppy. That's he and his coach. I guess the choose he focused on squeezing the stomach and abs so to have a flat stomach. I guess that was his main thing here. But then he uh he lost the wow biceps mass and and weight on the top. I think that he should adjust that for the Olympia. Definitely. I mean, if if he hit that exactly the way Derrick's hitting it right there, I think I think it would be an easy winning for this pose. Nick would blow him away in this pose because his triceps are bigger. The only thing Dererick really has over him is the side leg detail and and the fullness of the chest, every other body part. And Nick really, this must have been later because he was only starting to breathe through his belly toward the end. So, I assume this was later on because look at that. He should have He needs to keep that waist sucked in. Yeah. All right. Well, let's see who Superset Man gave it to. Superet gave He gave Nick that post, too. Okay. Yeah. Who is Super Set Man? Some crackhead? No, he's got a He's got a better He's got a better performing YouTube channel than me. That's who he is. Doesn't matter. But I mean, he's smoking crack like Jay Cutler. So, Aban Thai, man. Well, was Nick Was was Nick all the way into the pose here? No. Yeah. Okay. Nick is he tries to and then Derek switches it up because aesthetically you would think okay Derek wins more vtapers smaller waist but if you look abs separation so it goes to Nick all day long. I I really It's crazy because for the past three years, all we hear is Nick Walker's quads suck. His quads are they, you know, they look and and he just beat Derek easily in the from the waist. Look at here. Look at here. I mean, it's it's great. It's not even close. And Derek switches it up. I actually like that variation. Okay. Most muscular. Not even close. Not even close. Yeah. I must say that Derek improved his most muscular. Uh we criticize him since uh 212 win. He had no striations, no hardness, no separation, no tieins, uh nothing going on. He has much more muscle now and a little bit more detail. So he is in the right way. And look at his legs here. Okay. Yeah. Look good. Look good. Closer together. And he he at one moment he had them even closer. They look even better. So So guys, I've been thinking about, you know, the lack of like stirrations and everything in the chest. If you noticed, um, Ramy had that as well. Do you think it's because they pin their shoulders and it the muscles just doesn't really kind of move properly? Well, I I tell all my guys, I mean, I don't know if you can see, I can wave wave. You practice this, right? I don't want to take a shirt off to to show me, but you can wave. And once you establish connection with each fiber, right, when you're going into the pose, it should be strided all over the place. Another thing, chest training, any pushing, so decline, flat, incline, barbell, dumbbell, split machine, okay? You're never going to have a peak contraction. You're never going to squeeze like you do with the flies. In flies, you have to squeeze the life out of it. And you have to produce strayation. You say, "What are you talking about?" You know, give me scientific back. Shut the [\h__\h] up. Just squeeze the goddamn muscle in every repetition, is attention, whatever. Joe Weer said back in the time, I remember early 90s when he was talking. Oh, no. You have to pose in between pos in between sets and you have to squeeze and you have to look and you have to see it. Okay, you have to see the striation. Don't just like uh most of the guys do that most muscular focusing on shoulders like Nick is more about popping the shoulders. If you really analyze and I encourage you after the the show, look at him going into the pose. There is a moment the striations are clearly visible and then it's they don't stay there. You know how Arnold back in the day they said like okay when you go into the pose and then you exhale and then you hold that pose two three four five seconds at the fifth second is going to be more detailed than second number one you you're going to gain uh some hardness and detail and they just don't do it. Do you think um because I think I I think the difference between physiques of like even 20 30 years ago to now is you get guys more delt dominant than chest whereas like in Arnold's era they all like great chest and not as good as delts. Like I look at Keon and I and people and I think Keon's absolutely amazing but he's very delt dominant and I think it kind of like when he hits the most muscular like kind of Clarida like their chest kind of disappears but you never I don't think you ever really saw that 30 40 years ago. felt like I feel like like I said everyone's just more about the shoulders now and I like I said you don't get the chests you get used to get like 30 40 years ago. What's your thought? What's your thoughts? Yeah, I I agree with you now that Clarita was perfect example. His delts look like his head and chest were not even close. Yeah. I mean when we like Samson has a stupid chest and when I train when I saw it you could see as barbell is lowering you bar down chest up expand. It's all pushing from the chest. Chest go down you push from the delts. Elbow go in you push from triceps you know. So it's just like are you doing the bench press or you're training the chest? Look at this chest. Yeah. Looks great now. He looks good. Yeah, it looks really good. His chest kind of just exploded a couple of years ago. It just just absolutely exploded. Looks amazing. Yeah. I have a question, Milos, about Samson. So, he lost to Derek based basically on condition. I think most of us agree that Samson in crazy condition like we never seen before. Nobody right now would beat him. Do you think losing the Arnold Classic was the best thing that could have happened to him if he wants to keep his Olympia title? because I think that's going to motivate him so much more to finally be shredded. And if he's if dry is even something he's capable of doing, I think I think this is when we're going to see it this year. But what are your thoughts? Because you know Samson far better than In a way. In a way, you you hit the nail on the head. Yeah. Uh he didn't want to lose. Of course, there's a lot of money and it's prestige and I mean he thought he was untouchable because he finally delivered the package and he won the Olympia. So nobody should take this away from him for so many years to come and then he loses his very next contest on the basis of conditioning. I think really if Samson showed up Saturday uh Friday like he was on Saturday he would have won but even that is too close for comfort. Yeah Andrew Jack I mean you guys didn't see Andrew Jack I saw Andrew Jack three days out and two days out and one day out with the fuller legs. Yeah, I saw the pictures and and uh with a fuller legs, he is a contender. Yeah, big- time contender, right? But as soon as I saw him that the legs were down, I could see the argument and they're not going to even maybe consider him. Yeah. Ander Jack with a full look, he's wider and more detailed. Uh that Samson has this crazy peeking biceps, hanging triceps. And that's what also you see jealous people are uh pointing, oh yeah, he pin pin pin pin. I touch that uh biceps and triceps. I've seen it up close. There's thriations on the tricep. Yeah. You know, it just shape he has a, you know, shorter insertion and and it just blown up. And then he has those long bones. This why I told him you have to always create the illusion of less forearm length. This is why the this most muscular everybody complain like why did you let him hit that way? Okay. Ab shot you know Andrew wins all along. Beautiful. Yeah. You can't touch him. And then this most muscular right he will he had those lengthy uh forearms. So when he hide him like this he shows more muscle because he have shoulders chest. But many experts don't like it because it's not conventional. I say you shouldn't care about what's conventional. It's most muscular. How do you show most muscle? So, he he's going to play with that. I I think Andrew, you didn't mention Andrew in that top four at the beginning. Uh Ron, you said uh Samson, Heidi, Derek, and Nick. Yes. Uh I see Andrew there big time uh with improved legs. Yeah. And I've seen the legs, so I know that he just needs to deliver. And I I do hope uh Beerus are going to make uh I I've seen this morning's update. I love it. Uh so is Yeah, go ahead. Me. Um I I looked at some updates of Beerus in the last few days. It looks like his quads have actually come up from the front now. Is that is that definite now or is it just a was it just a good video? It is definite. I if you we didn't pose nothing that really shows that because as you know his kind of lower carbs depleted and all that but I've seen him in the right moments and quads quads are flaring uh much more. Yeah because that was his only that was his only weakness. It was quads from the front the side and the back. I've seen him I saw him in Spain last year. I've seen Romania. I've seen him a few times and it was the only weakness he had and that's if he just brought those quads up from the front to get them a little bit wider. And honestly, the recent updates, I just literally commented on his Instagram about two hours ago, actually, and I said, "You look like you're very complete now, mate." I'm going to ask you because you were there. I I wasn't his pro debut in Romania 2021, right? No, 20 22, wasn't it? No, 20 21. 21 when he placed third behind Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then 22 he won uh against uh Brett. Wilkin and 23 he was second to uh Samson. Yeah. Yeah. But but uh there is an argument he could have won 2021 and I think that you even you said it yourself. You remember that? Was I there? There was an argument that uh Beerus could have won his pro debut 2021 Romania. I can't honestly I can't remember. Normally I can remember things like that. I can't I can't get it in my head. I remember seeing I don't think I was there. Was I? I think that you were the one saying it the commentary. Can't remember. I remember him in because I remember I messaged you when he in 23 when because the prejudge and it was a flip of a coin between him and Brett and at the night show because I was to the right side of the judges with on the table. Remember he came out in the by the side. He hadn't even looked on stage. Yeah. 20 22 sorry. Yeah. 22. and he came out and I just and I saw the silhouette and I I was on the live stream going crazy and I remember messaging you and I said what the hell has he done from prejudging to now and he went well he's had some chicken he's had a lie down he's done nothing special but he really he really kind of like in it was only like four or five hours or something and he really really I mean it was he was like he pulled pulled ahead clearly and I was like okay this isn't a flip of a coin has got this one. All right, curious Milos what is going on with his ability to get a visa? Do you know anything? Yeah. So where we at right now, uh he hired the lawyers, he did the that advance expedited processing uh and they responded with they need additional few things and like uh uh some reputable people uh talking about him being elite bodybuilder. So we got you know a few of those we got from um Palamanian. We got from RFK. Oh wow. RFK. No. Yeah. Unbelievable. Leo. Leo is the guy that uh made that happen. And Jay Cutotler and I mean there's a bunch of people. So that's sent last Monday. Okay. So we should be getting a results anytime soon. So So here I mean you see Ron, you never seen Be Cruz in person? Never. Never. I would love to. I'd love to. I'm telling you. uh live. He's so much better than any pictures he Yeah, he really he really pops. I've seen him like three times now live. But um I I was somebody put because um they would look say somebody was saying that possibly Martin was going to do Juvia and somebody did a comparison and I'd never even thought of those two kind of being. I just I just never thought of that comparison in my head. And when obviously when that that that rumor was happening, I was thinking actually that's a really really really good matchup because they're both I think they're both at a very similar level. Martin is Martin at his best and Beerus at his best. That's one I'd like to see. Okay, look look look at just this. I mean seriously hashtag bodybuilding hashtag musclebuilding hashtag conditioning hashtag aesthetics you know crazy arms, you know. I mean where would you mark him down on this one? And who can stand next to him in this one? I mean, doesn't have this kind of back. I know. I know. But you know, the one thing that really bugs me is posing routines aren't good. Yeah. His pos like the choice of music and stuff like that. I'd love to because he's got such a beautiful aesthetic physique. Yeah. And he's got so many strong poses. I'd love to see him with like a really really nicely choreographed pose nut. And I think it would really I think it would really shut the door. Trust me. I made a lot of suggestions, but they he is in the comfort zone the way he does it. You see, I don't like that uh uh chopper uh front relax with the arms all the way up, you know. You see that just there. Okay. Look at look at side shots. I mean, beautiful. Yeah. Yeah, he's good though, guys. But but what what I learned not to to do gets you out of your comfort zone. when he does his poses, that's how he likes it. That's him. Let him be him. Dennis says, "Don't let him bend his knees in the front." That bugs me as well. Yeah. I told him this couple of times. He likes it. He established that uh hip flexor when he does this. I said, "Okay, you know, you know, I let him do what he wants." Look at this conditioning. I mean, where where do you think Milos really? I know it's hard not to be biased for any coach, but where would you put him in the Olympia? Do you think top 10, top six? How high could he go? I mean, it's top six 100%. Okay. But but when you when you go man against man, pose by pose, I tell you. He he can he gave Samson run for money after Samson was 30 a week later. Yeah. If he had a little bit if he had a little bit more legs, I would say he beat him. Did you Did you I watched that live stream and I know that Sam because Samson had gone it was the week after the Olympia in 23 and he'd obviously gone back and then he went over to Romania and and Samson just looked like he didn't look like the same guy that had just took third at the Olympia. He looked tired. He looked flat and and you could see he was like he just wanted it over with. And then when when they moved Beer Ru into the center, you see Samson's confidence just went. And I feel like up from then on, he just wanted to get it over and done with. And I think he was relieved when he won. And I think he was lucky. Beer Ruse came close, man. Bear Ruse came really close at that one. He could have been beat there. He was super close. So that's how good Beer Cruz is. Be can get crazy conditioning. Okay. And his waist is smaller than sea buns. Okay. I I'm telling you this which I have argument I don't know if you guys watched when I talked to Dennis and and Chris and Jay. It's one thing when you uh present that vacuum fake small waist and when you have a small waist you know a lot of guys can pull that vacuum and look in the front legs and front of biceps. Oh, small waist which Arnold basically implemented to hide his wide waist, his front of biceps, right, with a vacuum. But, uh, uh, Beer Cruz has that small waist from any angle, any pose all the time. He doesn't have to, you know, control. The sad thing about today's bodybuilding is that most of, oh, you have to control your abs or you have to control your bubbly gut. You have to control your, you know, uh, Buddha, Buddha stomach. Buddha. Oh, and you are controlling it. Congratulations. You control your Buddha stomach. It doesn't look like a Buddha. Okay, that's the problem. You're supposed to watch them at all times. If they have a small waist, but then they presented that in a front legs. This is not real. That's fake. Oh, but bodybuilding is about illusion. I understand it is about illusion but when that illusion breaks and then you can see a real real physique and then you are warding this over that you know come on I think it's time to get super controversial ready here we go uh good veto who had to pull out unfortunately at the very last minute uh that lat injury I think it happened three or four days out from the show. Yeah. Okay. Can I just backtrack a little bit? So, I love you guys. You know that I do. Ron, you were saying that you were afraid I'm pissed off at you. Yeah. About it. No. Whatever you said at the time, you said I didn't like and I confronted you with Yeah. Okay. That's my So, what John said, mind you, on my Instagram page, he comes on my page to give his uh No, no, C3TV. Okay. But it's on my page. It's on my page because all three of us Okay. All three of us uh share it. So, it's on my page. Okay. That's okay. But even if it's not on my page, but rightfully I'm listening to your advice first. We didn't know that Jars is not going to compete. The is not going to compete. But you say, "Okay, he shouldn't compete. Uh you know, he's already qualified. uh there is no benefit of him entering uh uh okay so it was in that notion like that was your opinion then very politely I jump in ask Giles J okay I can be a sarcastic dick you know I like to be when somebody deserves it I first ask you there is no benefit of uh good veto uh new pro that only competed twice in Brazil that nobody saw him. They competed once in the Detroit and had only Martin on the stage and he was close second there to the guy that later placed top four at uh at the Olympia. uh all the pictures and reviews. I talked to uh Jose Ryman which I consider greatest expert in this and he was raving about him. He was saying he's going to shock the world. He's going to beat Martin. He's going to do that's how good he was. But even if I didn't hear this, so new prospect, okay, being able to be on Pittsburgh stage inaugural Pittsburgh with uh Derek that just beat Mr. Olympia that was previous Mr. Olympia with Nick that was top three. Okay, with Martin that was top four. Oh, he shouldn't enter it because maybe he cannot place. It's better for him to uh watch the show and and focus on Olympia and not enter it. So I just ask you so I'm gonna ask you again and I'm gonna ask and I'm gonna ask Ron. So you guys are no guys you Jazz discouraging super talented potential that needs to have experience with the greatest ball earth. As Michael Jordan say, you're never gonna make a shot you don't make. You don't even try, right? I competed, as you know my story, at the European Report. I sign up for it. I knew I couldn't even be top five. And I'm going to make zero money. I'm going to be on the stage with Ronnie and Kevin and Nasser and uh you know uh whoever. So for me hearing that you expert and then I ask you two or three times like okay think about it again think about it again think about again and then you get offended and you're saying oh Miller rant meltdown you don't like to have a difference opinion don't you like you're being a complete dick I can put you in the hole I can put you in the hole but I I still love you I say okay let me Just rephrase the question again. You didn't see any benefit of this guy. I didn't say that. No, you misinterpreted what I said. You misinterpreted what I said. And also also being you asked me to answer the question. You asked me to answer the question and you put three essays and I was like I don't even know what the question is. Oh, you're lying. Okay. No, I'm not. No, I'm not. Uh, I tell you what, I'll let you have your say and then I'll give you my perspective because I think I think you've misinterpreted what I've said, but I'll give you exactly how it was meant. I It obviously didn't land with you in the way that it was intended because you've interpreted it your own way. That's fine. I get that. But you you have your say and I'll tell you exactly what I meant by it. Okay. Read it. Okay. So, this was on Cormier's. Yeah. You go on mine. Yeah. I'm trying to figure out which was it. It was it I'm trying to figure out which post it was. Was it the one with the veto and the double bice? Yeah, this this one. Oh, wait. No, that's that's be this one. We're still going. Chris posts a lot. Good. I go on mine. Uh oh. Go. It's on you. Oh, you put it on yours as well. Yeah, of course. That's why I said uh I didn't realize that he didn't answer to me that it was just like a group. Okay. So, which which post was it? You think? Uh little bit down. A little bit down. A little bit. Hold on. A little bit more. No. A little bit more. Who's smoking now? No. No. That That's different. That's uh up up down down down. Okay. You see you're going to see a creatine uh post and one under creatine. Keep going. Keep going. Oh, there's creatine. Okay. So, here we go. Yeah. There you go. Okay. Please, please read uh uh when I ask uh Giles. Okay. So, it says just to get No, no, that's uh 35 replies later. Go check click on the replies. You were trying to rally people against me, weren't you, Milos? Go. No, no, no. I'm just I want you to realize, Giles, because most of us, you see, I don't like to be wrong. You are one wrong here. 1 million%. Attack me. Can you read that? Okay, you guys. It's on screen now. So, he's all good. He's got his qualification for the Olympia. There really wasn't any benefit for him doing Pittsburgh in my mind going up against Derek, Nick, Bonak, Kris Martin. I really don't think he'd have beaten any of them this weekend. He can rest up and bring his best to Olympia. How was that discouraging? How was that? My question for you right there. Yeah. I will never understand that way of thinking, Giles. There really wasn't any benefit for him doing Pittsburgh or any show for that matter, especially one where he could stand up and battle with top guys. For the love of God, for the love of God. So, what's your answer? Charles said he's already qualified. Yes, he's very good, but what possible benefit was there by getting fifth or sixth? The last is a Where' that go? Okay, go more and more and more. So, I let you guys read it. So Jas now again you think there was no benefit of him being on the same stage compared to Nick and Derek and Martin? Milos Milos. He's going to have to see them all at the Olympia where it really No, no, no, no. Don't go. No, no, no. Okay. Shouting over each other. You're going to have to say your We're going to have to let me say my piece as well. You're not answering. I ask you one question. You ask You know what the question is? you you're completely different. I'm not talking about the Olympia. I'm talking about this. My question was how he's going to do Olympia. Why do there's no benefit benefit? Look, I was trying to be encouraging and kind of like look, okay, this isn't a disaster. This isn't a complete like this isn't the disaster. Just let him it you know, I I honestly don't think he'd have been fighting for more than fifth. And I think yes, I know it's good. It's good to go up against these top guys. It's fantastic, but he tore his lap. who's obviously devastated. Well, I was trying to be encouraging. I was trying to be encouraging and to say, "Look, it's not the end of the world. You've got your qualification. You know, you all those main guys, you're going to have to at the Olympia anyway. That's what I meant. Me loss. Yeah. Now you're chicken [\h__\h] trying to catch." No, I'm not. No, I'm not. Exactly. I'm going to call you on it. No, when you started when you started uh Ron go on the first go on the first post very very you interpret things the way you want that's the thing we lost which post doesn't think that he is good okay look at the J's first post in in this thread okay I just I just want to prove the point now that I have you here okay go for it uh First post. First post of Giles. He's all good that one. He's got his qualification for Olympia. No, no, first more. All the way high. All the way high. Because he says, "Oh, yeah, he was encouraging." Just a good shot. I don't see Voyer six this weekend. The kid is great. He's not a Jedi yet. That encouraging. Of course. Oh, look. He's probably thinking, "Shit, my whole world's falling apart. I can't do the show. I can't do Don't Don't go with this. Oh my god. panic. Now focus this is encouraging post. You want to read it run again? Completely discouraging what he's not Jedi. He's not that good going into after this again that he's not that good. Okay. So based upon what we saw based upon what we saw at the Arnold Brazil, where do you think he'd have placed? Hey Arnold Brazil was Arnold Brazil. Uh he he won that. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. That's what we've got to go on. That's again again unless you've seen something different. Avoiding the answer. No. What question? The answer. What question? Answer. Question was how he looked at Brazil. How he would place here. Blah blah blah. You don't see benefit of good vido entering the Pittsburgh pro. Well, obviously there's a obviously it's great and Derek and uh he'll he'll see all these guys at the Olympia. It doesn't No, no, no, no, no, no. Hold on a second. At Olympia, as you know, it's going to be 30 something guys probably qualified and he might never had a chance to stand next to Nick and uh and Derek and Martin and so on as you should know as an expert. And uh that's another shot that he's missing. This was a shot of him of being seen in front of Tyler Manion, Steve Lamburgger, Jim Manion, okay, on a professional stage in the United States. American audience is going to see him. He's going to be compared and he's in top condition. But it's irrelevant because he tore the lat. No, no, no. Afterwards, afterwards he tore the lat. Okay. So, so then you were okay. That was a blessing. That was a [\h__\h] blessing. Tearing the the the muscle. Like just Are you out of your No, no, no. Look, look, look, look. He barely beat Leandro. He barely beat Leandro who was what, six or seventh in Pittsburgh. I'm Look, I think he's very very good, but I think I think you're all losing your [\h__\h] over that front bicep. Placing has to do with anything. What does placing has to do with your career? So, I didn't want to go this direction, but uh did you turn pro, Giles? Did you How many times you compete as a pro? I never compete as a pro. What are we talking about? Why didn't you compete as a pro? Because of that [\h__\h] attitude. I wouldn't play anywhere. I'm lost. You've lost me now, mate. I lost. You lost me now. You've lost me now, mate. You've lost me now. What? What's that got to do with anything? Pete McGoff. Was Pete McGoff pro? Listen, you didn't have a uh self-confidence and challenge in you to step on the stage and you earned a pro card and you never competed. Okay? This guy has a pro card, earned his pro card and he's at the highest level. He lost by one point in Detroit from Martin. Yeah. Very close. And his coming improved. But Martin was a different animal at the Olympia. I mean that was Detroit. Look, there is levels to this and you know that there's levels. It doesn't matter how with Kriso. Okay. So, how would you know? You know, so your whole point is no benefit of him competing in Pittsburgh. There are huge benefits. The list of benefits for him competing. I'm trying to look on the bright side. I was thinking, okay, there's no Look, he's qualified and at the end of the day, there was it's just what's the point. I mean, it's not there's going to be other other competitions. Derek was qualified. It's not a disaster. It's not a disaster. Was qualified. Okay. Uh boy was qualified. Yeah. Yeah. Look, prize money. Great. Stage it would have been great, but I was trying to be like a shot you don't make. Well, you never It's irrelevant because he wasn't make it to the stage. You know, we can speculate and say the Nick Walker fans can say Nick Walker would have won the Olympia last year. Yeah, but he didn't get on stage. You got to be in it to win it. Unfortunately, the tear, the lat tear put him out of the contest. So, it's like, okay, well, you can, it's not a disaster cuz no, listen. Because you can regroup now, rest up, and then go give it your all at the Olympia and see where you place. That's it. But I don't think he's there yet. I don't think he's there yet to hang with these hang with these top guys. You first criticize him that he's not at a high level. That he is at a high level. There's levels to this. This first call out, guys, don't be the second call out. Guys, if you're going to The reason I'm screaming is just to be louder than you and get you to listen. You don't listen. Okay, I'm listening. You were completely out of your mind stating what you stated in this whole post. Okay. First, first you were insulting, discouraging that he is no Jedi. He's not that good. He would not not place anywhere. Okay. Yeah. You would not place Yeah. You will not place anywhere in battling for fifth. Let's be honest. Let me finish. Let me finish. I'm going to shut up and let you speak afterwards. So you you discourage him to compete in Pittsburgh, but you go to the Olympia because you know what? They're going to compare you there. If you're not going to be compared at the Pittsburgh and you think you're going to be compared at Olympia with the 30 best uh in the world, you know, good luck about that. This was a perfect opportunity for him to show his worth next to guys because he would be compared and as Jose was telling me and Chris and Dennis on that podcast, you guys don't know what is coming. He saw him pose in front of him. He see him top three easily. Okay, Ron, have you got that footage from Pittsburgh where he's training in the gym? Yeah. Well, this it's completely listen this is completely irrelevant. You don't know where is that from? It's irrelevant when you say it is then. Okay. It's completely irrelevant because So you you think that would have won Pittsburgh or battled out with me? Yet I didn't even see but I've seen many from uh uh from uh my personal uh connections that I could see what he looked like. The reality is you guys were losing it over a very very well selected filtered picture. No, honestly like they were with Martin two days out saying they were going to bring something like you never ever seen before. You could tell three weeks out Martin was way off. So let me ask you, you respect Jose Ryman? Yeah, I do actually. Yeah. Do you think he he knows what he's talking about? So what did what did he see? I guess but look I mean this is this is the same guy that you showing pictures. What part of top three easily beating Martin? What part of that you didn't understand? No, I don't think so. I think he's got holes in his physique but Martin Derek B. I don't think I don't think it'll touch him. Let me just put it in perspective. If I if anybody asked me what Jose Ryman thinkso or Giles, what what do I take? I would laugh in in J. I don't know anything. You're not the expert. Oh, so so hang on. You said I was now an expert. No, I'm not an expert. You're not an expert. Okay. Okay. So when so when Joseie makes a post, do you disagree with you use clown emojis then? And do you tell people they're stupid and you do it on a public forum? Do do you do that to him as well or is that just that just because you respect him? You say you respect my opinion, but otherwise other unless you disagree with me. So how can I how can I respect your opinion when your opinion is this? No, I'm serious. And now you disagree with No, I I want to be right. So I asked you 10. Exactly. You want to be right. You want to be right. That's what you focus on. You want to be right and everybody else is wrong. Milos, this is water is wet kind of right. Yes, water is wet. Ron Ron, when was this footage taken? So, this was uh a few days before he left for Pittsburgh. Okay. So, does he look like he's do you think he looks like he's going to beat Nick or Derek or Martin or Bonak or Kriso there? Seriously. So, so what this has to do with him? Does he look like he can beat Nick uh with competing and standing next to No, you you explain to me. It's a physique contest. We've got to go on what we see. I I knew Martin I knew Martin was going to be off because I saw the He's not in condition. He's behind. Jarvis, once again, you're focusing on the placing. Do you think when I was there was when I was entering any of my shows from 91 to 99 that I was focusing on the placing? I know. and dig me off. But tell me how many other bodybuilders have done what you've done and done every single contest. No, no, no, no, no. It's about No, seriously. That how many other bodybuilders have done that? None. Derek last year was once a year. Uh could I think the kids I think the kid's good, but I don't think he's ready to to literally handle guys like Bonak, Nick, Derek, uh Martin. I mean, Martin was off, so that's that's You know what? So So I would I should call Chris Ced. I think he I think I think he's I think he's great. Look, the thing is I don't want to be now pictured or framed as like some sort of like veto hater because I'm not I think the kid's awesome, but I just don't think he's at that level yet. I think you know what? Maybe maybe he could do what he could do what Martin did like from Detroit to the Olympia. Like I thought Martin should have been third Olympia last year. I thought absolutely phenomenal. I didn't expect him to come in and beat Derek. Do you know what I mean? And or or be seen to be beaten Derek. I think the kid is good and I think he's on his way but I think he's kind of he's he's not broke through to that next ceiling personally. That's why personally loic. So here's your logic. Okay. Oh, kid is good. He lost by one point. There was a throwing horse against him and Martin. That was a different Martin. It was not a different Martin. Different not the same Martin that turned different Martin. It's still same body. It's still same shape. He's still he was a little bit better conditioning. Oh, Martin was like he he progressed. Unbelievable. Look at him at the Olympia. That's That's a different guy to turn up to to That was phenomenal there. He looks amazing. Uh yes, he does. That was perfect conditioning. Okay. Over pretty much the same Martin that showed up at the Detroit, maybe two pounds heavier. Okay. I I think he was a lot better at the Olympia. I think he went up a level. He went up a level. Expert. expert Giles thinks that this was night and day. Okay. Uh good vido lost by one point in Detroit, but he had no chance to come now and stand next to Martin and therefore don't even compete in the Pittsburgh better. I didn't say that. That's what you were saying. I don't honestly from what I basically what we could see I personally thought I mean Ron, how accurate are my predictions before a show? We've been doing we've been doing these predictions since 2018. What percentage of my predictions are are like pretty much bang on? What percentage would you say? It's my mom can predict better. So, hang on. Most wrong speak. Yeah, he's he's when we predict shows, Giles is usually about 90% right with uh first. Sometimes he's 100% right. First through fifth or sixth. I I'll ask him. No, basically I'm going upon what I have to work with, what I have to work with, what I see, what I think, and then I have to kind of formulate an opinion. And I don't think he'd have been I think he'd have been battling for fifth with Krissa, which is bloody impressive, but he tore his L. He couldn't do it. So I was trying to say, "Look, mate, it's not a disaster. It's not the end of the world. You can regroup now and go do the Olympia." And then if you're that if you're that good, then you will you'll get your you'll get your shot at the show that really really counts. That's what I meant. That's what I meant. Stop lying. Stop lying. No, I'm not lying. I'm being [\h__\h] honest. I never I don't lie. There is AI know Ron, you don't want to hear this, but listen, there is a proof. Your first post was before he tore the lats and your second post was before you he tore the lats. So don't don't take this as excuse. Okay, I'm not making this is lying. So you're bluntly lying here. I don't think he'd have been higher than I asked a million times upon the Brazil. I don't think he'd have been higher than he might have surprised us. He might have surprised us. I asked you 10 times you didn't answer. So I'm gonna ask the question you keep asking me. I'm gonna ask Ron because Jaz refused to to give. Ask me the question. Freaking hell. Hey, I don't want to now insult you. Now is the time when I would start insulting you because what are you doing telling people you like that meal and then you try and get Isabelle to kind back you up and it's like it's kind of like come on guys. Could you back me up? Bring it on. Bring it on. Seriously bring it on. You see no benefits of him entering the Pittsburgh. You stupid [\h__\h] Obviously, there was a benefit to him doing it, but he couldn't do it. No, no, no, no, no, no. You started argument with him not being injured. No, I don't think he I'll say it again. I don't think it'll be higher than fifth. That's my own personal opinion. I might I might have been completely wrong. He might have made it to the stage and got third. So I didn't ask you anything else or because he didn't place higher than fifth or my question was you expert and a bodybuilder and passionate about this one that wants to encourage the guys. You told this guy stay home don't you have a hopes you you're not at this level you can't make it. I didn't that's your interpretation and you know it that's that's I'm because you don't want to say it. Who else? Who else went on there and said, "Yeah, you will." Okay, shut the [\h__\h] up and listen. Okay, shut the [\h__\h] up and listen, Rod. Don't worry about this is this is cool. This is fine. I'd rather have it out here. [\h__\h] [\h__\h] buy online, you know. Come on. My st My question to you is you didn't see the benefit of him competing in Pittsburgh. Obviously, there's a benefit to him doing the show. My question was only read read my post right there. Anybody got any circles here? We've got many circles. I feel like I'm arguing with my mom. So the circle is you the expert says you shouldn't compete. There is no benefit. I say, "Excuse me, J. Are you out of your [\h__\h] mind? There's huge benefit of him competing." Obviously there is. It's better for him to compete. I'm great. But he didn't you were fighting me. You're still fighting me. So the whole Ron for you not to understand. Ron, for you to understand because you you're closing your eyes and you're you're grabbing your head. Yeah. Why am I Why am I so passionately angry at some people? Okay. For this kind of thing. Uh supposed to be aspirate from England is supposed to be expert. I love that. Get a t-shirt. He's telling him. Okay. I've never said I'm an expert, by the way. I know. I've been I've been employed in the industry for 30 years, but there you go. You say that you're a self-proclaimed expert. No, I'm not. I I don't I don't claim this. I just supposed to be expert. You're supposed to be expert. I'm supposed to be an expert. Okay. Okay. What have I been doing for the last 30 years? I'm going to call you supposed to be expert. I'm not going to call you an expert. Okay. Who the [\h__\h] is Bob? And you're going to print the You're going to print the t-shirt. But it doesn't matter. You were discouraging, insulting to him, and basically saying that he shouldn't compete. There are no benefits to competing. Which I catched. Which I catched. And I say, "Come on, Giles. Think about this again. There's no benefit. There are multiple benefits." That's all I was going to let me at the risk of repeating myself. Obviously, there's benefits to him completely. No, no, you never said it's obviously benefits. Read there's there's my post right there. Well, that's what I meant. That's how you interpreted it. No, I I speak English. There was you never said obviously there was benefit. You you said nothing about obviously there was benefit. You were just thinking there's no benefit of placing you know less than fifth. You should just focus on Olympia and place 15th. How hang on. How do you know he's going to place 15th Olympia? What if he goes that would be your if you didn't see him in top five? Hey, if you didn't see him in top five here, you would see him ahead of Andrew. I I had of uh Labrada. ahead of Beer Cruz. I had of, you know, let's place, you know, everybody else, you know, he'll find out the Olympia where he fits and then he can move up from there. Why can't he find out in Pittsburgh? What? Why wouldn't he find out in Pittsburgh how he stands? He would have. He would have. He would have he would have he might have had a couple of poses where we'd be like, "Shit, he looks really good next to Nick here." And then maybe in other poses he might have been, you know, blown off the stage. I don't know. We might have thought, "Oh, actually, yeah, this is okay." Still you till you see them next to each other, you don't really know how good they are because sometimes like Martin who showed up to the Olympia, I honestly everyone was saying he could be top six. I was thinking, I've never seen this guy at the Olympia. I don't know how he's going to stack up. He went and he got fourth and arguably should have been third. What? He's going to find out at the Olympia. Why would he find out at the Olympia when he has a much lesser chance of being called with those guys? How do you know he might? He might though. He might he might make improvements like Martin did. He might come in crazy and be like top 10, top eight, top six, you know. So he could see where he uh sh how he competes against obviously obviously Derek and Martin and Ko and uh whoever else Derek was there. He could have do this in Pittsburgh. But you expert encouraging this person are telling him not to. There are no benefits. I wasn't telling him not to. What are you talking about? Really? He said I don't see the benefit in him competing. He didn't say he definitely should not go to Pittsburgh and compete. He didn't say that. So, of course, I was I was saying that because I was trying I was trying to let me speak. I was trying to focus on the fact that [\h__\h] mate, you've got your qualification. this isn't the end of the world. Go do the Olympic. Go get ready for that. Don't because the thing is he would have been devastated by not being able to do this show. So, I'm trying to be a bit like [\h__\h] hell, mate. You know, like, hey, like don't don't be discouraged. Don't be don't be disheartened. You've got the Olympia coming up. You've got luckily you've got your qualification because imagine if he' have tore his lap and not been qualified. It would be the whole season would have been done. He'd have been screwed. Yes. You're such a chicken [\h__\h] No, I'm not. No, I'm not actually. No, I'm not. Your comments were before he tore the lats. Your comments that started all this [\h__\h] was before he tore the lats. Right. Okay. Well, I don't think he'd have been better than fifth. That's my personal opinion. I might have been wrong. He might have been third. Might have been second. He might have won it. You know why you're chicken [\h__\h] Because now you you're focusing on, oh, he would be devastated because of injury. That was way before the injury. You started with, oh, he's not a Jedi. He's not that good. Blah blah blah. I didn't say that at all. Actually, I would never say that about anybody, but I've never said that. Oh, he's not that good. I would never say that. But I do say there's levels first. And based upon what we saw at the AR of Brazil, I think he'd have been battling for fifth. End of story. Oh, the Brazil. That's what I think. That's my opinion. It counts for nothing. The judges don't say what's what does Jiles think? Let's let's go on that. It doesn't matter. Like some athletes get upset with me sometimes, you know, when I make critiques about their physique and I'm thinking like it doesn't matter what I think. Seriously. It's just opinion. So it's okay to have a difference of opinion. Mos, how can you not get that? Like you get so upset about these things. I'm thinking the kid is not a Jedi yet. Oh well. Yes. Because he's not yet. He's on his way. He's better than he was last year. I think he's going to be I think he's going to be a superstar. I really do. I think he's in gonna become a Jedi. He's got the best I think he's got one of the best lower bodies in the probably the best lower body in the industry right now. I think the kid is amazing. How old was he? 28. He's phenomenal. But I don't think he's he's on his way up. Like I don't I'm not trying to rip the guy apart at all at all. I would never do that. I've never done that really. And it would never be my intent to do that. You know that. Come on now. I am uh in peace with myself that everything is there publicly. The Ron can read it. You can read it. Yeah. Please do. Please do. And yeah, I read it a couple of times and I'm still in shock that uh you were you were claiming what you were claiming. Okay. No, I don't claim anything. I give my opinion. It's a subjective thought. I asked you for that opinion like three times. Are you sure there's no benefits? Are you sure there's no benefits? And then I told you all the benefits that he can have. Obviously, there's benefits to getting on stage meloss. Don't twist it. You said there is no benefit. Oh, Jesus Christ. That's not what I meant. Jesus Christ. Well, I'm telling you what I think now. I'm telling you now. That is what I think. So, why don't you think before you write something publicly, there's no benefit of him competing. Nobody else. Nobody else is remotely bothered what I wrote. Nobody was upset or offended. They just like, "Okay, fair enough. Whatever." Listen. And you just like reach straight in on it. Nobody really listens and nobody really uh takes you maybe seriously. I take it seriously. My god. Oh, come on. I seriously you posted so I responded. Oh, really? Really? Okay. Okay. Okay. So, Ron. Okay. Let's you and I Let's Let's talk about this one. Okay. Because of course you have to defend your friend. No, he doesn't. He doesn't actually at all. I'm not big boy. I can handle the I'm talking to Ron now. Okay. Okay. You guys invited me. I accepted. I'm here. I had an issue with Ron, whatever it was. And I told him and he thought maybe I would be offended. Listen, uh I have nothing with Goodtoid. I don't know the guy. Never seen him in my life. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, I could not be biased coach or anything. I am passionate about bodybuilding and I want to support and encourage all my iron brothers. Okay. as do I as to progress and take the challenges like he should have take the challenge in Pittsburgh until some idiot from England is coming oh you have no benefits of competing I didn't say that oh god that's not what and you know that's not what I meant you understand this whole issue here there's only one issue ra I mean Jaz went there say he's not Jedi he's not that good he's gonna Yes, that's the word. Yes, I said he's on his way. That's what I meant. Uh J, I'm talking to Ron. You have your chance. I'm not allowed to say anything. Okay. Okay. You're allowed to talk about me, but not to me. Yeah. I I'm now talking to Ron. Okay. I'm quiet listening to our our meltdown. This this supposed to be my meltdown, you know. It's supposed to be one of those moments. So, I'm all for encouraging my Iron brothers. This is a beautiful talent that can be majorly good. I agree. I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to Ron. Shut the [\h__\h] up. I'll go. I'll see how it Okay. Yeah. Go go go to the bathroom. You need to You're full of [\h__\h] Okay. So, Ron, the whole whole issues here. Uh he comes on before his injury. They say, "Oh, he's not Jedi. He's not that good. He's not going to top five. He's qualified for Olympia. There's no benefit of him competing and all. So, hold on, hold on, Giles. There are multiple benefits. Oh my god. If I would be his coach like Chris Ace, there are multiple benefits of him competing and being compared in front of uh Steve and Tyler Manion that he could not be compared in Brazil competing, right? So, the actual judges can see him. He can stand next to uh Martin that he lost by one point in a close battle. He can stand next to because his similar structure and size and height and all next to Derek. Oh my god. He can be seen in front of millions of people. He can make the fans. He can he can interest somebody to to hire him for guest posing, for some endorsement, for whatever, you know. Plus, for your own knowledge, you can see how you share next to these guys. Okay, you're qualified for Olympia. You're going to compete with those Olympias. So, is this to your benefit to be seen with those people beforehand and oh, he was battling with with Martin and and Derek and Nick in Pittsburgh. Of course, when he goes to Olympia, he has that momentum going. It's not going to be, oh, this guy that plays, you know, in Brazil. Okay. So, in any which way, the only idiots cannot see the benefits. So the only thing that I said and if you read this whole thing couple of times because I love Giles. I love him. You know there's a matter of the time. You called him a stupid [\h__\h] 10 minutes ago. He's a stupid [\h__\h] I love that stupid [\h__\h] from England who has no clue about bodybuilding. Okay, that's okay. She's passionate about it. I love that. But uh only stupid [\h__\h] can say that uh uh good veto has no benefit of competing in Pittsburgh. Oh, that's I stand behind that. Okay. And I didn't call him stupid [\h__\h] I told him Giles, think about this again for a love of God. And I asked him a second time and he's fighting me. He's fighting me. And then in the meantime, he told the lads, "And now, thank God it's blessing." How can you say blessing for the injury? Oh my god. I mean, everything he said on this post, I encourage you to read it. I I wrong. Oh, well, I mean, I'm not going to say who was right and who was wrong because it's different opinions. I will say that I would have felt differently about Veto doing the Pittsburgh show because he won Brazil, but there was nobody that great and I would have liked to seen him next to the top guys even though I don't think he was going to be I don't think he was beating uh Derek. I don't think he was going to beat Nick. I don't think he was going to beat Martin. I don't even know if he would have beat Bonak, honestly. But you're the same stupid [\h__\h] like like him. No, I just said to have seen him next to those guys. I'm not talking behind your back. I'm talking to your face. I know. I'm right here. So, so you are saying again just because he cannot beat Derek and he cannot beat whatever. Do you think Samson thought he can beat all those guys at Olympia first time he was competing? So, but just because he can't he shouldn't even compete. No, go back. I I said I would have I would have encouraged him to do Pittsburgh. I think he should have been. He would encourage him. So the the only thing that you should say it in this instance I'm arguing with him about this one point and you realize there are multiple benefits of him competing in that show. Multiple benefits like you just said it multiple benefits. All right. I didn't say nothing except rethink this claim. Rethink. And he's fighting me second time and third time and fourth time and then he's oh mil meltdown and oh mil you want to be right don't you you don't like run I think this holiday to Brazil's off I think I'm going to get lynched mate stay away from Brazil hey listen listen I I I told uh Ron uh I I I love Jus he says you just call him a stupid [\h__\h] I say I love a stupid [\h__\h] I've been callos this let me let me just say this though that I do take offense when you say he's not an expert and that you respect I respect I love Jose and I respect Jose's opinion but I respect Giles. Giles has been working in this business over 30 years. He's been to a thousand pro shows. He was a photographer. He had his own website. Um you know I I get a little perturbed because I don't say I'm an expert but somebody is a pro when they Olympia stage doesn't mean their opinion is more valid. What kind of expert opinion do you think he gave with uh uh Gurvido? Uh there's no benefit of you doing uh uh Pittsburgh. What kind of expert would say that? That that's his opinion. That doesn't mean you're zeroing in on you're zero in on something that you know because obviously now he's he was out I'm I I kind of I'm kind of repeating myself again now. Milos. just feel like we're just going over the same because you'll zero in on certain things and I feel around in circles. You know, listen, nothing's going to change. I'm listening to you and you're just kind of one thing only. Don't benefit. One thing only and both of you are politically correct and you're avoiding this. The question here is you suggested there is no benefit of good veto doing a Pittsburgh in a top shape. Top shape. Obviously there was obviously there was like is in any contest whether it be a low level high level it doesn't matter you know like I was talking to Sasan I said mate just do as many shows as you can possibly do man I said why he cannot beat Derek he cannot beat Nick why would son compete and not the good why I don't think he'd be battling for high fifth that's my personal opinion I do you know what like I I got my top eight predictions absolutely bang on and I'm actually unhappy about it because I actually when I saw it I thought Actually I one and two should have been the other way around. I think it should have been Nick that won this. But like so I don't it's not about being right me loss. I like being proved wrong. I'd have been so excited if Vto and got a call out next. But imagine if it Garrett Nick and Veto and he was taking them in shots. I've been so excited for him. But personally my opinion is he's not at that level yet. He's very close and he's on his way. I think he's going to be at a top top top guy in the next couple years. I think he's going to be a superstar legit. You didn't realize I didn't jump on that opinion. I didn't jump on you and say you stupid [\h__\h] think that he is not that good. I didn't jump on that opinion. I only jump on the one opinion. There's no benefit of him competing. All right. Well, what do you mean all that? Is it going over the same I'm and I'm telling you obviously there's benefits to competing. So why did you write the whole point of getting on stage? Why not listen to and write and write. Oh yeah, there was a benefit, but now it's too late. Okay, you know what? I'm actually imploring people to go look at that thread actually. Look at that post. Please look at that post. I think it's important. Okay, because look at the timeline as well. Look at the timeline. I mean, it's you know timeline. Yes. Thing is now I think is now I'm going to be pinned as like a veto hater. Do you know I'm doing a tour with No, listen. I was doing a tour with Andrew Jack in November and we're in the car and I said, "Hate Andrew." I said, "Do you believe?" I said, "It was only a year ago." I says, "Everyone was calling me an Andrew Jack hater." Me and Andrew just laughed our heads off about it. It's like I mean like I've been called a Samson ball washer, a Samson hater. It's like I mean which which one is it, guys? Which one is it? You know, it's like I'm thinking a lot of new guys, they got a blow smoke up their ass, you know? I'll never do that. I'll never do that. You say that I want to be right. I don't want to be right. I'm just right. I think you do me. Come on. And when somebody is not, I go to this extent. I go nicely and I'm being sarcastic. And then I go to the stupid [\h__\h] level. I'm going to leave it to my viewers. There's going to be I'm going to get some merch. I'm going to get stupid [\h__\h] and I'm gonna be offering gonna get supposed to be an expert. If Ron has to think for longer than three seconds to answer there was a any benefit of uh good vid competing in Pittsburgh then here's a question too. No I did. So well let's just let's just and let's drop it. Let's if people want to read all the comments it's on Milos's page that post it was posted a week ago. It's in between that picture and that picture. It's underneath the creatine. You should be able to find it. It's a it's not that long of a thread. You guys can go through it. Drop your opinions. Who's right? Who's wrong? I mean, I I see both sides, you know? I mean, it's He doesn't think there was a benefit. I I would have I think there was a benefit. I would have just liked to have seen him compared to some top guys because me too. Me, too. The people he beat in Brazil were not top level guys. So, it was an it was an easy easy win. I was focusing on the qualification. I was like, [\h__\h] okay, this isn't a complete disaster because at least now he can go to the Olympia, you know, and settle any scores and, you know, we can see how good he is there. And I'm excited for that. Like he can shut he can shut the prep down. He's, you know, I'm so glad he got that qualification because imagine if he'd have done this, you know, it would have been like Nick missing the Olympic two years. You lose a lot of momentum. I'm happy that he's got his qualification and I'm really excited to see what he's going to bring because I think he's he's one of the hottest. Like we had um we had Rubiel the was it last year? Then we had Kriso the year before. We had Nick Walk in 2021. You had Ramy get finally getting his [\h__\h] together in 2020. Like every year there's a new there's a new talent. And I think Veto is one of them. I think he's amazing, but I just I personally don't think he'd have cracked top five. I think he I think I was going back and forth. I think he'd have been I think him and Kriso next to each other would have been very interesting. I'd like top five. So what? So what if he doesn't make a top five and top placing? So what? I know. I know. I'm not me. You're twisting it, mate. That's not what I'm saying. I'm giving you my opinion of where he would have placed and I'm saying it's not the end of the world because he didn't do the show. Yes, it would have been great to see him next to Nick and stuff. I would have loved to have seen this whining little [\h__\h] that you cannot expect. How how am I twisting? I said two things. There are benefits of him competing and doesn't matter the placing. That's that's the two things that I'm saying and I'm looking for one hour. Okay, you're right. You're right, Neils. You're right. Of course I'm right. Yes, of course I'm right. There we go. We go. That's it. Of course I'm right. Is green, sky is blue. Water. Of course I'm right. S listen, uh, placing is irrelevant when you're the new pro and you're putting your feet into the water. I agree. Okay. You want to swim with a fish, [\h__\h] I agree that, [\h__\h] You don't want to be in your ankle level. You want to go in the deep sea and see if you can swim with the sharks. Yeah. Okay. I know. That's what happened at the Olympia. So, it's not a disaster that he didn't do Pittsburgh. It's not a disaster. He's going to get to test himself because he's got his qualification. He's good. He's good to go. Milos. He's good to go. Around. Yes. But for you to think before next time you said some stupid [\h__\h] like this. Okay. And if I jump in and I ask the question, please answer the question. I always will be honest. I always answer my question. When you put essays, when you put countless essays on Instagram, I'm like, what the question? There was no essay. There was very like that long. There were three of them. Two or three of them. I was like, Jesus Christ. And then you're using clown emojis. And you're calling me stupid. And I'm like, real, you're really trying to get the best. This is my first one. It's not the essay. It is. No. Come on, Milos. No, don't worry. It's not the essay. That's my first one. Don't jerry. Come on. Here it is. Is this the essay? And you supposed to be competitor and an expert question. You go fur further down. What about answer the question? I'm like, well, what is the question? Bloody asked me the question in one sentence. Here, see, you posted about three or four sentences. Hey, shut the [\h__\h] up and listen. First sentence, and you're supposed to be a competitor and an expert. Second question. Second, uh you don't see any benefits of competing rather than placing. That was my first That was the two sentences, one question. What What are you What are you doing this for? I'm on about the post lower down and then you say question. I'm like, well, there's four or five posts here. I don't even know what you're asking. That was my first and then you respond to that. No, no, no, no. We're further down now. Come on. Further, you just made yourself more picking. Stop cherry picking. No, I'm not cherry picking. We can literally That's what That's how I That's how I read it because I went down and I and you said, "Answer the question." I'm like and I looked up and I scrolled up and I was like, I don't even know what you're asking. You don't see any benefit of competing other than you stupid [\h__\h] That was a question. What is Oh, that's a question mark. If you didn't understand that was a question and roll eyes emoji. So what what on English you didn't listen? You're not listening. Tell me honestly am I just am I am I going crazy here? You're not listening to me. Like you you went down and you asked me to respond to the question. I'm like okay I'll answer the question. I was like I don't even know what the question is because there was there was seven question benefits of competing other than placing. Oh, Jesus Christ. You should have asked me that. You should have just said that in one post, not when I post. My first post. That was it. You see how stupid you are? Well, I'm really stupid. I must be We're not But this is a waste of time. It's a waste of time. No, no, no, no, no. Run. Okay. Yes. Here. You're supposed to be honorable guy. Okay. You don't see that my first my first response to Giles which I greatly disagree with him. Okay. So I said and you don't you're supposed to be an expert and Okay. You know second is a question you don't see any benefit of competing other than placing. That was my that was my question. That's not why. No you put about you put several posts underneath that and I was reading through them. No, I won't. No, no. Okay, you're you're focusing on what you think you you think I'm going to respond to, but you put three several posts down below and I went and then you said again, answer the question. I'm like, what question you asking? Cuz you went on a wild rant, Milos. Okay, so you No, no, no. You meant that first question. Okay, that's fine. You should have referred to that. We can go for four hours and you we're gonna just have a streaming contest over something you don't want to admit. Jesus Christ. Your version of being right. I saw the question you got. You have different opinions. No, no, no, no. My question to him. I'm communicating with him. I didn't say in general. I said Giles, you're supposed to be an expert in a competitor. Okay. You should encourage competing and you should as an expert encourage that. Okay. So, you don't see any benefits other than placing. What do you want me to say, Mil? Because we've we've gone through the same questions. I'm asking Ron. I'm asking Ron. You and I can do this four more hours and you're going to still circle. And No, you're circling. You're the one repeating yourself. Yes. Questionable about this? What is questionable? Okay. So, ask the question one more time because I I got confused there. Like what what is to think about? My first response, Giles, and you're supposed to be a competitor and an expert. You are smart. Okay. You don't see any benefits of competing other than placing followed by war and peace. And uh seriously, me los down below you you said that again. You said answer the question and I would and I rolled up and I saw and I thought all I see is these long rants. I didn't know what the question was. Okay, that was the question. I'm happy to answer the question. Ron, do you see the question? I don't think he understood the question at the time. I think this How do you not understand? How can you understand? Do you see any benefits of competing other than placing? He does. Obviously, you know, he does. You've you for years. I obviously don't know because everything here was about you're not going to play top five, don't bother. I could have been wrong, Milos. I'm just saying my opinion. And I was bang I was bang on about the top eight, but it doesn't mean I'm letting you figure it out that you I thought Regan would be third last weekend. He got fourth. Great. Brilliant. I'm happy for him. Hey, really wasn't anybody. I was letting you know that you can figure out for yourself if you're wrong because when I say I'm wrong, okay, let's just let's accept I'm wrong. I'm wrong. I'm stupid. Clown emoji. Bring it on. It's just we just have to leave it at that. I could care less. But that shows you you your character that you can accept it. And Ron, like you're kind of confused. You don't see any benefits of competing other than placing. That's my my question. Uh, you didn't you heard me Milos. I said I do see benefits. I'm actually benefits to competing. Do see and on this subject I as far as should Veto have done Pittsburgh. I'm I'm actually more siding with Milo that he should have done it. I do see the benefits because I would have liked to have seen him and a lot of people would have liked to have seen him up with some top guys rather than me too. I'm not disagreeing with you guys. I'd have loved to have seen him up there. I would have. I was disappointed when he dropped out because of the injury. I was like, "Shit, that's made the show slightly less exciting." Okay. So, so, uh, Jazz and Ron also, why do you think I jump in and and responded? Why? Because you're passionate. You're, you love the sport. you were a competitor and you support the competitors and you saw many benefits yourself competing against guys you know you had no prayer of beating like Flex Levon but you can say I stood with Flex and Dorian and Nasser and these guys that you were never able to beat but I was hanging up there with them and people could see me compared to the top guys. So I understand I understand your perspective. Okay. So, so run. Yes. In very polite manner. This is I I read it five times and Jazz is like, you know, flipping out and oh my god. Oh my god. That's what I said. Wasn't flipping. So, so Jaz I mean really you can look at yourself in the mirror deeply and think it through. So everything that Ron just said, Yeah. I jumped in because I care for them and I do and I don't. should you. Okay. And when you made a stupid comment, I jump in and I politely say, "Oh, you're like a superhero. You don't see any benefit other than place. You need you need a cape. You need a cape to come in and save everyone, you know." So, you should then realize like Ron just said, "Oh, indeed there are many benefits other than placings being on the stage with the great." No, you didn't. I'm not disagreeing with that. So right there my first question you would you know what I was you know you know what I wanted well I wanted you to correct yourself and say of course there are benefits of course well of course there is it's obvious things are obvious he just said it but imagine imagine how [\h__\h] he'd be feeling when he had to pull out because of the injury imagine the stress he's gone through he's out there he's stressing pressure response back got a family and then it's like, well, mate, you know, it's not the end of the world. You've got your qualification and we'll see you at the Olympia. Good luck. Go shut it down. That's what I That is what I meant, Giles. What you meant and what you said are two different things. Okay. Well, that's your interpretation. Your interpretation. Your interpretation. Why? Why did I accept to come on your podcast? Because you asked to. You asked to. I I I You suggested. I accepted. No, I aggressive. I accepted. Listen. No, it didn't. You said, "Oh, come on." Bottom. I said, "Okay, go. Let's do Let's do this." And I said, "Come on, let's do I consider if you didn't give me the answer, I'm going to tell you. I consider Ron and you dear friends that I know for decades." Okay. Okay. That's why I'm here. Okay. Okay. That's why I'm here. You said something unacceptable. Unacceptable that I have to that I had to respond to. And as long say, I am passionate. I care for them. I This is why I respond to We've all given our life to this industry. Milos, I just put a a red alarm. Giles, what you said was not correct. Rethink that. Rethink that. And you because you feel you feel I should. That's That's you compelling your I do because I will. You're you're enforcing your will on me to make it's like well I'll take if I if I get a load of [\h__\h] for what I say I'll take the responsibility. I don't want you to correct me. Would I want you? I'll happily you could have you could have messaged me and said Charles mate privately. You could have said that but instead you wanted to like completely pull me apart publicly and I thought okay fair enough. You started getting rude and insulting clown emojis. Really? Me? We're friends. Ron if I ever sent clown emojis I've called you stupid. Never. when we've disagree. Me, you and me have disagreed a thousand times, but I've never I've never been rude to you, me, Ron. No, I mean, you have a They're different. These are different. We have different personalities. Yeah. And I accept that. When you say a stupid [\h__\h] and put the clown emoji, you get the attention. Okay. Now, now is enough of blabbing. Now it's a power slap. Snap out of it. I love your passion. I do actually. I do. I do. But that's what it is. I like the fact you do care. I like the fact you care, but it comes across a little bit across like a bit psycho. Do I want do I want good veto or people like this to think that J? They don't care. You know, listen, why should they care? Why should they care what somebody says on Instagram? Why should they care? You You realize you don't let me finish one. You think Nick Walker cares about all the Nicker comments? You realize you don't let me finish one sentence? What was that? What was I tell you now? Because you interrupted me. What was I going to say? Tell me. No, you interrupted me. I'm not a mind reader, Milos. Okay, you interrupted me. You didn't have a patience to listen. Okay, I want J. Okay, I want people like Good Vido and other competitors to think J is there to support them, which I J is there to give them a good advice. Jaz cares. What do you think of advice from me? That's Hey, I could say I could care less what they think of you. I want them to like you. I want them to like you because I do think that you care. But you say stupid [\h__\h] like this. And when you say stupid [\h__\h] like this, it was okay. Your friend is telling you you don't see any benefits other than I feel like a friend might have DM'd me privately or sent me a text. Not you wanted to you wanted to rake me over the coals in front of everyone. And then you responded to Isabelle and I saw what you're trying to I thought, "Oh, he's trying to he's trying to gather a bit of a gang like like a virtual online digital gang." Isabel, I've never been bullied in my life. Milos, I'm 48 years old and I've never been bullied in my life. And I was and I'm whether it be online or in person. It's never happened to me once. I'd rather take a beating verbally or physically. I would honestly and I take full responsibility for what I say. Who is Isabelle? Isabelle Terrell, you responded to her. Fit Rockstar. I can respond to the 2,000 people. How do I know? Fit Rockstar. You responded to her and you started cut cuz you she made a comment and then you responded and I thought, "Oh, I see what you're trying to do. You're trying to get people to gang up on me." Okay. I saw that. No, that's how that's how I interpreted it. Anyway, I wasn't Isabelle. Okay. And what I responded, okay? Oh, I can't remember word for word. Nathan Dasha was once very offended because I made a uh clown emoji on the comment of his wife that I had no idea it was his wife. I know. And you should have apologized. I mean, you should have apologized. You should have apologized. You had an opportunity to apologize. No, I I said like listen, that that was right emoji for that comment. I don't know who is coming. It wasn't. She was giving her opinion. I thought it was very disrespectful. Meanwhile, you wouldn't like me. You wouldn't like me speaking to your wife like that. I would care less. Oh, really? My wife would handle you easily. No, no, no. This is We've got We've got different values here, mate. The whole thing. I was I jumped in here because it was on my Instagram. I didn't know there was a three-way uh uh collaboration. Doesn't matter. He said, "Okay, my friend Giles is jumping in here to say something. I'm going to respect him." Oh, Reed. Okay. And I disagree with you. Clown emoji. Is that respect? What? Clown emoji. Is that respect? Clown emoji. Is that respect for your friends? Just a rolling eyes. I've never put a clown emoji on any of my friends Instagram. I do all the time. Ever. Well, I don't like it. I person I don't think most people should find that endearing or I don't think many friends would appreciate that. I would not do that to my friends. But clearly we have different values. This soft is you can't take a criticism or anything. I like if I'm called [\h__\h] stupid [\h__\h] I would ask okay and how am I stupid? I said this is how you're stupid which I I clarify for analysis. That's fine. That's fine. That's fine. You can do I'd rather you do it face to face as well because most people in the industry they'll just [\h__\h] behind your back. It happened. It happened to me in Prague actually. Yeah. And actually when I went out the room started pitch people started bitching about me. Lauren heard I walked back in and they said nothing to me. I mean you know so like that sort of thing that really pisses me off. This doesn't piss me off. Be this is fine. Seriously I'm not upset about this. This is probably this this face to face. I'm not upset about that. This is probably best not to be presented but you you decide what you guys want. It doesn't matter right. We can we can talk about other other things. But this is what I like to say face to face. Like run. Yeah. I really love everything about you all the time. We never had issue. I don't even remember what was that that I I was against. There was a video I made called Samson's wife deserves an apology. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That that Okay. So, so, so, okay. This is hopefully not going to You're going to cut this out? No. No. I'm not cutting anything. So, don't say anything you want. No, don't say. Okay. Okay. This is raw edited. I was going to add fuel fuel to the fire, but I'm not going to. I'm not going. Let's not start World War II, please. We're almost at the two hour mark. It's supposed to be power hour. Let me ask you this for the I just want a thumbnail opinion. I was already I already have a rough draft. It was called Milos versus Tiger with a picture of you and then this buff tiger on the side. No, let me let me do the graphic. Milo, honestly, Milos Milos, I'll be honest, mate. I do love you, mate. And you But I will say that I will say this I'll say this publicly. You've done a few things to piss me off, but that's okay. That's what friends do. Friends piss each other off. Yes. You know, but that's fine. Remember that time when you rang me for 45 minutes and you were like screaming and shouting? We sorted it out. We messaged back and forth the next day when we were calm. We were fine. We have off the cameras. If you are off the cameras right now, if you have the cameras now, I ask you what did I say that pissed you off? What? What did I say? I don't want to bring it out. I don't want to bring it up. 10 15 minutes. Do you you want you really want me to bring this up? Yeah, we could. Yeah, I I stay behind everything I say and do. Ron, you you okay with this? I don't if if you two are fine with it, it's it's your deal. I didn't want to bring this up, Milos. No, before you even say it, listen. I'm going to be mad enough. You don't have to. You don't have to. We can just leave it because I don't like I like moving on from things. I'm not offended. I'm not upset anymore. Here. Here. If you are the character, you're going to accept anything coming at you. If I claim I stand behind everything I say and do. Okay. Me too. Me too. I should have no problem. What's coming? Go ahead. 2023 Prague. 2023 Prague. When when Samson won. Uh, you remember? Yeah. As I was doing the live stream, do you remember what you did? No, you did. You started bombarding me with messages. Now, it's my fault cuz I should have turned my phone off. And I'll be honest, right? I mean, let me say your sense. I actually, and this was when Samson did it. And actually before Samson even hit a pose I said I had Samson winning and you were sending me messages saying you're supposed to be an expert. I've got still got them on my phone and it really upset me. And then when the show finished when the show finished I went backstage and I ran up the stairs and I I hugged Mel Melena. She pushed me away and she said Milos is Milos is not happy with you. And I said well Milos needs to chill out and then I just walked off and she was smirking but she looked pretty upset. She looked pretty upset. So then then I went no no no let me finish. So I went up and then I I I was I was talking to Samson. He was fine with me and then at the after party she was a bit rude to me. So I sense there was some tension and I'll be honest that relationship now is done. Like I've had nothing but problems since and it started there mate. Seriously I had a really good relationship with Samster Marlin and that's where it all began horribly wrong. If I'm listening correctly here okay that the people can gather from what you just said. Yeah. So me, coach of the Samson, he's testing you as uh you saying Samson's gonna win and I complain about it. You did. I got the message on my phone. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. Okay. I'm his coach at the time. And I am telling you something about why you're saying he shouldn't win. Why you saying he should win? Are you [\h__\h] out of your mind? I didn't say that. I said he was winning because I messaged you back. I messaged you back and I said Milos, what are you talking about? I've got Samson winning. And then we just let we just left it at that. So I was like, why is he messaging me while I'm trying to do my job? Find a message live. Find a message cuz I don't November 2023. I I've turned my phone off. TW November 2023. I'll be honest. I don't really want to bring this up. No, I do because I'm talking about something that really pissed me off. Really pissed me off. So, it's very interesting to me that I complained to you that you were saying Samsung's going to win. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You said something. You were like, you're supposed to be an expert and you went and you gave me like another essay and I was like, what are you talking about? I've got the guy winning. So, if I haven't even hit a pose, he hadn't even hit a pose. It's it's probably if I confronted you with you're supposed to be an expert, it's because you said something that was stupid. Okay. No, I I don't whilst I'm trying Milos, you know what, Milos? You know, when you're personally training people, imagine like you're you're showing somebody how to do a leg press and something and I went up to you in the middle of your session and went, "Mos, you're doing that wrong." as you're working because that's exactly what you did to me as I was working. Now, I should have had my phone off and I and I now I always put it on flight safe because I like to get sometimes the odd video of the winner or whatever and put it on put it on the back then it was with MD. No, actually I finished with MD actually. Yeah, I think no, I was 24. Yeah, 23. I was I like to get a bit of content or whatever. So, I should have had my phone turned off. And you started sending me messages and I was like, I'm trying to work here. And thing is, I didn't get it because I actually had Samson winning. I was like, I didn't have I did say, "Oh, look, he looks [\h__\h] He's sixth place." Please make the point. May Please make the point. I texted you during the podcast, which I never do, that I complain about uh Sam you saying Samsung winning. No, you said No, it was something you said. It was something you said that you're obviously not happy about something is that you were saying something against something and I said and I said what are you talking about Milos? I've got the bloody guy winning. I don't understand why you're upset messaging me so angrily because if I did there was something negative about there was something negative about Samsung. But I'm going to critique. I'm going to critique. Okay. So whatever you were critiquing I didn't agree with it. You didn't agree with him but you see that pissed me off. try to work. I never touch Was it Was it about his conditioning? That's my That's my I can't remember. Honestly, I I would probably have the message ready. I mean, I wanted to stay on topic here, but I'm saying Milos, I do love you. I like you, but I don't think friends sometimes would do something like that when they're trying to put me off. Like, that's really like [\h__\h] I'm trying to work here. First of all, uh uh I don't text you when you are on uh on a uh live stream. I don't text you. You did. You did. Uh you can find this and prove me wrong and post it. No, you did. You did as I was doing it. Okay. Because I I ruined it. It doesn't matter anymore. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. No, it does matter very much. So you Well, I did it has caused problems between me and Sam Marina. You call me out. She's She hates my guts now. I don't I just Please post for people. No, I'm not posting private messages. Me, please. I I let you I allow you because you make zero sense. No, I'm not putting drama on social. No, no, no. I don't want to pull Samster Marina into it. It's not fair. It's not right. I don't want to I don't want to I I literally I don't I don't really speak to Sam. I wish him well. I cried with happiness when he won the Arnold. I cried with happiness when he won the Olympia, you know. But that that honestly that relationship now is done. And I don't know where and it also and that's when it started. That's when it started where they really really like turned on me. You know, you said you love me as a friend, but you don't like I piss you off a couple of times. Friends piss each other off, mate. It's not a big deal. You're pissing me off right now. Okay. Pissing off right now. So, and Ron can listen here and then. So, Ron, did I give him a chance? Whatever it is, say it publicly. I'm a man that stand behind my actions. Okay. So now he brings up me too. No, Ron, please think about this. Yeah. Prague 2023. Uh, okay. Yeah. Uh, and I complained to him something about Samson winning. No, no, no, no. You about something about Samson? Because you couldn't complain about him winning because he was your client. Why would you complain about that? No. What I What I think happened was was Giles criti he made some critique which we don't know what it was. probably about I'm guessing it was about his conditioning and then he said but I still have him winning regardless of the conditioning and I'm guessing that you were upset that he was not that he didn't see the condition over no hold a second we all know that Samson was never in condition that let's say uh would be Giles approved just Giles level of conditioning I still think he deserved to win the Olympia yeah you know okay this is you look good beautiful physique J. Okay, this is a little bit too uh too much for people to to listen and but it's you and me and Ron is listening. Ron is your friend and cares for you. So if I tell Ron I love Giles, you know, how can you not? Passionate guy, you know, in bodybuilding all his life, of course. And I but he says stupid [\h__\h] Okay. And when he says stupid [\h__\h] I responded in most polite way. And as he fights me, obviously he fought me here for an hour. He he didn't want to Oh, what was question? What was question? What was question was you don't see uh any benefits to competing other than Oh my god. Oh my god. Just say what you got to say. Listen. Listen. If you're in front of me, I would slap you big time. You get one back as well, Dave. Oh yeah. I I would I would welcome that. If I slap you, you're not getting up. Oh, tough guy. Yeah, but we're going to, you know, scale it down. Every time I say this, you don't even let it sink in. You jump in. You don't see any benefits uh in competing other than placing. That was the simplest question that you're supposed to answer. Of course, of course there are many benefits, but you didn't. Even now, one hour later, you're still laughing in my face. Oh, like, oh, here we go. Here we go. Now you're telling me some deep secret from 2023. Proud. No, cuz No, you're talking about times you pissed each other and I said that's okay. It's okay to friends piss each other off. It happens. If you said something and I don't remember what it is. I don't remember. But if you said something about Samson that I responded as you should be noted at that. That's what I said. What it was, I don't I don't know. I don't know. But whatever you said, I warned you about it. Okay. What do you mean warned me? If I text you that you're trying to impose your will to make me like what? Say something different to attract her. I'm not going to do that. I stand by what I say. Why would I make you say something you don't think? Well, that's what you're trying to do when if you're reaching out to me. What are you trying to do? Like, what exactly what exactly are you hoping I'll do? 100%. 100% no chance that I texted you this during the the live. You did. Oh my god. You did. You did. Oh, trust me. Prove it. Okay. Give me two seconds. Give me seconds. Yeah, you can have a whole hour and you're gonna find it. Okay. Even better if you can do it now. But Ron Well, he's looking at it. Yeah. So, why could it possibly complain about him winning? No, I don't. I think what happened what I'm what I heard and I think you misinterpreted was he made some comments very critical about he made a critical comment about Samson but said regardless I still have Samson winning. Yes you must what is bad about that? Well you must have disagreed with whatever he said about Samson and I'm guessing it was conditioned because Oh typically that's that's what both Charles and I you can't you can't critique too much else about Samson. It's usually You can pick on his condition cuz I'm I'm dead curious now. It's coming. It's coming. I mean, is this WhatsApp? Yeah, it's on WhatsApp. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was November 23. 23. Uh, hang on. Was it November, wasn't it? It was November 23, wasn't it? I have no idea. Uh, date of 2020. Let me see if I can do Hang on, hang on, hang on. Uh, I just read all our messages. Uh, where is it? EVLs. Hang on, hang on, hang on. Uh, oh, hang on, hang on, hang on. Is it the Is it in 18th November? Hang on. Um, hang on. You are drinking too much wine. I've heard it. I've heard it. Hang on. Samson owns the stage. And I said he is today. Second, he steps on it. He is every day. I am dead serious. Not You see what you want to see, not what is actually there. To say Samson didn't have stage presence in Romania or ever, which I never said, is the most ridiculous thing I heard from someone. I actually expect to know what he's talking about. And I know you'll take offense to that, but that is the fact. And I said, "That's what I saw on the Romania live stream." Milos, watch it again. Uh, and I know there's more and more and more. And I said, "Step right here. Step right here. Run. Run." Yeah. So, uh, oh god, I told you I have You have I told you I have him winning. That's it. So, I complained to uh uh Giles that he said on a live Romania show that Samson didn't have a stage presence. That's true. Right. Okay. It was he looked he rushed his posing routine and he looked like he looked tired. It was a week after the Olympia. He looked really he didn't look as good and you could see and Beu got moved to the center. You could see he just wanted it over and done with. And I was happy. And I was happy when he was in Prague because he seemed more himself again. And I was like, "Yes, this is what I want to see in Prague." In in Romania, I felt like he was a little bit, you know, but now he's back and he's got I've got him winning, you know, he hasn't even hit a pose. Even just in this front relax, he looks fantastic. You say that uh Samson doesn't have a stage presence in Romania. He did it wasn't the same guy. It wasn't the same guy. And I was saying it look I'm so happy like it it looks like it stays. So I'm sending you this. Okay. Uh that was 3:25 my time. So which which I I don't know. It's when it was live. It's live. I was live in Prague. So hold on a second. Why you have no idea what you are talking about Giles. I'm sorry to break it to you. Huh? If you don't see Samson completely dominating here and winning by a mile, you should re-evaluate what you know about Body Bum. I said, "Oh god, I I told you I have him winning." And it's on the live stream. People can go watch the replay. Yeah, they can they can watch the replay. I said the guy's winning and you were like, "You don't know what you're talking about." You're not talking about uh Prague. You're talking about Romania. So I I texted you here about Romania. No, I'm talking about I'm talking about Roman Prague because that's where I was. Uh, we're going around in circles here. We're going It's all about here. Okay. No, it's Milos. This was as it was live. As it was live, I was reading this and I was getting these messages coming through in real time and I should have turned my phone off, but I was like reading it and I was like, "Oh." So, you're reading it that I'm complaining. Listen, the whole issue is here. I'm complaining that you're saying expert that uh he doesn't have a stage presence. He didn't have it in Romania. No, he was down. It was down. And I was excited. I was excited in Prague because I said on the live stream I said it's got it back. He looks confident. He looks and he looked fuller and he looked good because in Roman he looked worn he looked worn out and I think he was lucky to beat Beus. I'll say it. He's lucky to beat Barus. And I'm sure you won't disagree with that either because he's your guy. No, I I I love Be Cruz and I I even I said Bezru lost because he didn't have a powerful legs enough to create the balance to beat him otherwise he would beat him. I mean Barry's got moved to the center and Samson's Samson's bloody confidence just went. So Ron your friend your friend uh Giles has a problem with me that we have a serious issue in Prague that I complained to him like if you said not a serious issue Milos it's not a serious issue it seemed like I said you've pissed me off in the past because I said that you're out of your mind if you say that Thompson doesn't have a stage presence. Yeah, but when I'm working, I don't need that. He has a stage presence like very few people. He's selfaware of Romania everything. I watched the whole live stream in Romania. I watched it. The whole thing I watched. Yeah. He He wasn't even He was He wasn't himself. He was fantastic in Prague and he deserved to win it. And I said it from the start before it even hit a bloody pose. Come on. All right, guys. Guys, guys, we have we've gone so so overdue on the time. Two parts. We're past two hour. I'm not going to do two parts. Let's do three hours. No, I don't want to do three hours, man. I'm exist. I'm exhausted. We should do this every week, Milos. We should do this every week. It's good. You're impossible to talk to. You see, everything you say about me is actually you. You can't take a criticism. I take criticism. I can, but not working. Listen, I love criticism. Uh, I'm going to talk actually Danny James told me about this. You take a criticism so easily. Of course, I love criticism. compliments a [\h__\h] kiss that [\h__\h] lie. Okay. So if if I offended you for saying that What are you talking about? No, you're missing the point, Milos. You did it whilst What? You did it whilst I was bloody working. These things are live. I should have turned my phone off. I don't think No, no, no, no, no. You don't do that to someone that's trying to work. This is why Romania was weak before. No, but you were tell you were texting him about Romania while he was doing the commentary live for Prague. Okay. If it's possible. I'm not saying it's impossible. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. I'm serious. I'm serious. I'm fine. I'm fine. Fine. Uh I You asked me. You asked me. I said, "You pissed me off in the past." And you asked and I said, "Are you sure you want to do this? I don't really want to talk about stuff from the past." So, you wanna you went backstage and I already informed uh Samson and Marena that you're talking [\h__\h] Well, apparently, okay, I don't know whether this is true, but somebody told me that you'd screenshotted our conversation and sent it to Marina because they saw it on her phone. And I don't know whether that's true. I I don't I personally don't believe that. I don't believe I don't believe you do that. I I you know, but Marina was very frosty. Marina pushed me away. I hugged her. I'm going to be mad enough to say it's maybe even possible. It's maybe even possible. It's maybe even possible because I I many times I screenshot something and send to somebody. Yeah. When when it's okay. It's transparency. Okay. So, if you said publicly, okay, on a screen stream that he didn't have a stage presence at in Romania, why would I not tell this to Samson himself? You did then. You did. Okay, that's fine. That's fine. You said and I went, I'm so happy you've won. And I kissed her and she kind of pushed me away and she went, "Meos is not happy with you." And I said, "Well, Milos needs to chill." And she walked off and she kind of smoked. I need to chill. I disagree with you. You were furious. She was, "I'm not happy. I disagree with you. I disagree with you and I send you directly." Snitching on me. That's what you're doing. How am I snitching? Snitching. I'm snitching. Snitches get stitches. Okay. J. J. No. Think about snitching. You said it publicly in front of millions of people and I'm snitching. Why tell Marina? What? Why tell Marina? Why? Why up? Why? Why wind them up? Oh, Charles has been saying this. Guess what he's been saying? Why do they need to know that [\h__\h] is saying Samson doesn't have a stage presence? Okay, that we clearly have different values. I don't think that's cool. I don't think that's cool. But would that be would that sound better? I I don't think I don't think that's cool. You do. That's fine. We agree to disagree. Listen, I don't consider you expert in assessing the stage presence uh better than me and better than Samson. So you stating this is I'm not allowed to have an opinion. So your opinion I didn't p put you said don't put it publicly. I put you privately. I send you privately. Okay. Yeah. But you knew it you Oh man. It's again we're going around in circles here mate. Come on. I'm done, mate. I think we need to call it a day. We're running in circles here. We're gonna We're gonna start We'll start talking about the time you you misqued. Yeah. I mean, it's just going to go on and on and on and people are going to be like, "Well, these guys are nuts." Yeah, it's been going on. We've been going on very very long. Um, everyone's everyone's busy. Everyone's got stuff to do. Milos is, Giles is. So, let's just uh let the people in the comments have their comments who they agree with, who they disagree with. Team Milos, team Giles, whatever. Um, I appreciate you coming on, Milos. I'm very glad that you did. Thank you. Thank you. I do. I do. I'd rather do this than like [\h__\h] behind our backs or like, you know, absolutely. Better to do this like you know, remember um what's his name? Um the guy who used to go at me online and I tapped him on the shoulder at the arm. I said, "Do you want to go for lunch?" And we had a lunch and he said nothing and then two days later he was nice as pie. Two days later was back on the board just being a complete pain in the ass. I was like you sometimes you can't win with people but I'd rather do it this way to be honest. I would completely I I I would probably it was better that you and I talk privately, not like this, but it would be the same thing, Giles, you know. Yeah. No, that's fine. That's fine. If you do you, I'll do me, you know, for you to know. I don't need people to agree with my opinion. I don't I don't I don't I don't Okay. But if I didn't prove you wrong in 10 instances right now and you don't realize, then you should reevaluate yourself. Okay. Okay. I'll take that on board and I'll think about it, you know, and I'll I'll think about it. Of course, it's going to go in, you know. It's No, you're you're too uh touchy. You You take right away. You can't even handle hearing it once. Yeah, but there's ways of doing it, Milos. There's ways of doing it. Using clown emojis, contacting people when they're working. It's like there's ways to do it, Milos. There's kind of ways to do it, mate. Yes, it's when somebody's working. If I did this, maybe it was 3:00 in the morning my time. Okay. 3:25. What would happen? Yeah. No, it's night time. It would have been night time in Prague. No, no, no. It's I tell you, no, it was live. It was night. I It happened as I was doing the live stream. I was literally sat there with the headphones and the mic. 3:25 in the morning. Well, I got it live. No, but you're looking at the wrong messages then. The ones where you said that and I said, "What are you talking?" As I said, "My god, I've got him winning." I remember doing it because I Samson was on bloody stage. So, listen. If 3:25 in the morning here, it's uh noon over there. Well, it was pre must be prejudging then. It must have been Yeah, he must have been on stage. Well, whatever time it was Prague is what one or two hours ahead. It was when he was on stage. Anyway, that's all that matters. Question for you. Milos. How did Barcelona do yesterday? We lost but we we celebrated a title. That's it. That's it. That's why I'm wearing it. Thank you for reminding me which way I should go this way. Okay. Triple crown. Okay. And we should have beat Inter and play finals at the League of Champions, but they didn't give it to us. All right. Yeah. A lot of lot of people watching this follow. So, I know there are a lot of people that are concerned. Anyway, guys, I do want to wrap it up. I appreciate you guys being sports and and saying everything to each other's face instead of what most people do is just talk behind each other's back. Ron, it doesn't happen very often in the industry, does it? because a lot of people will just [\h__\h] about you behind your back and I think but I'd rather do it this way. I'd rather do it this way because I feel I actually feel better now. I mean, this was evidence of two of the most passionate people in the industry who love the sport deeply. It's it's been a lifelong passion for both of you guys as it is for mine. So, we agree to disagree. We have different opinions. Um, I'm glad we're all I'm glad we all talked today. Milos, I'm glad we're talking again. This is almost a year that we haven't talked, I think. So, group hug group hug. Rupug appreciate Ron. Ron like I said I I forgot what you even wrote day later. That's all right. It's in the It's in the past. But things don't affect me. You know, things are Do I like to be public right now? I can only imagine people going to take the screenshots of me screaming again and calling [\h__\h] and all that stuff. So, I'm going to be that the crazy guy. But this is me talking to friends. Yeah, it's fine. Okay. So Ron, you could have called me anytime. Uh, and Charles, you too. I would just suggest next time I respond something to you, think twice. A question was right there. Easy to respond. You choose not to. And this is I'm going to tell you your your personality. You cannot take criticism face on. I love criticism. No, you can't. You I like it. Oh, you know he go. Hey, is it is it you see this? Oh, it's fine. Oh god. Oh god. Oh god. Oh my god. Last question. Milos. If I made a thumbnail with you angry on one side and Giles on the other side and put with quotes, you stupid MF with some simple. Would that be okay? Because I know you've had issues with thumbnails in the past. Listen, I'm okay with because it's already that uh post. Who the [\h__\h] are you, Bob? All right. All right. We don't we don't need a purple filter because he's already got a nice shade anyway. Yeah. What's his name? Uh from Australia. Xavier. Xavier. Yeah. You called him piece of [\h__\h] I am that angry [\h__\h] Yeah. It said you're a piece of [\h__\h] It was very similar to what I'm thinking. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Piece of [\h__\h] Here's a [\h__\h] Stupid. I'm gonna It's going to be your stupid mother effer, but I can't put You can't have [\h__\h] on a thumbnail on YouTube. So, so finally, can you guys take this stupid [\h__\h] as a like nice little friendly [\h__\h] what Lee Priest calls me? I can't even say the word online. He just called me that time today. It's Tuesday. Okay, listen. That was the most fun week of my life. Hey, Australians are calling each other counsel. Yeah, it's true. Same to them. It's not. My son-in-law is Australian. He uses that word all the time. British people do. We use it a lot. Stop being so sensitive. Be real. You know, even Ron, I'm going to tell you, you you're like that mediator. You are kind of trying to keep calm and you kind of don't want to insult anything. Let it go. Let it roll. Let it out. Let it out. It's cathartic. It's cathartic. I I I don't feel worse for two hours ago. I feel better. Well, we can't have three people shouting and screaming at the same time. Why not? Because you wouldn't hear anything. It would just be a chaos cacophony. It's called Outer Muscle. Muscle Yeah. It's we're sponsored by Eurom Muscle Show happening in Amsterdam July 12th 13th. Uh a lot of celebrities going to be there. It's the biggest show in Amsterdam. So uh I appreciate Matt Matthew from Eurom Muscle Show. Milos Milos Milos. I'm bringing Ronnie and Lee Priest in. So we're going to get him on stage and I'm going to do like a host of things. So that's going to be I'm really looking forward to that. I know. And we're we might have Ashley Colosser there as well. Yeah. You know what? Ron, you know what? Uh J told me he's supposed to bring me like that like Ronnie and uh and Lee for a tour. Just thank God I we didn't do the tour because we would kill each other. Would be awesome. You said you you said I'd probably pull over and leave you in the middle of nowhere. You know what that would be? Do you know what? That would be a really good like behind the scenes documentary just to see just imagine like the conversations in the car. Like that would be hilarious. Oh my god. All right, guys. I this is by far the longest power hour we've ever done. Ever. Ever. So I'm going to wrap it up and go eat something. I'm sure you guys must be starving too by now. So uh thank you for joining me today. Milos Giles as always. This has been Power Hour, guys. Drop some comments below. What' you think? If you're on somebody's side, let me know whose side you're on and why. I'm curious to see Power Hour Plus. Power Hour Plus. So that's it, guys. Thank you all so much for watching and we'll see you right here next