Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour starting me, Ron Harrison, of course, the one and only Giles Tiger Thomas. This week we're going to do a very, very quick recap of the Tsunami Pro show in France and then look at the Olympia competitors at 10 days out. Getting excited there, Giles. 10 days to go. >> Always. >> That's our Super Bowl. Now, uh I've said you are a true fan. The Europeans are better fans because you have to stay up very, very late to watch the Olympia. In fact, I think if it wraps up, let's say if it finishes at 1:00 a.m., that's being very conservative in Las Vegas. That'S4:00 a.m. for me. And that is uh I don't think the clock's changed by then. You were 5 9 in the morning for you. Wow. So you guys out there in Europe and places where you have to stay up all through the night like Australia. God bless you guys. Uh let's take a real quick look. So kind of a shocker here in France place called Lille Liil Liil. I don't know. Uh we expected Quinton Ara Quint Beastwood to walk away with this at his fifth attempt at a win and this was the first opportunity to qualify for the 2026 Olympia. Uh, and I thought he looked really good, but this guy next to him, Giles, I did not I I didn't You You've heard of him. You You had an idea who he was. Uh, we're talking about Sergey Donov there next to Quint. What' you think? This was quite a matchup. >> Yeah, he looked really good. Actually, after we did the preview last week, um, I was I I looked at the list again and I I to be honest, it's on me because normally I'll always go through the list and I'll make my mental notes before we start. sometimes actually make physical notes. But when I saw Sergey's name on there, Sergio's name, I thought, [\h__\h] we should have mentioned him because I did think he might be a top five consideration. >> Yeah. >> So, that's on me. That's on us both. Um because not very often does any does this really happen? Does someone come in completely out of nowhere? And uh but he has me I think I forget the show where he got fifth. It was earlier in the season. Um, and I did know kind of how good he was uh because Bodybuilders Without Borders was raving about him and I was like actually he's really good and I have been following him for a couple of months and um yeah, I should have I should have um I'll learn in future to check the the competitor list right before we film because um yeah, I completely missed that one. But with a with Quint, I he looked good. He looked good. Um I didn't pay much attention to the show. I was just kind of looking on Instagram some of the updates and I actually said I think Quid's got this. Um because he's kind of um cuz Sergey was obviously just bigger, denser, grainier, more detailed, drier, but um I did think Quint's shape and structure would be enough to carry him through to the win. Um so it was a close one even though the judges judges score said he won straight firsts. But um the one thing that stands out for me is just his legs from the side. I mean my god his legs are just crazy, aren't they? Definitely. You know, the only knock I heard people, you can't see it there because the metal's coming. He got a little hernia. He's got a little uh little pinky sticking out of his belly button. In his in his Instagram page, you could see he he keeps it taped up when he's training and everything. He's got tape all over it. But uh to me that it wasn't distracting enough. He's a big dude. Uh still though, I I I feel awful for for Quinch because I thought this was a really good look for him. I thought this is probably close, very close to what we saw in Tampa, which was a pretty good look. He was a little on the flat side of condition. Uh so where, you know, where does Quint go from here? That's the the the question I guess I want to ask you is he doesn't seem to want to have a coach. Do you think a coach would or could make a difference for this man? >> Um it all comes down to how he feels because I think he peaked quite well for some of these shows. I don't think it's a question of missing his conditioning because he was bigger and and harder than kind of than than he was for for this year anyway. So, I don't if he's moving forward and he feels happy not having a coach and he knows um what he's bringing to the stage, I suppose it's up to him, you know, it's literally up to him what he does. Um but as far as um did you ask about what he wants to do next in terms of competing or was it just coaching? uh just coaching, but obviously I I I think he does need more size, you know. I I wish it was uh >> he does. >> It was still on Instagram, but Samson posted a picture backstage at the 2019 Vancouver Pro where where Heidi won. We all remember that show. >> And in 2019, Quint was backstage with Samson. And at that time, Quint was bigger than Samson. >> Wow. >> So, I mean, what does that tell you? That tells you that he does need to level up in the size. He does have incredible shape. I I'm a huge fan of this guy's shape, but he needs to be bigger. He needs to take that next that next level up step like Samson did. And that's when he's finally going to He shouldn't be taking second place. Four second places in eight in eight weeks out of four out of five shows he was second place. That's got to sting. And you know, he's got to have a fire lit under his butt right now. Imagine him with like or Lewis breeds like density and conditioning. I mean that that's a sort of threat to the Olympia title really because but the thing is how many good guys have we seen with great structure that have never quite got to that next level that they need to like Samson like in 2122 where you could beautiful shape and structure great symmetry um just needed more size and just more of everything and that's exactly what Quint kind of needs to do now. So, I was thinking before I was thinking, what would he do next? Would it be would it be right to try and get an invite to the Arnold, but I personally I think that's way too soon. I think he really really need I suppose having a coach might be beneficial not just for pre not for pre-contest but for offseason. >> Yeah. Because if he did a real sort of like, right, okay, you know, if I want to come back next year and stop taking second places and third places, I realistically can't step on stage until I'm at least say minimum 10 pounds heavier because a guy that height, you know, five pounds is going to do nothing. You're not going to barely notice it. He might put like quarter of an inch on his arms, on his legs, you know, with five pounds because he's he's a he's a six foot guy. So really minimum 10 to 15 pounds for next year in kind of the conditioning that we we you know we we expect of him to bring to bring to the stage. So um so I would say maybe go do Texas next year as a way of you doing one of the later qualifiers because he needs he needs more size on that upper body because the legs the fine lower body he's good to go but the upper body you know imagine him imagine just more size on that upper body. He just he's thing is he's probably one of those guys that the more size he puts on, the crazier his lines look. >> Yeah. >> You know, it's not going to it's not going to ruin his shape. It's actually probably going to enhance it exactly like Samson did. >> Yeah. And I mean, I keep coming back to the gentleman we haven't had on since that two-hour shouting match, Milos. Uh he's the one who did it for Samson. And I I h I'm sure more I'm sure Quint has heard all these comments not only in the podcast, but in on Instagram. Get with meos, get with me. I wonder if there's been any discussion. I'd be curious to know. >> Um, yeah, because I mean, you can't deny what um Samson and Milos did together because Samson was at a certain level. Uh, and the the only thing that changed that changed him was when that timing, you know, and obviously got hostile and everything, which meant he could give up his job and and uh, you know, go as bodybuilding full-time because I think that played a part as well. It's not just about Milos telling him to do this, this, this, and this with training and eating. It's about the fact that it was around the time because it went went to Korea and then obviously John Meadows died. Um he was he had his job and then he lost his job, didn't he? Samson lost his job because he was um he flew off to Korea to compete. they found out and fired him and then I know that him and Marina were kind of they were really struggling at that time and then hostile came in because he was impressed with what Samson did in um Korea and uh and obviously you know all these factors play a part in Samson kind of really going all in and I mean completely allin I'm not saying he wasn't before but you know all in all in in bodybuilding >> and um and and basically becoming a full-time bodybuilder which obviously Hostile allowed him to become. So, um it's not always just the coach telling them to take this, this, and do this and do that because I'm sure Quinton knows how to eat, knows how to train. Um, but maybe, you know, I know sometimes it can be, you know, they say it's about gear and it's, oh, this this coach just tells you to do this and stuff, but it's actually a combination of factors that um that he really probably does need to not change, but because he's look, he's he's amazing as he is, but he needs to really alter to uh maybe the offseason plan to really start pushing the body weight now because he, you know, if he doesn't put another 10 pound on, it's I think these um these second and third places are just going to become commonplace for him. >> Yeah. Yeah. And I mean, this is no disrespect against the people who have been beating him this year. Jordan's great. Herz is great. I mean, this guy should be winning. He shouldn't be He shouldn't be losing all these shows. >> Yeah. >> The fact that he's he's still yet to win a pro show. >> That boggles my mind. He's been >> uh I think since 2018, I think he's been an active pro now for at least six years. I want to say seven in the open in the open category, and he still has not had one win yet. That's got to that's got to gnaw away at him in some at some level. But anyway, >> but but Bronn's really got to thicken up that upper body, mate. I mean, like you said, you can only shape will only take you so far. Even Flex Wheeler when he was winning the Arnold Classic at 218, he knew that he, you know, to go up against guys like obviously it was Dorian and then Ronnie, you know, he knew he had to put on size and, you know, he basically, you know, let's compare the 93 Arnold to the 98 Arnold. They're two completely different physiques, but he knew he had to do that to really go up against the likes of um of Ronnie and Dorian. >> Yeah. And this Russian guy was a lot thicker and denser than he was. >> Yeah, he was. Yeah, exactly. Like I said to I was with Lewis in Sweden last weekend and I says and I let over the chair and I said, "God, imagine imagine Quinton with your your density and conditioning." He said, "Oh, he's he's be a multi-ro winner, be a top six Olympia guy." So, you know, he knows what he needs to do. He just like I said, you can only get so far in shape and structure. I think he's hit that ceiling now. So, he needs to he needs to come back 10 15 pounds heavier. But a long offseason. Don't be afraid to kind of come out the spotlight a little bit and uh come back in say do Texas or Tampa next year. >> Right on. All right, let's start talking about the Olympia. We're doing our predictions next week, guys. Next week. In fact, Jles and I uh talked about doing two different shows. Otherwise, it's going to be power six hours. Open is definitely worth its own. and then of course uh classic and 212. But let's start from the top with the reigning Mr. Olympia champion. Samson uh has not put out any updates as far as showing the full body. Um but we're getting a glimpse. We're getting glimpses here and there his videos. He's got his he's got his tank top on or I think you call it a vest right over there. >> So we see the fullness and the condition. Uh these are all these are fairly recent shots. I don't see him downsized like people were fearing he would be. But then again, we're seeing gym shots where he's fully pumped. It It's hard to say. We're not going to know if he's going to come in with a more streamlined package than ever before. I mean, you have a great eye and you followed him since day one. Can you get any indication from these little glimpses we're seeing? >> Uh, not really. But I think what he did I was thinking about this this morning when I was making my breakfast. Um, I think what he did in Romania was smart because especially with appearances and stuff like that, I think they they knew he knew that the only thing that these other guys could match or take him on was conditioning. So, I think he wanted to push for conditioning really early, get in condition, hold it, and then, you know, like a lot of these guys, they kind of eat up into the show, but and then kind of monitor because thing is, you know, you can't afford to leave it to the last minute and then be like two weeks out, it's like, [\h__\h] the conditioning's still not there. Um I think um so I think it was a smart thing because at six weeks out his glutes and his hams look really really tight. Um but and obviously he was looking kind of flat uh which is um but I think um I think we're going to see a more conditioned package of Samson this year 100%. Um and I'm I'm hoping he hasn't I just I don't want him to see I don't want to see because he's got beautiful symmetry. He'll have better conditioning. That's that's in no doubt this year. But I just hope he doesn't come out and kind of look um I don't think he will. I don't think he'll be too like flat or streamlined. >> Yeah. I mean, the what we were sort of speculating that we didn't know his game plan, him and Marina, but >> still I I still think it's going to be enough to to retain the title. >> Yeah. I mean, what I what I was hoping he would do, and I it looks to me like he is probably doing this, is get in shape early, best condition he's ever been in, and then fill out a little bit more. So, we do see we're not going to see a flat downside Samson. I think we're going to see a lighter Samson. I bet he's going to be closer to 290 than 300. >> I agree. >> And that's that's exactly where he needed to be. Obviously, he won regardless looking the way he won last year, but you know that that losing the Arnold Classic to Derek earlier in the season. Uh I think that really that really motivated him to bring something we've never seen before >> cuz see, like I said, even if he's even if he's 10% smaller, it it might still be enough to retain the title. I remember when Ronnie really came down in 2002 and I mean that that actually left the door open to be beaten. Like you say, Jay Cutler had turned up. But um I think he I think he really really took to heart the the the conditioning issue because at the end of the day someone like a Derek shouldn't really be beating someone like a Samson if both are on because Samson is bigger and he's >> I found it. >> There you go. >> Okay. So this was 2019 Vancouver Pro. Look at that. >> So I don't know. I think Quinton's bigger. Let's say Yeah, Quinton was bigger than him. Look at that. >> Yeah. So that's look at the difference Samson there to the Samson we're seeing right now even >> Samson ate Samson ate that Samson >> and Cebu Ceusiello from South Africa >> Cibisu was significantly bigger than Samson here. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> So Samson you know whatever whatever he did between then and uh 2023 with Milos. I think they started in 20 I think they worked together from 2021 to early 2024 regardless however long it was. Yeah, look at Samson. Big big difference. So >> yeah, I'm looking that thing with Sam Samson. He's got the best symmetry. He's got the best proportions. He's got the height. He's got the structure. He's got the balance. He's got He doesn't really have a weak pose. The only thing that he could be caught on, which what is exactly what happened at the Arnold Classic, is that he can be beat on conditioning. Yes. >> So, he's obviously he's not stupid. Him and Marlin are not not stupid. They know that the only thing that they could be taken out on is something like conditioning. Um, so I do expect to see, like I said, a slightly I don't want to say the word smaller, but lighter version, but um because I I noticed at the Arnold Classic the waist was a tiny bit wider. >> Now, they would have analyzed that and also it made his back shots look less impressive because I thought his back his real spread at the Olympia last year was absolutely phenomenal. I mean, it blew I think it blew everyone away. I think the only one who came close was Martin, but um so it it did it kind of spoiled the X-frame. So, I think he's um I think he's going to come in with a tiny waist. I think he's going to be really sharp and um and I reckon he'll do what he did at the Olympia last year. I think he'll fill out beautifully for the second day. I think I think it might be close at the prejudging at the Olympia, I'll be honest. But I think at the finals um I think he'll close the door like he did last year. >> Right on. So, you'd think uh Hottie or Derek would be the next person that everyone was talking about, but Nick Walker is getting so much buzz uh especially over the past couple weeks. I mean, look at this. Oh, that is just godly. I mean, I I'm trying to that's up there with the thickest guys I've ever seen in the sport. Guys like Marcus Rule, Dennis James, Nasser. I mean, this is it's not it's not that pretty aesthetic physique, but this is >> who cares. Who cares? I >> mean, for a lot of people, this is bodybuilding. What we're looking at right here, this is what a this is what a Mr. Olympia should be. Just gobs of gobs of conditioned, thick muscle. Uh, wow. I mean, I I at this point, I would not be surprised if he manages to win. I think Samson would have to be a little off for that to happen. Uh, I don't think 100% Samson can be beaten by anybody. But Nick, for a guy that Bob Chikorelloo earlier in the season, I'm sure he now kind of regrets saying it, was saying, "I would announce you in eighth place." >> People are talking about Nick. People are talking about Nick for the win. Yeah, I I mean I'll be honest. He's I've got him I've got him second this year unless something unless Samson comes in and you know either looks just overdated or somehow the conditioning doesn't kind of but that's irrelevant because I think he's going to be conditioned. I think the only thing that could happen where Nick beats Samson is if Samson has basically come down too far and basically just gets out freaked because, you know, Samson's got aesthetics, but he's physically still a big guy and you see that when you actually speak to him face to face or you see him on stage next to the other guys, you know, the height, the stature, the structure. Um, so the only thing that um could happen is if Nick just comes in and completely dominates him in terms of thickness. But thing is when it comes down to post pose um I do think Nick has more weak shots than Samson. So and thing is you know and another thing is you know that Nick is going to be in condition mate. When is he ever not been in condition? The only thing that can can um upset his chances of I think taking him out of that second place is the midsection because you know the judges are going to be looking for it or if for the first time ever he doesn't come in condition. I'll be honest, I'd put money on that he 100% comes in condition. >> Yeah. I mean, he's been he's been looking very lean for a long time. The only shots the only shots I'd say Samson right right off the bat, Samson beats him in the front double in the front lad spread. Not even a question. >> 100%. >> But side shots, I think Nick's freakier. We'll see. And the back shots, >> the back shots are very, very strong for Nick, too. So, it's gonna be tough. >> I still I there's one thing I just I still feel like he needs more chest. really it really bugs me. You know, people say he's got short femurss and stuff and that that kind of only really correlates from the front, the side and the back. Nick's legs are fantastic, but um I just I wish he had more chest because his I think it's cuz his his back, his shoulders, his arms are so freaking huge. Um, I think um I just feel like I just wish he had a bit more more chest density that I mean that's been super nitpicky, but um I watched this video as well and I'll be honest, I did look at the midsection here. >> Yeah, but and you know it's it's it's I wouldn't say it's common, but I've seen that over the years where guys who have these massive shoulders and arms, the chest often times is not as impressive. >> I don't know if it's they have a hard time connecting to it when they train. Um but still it's it's it's a minor point. Uh this guy is just the the freakiest he's the freakiest guy in that stage. He will be. There's no doubt. >> I I the reason I think is because um a lot of bodybuilders now are very shoulder dominant. Look at Keon. Keon's delts are much much bigger than his chest. And to me it's something I don't think a lot of people even notice it but for me it's the first thing I notice because thing is I'm looking at the the Ronnies the Chris Cormier um the chest you know the Shaun rays the the chest of those days you know back in the but I feel like now chests I mean even in the 70s chests were better then compared to their shoulders but now like I said on on the power hour before I feel like it's reversed now. I feel like shoulders and I'll be honest I'll be honest I think a lot of it's to do with them pinning their delts. I really do. And I know I keep going on about I'm sure I'm pissing off a lot of people, but I do. And also, have you seen the way some of them hit their most musculars? Now, only in the last 10 years, we've seen guys hit most musculars and nothing happens with the chest. There's no striations, no everything because there it's almost like the shoulders are too full of stuff. It's like the >> they can't connect it when they're training because I think there's too much uh oil and scar tissue in there. And uh and it's also you know a lot of bodybuilders, you know who they are when they hit that most muscular or they do anything or even the side chest or like nothing really nothing really happens. Nothing really kind of comes alive with the chest. So that's my opinion. Uh take it or leave it. >> Fair enough. Fair enough. >> It's tough titty. >> It's tough titty. Let's keep going. >> But uh here's the guy that controversy over was he here? Did he get his visa? He's here. He's in he's in Texas. He's training with his former coach for and I I wish I could put air let me put air quotes around that former coach Hani Ramad because I think Hani is still coaching him. >> Yeah. >> So this is Hottie. This was three days ago. Um some people think the physique's going downhill. Obviously his fans don't don't have that don't have that sentiment. Uh I think >> Yeah, but they're not bodybuilding fans. They're Hadty fans. And remember, like I said, there's a big difference. >> Oh, 100%. Now, he had just put up something some, >> you know, I actually sorry, sorry, a thought popped into I was chatting um I was on on on Instagram and I was talking about the um the classic guys, the top three and and uh you know, Mike Summerfield wasn't happy with because he said there's no support or something and it's like what cuz you're he said there's no support from the German crowd because I think said that Raone he had Raone winning the Olympia even though he didn't specify the top three and um and Uh yeah, basically uh someone said, "Well, there's not one single Brazilian fan that isn't supporting Raone for the win." And I said, "Well, then they have no objectivity because they're Raone fans, not bodybuilding fans." The difference is we're bodybuilding fans that are analysts that won't like I'm not saying Samson's going to win because he's British. It's because I genuinely think he's going to win. So anyway, rant over. >> You've been accused of favoring the UK bodybuilders so many times and I've never seen that from you. Never. not in once in all the years that we've been working together, I've never seen you favor anybody from being any particular country. And I I I don't favor American Bibles. I just happen to be a lot more familiar with them. So, >> if I like gloss over some of these guys, it's only because I out of ignorance. It's not >> not a bias. But so, this is the most recent update of Hottie. And he's looking like Hottie. >> Yeah. >> It's trademark Hottie Chupan. He's brought a very similar package for the last six years, but it was good enough to win the Olympia. It's been good enough to be in the the top two and three several times. So, he could get it back. I mean, I I wouldn't I don't think anybody would be falling out of their seats if he manages to get the title back. >> I I don't see him winning it, mate. I don't I think I I think you brought it up in the right order because we didn't talk about this beforehand, but the order you brought these guys up is exactly the order I have them in. Um, I think I'm gonna try and put a positive spin on this. I'm gonna say that Hadi looks as good as he's always looked. >> But for me, I'm not seeing anything new. Um, the only thing I hope for is that the actually Samson said this. I watched a clip on he was on he did an interview with Fouad and he said, "Is Hadi going to be as conditioned?" Because he was talking about like the weakness of his opponents and then his own weaknesses and stuff like that. And um, and he I actually agreed completely what Samson said. He said, "Is he going to he's not going to be as conditioned from the back as he is from the front?" Because only when he did the Arnold Classic, he won the Arnold Classic in the Arnold Classic UK last year. It was the first time I've ever seen Hadtie as crisp from the back as he was from the front. Because that for me, the thing is, even when he won the Olympia, he wasn't crisp from the back. He was soft, but he was just really, really dense. And thing is, look what happens. He loses a lot of his pop and fullness. I think I I think that's a much much smaller version of Hadi. Uh, still very impressive, but I'd love to see him kind of as big as he was in 22, but with the conditioning of the Arnold Classics where he won it because he's not he's not fully People say he's got the best conditioning. I don't think he has. I don't think he does. I don't think he's he's as conditioned from the uh from the back as he is from the front. And I'm sure I'm going to get [\h__\h] for this, but um yes, the left and the right leg there. I still see a disparity. I think the triceps are starting to go >> um on the back. I mean thing is he's still he's still amazing and um but there's obvious things I can see in his physique that you know it's like saying that Samson at 90% 90% size is that still good enough to win the Olympia? It might well be. So if if Hadi you know with these with these kind of things on his physique that weren't there four, five, six years ago because if you look at the 2019 Vancouver shots I mean he he was kind of perfect there but he just needed kind of more size. But then as he's gone on, as the years have gone on, he's got bigger. But things have started to things have started to go a little bit. Um I do I will say that. And of course, you know, I'm going to mention the shoulders because for me there I don't I think some people just don't even know what that shine or that lump is. I think they just see it as muscle. But you and I know that um it's not. >> I hope they don't do a really dark background again this year. It's >> It was rough. It was rough. >> I know. I know. But um you know, Phil Heath um made a comment to me a couple of years ago and I said it was about a month out and about three, four weeks out and I said, "Oh, he's done it again." Because remember in 2021 he got fourth and he was I mean Milos said he he could have won it if he clearly the shoulders weren't like that. He said he thinks it cost him the title. Um and um and Phil and I I pointed it out and Phil said, "Well, why would you point that out when it's he's it's at a point in his prep where he can't do anything about it." And I was like I was thinking, "Well, the judges don't care. It's just something. It's a visual sport. So, you're going to get judged on your strengths and your weaknesses and it's a sport of comparison. So, if you've got it and the guy next to you doesn't and it's close, what do you think's going to happen? >> Oh, 100%. I mean, I I honestly believe that Olympia would have been his if his shoulders hadn't been jimmied up, as we say. >> Yeah. I don't I don't think I I think he might have calmed it down, but thing is that's just years of scar tissue, isn't it? >> Oh, 100%. I mean, it doesn't go away unless you get it surgically removed. scar tissue is very very dense. >> Yeah, I bet there's a lot of us watching, a lot of us who put everything in their glutes, we have these lumps in the upper outer quadrants of our glutes like a like a softball. They're never ne and those are never going away. >> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. >> Tissue massage. All right, let's keep it moving. Let's talk about Derek Lensford, another former Olympia champion. Uh the current Arnold Classic champion. um speculation cuz he's not doing any he's not showing anything full body right now. Can he peak all these times in a row? Cuz he did the uh Arnold show, then he went and did Pittsburgh. So that was early March and I think Pittsburgh was very very end of April or beginning of May. >> Uh it was it was a long time to be in prep. And we saw the legs go up and down. 24 Olympia, they were down. 20 I'm sorry. Yeah. 25 Arnold, they were up. 25 Pittsburgh they were down. >> Yeah, you're right. You're right. Completely agree. >> That's the one the one thing that seems to be troublesome for him is keeping that leg fullness and um you know in his we got some training clips that he's put up. His legs look massive right now, but can they hold that? >> Can they hold that fullness? >> Ron, it always happens. You see updates of his legs two, three, four weeks out and they look like that. They look they look absolutely incredible. huge thick dense layered conditions separated and then something seems to happen when he gets on stage it something seems to go where they're not as good I mean Samson I watched that interview and Samson said I can I can beat Derek on his legs and he's right because that never happens to Samson I mean if it comes off Samson it comes it comes off overall but with Derek it seems to come off his legs so just that last it used to happen when he did 212 because I mean obviously trying to make a weight cap um and you know when you come and you really suck it down it it'll it'll Sometimes it'll come off body parts right at the last minute that you don't want it to. But um honestly, I'm I was thinking about this and I've got to be honest. I think Pittsburgh will cost him the Olympia. >> H yeah, I mean that's my concern and I >> he shouldn't have done Pittsburgh. When he when he was hitting the rumors about I might be doing I was like no no no don't do this because that staying on prep too long when you should be shutting it down really focus especially after he won the Arnold. It's a shame he couldn't have pulled out of Pittsburgh after he won the Arnold because then he should have been shutting it down doing a full off seasonason resting up and not staying on prep to win the extra 100k to do a show that he was committed to do. It's a shame he couldn't have pulled out of that. Um because thing is the thing is the fan base really turned as well but even more on him because then Nick should have won arguably chat GP said it GPT said it you know so it's just such a shame that I don't think I think it's going to cost him because I think trying to peak like that peak peak peak I think he didn't leave himself enough time um but um I just hope I just hope he looks better than he did last year because I think regardless I think he's going to slip I think he's going to slip to fourth mate I really do. Yeah, I mean it you made a good point about the the fan base turning on him because >> prior to Pittsburgh, he was the golden boy. Everybody loved him. You know, he had some detractors, but >> I think after Pittsburgh in that very controversial win over Nick, >> Nick gained a ton of new followers and supporters and I think Derek lost a good amount of because it's unfortunate because he's not a judge. He didn't >> It's not his fault that he beat Nick. It's but that's uh the fans they they often do blame the athlete if they beat someone that they wanted to win. >> I but Ron also some of the updates I've seen I was thinking even like a couple of weeks ago the updates he was posting they he didn't look granite. He didn't look kind of like that. I mean when was that? How many weeks out was that? >> That was three weeks ago. So that was >> that's not you can say the lighting [\h__\h] or whatever but to me he that is not some I'd be panicking if I look like that at three weeks out. And I love Derek. I think he's awesome. He didn't he did exactly what I didn't expect at the Arnold Classic. I didn't see that happening. I don't think I don't think many of us did. I think there was maybe one in a hundred people that thought he could come in and and beat Samson at the at the Arnold, right? >> So, I I give him huge respect for doing that because I thought he looked absolutely sensational, but I don't I honestly don't see him peaking that well again because I think of what because of the fact that I think he did Pittsburgh. So, and from what I've seen in the updates, um I'm not seeing the magic happen, mate. I mean, like I said, it's a lot can happen and, you know, lighting and all these different variables, but um yeah, I and because of what I've seen, uh I think he I think he could fall in fourth. In fact, I saw an update. Who was it from? Somebody was giving their predictions. I forget who it was. I don't want to say it actually, but I saw it on Facebook and they said that they had Andrew Jack beating him for fourth. >> Wow. Yeah, Andrew. We'll get to Andrew, but Andrew is another one. I wish we could see what Andrew looked like. >> Oh, I know. I I was going to because I was going to message Andrew today because I spoke to him a few days ago because I really want him to do Prague >> and he he said I he said I'll think about it. I'll think about because I really want to see him. I want to I I because people going on about Keon how amazing he is and he is don't get me wrong. Yeah. But I think I want I want to see Kriso and a guy like Andrew Jacked or someone like that stand next to Keon just so you can see that there is a there is a big difference between a 200 205 pound guy in shape even with an incredible shape as Keon to a guy like to a guy like Andrew who's a top five open Olympia. I I think people need to see that there is a difference and there will be a difference. if if Andrew's on um I could see him I could see him taking out a key on but um I just noticed he's with no longer with BSN. >> Yeah, he made that post today and that's they were he's been with them since before he turned pro I believe >> and Andrew is very loyal. I mean I'll say that for him because like I said to him I said when you can do Prague and he goes I I have to go with how I feel and because I because he told me the reason I do the Texas show and I I keep going back to that particular show and no other show is because I've had a good experience and I like the people that run it. So he's very he's very emotionally connected. He has to be emotionally connected to what he's doing. He's not someone who does things by like um tactic or unless it was feebo or something where he just needs to get a qualification. He's someone that really goes by his heart and his kind of integrity and I really respect that about him. >> Yeah. There's a variation. We used to call these Superman rows. I don't know why the thing you're doing there. Oh, because you look like Superman at the top when Superman's flying. >> Yeah. He's He's always keeps keeps under wraps. I've never seen him even in a a tank top close to a show. >> I know. >> But you can see the side there. He was with Hottie because Hottie was in Dubai. >> That's not Haddie. Look closer. Uh >> oh. Who is it? >> Look closer, Ron. Come on. I'm I'm going to tell you off now, mate. I'm disgusted. >> Oh, looks like Hottie to me, man. I don't know. >> Come on. >> Is it really? >> Yeah. >> Because I've seen that post pop up and they're going, "Oh, look. He's training with Hadi. I'm like, "Oh, guys, it's Kamal." >> No, they all look the same, Ron. Just >> Oh, racist bastard. >> Libyans and Iranians, they all look the same. >> My son-in-law is Lebanese. He kind of has that look, too. >> Yeah. No, I can I can see why because the thing is he's not he's not he's not in the forefront of the picture and it kind of if you squint it kind of you could you could forgive it for >> forgive for saying it looks like Hadi, but it's actually Kamal. >> So, my apologies everybody. apologize to so Andrew Aya I mean he's an X factor. We don't know we don't know where he's going to fall. I mean I could see him as as high as third or as low as sixth. >> It's it's going to be it's going to be a crazy Olympia. Whatever happens >> I'm gonna I'm gonna stick with him in fifth. I think I think he's going to hold on to that fifth place. Um and when I did the tour with him last year and he said look he says it's it's called open for a reason. It's open that anyone can win it. And I kind of I I kind of get what he's saying, but I think like like I really made me think this morning when this person I I can't remember who it was. Like I said, it was it was um they had the top three exactly how we had it. Samson first, Nick second, had third, but they had Andrew fourth and I was like, [\h__\h] I didn't even consider that. And I really thought I thought about it and I considered it and then I thought yeah I mean you know I could you know with the I mean it's the same arguments that we give for Samson with the height the structure the X-frame the small waist that we give to why he might beat someone like Haddie and um and uh Derek sorry sorry Haddie you know Haddie or Nick you know with a height thing but surely we can apply the same to Andrew over Derek as well because if Derek's off and Andrew is looking, you know, better than he's ever looked, then yeah, I could I could see him fourth, but like I said, I'll be honest. I think um I think he's a lock for fifth place, mate. >> Question. Do do you think Samson has been improving or not over the past couple years? >> Improving Samson. >> Yes. >> Samson and Andrew or Andrew? >> I'm sorry. Oh, here I go again. Andrew. >> Oh, they all look the same. All these body all these bodybuilders. Um Andrew Well, I think when we saw this Texas footage last year, I remember I was out in the garden. I remember I remember I was just messaging you and I was messaging everyone and and uh I think I rang a couple of people and we were like, "Wow, look at the improvements." And it just look he just looked phenomenal. I thought he won it quite easily. Um even though it obviously wasn't the lineup like an Olympia, you know. Um I yeah I h yes I I think he did but I would like to see I would like to see a bit of a a jump in improvements because if he has and if he's big and he's you know he's improved and he's and he brings better condition than ever. Um then yeah I don't know. Yeah it's tough tough. >> I I think sizewise he's he doesn't need to be much bigger anyway. I just want I want to see more hamstrings. I haven't really seen a lot of improvement in the hamstrings and the condition from the back. I still want to see that much better condition from the back and that's >> yeah, >> let's move on. Uh fourth place last year, so we really needed to talk about it. Martin Fitzwarter, the Martian. >> Um not a lot of full body updates either, of course, but we know what he looks like. We saw him earlier in the season. Uh can he still can he still hold on to that? Uh oh, he's all taped up. That's not a good sign. Can he still hold on to top four? It's It's going to be a tough tough show this year. And I don't know if he can, but I don't want to write him off either. >> I think it's possible. Um I'll be honest, I've kind of um he's kind of been in my sixth place kind of uh placing for for for months now. Um, and I don't want to be influenced either by the fourth place he had last year or by the disappointment he had at um at Pittsburgh because there's a guy that if you sleep we slept we slept on him last year and no one really expected him to come into the top five. I don't think many people did, >> right? >> Um, and arguably he should have been third, but with Martin um he's a comfortable sixth, but of course he could beat Andrew. Of course he could beat Derek. Um, could he jump up and beat the guys like uh Nick and Haddie? I don't know. Unless someone like I mean I could I don't know. I Yeah, I think sixth, but he could be. I think I mean there's I wouldn't be completely shocked if he if he if he took third or fourth, but I think the most likely scenario is that he gets sixth place. >> Yeah. I mean, his his fans think he he beats Nick all day and Nick's fans think it's not even >> it's not even uh worth. >> When was this? When was this? Oh, I'm just I'm just talking about Instagram comments back and forth from talk what the fans have been saying. >> No, no, this content this this >> I'm sorry. So, this is four weeks ago. >> Um, okay. Yes. >> No, he's he's not going to make top five. I I don't know. I don't want to say that because it's it's achievable, but to me there I don't see the drastic improvements he made last year, but you know, it's not it's not possible sometimes for guys to make drastic improvements. But um he looks good. Um but uh >> yeah, I'm gonna stick with I'm gonna stick with my sixth place. Um but um >> we're not doing predictions anyway, so you can say >> I know. I just hope he looks better than he did at Pittsburgh because how he looked because when I saw him in Prague, I mean, as you know, I mean, he wasn't very happy with me saying that I think Bumstead should have beaten him. But um I'll stick I'll stick by that because he wasn't the same Martin that was at the Olympia that took fourth. It wasn't the same guy. He wasn't peaked as well. He looked better on the second day than he did on the first first day because the judging was over like Saturday night. Sorry, Saturday night and then Sunday morning or whatever. >> Or was it Friday and Saturday? I can't remember. But um yeah, Friday and Saturday. But um I think um yeah, I think he's Yeah. So I think uh if he I just hope he really really peaks because otherwise it's going to be a disappointing year for him. >> Fair enough. Let's see. Who do we want to look at next? Uh so this is not We're not really Again, this is not in order. kind of was, but we're moving down to just look at some really impressive. So, good veto. Uh, some people think he's going to do very well, some people don't think he's going to do very well. He's certainly looking on track in terms of condition. Uh, there was every time I see him, I think no benefits now. >> I You just read my mind. I just Sorry. I don't I don't I don't want to keep putting fuel on the flames there, mate. Yeah, because I mean I don't think it it hurt him doing uh he did uh was this Pittsburgh he did right >> in New York Pro and he tore his he had a little slight lat tear earlier in the season right around >> Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh >> Pittsburgh. Yeah, he had to pull out of Pittsburgh, didn't he? >> Correct. >> Yeah. I mean the back shots we we'll show in a second. His back doesn't look like it's any worse for wear. He's got some of the craziest legs in the sport. He's a young guy. I think he's only 27 or 28. Uh, so this will be his this his first Olympia, right? Did he do it last year? >> Correct. First Olympia. >> Yeah. So, high hopes for him. Look at that back. That's a That's a great shot. >> He looks good, but I I just don't I think uh I think a lot of the people in the industry get um fooled by his updates. I'm not saying he's not a fantastic bodybuilder because he is, but I think um I think there's some um very very carefully selected photos going onto Instagram. He to me he's he's very misleading with his Instagram posts because uh because I don't think it translates to the stage as much. I think he's good. I I think he's really good. >> Good veto. But um I think what we see some of the stuff he posts because look how many times have you seen him post a frontal bicep and an Instagram account, you know, when these these these these pundits whatever post him next to Nick. And to be honest, every single time he looks so much better than Nick, but let's let's be realistic. I don't think he's going to get caught out with Nick, mate. >> No, I I don't see him as a first call out guy. I'd be very surprised if he's in the first call out. >> Yeah, he's good. Like I said, he's good. And he's Give him a couple of He's like, let's see. I think the best is he very much yet to come. And I think give him a couple more years at least yet. I don't think he's like him like, you know, I think uh I think you need to give these guys a couple more years before they really come even close to their final form. >> Yeah. I mean, he's a he's a work in progress. He's getting better and better >> essentially. Yes. >> I I remember a couple years ago the back shots were kind of cringy compared to the front. He's brought those up quite a bit. >> Yeah. Let's give him a chance. Let's give him a chance. >> He's good. >> Let's look at uh Nezilla. Why not? >> Ruby. Yeah, it's a great nickname. You know what's funny about Nick Zilla? Not funny haha, but funny odd is Kit Sanderson from MD Latino. It was probably five years ago. He was trying to tell me about this guy from because he's from Colombia. Kit followed all the pros. He's like, and he was an elite pro at the time, I think, right? >> You gota you got to do a feature on this guy. He's got the biggest neck. I'm like, I don't who cares about the biggest neck. That's >> I thought that was just the silliest thing. But I I completely wrote this guy off. Rubio, Neckzilla, whatever. >> Yeah. But thing is thing is Ron. I mean, until a couple of years ago, he didn't look like that, >> right? >> Um I mean, what was it last? No. No. when he made when was he make um he made he turned pro Prague at 23 didn't he? Yeah, 23, but even a year before that, it wasn't that wasn't the same guy. He wasn't he wasn't anywhere near like he is now. >> So, you're talking like five years ago, >> um he just looked like a bit of a misshapen weird like structured guy, didn't he? The big neck and like no taper and but as he's kind of got bigger and the last it's all happened in the last two years. as he's got bigger, his shape has improved and, you know, now we see him as like a a legit, you know, pro show winner and he's won. He's proved it by winning two pro shows this year. Um, but I I just hope he's in I just want to see him I want to see him condition from the back. I'll be honest. >> I just want to see I mean, imagine him in Kriso's conditioning. I mean, that that would be a threat for top six Olympia. >> Oh, 100%. I mean, >> but he could be as he could be as high as sixth, you know. Here I go again. He could be as low as as 10th. Uh, but I don't see him out of the top 10. I think he's >> Oh, really? >> Yeah. I don't see him out of the top 10. If he's in Anybody who's not in condition, they're not they're they're bounced out of the top 10. I tell you, >> I don't see him in the top 10, mate. >> Wow. >> No, I don't I don't because like think about the top Okay, the six guys we've just mentioned. You've got then you've got like Bonag, you've got um Brandon, and then you've got guys like um Rean Antonio. That's 10. >> That's 10 guys. And realistically, you know, think about those guys and how they're looking. Is he going to be and what about guys like I mean could squeeze in the top 10. But um the big question is is he going to bring something we haven't seen before in terms of conditioning because if he turns to the back and everything's not the sharper than it's ever been. Then no way is he making top 10. But it's all all dependent on that conditioning from the back. That's my point. >> Yeah, definitely. I mean it's there's so many there's so many whatifs. We we do our predictions and everything, but we're just we're just speculating on what if this guy brings this brings this factor, that factor. We don't know what's going to happen. Next, we wish you the best of luck. >> Yeah, he's awesome. I love him. I think he's brilliant. >> Give some love to the old men doing the show. Old men in bodybuilding meaning over 40. >> 42 old men. Cheers, Rob. >> Yeah. Is uh >> Joey then, mate, >> is that all Panak is? Is 42? No, I think he's Oh, Bonak. He think he's um Well, this is about 40. He's a little bit older than maybe 43, 44, but he's not old, right? >> Okay. So, this was the most recent update that we saw. >> Uh this was posted just a couple hours ago. >> Um the back shots, he's still got that crazy freaky back. I mean, I don't know that the condition the conditioning overall, I'm not I'm not loving that >> really >> really. I mean, for some of these guys are much much drier and leaner right now. >> Yeah. >> I don't think Bonak always pulls it together. I'm not saying it's not going to happen. >> Bonk always um I think probably along with like Dexter Jackson is probably one of the most consistent condition guys. I think he's one guy that I think we saw at 2020 Olympia when he slipped flipped to fifth, you know, and then maybe slipped out the top six. Then he he was coming in flat, but he never ever came out of condition. And you know what I like about Bonac on that riddable bicep? You know the um the little skin? It's like like the skin's tearing between the quads and the hamstring. It's like these little it's a you zoom right in. You can see on it. And it's something you don't really see very often. Certainly not on open guys. You see it on classic guys. But um I love um I love Bonax conditioning. I love his physique. And I think uh I think he wants to go out on top because I do think if rumors are right this is his last year and that then possibly if he doesn't do any post Olympia shows which he probably will this this well this is probably going to be his last Olympia. >> Well the caption here and this was posted a week ago says one more lap. >> There you go. There you go. >> So I think that's it. This is going to be his 11th Olympia. >> Wow. >> His first Olympia in 2014. He missed 23. >> He's awesome. >> Yeah. So I would not be surprised. He's had a very very distinguished career. He's won the Arnold Classics. He's been second at the Olympics, won a good amount of shows, and you know, he was a 212 guy. So, he's another one like Derek and Hottie. Uh they made that successful transition from 212 to open. >> He's won two he's won two Arnold Classics. He's been uh second in the Olympia, third in the Olympia back, you know, back in 2017, 2019. I mean, I just think he's he's so he's so consistent. Um I I can can he could you really see him falling out of the top 10 given that he's done so well this year and he kind thing is with with Bonk he seems to get better as the year goes along like if you notice he just does just two three four shows like you saw the Arnold Classic I wasn't impressed with what he brought to the Arnold Classic but then he did Detroit and looked incredible then he did uh Dubai and looked even better and it's like he kind of he kind of picks up speed as as as as the as the shows and the season wears on and I think if he genuinely is I think if he's putting it out there it's his last year. This is his last year and I think he's going to want out and go out on uh not go out on top with like a win because I don't think he's going to win the Olympia, but he's um he wants to go out on on a high and not kind of uh you know, not top 15, which I don't see happening. >> Yeah, this this was seven and a half weeks out and he is working with uh Boss of Outlaw who is got a great track record. >> Yeah. >> You know, this was 2017 when he was third place at the Olympia. >> Yeah. I don't see him. >> He should have been He should have been second there. I was at that Olympia. He should have been second. >> 2017 was Phil. Who was that? >> Ramy. Ramy. >> Oh, Phil Ramy. Okay. >> Yeah, I had him beaten Ramy 100%. >> Wow. Fair enough. Fair enough. All right. Let's see who else we want. I want to look at the other old man in the show. >> It's crazy. I mean, Harris, >> I'm I'm so old. I'm 56. These guys are all kids to me. But still, >> I don't even consider a 40-year-old to be a Masters. I think the Masters Olympia should be 45. This I had this conversation with Jake and uh because apparently when they brought the Masters Olympia back he wanted it to be 45 and over but Alina said no to get the best quality competitors we have to make it 40 or over and um and that's what happened. He obviously he obviously caved in in the end and agreed. >> Oh I I I I think 40 is fine for that but when they do 35 is they have masters 35 and up here in the at you know amateur shows. >> Silly silly. I think they even do that in a lot of the the Masters Pro shows which yeah 35 is it's not a master. >> Maybe maybe for like bikini or something. I mean you know because maybe it's slightly different for the women's classes but thing is in female bodybuilding the women don't even get close to their peak in their 40s. They actually get better when they get over 40. They actually get better. The guys seem to drop off a little bit you know typically when they get over 40. But it's the opposite for the women in bodybuilding. >> Well my my theory on that I don't think it's a theory. I think it's pretty much fact is most of the female bodybuilders get into the sport later in life as opposed to the men. Most guys that I've ever talked to, they start training somewhere between 14 and 18. That's very, very common. With these women bodybuilders, a lot of them I talk to, they don't even get into it till they're mid to late 20s, early 30s. >> Yeah. I I think it's to do with the way they train. >> You never see a woman ego lifting, do you? You never see a woman training. You ever look Have you ever seen like anyone who's got muscle a woman in the gym training and you think you're training like you know ego lifter? I've never ever seen it happen. They always train properly. It's like have you ever seen a woman with a ripped pec or a a ripped quad or you know they they always seem to you they never seem to get injured. Um because I think um I just think they train smarter. >> Well that's why we have a phrase male ego and we don't have a phrase female ego. Right. >> Yeah. How many injuries you had, Ron? So, this is four weeks ago. >> Um, Brandon looks looks great. You know, he's he just fell out of the top five last year for the first time in many years. >> He's still a very legitimate threat. I mean, I don't obviously I don't see him ever getting the title back, but if he could hang into the top 10 for one more year, >> Yeah. >> And I don't know. I He hasn't said anything about retiring, but I I don't know how much longer he's going to keep doing this. >> I I can't see him and Bonak being out of the top 10. I just don't see it happening unless something goes wrong which you know at the end of the day they're quite I mean he looks he looks good condition there so he's not going to he's very experienced he knows enough to sort of not do anything stupid at the last minute which you know a lot a lot of younger guys can tend to do they can mess up at the last minute somehow or you know the stress or whatever cortisol gets to them but you know someone who's that long in the tooth like Brandon or Bonak I just don't see them coming in off so for me to see them fall out of the top 10 is for me it's unrealistic and like I said you add that to the six guys we've mentioned before, you know, Martin six, you know, Andrew and all those like that's already eight at the top 10 guys. So, there's two spots left to make top 10. So, when people say, "Oh, someone and so is going to be top 10." It's like, well, think about who they actually have to get past. >> Yeah. I mean, there's there's 19 men in the show, so nine men are not going to be in the top 10. >> Yeah. >> Because we're not we're not even going to talk about all 19. He'd be all we'd be here all damn day. But, uh, >> everyone we're talking about today, I think, has the potential to be in the top 10. Uh, case in point, Rean Grimes. So, Rean, uh, Rean has been in the top 10 before. This was his winning routine at the Cal State show earlier in the season. He was battling Sassan at all these shows. It was like back and forth with Sassan Herat. Uh, Yian's been a top 10 before. He could do it again. And this is a guy that massive fan base doesn't matter anymore, >> but still a lot of support out there for him >> to to be honest. You know, we're doing this from what updates they've given. He's another one like Veto. I can never tell from his updates because they're very they can be they can be quite misleading sometimes some of the pictures. I'm not saying that they're they're photoshopping or anything like that, but I just think they I just they can look amazing sometimes. You know, you see some pictures and videos and think, "Wow, like you know, Veto's frontable bicep and it's just that one standalone shot and you think, well, god, how could anyone beat that?" You know, somebody put a picture of Nick Walker next to him and he's like, and he just blows Nick Walker away, but then get him on stage and it's a different story. >> So, I think um I mean Rean's like saying he wants to be first call out this year like a lot of guys do. I get it. >> Sure. But um I have been see but then on the other hand I have been seeing some magic happen in the last couple of months like just some basic training stuff and he's hitting you know like for what limited glimpses he's given us I think he's I think we will see the best Rean ever at the Olympia this year. I think he's kind of something switched in his mind I think in the last year or so. Um and I think uh do you think it's because he's a dad now? >> That could be part of it. I also remember he was on Jay's Jay's podcast, the Cutler Cast, and Jay gave him a little pep talk or a little >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> said, "You have to believe, you really have to believe you can be Mr. Olympia." And I could see Reagan was like soaking it in and he was he was taking it to heart. you you know sometimes like like with Samson like you know those things fall into place like with hostile coming on board and Milos coming into his life at that point and you know they're like a kind of a make orb breakak situation with with their finances and where they're living and everything and then something just kind of you know the heavens open up and they just they get gifted with these situational things that basically changes their physical and mental state and then they just kind of explode. You know, it doesn't happen with every athlete, but then someone like Regan, you know, sometimes like by having a baby that can change your mindset on life, your attitude to what you do, the fact that you're the bread winner maybe. And you know, sometimes it can click something in their mind that makes me think, right, okay, I I can I can just tick along and and be great, but you know, they want to go to another level. And sometimes like, you know, maybe being around Jay has kind of has had a good positive influence influence on him. Um, and as well as having a kid, I think maybe those two things, maybe we will see a best ever Regan this year. So, um, see, I mean, top 10, it's realistic, isn't it? >> Oh, of course it is. Of course it is. He's got a he's working with I don't know how long they've been together. Dom Super Slice is coach now. He's worked with Aceto in the past. I think he's he's had a couple different coaches if memory serves because he's >> trained as well. >> Yeah. And Milos put some size on him. >> So, yeah, I'm impressed with these updates. I I think he's got a very legitimate chance. >> I do like his back shots though. This is where See, imagine I mean, imagine um next to Rean. Rean will certainly hold his own maybe even beat him in some of the front shots, the side shots. I think he'll he could take Rean, but then Rean takes the back shot. So, I'd be really interested to see Regan versus actually. That' be interesting because I I don't know how I would call it. What would you How would you call it? Who do you think? >> Boy. Oh, boy. That's That's a good one. I I I haven't even seen like a virtual matchup between them yet, but >> yeah, >> that would be interesting. Obviously, Rean Rean beats's back is it's getting better, but it's this is next level compared to that. Look at the thickness. >> Yeah, I mean, imagine with that kind of back those back shots. >> Yeah, >> that's top six. That's top six Olympia >> 100%. You know, Z's fans think he's already top six this year. We We'll talk about that instead. >> No, not this year. Uh, I don't want to go I don't want Akim to fall too far away from our conversation because yeah, Williams has been six top six at the Olympia. He's got a good amount of pro wins. >> His updates, he's always got all that tape all over him. >> Have you Have you ever had it though? It's quite good. >> My wife tried to put it on me one time. It was just It annoyed me having the tape on. >> I I did it once. I got really taped up because my my sports massage lady said I'm I kind of roll my shoulders like my posture and everything and that was why I couldn't failed to isolate my chest. So, she taped me right up and really pulled my shoulder blades together. And then I went and trained chest with it on and I couldn't use hardly any weight but the the pump even just the warm-up sets where it was pulling my shoulders back, my shoulder blades back and I was really kind of pushing with my chest rather than my shoulders and triceps. It made such a difference. So I you know I I I kind of um and then when I pulled it off and trained chef the next time I didn't get the same sort of engagement. So there is something in it. >> Okay. No, if it was if it was a a load of bunk people wouldn't still be using it after all these years. So >> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> No, a lot of people clearly rely on it. So Akim uh look such a strong guy too. That's 170 pound incline dumbbell presses here. That was six weeks ago. >> So we wish him the best. We know he's you know sometimes I kind of forget about him. these guys who've been around, they've been consistent for so many years. >> I have a very bad habit of sort of forgetting. >> Yeah, but I mean, you got so many new guys coming through, Ron. I mean, you got guys like and and Veto and Rubiel coming into the Olympia. It's easy to think that they're automatically going to step over the Brandons, the Bonax, the Akims. I can get I get it. You know, even Regan's been around a few years now. You know, I know he's only had one top 10 Olympia, but it's nothing to nothing to be ashamed of. But thing is with a after his um after that car accident he had a couple of like shaky placings and his back didn't look very good and then when he did Romania last year um when he got second to um Raphael because I was like I said I was I was there. >> Yeah. >> Um I was on the live stream and I was thinking is this the best conditioned aim I've ever seen? And then he went and won the big man weekend which qualified him for this this is this Olympia. >> Um he looked he looked really really good. almost like better than he was before when he was kind of coming sixth place because he was sixth, sixth, ninth and then was he 15th or something the Olympian? He was really starting to slip. Then he had the car accident. It was like right okay I think this guy is done now and then he had a couple of shaky and then he kind of and then he started climbing back up and then he started really but also he really started nailing the condition because someone like Hakee is so thick and dense you know when you get a guy like that who brings great structure and that much size um when they get really good condition you know you put them next to an organ and stuff and they're they're holding their own. >> Yeah 100% I I don't think Akim is going to fall out of the top. It's Chris again. I have 15 men in my top 10. >> Oh, I know. It's tough. It's tough, mate. It's tough. It's tough because like I said, you got a lot of new faces coming in who, like I said, Ruby, Jordan Hutchinson. >> Um, who did I Well, did I just say uh one of the new guys, Rubiel, you know, there's there's these guys if you know these guys sort of could could quite conceivably jump over the the more established guys even if they're in condition. >> And we have another guy who's been top 10, Tonio Burton. I mean, >> somebody's not gonna make top 10. >> I know. It's tough. It's gonna be tough. It's gonna be tough. >> He looks He looks great. I mean, this is uh this is his most recent update. He's got the craziest back shots. He reminds me of so many ways of Dexter physique. >> Yes. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I mean, his back shots are sensational. I like Rean. I would, you know, I wouldn't mind seeing Rean and because I could see Rean and Tonio battling like eighth to 10th. >> Oh, yeah. you know, and I and to be honest, like Tonio, what I'm seeing, what the updates I'm seeing, he's looking freaking good. He's looking sensational. He's one of the guys that I kind of he's never really on my radar, but he always he always delivers. Like you said, like Dexter, you know, every year think, "Oh, Dexter is going to slip now. Dexter's going to slip now." And then he just keeps bringing the condition, bringing the Because think of Antonio, he's kind of like Samson. He's kind of not really missing anything. >> Yeah. >> Um he's got nice aesthetics. Um you know, nice midsection. Um, so he's the only thing I suppose he could get beaten on. I mean, imagine imagine Rubiel in that condition. >> Oh, good lord. I mean, Tonio has got much prettier shape and structure than Rubio. >> Rubel's just a freak. He's I don't know five five I don't know how tall he is, but he's a he's a huge guy. I want to say he's about 270 on stage. 275, something like that. >> But then again, like if Rubiel or say Samson really go for condition, are they going to lose that freak factor? you know that even though even though like Samson's got a beautiful aesthetic physique, he does have a freak factor because of how freaking big he is, how much space he takes up, you know. Um it's um is he going to look as impressive? So if someone like a Ruby comes in this condition, is it going to be the same Ruby with the kind of the the thicking hanging muscle? You know, it's it it must be tough getting that balancing act right. I it's the the struggle to stay full and be as shredded as possible has been the bane of every competitive bodybuilder for many many years. It's it's a it's a it's a very difficult balancing act. And that's why coaches, not one coach has a a 100% successful track record of bringing their clients in full and conditioned at every show. It's it's not possible. There's too many variables with the human body. >> Ron, there's something we maybe haven't considered. Just say Samson really brings like really really impressive conditioning but loses something. Could you see him falling out of the top three even if he's shredded but a lot smaller? >> No. >> Okay. >> No. Not >> because it's something I have to consider. It's something I have to consider because you know like people have ripped ripped on Samson with his conditioning but what he brought to the Olympia at the finals last year was the best physique on stage. I think it was touch and go at the at the the judging, but that yes, he could have been harder, but everything else was so it was such a such an appealing such a great look, you know? Um would he So, if he comes in like really like say 20% smaller, but he's 30% more conditioned, is it is it going to be the same guy up there? I mean, you have to ask yourself that. >> I mean, nobody wants to see Samson smaller and flat. Nobody wants that because then he's going to lose the the overall strate he would lose that overall >> the silhouette the the shape that that >> his calling card and he's a big guy with great shape and if you take >> if you take that fullness and the size away to a noticeable degree >> yeah we're gonna we're gonna have an issue >> I think um I think Samson Marlin know what they're doing and I think you know because I've heard Samson like talk I was watching that hostile thing the clips I was watching he knows enough to know what what to bring. I think he's smart enough to know that because I think he um he you know and and also he's not going to want to otherwise if he if he wasn't that confident that he could bring something better he would just bring the same package he brought last year rather than trying to bring something different. >> Sure. Ers Kachchinsky the miracle bear um you know how how high could he go? I guess that's the question. I don't I don't see him you know all apologies to the the great fan base he has. He's not winning guys. He's not winning the Olympia this year. Years from now maybe. So, we'll see what happens. But this year, first first foray as an open open Mr. Olympia competitor. If he if he can crack top 10, which I think is very achievable, that is a that would be an amazing accomplishment for Urs. >> I think um I've kind of got 10th to 12th in my head. >> Okay. >> But he is my he is my potential like people think like V veto could make sixth or seventh. You know, a lot of people are sort of calling that. I'm not saying it couldn't happen, but um is my guy that I can't quite predict, but if if I was if I was playing it safe, I'd say 10th, 11th or 12th, but I wouldn't be completely shocked if he if he got us like say high as eighth or even seventh. >> I mean that seventh would be amazing. Amazing. >> Yeah, but who he'd have to beat though, mate? I I purely based upon the back shots. I don't think he'll be top eight this year, >> right? I mean, that that's what he really needs to get going is that back when that gets thicker. >> Couple more years. Couple more years, mate. And I think he's I think everyone's in trouble. >> All right. So, this is a a two-time pro winner now, Jordan Hutchinson. So, walking into the Olympia with two wins. He beat uh beat Quinton twice. >> Quinton's a damn good bodybuilder. Jordan Hutchinson, big guy who brings tremendous condition. again. I mean, 10th place would be amazed. Top 10 would be amazing. And when I say I don't know if it's going to happen, it's just because look at all these name. Look at all these people we've been looking at >> and talking about. These are the greatest bodybuilders in the world and we have 19 of them on the same stage. >> Uh I I hope I hope for the best and I hope he can crack that top 10. It's it's not going to be easy. >> I uh I think if thing is, you know, he's going to be conditioned. He's got good symmetry. He's put size on now. I think um I think I could see him taking out like a Ruby because things a Rubel is he I don't I can't say for sure whether the whether Rubel is going to be in good enough condition for the Olympia. That's basically my point. >> Um but could he beat like an Akim or an or uh guys like that, Antonio Rean? Absolutely. But again, I think I'm going to put him in the the bracket of where he's kind of like 10th to 15th. I think he'll place. I think he'll place. I don't think he'll be out top 15, but um I could see him around like 12th 12th 13th. >> I mean that that's very that'd be amazing for your first Olympia. >> Yeah, 29 as well. >> Almost. Yeah, exactly. We're almost done. We got Brett Wilin who I always forget about the people that qualify the year before at the fall shows because they've been off they've been off the radar for the whole time. So, this was Brett winning Legion Sports last year. Uh, he's been working hard, making improvements. Will this be his first Olympia? Because I think he qualified and he had to pull out. >> First Olympia. Yeah. He had gut problems. >> Yeah, that's that's a whole thing these days is the gut the gut health. But, uh, >> I think it's to do with the I think it's to do with the [\h__\h] food you've got in America. >> It is pretty bad. >> RF RFK is on the case. I'm telling you that now. >> Oh, I mean I I I'm blissfully ignorant. Like I I don't want to know too much about that because I'm sure there's what am I because I have all that I'm putting all that [\h__\h] in my body every day. What am I going to do? Cry. Do >> you know actually Jay Jay Cutler was one of the first, right, to ever really talk about where he sourced his meat from. Like it was uh like had to be grass-fed. It had to be organic. And if you think about it, you're putting all that food in your body and if they're all pumped full of hormones and you know, but then again, oh the cattle supposed to be uh full of clenbutral, isn't it? No, >> because that's what that's what clenbutral is done. is putting in cattle feed, it's used to put on lean. You think about it, if you're if you're fattening a cow up or whatever and getting it ready for market, you want as much lean muscle tissue on that as possible. That's what clenbutral is used for. Apparently, they they do analysis of of American beef and apparently there's there's small amounts of clenbutral found in like per per gram. Like it's like higher because that's what they put in their feed. >> Unbelievable. Well, then we should all be shredded, those of us who eat a lot of beef. >> Chicken full of growth hormone. Hey, actually actually American food doesn't sound so bad now. >> Yeah. Now when you when you put it that way, it sounds like we have a huge advantage over everybody else. >> Debbf fish. >> So this is Brett the butcher looking really really good. >> I wish him the best. He's going to be up against his good friend Martin. I know they're really good friends, training partners. Uh so this is the most recent full body update. This was four days ago. >> He looks good. >> Looks great. Yeah. Little tight. I like that narrow flat midsection. >> Great quad sweep. >> He's improved. >> He's definitely improved. >> He's definitely improved. He's been working hard. He's been kind of like he said, there's a there's a good there's a good side and a bad side to qualifying early. The good side is the good side is that you qualify early and you've got all year to prepare for a show. You know, you don't even have to try and qualify and going in and out of prep. Um or you can uh but also the um you kind of get forgotten about a little bit. So, um, you know, I mean, you know what it's like. You can have shows two or three weeks ago and sometimes I completely forget what the placings were and because your your your mind is refreshed with the show you've just seen. So, think about that like a like 10 11 months worth of shows. It is hard to remember. Like I only remember the fact that Ake qualified at the big man weekend last November because I was with him in Romania. We went shopping. >> Yeah. See, I forgot about that. >> Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. He was second to he was second to Raphael and then he just he stayed stayed on and then won and went to Spain and got his qualification and I was like that's great but come Mar come the Arnold Classic in March you know no one's going to remember that you've even qualified. >> I I forgot. >> The thing is Ron it doesn't matter. It's only the fans the the judges still judge what they see on stage. They don't care. They're not, you know, like it's it's only us when we're doing stuff like this, you know, but um yeah, >> all right. Well, last but definitely not least, we we t turn it back to the United Kingdom, Sasa Herat, who did, I think, five shows this season, six, >> and he won the last two. Yeah. So, here was his win in Toronto. Uh I mean, that's persistence. This was another guy that was a a victim. I I don't want to call him a victim, but in the in the days of the point system, he wouldn't have had to do all those shows. >> Yeah. Same with Quint. >> Same with Quint. He would have he would have wrapped up his qualification. >> Love the guy's quads and that quality, the crossrations there and the teardrop. Beautiful. Do you think and obviously we're we're completely um you know for for guys like Quint and stuff but do you think maybe with the point system they should maybe let three go through on points or two something like that because I mean it would be cool to have seen like a Quinton or somebody else or the fact that you know if um Sassan hadn't have done quite as many shows. >> Yeah. >> What do you think or do you think they should just leave it as it is? >> Um I would say top five like they did before because like I said we've only got 19 guys in the in the open Mr. Olympia. >> I haven't looked at the list, but I think Classic has I bet it's like 70. >> Um, >> yeah, it's the last year it's going to happen though, isn't it? >> Yeah, Men's Physique, I think, is up there with probably around 70 guys, too. >> It's not going to drag out the show because there's not that many open shows. And you do have guys who are winning multiple shows in a season. So, it's not going to clog up the stage with too many guys in open. Mr. Yeah, >> I'd be I'd be curious to know if like say the point system had been in place this year like it is for these other classic classic like classic and men's physique. I wonder who would have qualified if you actually added up the points. I mean know Quint was certainly being in the Olympia so he'd be very happy. But um I wonder I wonder if the point system had been in place. I wonder how many would uh how many names would be added to the list. I'm I can't really think off top of my head and guys in the comments you you always let me know who else had a bunch of top five placings this season but did not qualify for Olympic. Sassan did but then he kept going until he got the wins. >> Joe Joe Palachio would have qualified properly. >> Well, Joe, what was he second? >> He was in Tampa and then second in No, he was third, right? In Tampa and then second in Texas. >> That would have been enough points, I reckon. >> Yeah. Yeah, >> possibly. >> Probably. I mean, >> I would have I would have loved to see Joe in the Olympia this year. He's another If you like Nick Walker, you're going to like Joe Palasios. It's a very >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I to be honest, I give him a couple of years. He's going to be giving guys like Nick and Martin and and stuff. Real hustle. But, um, Sassan, yeah, I think he was a real lesson in tenacity of just keeping on going, keeping on going. And I'm really happy for him. He must be very excited. This is his first Olympia. And um yeah, it's awesome. Um but uh yeah, >> and that was a guy like you said, he was gone for a couple years, right? He didn't compete >> from 2018 to last year. Yeah, 20 six years he was gone for >> Wow. I mean, if that's that's a hell of a comeback. Usually we see most people who do that, it doesn't it doesn't go well for them. Well, Louis Lewis Breed could have been around back in 2012 because he was third in the British finals in 2011 before the split um at 23 and he looked like the following year he would have he could he could have probably got his pro card if today's kind of um system was set up. So, we could have been seeing like Lewis Breed uh around over 10 years ago because he took time off and he um basically had a lot of kids. >> I'm glad it all worked out for him. All right. Well, that is >> uh there's only a couple guys I didn't mention because we've already been going for o over an hour. You did have one more Olympia related topic that you wanted to talk about today and you're going to surprise me. So, here we go. >> Yeah, that this whole um shows like France qualifying you for next year. Now, the reason they brought that in because remember we during co it was what 2020 they pushed the Olympia back to November, wasn't it? December. December, wasn't it? >> I think it was it was Yeah, it was like three days before Christmas. >> Yeah, that's right. Yeah. So the re and so all the shows after September where the Olympia usually was they they made a qualifier for next year but now they've pulled the Olympia back to October and I've heard is it is it true that they're bringing the Olympia back to September next year. >> I don't I haven't seen a date but I wouldn't be surprised. I to be honest, I've literally just been talking to Matthew about it for the uh the Euro Muscle show. Um because I said to him because he's asking about who we'd um potential names he'd like to have appear at the Euro Muscle Show next year. And I said I messaged him this morning and I said, "Mate, you you need to bear in mind that if you want I won't say the person's name, the athletes name." I said, "If you want so and so who's going to be doing the Olympia, um you can't have the the Euro Muscle Show before the Olympia because they won't come." I said, "You can just have to rely on the Ronnies, the Jays, and and also you can't have it on the same wing at the Olympia because the Ronnies, the Jays are all going to want to be at the Olympia." And he went, "Oh shit." He says, "You're right." He said, "Let me check." He says, "Cuz I haven't check I haven't signed the contract yet for the venue." >> So, literally, he's messaging me now, actually. So, um I think what do you think now? Now that it's been pulled back to October and September, I don't like this qualify for next year when it's two, three, four, five weeks before before this year's Olympia. What do you think? Right. Um, you know, they have to do what they have. There's only so many weekends in a year, 52 to be exact. Um, there's only so many opportunities for these promoters to get the venue and and all that. So, I don't have a problem with it. I mean, you can't have qualifiers, you know, a lot of people don't understand why can't like the show that happens a weekend before the Olympia, why can't that be in a Mr. Olympia qualifier? >> Yeah. Because they need a good month to get all the travel arrangements for everybody. They don't make the tracksuits, I don't think, with the names anymore. But >> but how did it work pre-COVID? >> That was a messed up. You can't apply that to any other year. That was a crazy >> No, no, no. I'm on about before COVID happened when the Olympia was in September. If there was a qualifier 2, three, four weeks before that qualified you for that Olympia. It was only because of COVID going back to December and taking it to Florida >> that they actually made any show after September a qualifier for the following year. But now it's been pulled back to October. >> I don't uh Well, it's November actually this year, funny enough. So, um, do I don't I don't see that the argument still stands. Surely, >> I mean, I guess you could just fall back on the reason that they do need time to promote the show with the athletes and the the graphics and all that. They want a good leadup to the Olympia. They don't want to have somebody who's a big name qualifying at the very last minute and they didn't have a chance to include them in the pro because it is a business. It's marketing. It's promotions. They want to sell tickets. They want to sell pay-per-view buys. So, when was the when was the first qualifier for next year? Which show was it? A few weeks ago. >> France. >> No, no, before there was another one before, wasn't there? >> No, for this year. >> Okay. Okay. Okay. So, I'm mistaken. I'm mistaken. >> Yeah. Tsunami show in France was the first qualifier. And then we still have >> Right. Okay. Okay. >> It's crazy. We have British Grand Prix and the Mexico Pro on the same day. Those are both open shows. >> Oh, wow. Cool. >> Yeah. Hassan's doing the Mexico show. >> Oh, busy. To be honest, he looked great. He just needs to drop. I mean, I saw I saw a video of his coach saying, "Oh, you're detailed in this." And he was hitting poses for him. And I'm thinking I'd be saying, "Hassan, we need to get six, seven pound off you, mate." >> Yes. 100%. 280. >> Yeah. >> If I was I know if I said that to Neil Hill, Neil said, "We need to be 270." That's what he would say. Or Dorian. Dor if you said to Dorian or Neil Hill that if any and they showed you Hassan at 280 posing, they'd say 10 pound off that. >> Oh yeah. I mean that they were all about condition. Dorian especially was a >> but like Ruby like I look at Rubel if Rubiel's so whatever he is on stage you know you you really thing is you got to take a little bit of muscle off that and a bit fullness to get real detail and real conditioning. >> Oh I mean Rubiel uh I think when he won Dubai he was like 90%. >> 85 90%. He could you could take another four or five pounds off that back e off the the back easily. Yeah. Probably more like 10. He's a thinking about how big and heavy he is. Yeah. Yeah. >> Have you ever That's some weird thing to say. Have you ever hugged any of these guys? >> I won't. >> Have you ever hugged any of these guys at the shows? They come up to you >> occasionally. >> I know it sounds really weird, but sometimes I've hugged them at the Olympia and they're quite squishy. >> Squishy. >> Sounds ridic. Look, I know it sounds ridiculous. The only one I ever hugged at the Olympia was Andrea Prey. And his body was like he was like stoned. Honestly, he was he was so he was rock hard cuz like even when you shake the hands and stuff, they the hands are real squishy and spongy and I just sometimes think, "Are you in condition, mate?" >> Maybe Andrea was flexing when you hugged him. >> You hit the free lap spread when I was trying to show off the lap. >> Okay. Yeah. I mean, yeah, that's a good that's that's a fair fair point about the shows qual the shows before the Olympia qualifying. I you know it's confusing to a lot of the fans the way it's set up now because >> a ton of them thought this Russian guy was was going to be in the Olympia like no no no no qualify for next year's Olympia. >> But I didn't I didn't think of your argument that you said about uh being able to promote like say um somebody left it to the last minute and then all the posters have been out for the last four weeks. I kind of Yeah, I take your point. I take your point. >> Yeah. I want to see what >> I just want to look real quick and see what they have up for a flyer on their uh on their Instagram. They should have some good stuff up by now. All tickets on sale now. Here we go. Just want to see who they Well, they have all the champions on there, of course. >> Do Do you think they should take away this lifetime um qualification thing from the Mr. Olympus because you would have had to have had you compete? >> Uh no. I think it's I think if you've won the the biggest title in the world, >> you should be qualified for life. I mean, >> you could have someone who won it 20 years ago come back and sort of embarrassed himself. That's always a possibility, but >> Samir Bonu did at the 94 Olympia if you remember. >> Yeah, it doesn't it usually doesn't go well when they're >> Yeah. >> But, uh, we we'll see. We'll see. No, I I don't It doesn't clog up the stage. Like, we don't have 10 former Mr. Olympias every year showing up. >> Yeah. Good point. Good point. And thing is Derek competed, Brandon Curry competed, you know, the Arnold Classic. So, and thing is now now we've got the Arnold Classic with the crazy prize money. >> Now the guys are happier to compete more than once a year. >> Yeah. In the comments, guys, tell me what you think the prize money for the Olympia will be this year. >> It was 600 last year. I think it's going to be 750 or maybe a million this year. Yes. Crazy. >> I don't think they'll take it to a million. I think that's too big a jump. >> Too big ah. Yeah, I think I to be honest, I don't I it has to come to a point where they say enough is enough because like I said last week, you can't just reward the first place open guy. You you know, they'll have to say look, if you're going to keep bumping it up and this is going to be this um the UK we call willy waving, you know, this kind of uh you know who's who's got the biggest, you know, sort of um checkbook, you know, and that's how they that's how they battle it out. The only guy that's going to benefit is the is the Open Olympia guy. Now, you've got a lot of other divisions there. And thing is the Arnold Classic doesn't even have all divisions. So it's not like, you know, so if the Olympia bumps another 20k onto the winning, you know, for every division. The Arnold can doesn't even have all the divisions. So it's how does it I just I don't know. I'm not sure about this. I think it's great for whoever wins the Arnold Classic in the Olympia. Yes. But I just think um I just I'm wondering where where it's going to end and how it's going to end. Well, the one thing that that you just brought up, it does it it actually seems to build up a lot of resentments in both the athletes and the fans of the other divisions. >> Yeah. >> They're only seeing these massive increases in prize money for the open bodybuilders. >> And like they say, Bikini only gets this much, classic only gets this much, men only. It's it's, you know, it really makes them wonder why why are they are they the are they really the main draw to the point where it's like we don't we barely matter compared to them. If you look at the the somebody winning $40,000 for winning one division and you know $600,000 for another division, that's a huge dis disparity. >> But but Ron, do you know what doesn't help is the 212 and the classic guys like and Keon jumping over and doing these open shows now. >> Yeah. Because if you like bumpstead jumping, it doesn't really help there because it's like, okay, then if you okay, if you're going to complain about the open prize money, if you're good enough, jump jump in the open. >> Yeah, you're right. Do >> you know what I mean? So, it's kind of like it's it's making less of a case for their own division by jumping into these open division things. And thing is when they do well, it's actually detrimental to their to the division that they've made their name in. Like Keon in the 212 and Bumpstead in the in the classic because, you know, Lee Priest has brought up many times. It's like, look, if you're good enough and if you want to complain about it, go and jump in the open and get the prize money then, you know, if go where the money is, you know, so don't complain about it. Just um just, you know, if you at the end of the day, if if a physique is good enough, it's good enough. >> Yeah. I mean, Lee Lee has been saying for years, we don't need a 212 division. >> Yeah. Yeah. He said that. Yeah. >> We're good enough. Everyone like he was he was about 212 on stage, >> you know. He did pretty damn good. Pretty damn well. So >> Sean Ray Lebrona, I know things have changed a little bit, but um the end of the day um some of these uh well at the end of the day, look at the the Hadi and Derek and uh and Bonak, they're all like X22s, do you know what I mean? And they didn't exactly um well, they did kind of transform their physique a little bit, but that obviously clearly wasn't their final form as a 212. That wasn't thing is like um Keon being 200 pounds on stage at the Olympia last year. Um that's kind of he didn't struggle to make weight. So, it's not like if he does an open show, he's going to look drastically different like Sean Clarita if he's 185 in the 212 and then he jumps in the in the he's not going to come at 220, is he? Because he's, you know, it's like, do you know what I mean? He's not struggling to make weight. So, but the guys who do like Derek and Haddie, the ones who really were struggling and have to lose like having to lose muscle to do classic, you know, um they finally take those training wheels off and those restrictions off and then boom, they like I said, it proves that good physique can be any height and any size. I believe Clarita won the Legion Sports that year at 181 pounds. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Or less. >> What was Sergio? 260 270. >> Yeah. Regan was 260 270. He beat both of them at that show. >> There you go. >> Good on you, mate. All right. Well, wow. We've been talking a long time. So, next week will be our prediction show. >> We've been talking about doing two shows. J if J is up for it because good lord, we've been going for almost an hour and a half just talking about open. If we don't split into two, I'm gonna have to wear Huggies pull-ups. >> Yeah, I can't go that long without peeing. >> I'm busting. I've literally tied I've literally tied it in a knot just as we're talking now. >> We'll We'll figure it out. We'll figure it out. We always do. Let us know in the comments what you guys want. We'll see. Comment regardless whether you love us, hate us. It doesn't matter. Comments are all good for the algorithm. So, comment away, my people out there. We love uh we love the feedback. Giles, thank you so much for taking the time. And you've gone almost an hour and a half without a we. So, I know I'm about to burst. Thank you all so much for watching. Thank you, Giles, for taking the time. We'll see you at our last Olympia update show next week right here on Power Hour. Till then, appreciate you guys watching.