What's up everybody? Ron Harris here and today I want to go over the competitors, the top competitors for Sunday's big show in Portugal, the Mr. Big Evolution Pro. This is an important show because it's a rematch between Neckzilla Rubel Moscara from Colombia and the UK's Nathan Dasha. Now, Rubiel did not need to keep competing. He has his Olympic qualification. He got that last weekend in Milan, Italy at the Flex Weekend Pro show. Could have gone back to Colombia. He's already been away from home because he was in Dubai the week before that. Instead, he's staying in Europe one more week looking to rack up another title and this time it's going to be a rematch because I do see these two as our top two top two guys vying for the title. This is the last time they stood on stage and this is the closest they got to each other. They were separated by gentleman who got fifth place, Mo Foda. But you can see Rubiel there. Uh obviously if you don't know who he is, where have you been? That's Rubel there, third from the left, Mofod to the right of him, and to the right of him, Nathan Dasha. Now, the placings were, if you recall, Nathan was fourth place, which he was not too not too happy about as he went on a podcast and told everybody, and Rubiel was in sixth place. Rubel did tighten up good amount. I think he dropped something between five and 10 pounds. I have I have no confirmation on that, but that was what my eye saw. He tightened up from the Dubai show, got a little bit more conditioned, and he won the Flex Weekend Pro Italy, which Nathan Asha was supposed to do or should have done, but he waited until the last minute. He waited actually until it was past the last minute. He just missed the deadline by I think it was 12 minutes and did not get a chance to go up against Rubial there. But Nathan will be back. Now, keep in mind, Nathan, whatever you may think of the guy, he has 12 pro wins to his to his credit. He's got 12 wins. That's far more than most pros out there, as you can imagine. Most pros never get one win. Nathan Dasha has 12 wins. One of those was the Arnold UK. Uh he also won the New York Pro, several other shows. These were not small small shows with weak lineups. Nathan has beat some very good people. Rubial so far uh hasn't really beaten anyone that great. He beat Andrea Pressie. Presley's got pretty weak quads from the front. We know this. So, who has Rubel really beaten? Can he really beat Nathan? That remains to be seen. Before we take it there, look at their updates. Let's see what you guys have to say. Good. Thank you. It's the Terminator and his bionic shoulder. What's up, brother? Good to see you again. Go to Prep. Fails to cut off. Well, Nathan, I didn't think that was going to be Nathan's only show. Nathan's had a lot of trouble getting to the USA, getting a visa. So, he has done multiple shows in Europe over the past few seasons, which seems to be working out pretty well because he's had a few wins in that time. Uh, you want to take a better look at the shoulder? Here it is. Yeah, look at that. Look at that cool scar, huh? That's a little itty bitty. It's about a six inch scar, I guess. I don't know. It's going to heal up very, very well, I think, by the time it's all done. But let's take a look. Let's take a look, guys, at the updates. So, I guess we'll start with the Rubiel. Even though I don't have Rubial as the favorite, in my mind, Nathan Dasha is the favorite, but a lot of people think Rubel can take him this time if he's a little bit leaner. Personally, I do prefer Nathan's physique. Neither one is perfect, but in terms of structure, and overall shape, balance from top to bottom, I'd give that to Nathan all day long. So, let's take a look and see what we have from uh Rubial. It's two days ago. He's got a tank top on. Panata's paying him good money, so he's got the panata shirt on. And I guess that's a panata. Yeah, that's a really cool panata. Panata fly machine there. It's like a decline fly, I guess. Yeah, I guess you would call that. Really cool. So, here he was at the moment of his win being announced in Milan, Italy just a few days ago. Look at those thighs. They're so bulbous. It's like giant sacks of potatoes. Uh I would love to see deeper deeper separation. There's Joseph Keton Cretton from Czech Republic. We'll be taking a look at him. He is he's also headed to uh Portugal for this this show on Sunday. It's a lot of these European shows, if you'll notice, they're not on Saturday like the standard American pro show. They are held on Sundays. Not sure why that is. There's Prey there. Prey not too happy. Thought he was going to win. So Rubio, man. Yeah, this guy is a freak. Straight up bonafide gradea freak. One of the most massive human beings in the world today. Certainly dwarfs most pros in terms of muscle size and thickness. Um yeah, and he's got he's got a lot going for him. You know, it he doesn't have a horrible structure and shape. It's just certain poses I'll show you that I'm just not side poses he looks amazing. Usually people who have wider waists as he does and don't have the greatest vtaper from the front, their side shots are usually lights out. Uh so his side tricep and his side chest are amazing. His most muscular shot where where he has his hands in front and you can't see the waist also a great great shot for Rubio. There he is with the trophy or the the medal for winning. It's when you look at them in certain other shots. See, that's a great shot for him, too, because again, you can't really see the waist. It's a double bicep shot that becomes a lot more apparent. So, we see there's a Colombian flag. He's representing. I'm thinking I I don't think there's ever been another Colombian headed to the Olympia. I'm trying to even think of any other pros from Colombia. I think there was one, but it escapes me as to who it might have been. It was a long time ago, whoever it was. Uh, you know, and they were not a top pro. We've never had a top pro like a top 10 Olympian from Colombia. Yeah. I mean, this guy absolutely if you're a fan of the freaks and just, you know, drool over raw mass, this this is your guy. Rubel Mosca Nexzilla. He is the epitome of freak right there. Straight up. Yeah. You can see from the side anytime where you can't see and see even when he twists like that in the lower right hand corner the waist the waist looks small looks tight it's only when you see like a frontal bicep or a hands overhead abdominal. Great shot there. I use that as part of my thumbnail. There he is with his coach Francisco Jose. Yeah, you could see it there in the front double even though it's not the best shot. Little bit of a wide wideness to the waist. It's not a huge waste. He just wasn't gifted with a really narrow waist like some guys were. But like I said, this this guy Rubiel has so much going for him. I am very critical. I know I'm super critical. That's how I am because it's that's my job. It's it's not my job to just sit here and say everyone looks perfect. Everyone's awesome. I I I pick people to physiques apart because that's what the judges do. You know, you get a whole stage full of 15 to 30 guys who are all huge, ripped. You know, no one's usually out of shape. There's varying degrees of condition, but usually nobody's way out of shape. You know, the judges have to look for things like structure, muscle shape, condition, proportions, balance from upper body to lower body. Uh are there any body parts that are too dominant or are there any that are really really lacking? That's that's what's going to help them judge these guys and decide first place, second, third, fourth, all the way on down the line. Rubial certainly a fierce fierce competitor. Uh otherwise, he wouldn't be doing this show. He would have been he would have been home in Colombia right now taking a little break already. He seem to be managing pain well. Yeah, she'll be interesting. Don't know why the more I look at his physique, the more I dislike, especially legs big swollen where it's it's Yeah, so it's because he doesn't have real deep separations in the quads. these legs. If the cuts in those quads were deeper and more clear, they would be just so much better. You'd be like, geez. TR. Now, I I'm I'm not saying I'm still not I am impressed by that sheer mass of these legs. I would just like to see more separation. A Jackson like Samson is at Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if if you asked uh if you took if the fans were the ones deciding by a by a vote who would be Mr. Olympia. I don't It probably wouldn't be Derek. I mean, Hottywood Hottie would probably get a [\h__\h] ton of votes from that from the Middle East. I've learned too. Rubial doesn't have the worst structure. It's not the worst. I've seen I've seen worse, but when you're trying to be the best bodybuilder in the world, when you're trying to win the Mr. Olympia, which he is, you want to have a pretty damn good structure. It shouldn't be easy to pick apart. I know I again I'm always super super critical. And I'm going to do the same thing with Nathan. I'm gonna I'm going to look for things with Nathan to tear apart, too. Uh yeah, he's got the uh I don't know what the name of that that thing with the scarf thing on the head. I'm sure there's an actual name for it, and I'm I'm an ignorant American and I don't know it. All right, so we're going to move on from Rubiel. We're going to go to Nathan Dasha, who I see as the favorite. You may not, and that's fine. This is all about uh opinions. It's a subjective sport. It's like a beauty pageant. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder and so is, you know, bodybuilding. We all have our favorites. We all have things that we value. Some people like aesthetics more. Some people like mass more. Some people are real fans of conditioning. You know, it's there's there are no rules. You like what you like. And that's why judging is so hard. And I I would never want to be a judge. So there's Nathan. That was Dubai. That was backstage. Bion. Look at all that hair on Bon. Amazing. Still has so much hair. He's He's what about 44 45? He'll be 45 this year, I believe. Yeah. So, there was Nathan. Nathan was in really good condition. He was having issues with uh his midsection, keeping that tight during the during the posing. We're seeing a little bit of bulging out there on the side and the obliques. Structurally, I'll say, yeah, because I was really really picking on Rubial's structure. So I have to say Nathan structurally also has a a major issue. That's a long torso. Again, structure in general, that's your bones. Your bones are they're there from birth till death. You can't change your bone structure. They it is what it is. Other guys have had similar issues. You know, some guys have short torsos, like William Barnac has a really short torso. Kai Green's torso was on the shorter side. A lot of 212 guys have pretty short torsos, you'll notice, because they're shorter guys and they just have more compact structures and frames. So, that is that is a a flaw, if you will, with Nathan. Everyone's got flaws. Nobody's got a perfect perfect physique. Uh, some crappy footage. I don't think we had any really great footage of Nathan from that show. That was a good shot. Um, somebody took that for him. You can see the condition there. That didn't really translate 100% to the stage and the glutes. He's showing you the glutes there. Yeah, there's very little fat, but I still see not a lot of striations. I think in the case of Nathan, he needs more development. The glutes aren't really that developed. They're on the smaller side, which you see with like Andrew Jack, similar thing. Very small glutes. You have to have a substantial amount of mass in the glutes to have real deep striations in them. That was a good shot. Good shot. I wonder if what u Morio had. I think Morio Photo had some better shots. It's crazy because some guy sometimes the top three there'll be a million shots of them and then after that good luck finding pictures. There's a nice little fan art montage of Rubio. It was his better footage. Jonathan's footage of Rubio was actually much better than that iPhone footage we were looking at a couple minutes ago. his worst shot. That's his worst shot right there. If he had big sweeping triceps, that'd be a much better shot. But the biceps, it's like he has these huge biceps and the triceps look huge in most other shots, but in the front double, he's like all bicep. You can you barely see any tricep development in that one pose for whatever reason. But yeah, obviously you can see a hu he's got huge tries. I think it's that rear head, the head in the in the very back that's perhaps not as developed. And we're seeing mostly that lateral head, the head on the side. Very well developed. You know, I bet his arms are like 22 inches. It's just in that one pose, they they do not look great. Similar thing here. I mean, it's because of the legs. It's because his legs are so big. I think they take away they take away from how big the arms should look. You know, on anybody else, those arms would be fantastic. Yeah. I don't think uh there were that many great images of Nathan from that show. I just I didn't see too many. That was Nathan versus uh Prey, which we we've already seen. I have to go down to Dubai. Jonathan Maro, great photographer over there in Europe. Does fantastic still and video work. Shoots both at the same time. That's a lot of work to try to do both at one contest. Yeah. Yeah, I'm just trying to see if he has anything really good with uh No, I don't think he did. I don't think he got any great shots on Nathan. It's crazy because he got No, he didn't. He didn't focus on anyone except the top three at that show, the Dubai show. All right, so that's Nathan. Go back to him for a second because I'm sure you guys have some opinions on Nathan. I'm going to go scroll down to some of his better stage shots because if you go to his photos from last year where he won I think he won the Flex Pro weekend Italy last year. I think those are the pictures I want to show you. Great great look for him. These are all offseason shots obviously. Very hard and heavy trainer. Nathan from that blue collar city of Liverpool, England. Very very hardcore area for bodybuilding. Kind of like Birmingham where Dorian Yates was from. industrial cities, workingclass cities, strong strong work ethic, tough people. Yeah, this is it. So, that was I'm sorry, this is Dubai last year, which uh did he win that last year? No, I think uh didn't be win this last year as well. I think he did. Yeah. And so, you can see with the same thing with Nathan, he has a long long waist there. high lats, which reminds me of Dennis Wolf. Dennis Wolf had a very similar shape. Lats popped out a little bit more in the front with Dennis than what we see here on Nathan. But, you know, Nathan's got so much muscle quality. His quads are bigger now, I think, than they were then. Deep deep separations, you know, just no weak points. Everything's everything's perfectly in balance. Whereas with Rubial, we see the arms are kind of weak compared to the legs. That's what it's all about. It's all about balance. Um, and again, the triceps, not balanced with the biceps. And Nathan, you got to give the guy credit. He has torn both of those biceps in recent years. Torn. And I've torn a tricep and I've torn a a quadricep. And muscle tears suck, guys. They really do suck. We got him. You manage critical there, too. Okay, I'm not missing anything. Trying to keep up with you guys. Trying to keep up with you guys. Okay, so let's move on. Let's move on to the next guy. My pick for third place from the amazing country of Brazil, Bruno Santos. So Bruno, Bruno was he's already hit a couple shows earlier in the season. He took third place at the Cali Pro, fourth place at the Legion Sports Fest in Reno, Nevada. Uh this is a big guy with really good shape. He gets very conditioned uh structurally because I'm going to point out everybody's flaws because if I'm doing it for one guy, I need to be fair and say it. He's a little narrow. He's a little narrow in the shoulders. Other guys have wider shoulders and that's just their clavicle bones. It's not that this guy's got massive deltoids, but the frame that's under all that is his skeleton, his bones. And he doesn't have the biggest, thickest. He doesn't have the the widest clavicles, I should say. All right. So, here's some posing footage. This is some iPhone footage. I don't know if there's anything better, but this was a California state, Cali State. And yeah, I mean, top five guy. It's a solid top five. I mean, he was top I'm sorry, top three here at the Cali. Who won that? Was that Rean? Did Rean win that, too? I think so. Yeah, cuz Tonio won Legion, right? I think this was Rean's show. And was it a Sassan was second? Probably. Find some more shots of Bruno. This is my pick for third. I I don't I don't think anyone's uh getting past him except for Nathan Dasha and Rubio Moscara. I think Bruno is going to be your guy. Yeah, he's got the list there. And I don't recognize most of these names. I don't. This is four days ago. Solid guy. Lot of good muscle mass. dense, conditioned, and uh he's going to do very well. He'll be top three. That's my prediction. Yeah, you can see it there. You can see the narrowness there. Lot of thick muscle, but it's not a very wide frame. You know, every every pro that's doing well has made the most of what they were given. And they're all genetically blessed. However, they all have something, whether it's a certain body part or it's a structural issue or maybe a certain area that that they can't get conditioned or a lack of muscle separation in one muscle group or all the muscle groups. None of them are perfect, but they've all tried to maximize what they were given. I mean, they're all compared to us, they're perfect compared to us regular schmucks. So, that was Legion. It's Legion Legion show where he was fourth place. Solid side shots. Good side chest. What that is? Some twerking. Okay, there's a pose down at Legion. You can see him there with winner Tonio Burton. Who was that in the back? I can't remember that gentleman's name. Doesn't matter. He's good sport. He's hugging it out there with Tonio. There's Kennedy. Kennedy Anyanu Patrick Patrick Moore who ended up in second. He moved up quite a bit in one week. So, Bruno Santos, guys, that's my third place third place pick. Leave them up there to check out any of your comments because I do I do value all your comments, guys. I very much appreciate the fact that you watch these and make comments. No more. Okay, so let's continue. All right. Next guy I want to take a look at is from Czech Republic. He is an actual farmer. Talk about Yseph. Joseph uh I don't know how you say K- O N. Kavitten. Is the K silent? Vetin. Vetin. I have no idea. But he's a big dude. Big dude. He was fourth place at the Flex Pro Italy show last weekend in Milan. I assume this is his family. Is there a translation? You look perfect, my friend. There's no way to translate what he's saying up here, but I'm assuming that's like a wife, kids, maybe a brother. I'm not sure, but you can see he's a big guy. I've seen him in person. He came out and competed in New York Pro a couple years back. He's about six foot or 61, one of the taller guys in bodybuilding, even in the open class. We don't have too many guys six foot or taller. And, you know, not missing anything. He's got thickness everywhere. He's got really good legs for a taller guy. And like I said, he's a farmer. I want to show you one post that was pretty funny. But yeah, what Giles and I both have noted about this guy. Uh, look at those very strict form with three plates there. Those delts, those are not shot up. Those are legitimate real delts with no oil in them. Because if he had put a bunch of SEO or whatever, even his reg, a lot of these guys, I don't think they're using synthol. I think they're just putting a lot of their regular gear in their delts. But Joseph, no, I don't think he does because you wouldn't see those really clear, deep splintered striations like you see there. You don't see that when people, you know, I'm not going to name names, but there's a lot of guys out there with big round shiny delts with not one striation, not one line. This was two weeks ago. Uh because he was getting ready for Italy, remember? So that was his condition of two weeks. I've never seen this guy anywhere close to out of shape. He's always strided because I think he knows being a taller guy with the longer limbs, he he's never going to appear as massive as someone who's a few inches shorter. So, as big as he is, he still has to be highly highly conditioned to get a really good look from the judges. So, that's what he does. He hedges his bets and he comes in with that spectacular condition and it pays off because he usually gets a really good look. You know, the judges the judges do reward condition. You you can't be just conditioned and be like stringy, tiny, or have a horrible structure. But if your structure is not bad and you have a good amount of mass and extreme condition, you're going to get a good look from the judges. They will reward that because it's a sign of hard work. They know you suffered. They know you suffered to look like that. Look at that shoulder. I This guy's got some of the greatest delts. So, this is what he posted today. Like I said, he's a farmer and this is his trailer or tractor that he drives around the farm. So, he's going to show you how he cooks using uh the engine block of his tractor, which I don't know how sanitary that is. I assume everything's safe. It's wrapped up in tin foil there, aluminum foil, but he's cooking it with the heat of the engine. And the uh the caption was, "What? What's your excuse you didn't have time to cook?" So, I guess while he was driving around tending to his crops in the field there, he cooked his I don't know if that's a sirloin or a bison burger or whatever it is, he's got that nice and seasoned. And then he's got that with some rice cakes. So, joke. That's pretty cool, wouldn't you? I think you everyone would have to agree that's pretty awesome. Any more comments? No, no comments. All right, guys. Feel free to drop some comments, guys. That's what I'm here for. All right. So, if there's anyone else you want me to look at in the open, drop there in the chat and let me know. But I'm going to move on to 212 because we got a couple guys who are really, really good. Uh, the first one I've yet to see in person because I don't think he's made his way over to the USA yet. Talk about Jose Maria Mate Buer, also known as Melman. What country is Mleman represent? Uh, I have to go look at the list. header list. I don't even know where he's from. Jose is from Spain. Okay, there you go. Good old Spain. All right. All right. So, this is a guy that's been talked about for a while. Uh, he's fant. Look at those delts. That's a great shot. So, I guess he got uh this is 41 weeks ago. So, that was last 41 weeks ago would have been last later last summer or early fall and he got fourth in Puerto Rico. fourth port. I think he meant fourth place in my debut as a 212. Obviously don't like the result, but it is what it is. He said if he wasn't on this one, he would try for next one too. In two weeks, we try again. So, I don't know what show he did after that, but he was fourth place there in his debut. Look at that. So, this was uh three days ago. Look at that. Nice deep. When I talk about the deep cuts in the thighs like I wish we could see in Rubio in Nexzilla, this is what I'm talking about. Uh like that you could see every head of the quad clearly delineated from the others. It's very easy to say there's your vasis mediialis, your vasis lateralis. Uh the other two heads I don't know off top of my head, but they're they're very apparent there. And I wish we could see that rubios. But this is Jose aka Melman looking very dry, very tight. So this was about a week out from the show because we're speaking on Wednesday. So this was posted on Sunday. It's a Sunday show. So these photos we're looking at of Jose were posted on Sunday, a week out. Look at that. I like to see I like to see that in the hams. You see that with like Rough Diesel and some other guys, too. Just splits and striations in within the individual hamstring heads. Not just clearly cable delineations of the of the individual heads of the core of the hamstrings, the semimebrosis, tendinosis, biceps forous. I think there's another one. So, this guy's really really good. I'm I'm a fan of this guy and I I hope he gets his way to the Olympia this year. Okay, looks like he was out at the pool, but very full round muscles. You can see those thick blocky abs. So when I say blocky in this in this this time I mean in a good way. And again like look at this. Look at how deep those separations are. That's how it should be. That teardrop you should see the pointy part where it in where it uh inserts or is it originates. I'm sorry. Yeah. The ins the insertion is down by the knee. So the origin is actually buried under there. But you see what I'm talking about. Very deep deep cuts there. You cry me a river with those teardrops. Okay. That's his girl. Okay. Nice booty. Okay, there we go. So, this was uh six days ago. Very good lighting. This guy knows he's he's like me. He knows how to find the good lighting. And again, really good separation. If if I could be critical, and I'm going to because I'm doing that with everybody. The waist the waist could be a little tighter, a little smaller. It's It's not a wide waist, but if it was a little bit smaller like we see on some classic guys and some a lot of most of the MPD guys have really narrow waists, just genetically, he would look even cool. even look even cooler. He would look even better. But this is it's a damn good look for a 212. Damn good look. So this is Jose. Did I already show you that one? I think so. No, no, that was a week ago. So that was taken the day before. This must be his uh his house or his apartment or condo, whatever it is. I don't know. Because it's he seems to find this one spot with the amazing natural light. Natural light is the best if you can get it just at the right time where it's not glaring too much. Okay. Yeah, this has got to be his place because all the pictures are there. Monco, what is that word? I think it means like a mannequin or doll. Mona. See if I find Oh, he's got some pitbulls. That's a bulldog, I guess. Boris and Troy. Los Peros 212. The 212 dogs. So, that one's clearly an adult. And this one's still a puppy. Anyone who's a dog lover and takes good care of his dogs is is a good guy in my book. I'm AI'm a dog lover. I love I love my dog. I've all the dogs I've had in my life, I've really treasured. But this guy's very very complete. Very complete. Any more comments? No. I don't know if the chat's frozen or if nobody's making any more comments, but I'm just going to keep going, guys. There's 34 of you watching, so feel free to comment. Feel free. Uh, do we have any any more any stage shots of this guy? Jose Maria Mate. It's a long name. It's a very long name. Okay, here we go. So, this is Europa. This was last year at the Europa. He looked a lot a lot flatter here. He's definitely put on some size. Definitely put on some size since the 2024 season. It's his dog. another dog. Gracias says, "Thank you, 2024." So, that was like a retrospective post of the year. Just trying to find any good I love stage shots, but this is Yeah. So, this was I think this is what he looked last year. Now, he's put on a good amount of muscle mass since last year, and I I wish he could have kept his waist like this. Is that possible? Some people are able to do it. Most are not. Most of the time when guys make substantial increases in their overall muscle mass, you do see the waist get a little bigger, a little thicker, a little wider. It grows along with everything else unfortunately. Uh he doesn't have a big waist now, but it doesn't look like this anymore. This was uh this was a classic look. Was this Did he do classic last year? I'm not really sure. Says classic versus 212. Okay, so that was Never mind. This was more than a year. This was a couple years ago. And then this was last year. So he'd already made the increases last year. He'd already put the but he's put on a little bit more muscle I think since then. Again, I'm gonna give him some good credit, some good props on those that those those separation the separation in his quads. Outstanding. Good job, dude. Melman, I wonder how how you got that name. That's a How do you get that from Jose Maria Mates, whatever his full name is. It's a long name. Well, that was 2016. That was nine years ago. He certainly put on some size in in nine years like you would hope he would got all the plates there on the lead press. Good job, Mleman. Okay, what else? These are all very similar shots, but he's a very solid solid competitor. Great arms, great vtaper. Quads have a nice sweep to them. They're certainly very separated. Uh, this is one of my favorites. So, now it's time to move on to my other favorite. This guy can be confusing to find because on the on the competitor list, he's Nasser Muhammad from Kuwait. Nasser Muhammad, but on his Instagram page, he goes by Nasar Sed. So, I know in in his culture or whatever, the last names, I'm not sure how it works, but they can go by different last names. So, this was a win at the Mr. Big Evolution. So, he won this last year. Yeah, he was your 212 winner last year. So, he's the defending champion. He's eating his metal there. Here he is backstage. This guy's This guy's damn good, too. So, I see the 212. Unless unless there's someone that's awesome on that list that I'm not familiar with who's going to challenge these guys and maybe beat them both, I think it's going to come down to Melman and Nasser. Nasser super super impressive. You know, he doesn't look blocky like some of the 212 guys. He doesn't You can't tell that he's short. He's probably not that tall if he makes 212, but he's got good proportions. He's got a good structure. That's a Oh, that's his Olympia medal because he did go to the Olympia. I think he was in the top. He was in the top 10, wasn't he? I think so. Yeah, he won this last year. So, he is your defending champion. And there he is with the other guys in the top three. I don't recognize either one of them. Damn it, Ron. But he's very, very good. Nasser Sayed, who appears, oh yeah, Portugal Pro. He is your 212 defending champion. Hopes to make it back-to-back wins 2024 and 2025. and he's got a very very good chance. Only guy I see with a a legitimate chance of getting past him is Mleman. But right now, uh I' I'd say this guy has has the edge. It's going to be a battle though. And there's probably a couple other guys on that list I'm not very familiar with. And look, but this guy gets into great condition. He's got that grainy look to him. I'm a fan. I think this guy's Look at that. Look how thick that side chest is. side leg, the that try the the delts, the chest, everything there just popping really thick. There's a cartoon AI, an AI version. There he is with uh very big woman named Paula. Okay, so he was at the 202 2024 Olympia placed. I believe he was top 10 though. From what I recall, he was top 10. Okay. Oh, okay. Did I I think I did miss it. It did re It did a refresh. Yeah. Yeah. Flip-flop. Whether I'm whether I like these guys or not has nothing to do with my commentary. I just I'm talking physiques here. They might be awesome people. They might be horrible people. I don't know. It doesn't really have any bearing because we're judging physiques. It's a physique contest. It's not a personality contest. It's not a morality contest. Who's the coolest guy? I don't think I I don't care how many followers they have or don't have. None of that matters to me. Nathan has a better aesthetics now. The conditioning. Yeah. So, I mean, that's that's the thing people have been saying is Rubiel's conditioning is getting better by the week. Him and his coach are really getting the condition aspect down and improving on it. So, will that be enough to get past Nathan? because Nathan, he beat him a week and a half ago in Dubai. Uh score will be very split. Yeah, I don't think it's going to be a perfect score for either guy. Whatever whichever way it ends up going, whether Ubiel gets the win or Nathan. Uh 14 years training, nowhere near that. Yeah. Well, we're regular humans, Jerry. I've been training 42 years. I don't look like these guys. Can Rubial make top 10 at the Olympia? I don't think top 10 is out of the question. I think eighth, ninth, tenth is about as absolutely high as you can expect to see Rubel this year regardless of how ripped he gets just because conditioning and the body part, the balance issue. There are guys who have a lot better balance and structure than he does. He does have that that ace up his sleeve of being so massive, but there are other guys who have plenty of mass, too, and they don't have issues like that with their structure and with, you know, body parts that don't flow, the arms that don't match the legs and the delts. Rubel needs more delts. He needs things. He's a work in progress show qualifier. Every show's Ionic. Every single pro show is a qualifier for the O. That's that's a problem. Not so much for the open or the 212 divisions because you you're never going to see 60 guys on the Olympia Mr. Olympia Open bodybuilding stage or 212. You will see 60 guys in classic physique. You'll see 60 guys in men's physique. You'll see 60 women in bikini. Uh wait till next year. Rachel, fit model. You're going to have so many fit model women up there because every show, every show wins qualifies you. And some of these divisions, uh, like men's physique, bikini, and classic, there are anywhere from 90 to 115 shows this year. Me and Mike Cox just did a whole show two days ago called Invitation Only Olympia discussing whether that's a viable solution. We we talked about it with you guys for quite a while. Shoulders feeling fine. You know, I can't move it. I'm not supposed to move it. If I moved it, it'd be excruciating pain. But I I'm in a sling and I'm very very careful. I'm not going to be stupid. I'm going to the gym, but I'm doing legs and I'm doing right side of my body. I'm not doing anything anything at all with that left side because I can't even raise that arm yet. So, I'll be patient. I go for some of that ground turkey coming up. Uh, I think I'll have a corn muffin with it this time. And I put the corn muffin in the toaster oven so it's nice and crispy, crunchy. I don't want it to be all soft and mushy like a regular muffin. Ask Jaws. That's terrible. Ronnie is alive and that's an awful thing to ask. Yeah, guys. Ronnie Coleman, we should be either praying for him if you don't want to if you don't want to pray for him, just don't say anything. You know, any anything negative towards Ronnie is just it's it's awful because he's one of the nicest guys you'll ever meet in your life. Super generous with his time, with even with his money. Uh I've seen him help a lot of people out over the years. Alli, you're not you're not a good person. How dare you know you're not a good person. It's really not cool of you to say that. Really not cool. 212 guys smoke Rubio on aesthetics. Most people smoke Rubio does not have Rubiel. It's not Rubio. Rubier Mosca de Colia. He does not have great aesthetics. He does not have great shape and structure. He does have ungodly amounts of muscle mass. Frozen. you. Oh, you're a dick, Ollie. You are a dick. What a dick. Got a lot bigger. I'm going to go I'm going to move on to the classic, guys, in a second. I just want to catch up to your to your stuff. Hope everything's Well, the shoulder. Thank you very much, Thomas. It's doing well. What's up, Dave? Me? We're going to be talking tomorrow, tomorrow morning. Davey is a client of mine. He's making some awesome progress at well over 40 years old. He's adding muscle and losing fat. He's kicking ass on this new program that he's on because he's 100% compliant. He's doing exactly what I asked him to do and he's putting in the work and he's getting the results. Anyway, Jim Gar predicted Rubel upset over Nathan. Yeah, could happen. Definitely could happen. Head dead comparison Ruby old improve condition. Yeah, I mean Rubiel is very very impressive and you know Nathan Nathan has flaws too. Nathan did beat him in Dubai, but it was fourth place versus sixth place. It wasn't like he was way way ahead of him. Things could change. I'm not scaring us. That's That's just one guy Ali that's being a troll. Boosting folks. Good habin or good evening. I don't know what you would say. Block that guy. Yeah, that's a good idea. Let me do that. We love Ronnie. Deserve nothing. Yeah, we love Ronnie. Deserves nothing but the best. Exactly. Thank you. Seriously. I mean, to talk bad about anyone is you shouldn't do that. But Ronnie Coleman, Ronnie's one of the nicest people. If you've ever had the pleasure of meeting Ronnie, talking to him, that's a guy that will stay at an stay at an expo or something hours after everyone is gone to make sure everyone had time to talk to him, get a picture. He's so good with his fans. Yeah, it's late. Go to go to bed, kid. Go to bed. All right, I want to move on to classic. I'm only going to talk about a couple guys. First, I'm gonna start with not who I see as the favorite because I don't think he's gonna win, but the fan favorite because he's from Brazil and he has over 1 million followers. We're talking about the horse MD, Marcelo D'Angelo who now just on the on the score sheets they have him listed as Mar horse Marcelo. Horse Marcelo. I don't know if he legally changed his name to horse Marcelo, but that's what it says on the on the on the competitor list. So, here he was in Prague last year. So, it turns out he's in classic. There is next to Akim. He never uh he he I think he turned pro in Classic. He never competed as a classic competitor prior before before this weekend coming up. He tried to compete in 2022 at a contest in Brazil, but he missed the weight by something like eight pounds. He wasn't even wasn't like he was like a half pound over. He was like seven or eight pounds over the limit. They gave him a chance to come back, run around the building, whatever he had to do to try to drop the weight. And he came back and this time they let him just wear a towel, so he wasn't enclosed because they wanted him to make the weight. His issue is that he need he thought he was going to be taller. He thought he was going to measure as a little taller than he is. And he's got some kyphosis. He's got a spine issue. It's we used to call it hunchback. So that kyphosis, it hunches him forward a little bit. So he does lose a little bit of height height because his spine rolls forward a little bit. But what he does is he has like a chiropractor on hand uh real close to him at the weigh-ins and he goes up and has the guy adjust him his spine. And then he goes runs down because for a little while after he gets adjusted, I guess he's a tiny bit taller and that was enough to get him into the next height category or whatever and he would have made weight, but he didn't make it. uh even when they tried to get him to weigh in and there was a controversy because they had him facing the wall and they they had everyone standing around the scale but uh his coach at is not his coach Ramon's coach Fabriio well I don't know if that's his coach now is is Marcelo's coach now but uh Fabricio he stuck his phone under because we couldn't see the scale the fans couldn't see the scale it was facing close to the wall with Marcelo with his back to us uh and he wanted to make sure that there was any funny business because Marcelo was so popular that people were worried that the uh promoters or officials were going to let him in anyway even if he missed weight by several pounds which you know you're not supposed to do that if if a classic guy misses his weight and you've given him a chance to leave the room, leave the building, go in a sauna, run around, whatever it is that he thinks is going to help him drop the weight and make make that cut off and he didn't do So, he was not allowed to. So, he took a year off and he came back in 2024 as an open. And look at those thighs. Huge, great sweeps and very deep cuts. I love to see the deep cuts because that's quality. That's what Rubiel does not have. He does not have those deep cuts like that. See how crisp and clear? You can see every individual head of the quadricep very clearly separated and delineated from the other heads. Anyway, I don't know what possessed him. I thought he looked great as an open. Um, upper body still need to come up, especially his back. I don't know if he's even posting back shots, but it was a good look for him. And now he's he's going to try to There he is with Raphael Rundal. Now he's going to try to come back down to classic. And I he must have dropped a good amount of weight, but see here he was. I mean, that was a very, very good open competitor. Why is he dropping down to classic? I have no idea. He was doing it's not like he was getting third call out in open. He was getting a good look. Uh did he make it to the Olympia? I don't think he made it to the Olympia. So this is what he looks like as a classic guy. It's not that much smaller. So I don't know. I don't know how close he is to making weight. How hard it's going to be for him to make weight. What did Miguel say here? Miguel's the top journalist in Brazil. That's what we want to see. He's in amazing condition. Look at that vacuum. I just don't know if he's if he's going to be able to make weight. And there he is with his good friend and training partner Ramondino. Yeah. Showing those piano keys, that midsection, pulling that deep, deep vacuum. Look at that. doesn't have the most. He does have a little thicker thicker midsection than some of the guys in classic, but he he does he is able to pull a really thick sorry a really good vacuum. Real deep there. Thin skin. Nice. And I think I heard that he was confident about making weight, but we'll I guess we'll find out because assuming the weigh-ins are are a public event where everybody can look, everyone's going to be making sure this guy's trying to pull a fast one again. You know, they're not going to stand for They're not going to stand for it if he's if he's over over the limit. They let him compete again. I don't know what I'm not even going to play this because it's in Portuguese anyway. So, nobody except people's feet. Yeah, that back his back thickness is an issue. This was a week this was six days ago. Back thickness is an issue with him. It's always been his his weaker area, but he still has great quads. still has a really good obviously he would have a good vtaper. He's lighter. Is that the Great Wall of China? Where was this? I don't even know where that was. Yeah, it's a smaller This is a downscaled version for sure. That's his supplement company that he represents, I suppose. So, Horse MD making his debut in classic. He tried to make it three years ago. Tried and failed. Could not make the weight. Will he get it this time? I guess we're going to find out in a few days, guys. So, with all that being serious again, Horse MD. Yeah. And he made that that call out there with uh Martin Fitzwwater, Chris Bumstead, uh was that the guy from Germany? Who was that? Gel. Is that Anthony Gel? Is that who that is? I think that's who that is. So, yeah. And there he is with a big man weekend last year. This is a different big man show. This was the Big Man weekend. This the one we're having on Sunday in Portugal was called Big Man Evolution. So Big Man is a gym chain. And uh yeah, he was also in the Romania show. He had he did a lot of shows last year, huh? Good for him. Oh, there he is. There was with Beirus. Didn't Be Oh, that was the year. Did Beirus beat Samson that year at Romania? I think so. So that was the end of 2023 because Samson didn't do Romania last year. All right. So he didn't take a full year off. He competed toward the end of 2023. Okay. Leave that up while I get some more comments. Then we'll go to the last guy I want to talk about is who I have as the favorite. I'm going to block that guy. Hang on. How do I do that? Delete comment. put user and ban user and delete their comments. All right, I'm getting rid of you, Ali. And all your comments are now gone because you dare to disrespect the king, Ronnie Coleman, who is one of the coolest people in the sport. And I'm not going to stand for that. Uh, let's see what else we got. I did block him. I I blocked him, Dave. Yeah. What else we got? Yeah, Ron. Uh, Nexzilla could very easily pull an upset. Nathan is by no means he is my favorite, but I think it's still going to be a a close battle. And I'm not going to sit here and say defin Nathan is definitely winning. I would not be one bit surprised if Nathan pulls it off. Yeah. Well, the show and Arlette, the show is on Sunday. A lot of these European shows are on Sunday. I think it's more common actually for them to have the show on Sunday than it is for Saturday like it is here in the US. Uh yeah, Horse MD the that whole all the people who follow Horse MD, they know all about that whole fiasco in 2022 where he failed to make weight and a lot of people were speculating or accusing the promoters and the officials of trying to let him in the show anyway, but they didn't. They didn't let him in. There were too many eyes on him. They weren't going to get away with it. He's gone, dude. I got rid of him. He's gone. He's blocked. His back is so far. Yeah, I it's I don't see his back wasn't great as an open guy and he had a lot more size. Now he's downsized. I bet he's dropped a good 20 to 30 pounds to make weight from classic because that's how much it looks like he gained from the earlier years where he was trying to be a classic guy. Horse got beat by classic guy in Prague. So now he the open guy trying to beat classic guys. made sense for blocking me. Oh, you're welcome. All right. Well, let's go to the last guy I want to talk about, unless you guys have someone you're really burning with desire on the in the show. So, this is my favorite. My favorite to win classic physique over horse MD and whoever else shows up is from Austria. Where'd I put him? Come on, dude. Where'd I have you? MD. Fabian. Where's Fabian? Talk about Fabian Mayor. I had him. I know I had him before. All right, let's find him again. Fabian Mayer, Classy FM. So, Fabian was seventh place at the Olympia, Class Physique Olympia back in 2022. He's won some pro shows. Uh this was back in 2022. And you know, he's he's got a hell of physique. Look at those quads. I love the quad sweep. Nice classic posing. Nice separation between all the different muscle groups. He's a young guy, you know. He's really not massive, but classic physique isn't supposed to be about all all about size. You have some guys like Ruffin who are not massive. Massive is supposed to be the domain of open open pro bodybuilding anyway. the open guys. Uh, I could see the back could be thicker. If I'm going to pick on horse's back, I should pork. I should pork I should pick on his as well. Oh, was that back when he was an amateur? Huh? That was 132 weeks ago. That was a long time ago. That's why the pinned the pinned stuff is usually pretty pretty old. All right. This was two days ago. This is a lot more recent. So, this is what he looks like now. Yeah, you can see he's a few years older now. He's still a young guy, but he's he's definitely looking more uh closer to 30. If he's not 30 yet, he's ready. He's ready to rock. Look at that dry condition. Good striations there. Yeah, he didn't have all those tattoos from the knee down to the ankle before. Those are newer. Patrick Tor must be his coach because Patrick also posted it. Patrick is a very, very good coach if you didn't know. If you don't know, now you know. Fabe Mayor got some pro wins under his belt. I know that. Great shape. Let's Oh, this is like a a slideshow that he posted, I guess. Good lighting there in that gym. There's the call that the bumstead pose. The single bicep. It's like a a front lat spread on one side. Look at that little tiny waist. That's That's a nice V taper. That's classic right there. This was six days ago, so this was a little over a week out. Different lighting. He's out in the sun. But just beautiful shape, proportions, those nice cap delts, good muscle quality, deep deep separation in the muscle groups. Okay, that's a motorcycle pose, but I'll let it slide. I'm not totally against the motorcycle pose. If it makes if it really suits your physique, go for it. I'm not saying we should ban that. How you going to ban the motorcycle? It's not even a pose. It's it's just the way somebody stands relaxed in a lineup or, you know, in between in between setting up another pose. So, you can't really ban the motorcycle pose. I guess this is all similar. This is all similar stuff. Trying to No, I just want to see if there's any stage. Trying to figure out when the last time this guy competed was. There's him and his baby. His little child. There's a nice old shot. A manta ran. That's That's offseason. That was 14 weeks ago. That was early stages of prep. Is that AI? I don't know. It's his forever valentine. So, Fabian Mayor definitely my favorite for classic. Again, there's some names on that list I'm not familiar with. They could all do very, very well. Oh, so this was the 2022 Olympia. This is where he got seventh place. So, he's top seven in the world a couple years back. Blocking him. Okay. All right. Yeah, no worries. So, I just I'll show this one last time. So to sum up sum it up guys uh this is going to be a rematch a rematch of sorts because at the Dubai Pro Nathan Dasha got fourth place behind uh Beirus Bonak who was third Tonio Tonio Burton and then it was Nathan they had Mofoda fifth and you had Rubial there was sixth so Nathan did beat Rubiel couple weekends ago over in Dubai. Can he do it again? Or is Rubiel gonna turn the tables? I've seen people turn the tables and they've done it this quickly, too. Especially if it's a matter of conditioning. Rubial can pull it off. Nathan can pull it off. It's going to be one of these guys. One of these guys is going to do it. I don't know which one. We're going to find out. We're going to find out very, very soon. So, uh, I should do some coverage Sunday. Uh, if this woman Artha does coverage like she does of the live stream in Portuguese, she might because Horse MD is one of the most popular Brazilian athletes. He has a huge fan base. You saw he's got over a million followers on Instagram there. So, and Bruno Santos al also in the show in the open division. Another very, very popular athlete from Brazil. So, uh, I think that might be reason enough for and I didn't even talk about that. There's other divisions with like wellness and bikini and figure that have a lot of good Brazilian competitors as well. So, we might uh we might see Artha pull out a video covering the show live. If she does that, I'll jump in and do it, too. Otherwise, I'll wait until it's all over. Anyway, uh that is it for now, guys. Show you my scar one last time. Look at that. There it is in the beautiful sunlight. It's pretty bad now, but I just took the dressing off for the first time last night. I'm allowed to. It's got some sort of surgical glue, Dermab bond or something on it, so I don't have to really worry. I can get it wet. It's not a problem. Uh, it's going to be a it's going to be a few weeks before I can do any any type of even super light weight training with that leg. That leg, that arm. I'm not even on the pain meds now. I don't take them until nighttime. Didn't realize this was here the whole time. Move that move that ring light back. So, that's it, guys. I appreciate y'all watching so much. Sunday is the Portugal Pro happening over there. cross the Mediterranean and the Atlantic and all that good stuff. So, we'll see what happens. Will it be Rubio Moscara? Will it be Nathan Dasha? Will the 212 be Nasser Muhammad? Will it be Melman aka Jose Maria Mate Buas Guibi? In classic, will Horse MD in his classic debut be able to beat Fabian Mayor who is has been a top seven Olympian before? We'll find out very very soon. Guys, thank you so much for watching. For those of you in the US, if I don't talk to you until then, have an awesome and very safe 4th of July. Talk to you guys later. Peace.