What's up, guys? Ron Harris here. We are now less than a week away from the 2025 Mr. Olympia. Judging will take place next Friday night. Tonight, uh, one week from tonight is going to be the finals. We're going to have either a new Mr. Mr. Olympia Champion or we could very well have a repeat Mr. Olympia Champion in Samson Sand Dada or we could have one of the past couple winners either Derek or Heidi Chupan getting it again. I want to look at some updates with you guys. See what we can figure out here. So I'll start with Hottie because Hottie has not been posting a lot on Instagram. Neither has Honey Ramad. Today he did drop a chest training video that was dropped at two weeks out. the two week out point. So, let's see what we can figure out from this. Let's take a look. Let's make this full screen. And here we go. So, we know he's got uh incredible muscle density, detail, maturity. These are hottie's trademarks. This is how he's been winning for the past few years. Various events like the Arnold Classic last year, the Mr. Olympia back in 2022 and what he hopes is going to be another Olympia win. Remember, we have not had a repeat Mr. Olympia winner since Rammy did it in 2021, having won it in 2020 and 21. Ever since then, it's it's changed hands every year for the past three years. Hottie, Derek, Samson, and we have Beirus in the mix this year. Let's take a look at some more posing stuff. He's got a little bit here at the end. See after this a little fast those reps for my liking. Okay, so here he goes. He doesn't strip down. Nobody the only one I saw completely stripped down of the top guys was Nick Walker, but yeah, we know he's got incredible midsection seratus detail. Midsection is actually one of his strong points. Even though he doesn't have the prettiest shape, doesn't have a tiny little waist, but he gets incredible detail in the abdominal area, the seroratus, all that good stuff, he is the Persian Wolf. This guy never never fails to bring it. He's never been off. Sometimes he's a tiny bit flatter or fuller, but the condition is very very consistent with this guy. Cany do it? Uh Ronnie Coleman has him winning, of course. You know, that's one man's opinion. If you ask ask on this chat who you got winning, we're going to get many many different answers. Many different answers. Go back to this. You can see your comments so far. What we got? What do we got? Ron, have you watched the Ivan Bidling series on Mike Somerfeld's height? I wasn't going to get too much into that because everyone's done a video about Mike Somerfield's height. Uh, all I can say is they're going to have to do his height heighting publicly. Uh, otherwise everyone's going to suspect him of either him of cheating by using that big hairstyle of his to gain an extra inch in height with a bunch of gel in it or hair. I use this spiking glue that's super hard. You can't even push that thing down once it's in your hair, especially if you have a lot of hair. Not me. Uh, so no, I'm not I'm not participating that. So, hypia. Yeah. I mean, it's the only it is literally the only night of the year I will two nights in a row, I guess, that I will stay up past midnight willingly. You know, maybe if I go out every once in a while. Nick's taking the show home, says Johnny Sponge. Okay, that's I don't need to see this. All right. Uh, who else do we have? Samson Dada put out a video. This was also two weeks out. It just dropped today. Uh, Samson's staying covered up, of course. What I did see, uh, I'll show you from his Instagram, were some shots from a back workout that was right around that same time. He posted it two days ago, but look at this. That is nuts. Look at that. That's just relaxed. Look at the back. The thickness on Samson's doubt, Samson's doubt's back, blah blah blah, has has improved so much over the past, say, two to three years. Three three, four years ago, his back was it wasn't bad. It just wasn't great. It was nothing special. He's done a lot to bring it up and it shows. But I'm looking into conditioning here because typically the back separation is one area. If your back is really crisp and clean, obviously the hamstrings and the glutes are are the last area for most guys come in, but when the back is that dry and detailed, and you can even see in the arms there, look at that nice crisp separation there between the biceps, the brachiialis, and the long head of the triceps. Good stuff, guys. Good stuff. I mean, I' I'd be so surprised if we're not going to see the absolute best version of Samson we've ever seen. People are worried he's going to be too small. Well, 300 pounds was great. You know, here's how he looked at the Arnold early in the year. That was a 300 I think he was 305 or 307 or something there. It was good, but we all wanted to see a just a few more pounds stripped away from that with that same size. Of course, we don't want him to get smoother or I'm sorry, smaller. We don't want we don't we don't want him to lose that roundness, that fullness he has to the muscles. And I don't see that happening. Uh this was three days ago. I do see Samson. That's a That's a cool machine. Huh. Never saw anything like that. Samrian. Yeah, they they stocked this whole gymnight company. I I think we're going to see the best Samson we've ever seen. Really? I'd be so surprised if we don't because he lost the Arnold Classic to Derek based on condition. And he knows Derek's coming for the title again. Hottie's coming for the title again. You have guys like Nick. It's It's going to be very very tough tough tough show. Let's go back to his uh training here. Take a couple take a couple shots. Hope they bring everyone for the press conference with the oldtimes. Old times all the athletes. Uh they can't have all the athletes because I think there's something like 350 athletes competing this year. Maybe you're just talking about the Mr. Olympia, which would be 20 men exactly. That's a really cool round number they came up with for this year. It was going to be 19, but then hottie got his visa. Would have been 21, but Raphael uh had to pull out with gut health issues. Just announced the athletes will be remastered barefoot. Well, I mean, no, when they do their height for men's physique, I'm sorry, classic physique, they're they are barefoot. And if they have uh, you know, a lot of hair on top, they do they're supposed to push the hair down with the top of the the measuring stick or whatever you want to call that thing. Samson with that green pop. I Samson's doing exactly what I was hoping he would do based on that guest posing that we saw uh what was that eight weeks ago now close to it. Samson was ahead of schedule for him in terms of condition. And I said I think what he's going to do him and Marina, you know, obviously it's it's under wraps. That's the coach and the client. Nobody else knows exactly what they're doing. But I said I bet he's going to get in shape early and then spend the last couple weeks filling out. that that's exactly what he seems to be doing. This is two weeks ago. I can only imagine he's fuller now. Kion, what's up, brother? Have a feeling Sam will become shredded as he did. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He can't be He can't be anything but shredded this time. He has no choice. He knows. This isn't the old days where Mr. Olympia could keep the title even if he was 90%. No, those days are done. It doesn't matter if you're the incumbent, if you're the reigning champion. Nope. None of that anymore. You're the best guy on that day, you win. If you're not, you lose. I like the t-shirt on. Thank you. That's one of my Jose Raymond shirts. It's an extra small. Appreciate that. Jose Starline Fitness. You'll have to be at 10 a.m. London time. Oh, is this about uh you're talking about the classic I I know the classic height thing is is a big big topic today. Samson's never completely has never been completely peeled yet. Johnny is what you need to say. Maybe he won't be this time. Maybe. You never know. But maybe we will see the most peeled, shredded, dry, grainy version of Samson Dada. And that Samson Douta is going to be damn damn hard to beat. Hope the show is better run this year. Yeah. I mean, so many moving parts. 350 athletes. What is it? 11 divisions, uh, including wheelchair. It's It's a lot a lot to keep organized. Plus the amateur Olympia, they're running that, too. And that's another few hundred athletes in that. that stupid camera panning and animated backgrounds. Yeah, Samson does pretty pretty uh straightforward videos. I like that. Some class pros said they were measuring multiple pairs of socks. Yeah, these classic guys, they're trying to pull fast ones. Big love on that. Thank you, Richard. Appreciate it. K. In my humble opinion, for Dark, it's going to be a crapshoot because he peaked at the Arnold and he missed a couple of notches at the Pittsburgh, but luckily edged Nick. Let's take a look at his most recent video. Uh where was it? Samson Dada, Derek Lunsford. What does we say in Boston? Derek Lunsford. Derek Lunsford. I can do the accent when I want to or I can hide it when I want to. So, this was seven days out. So, this was uh this video was yesterday. Okay, let's get through this silly ad. So, I I'll say I'm not loving this. What the condition? Now, obviously, I'm looking at a dark gym. Uh it's not it's not the best lighting situation here for showing definition. That being said, Samson looked a hell of a lot harder and most of the other guys I'm seeing look a lot. We know Derek's never had a lot of detail and separation in the arms and the shoulders anyway. Um, it's going to be tough when he's up there with guys who do have a lot more of that going for them. Talking about guys like Hottie, you know, even Nick's got better better separation and and detail than Derek. But Derek does have a beautiful physique. It was good enough to win the Mr. Olympia. That's not Derek. It's somebody else. I don't think he does any posing in this video. He typically does not peel down at all and do any posing. Derek, oh, at the very end, he does a couple poses. Let's see. His training partner is getting a lot of exposure in this video. Good for him. I think he has a couple training partners. So, here's here's all the posing we're going to get out of Derek at this point. Okay. I mean, he looks great. We know what he looks like. The same knocks that we're going to give and the same praises we're going to give about his physique. We've been doing that for years. Strong points are that structure. Structure is his structure and shape are are his strong points, I would say. Of course, he's got great mass. And from the back, he's got one of the greatest backs we've ever seen. It's just astonishing. Um, he put up a little montage here. I want to show you guys that. You might have seen it already, but man, talk about back training inspiration. Derek put this up from his back training video. He saved us the trouble of watching the whole thing and just shared with us five of the greatest angles here. So, he's probably got the best back in the in the sport today. It's up there. It's up there. I I'm trying to think of who might have a better backend. I honestly can't think of who that might be. Oh, what am I showing? No, I want to show this. Sorry, guys. My bad. Share this tab instead. Sorry about that. Okay, now we can see that Lunsford back. Anybody else's gut feeling? Tell them is going to come down to Samson seg versus Nick Mass. Uh, a lot of people actually elr have been speculating for months now that that's their top two. You know, basically we saw them at Pittsburgh. I'll show you guys that that battle. So far, that was the best battle of the year, but I think we're going to see something even crazier at the Olympia. Uh, in terms of, you know, we we're going to see something even more exciting than this the Olympia. There's no doubt in my mind. this. Everybody wants to see the rematch between Nick and Derek because so many people had Nick winning. Even Tyler Manion had him winning. But in the end, it came down to that crazy onepoint decision after an extra round of posing, an extra comparison round because they were tied and you can't have a tie in bodybuilding. So many people are eager to see Nick beat Derek this year. And you know, it's unfortunate because Dererick's a good guy. Derek is not a judge. It's not his fault that in the end Steve Weinberger gave him that extra point in the win. You can't blame Derek for that. But a lot of people did, especially all the Nick Walker fans. And Nick Walker gained a lot of new fans after that show. Back to that. Let's say Mr. Roses. Yeah, this is a great great lineup. I mean, if you look back at the lineups from the past few years, there's never been a really weak Mr. Olympia, but there were some years that were not that that competitive compared to others. This one is nuts. He's going to win the Olympia this year. Goku, I think Samson's going to keep the title on. That's my opinion. If you guys think it's going to be Nick or Hadi or Beirus or Andrew Jack, I hear some people talk about Andrew Jack. I've even heard some people saying Martin could win the, you know, I don't see Martin winning. Not this year. With improvements in the future, who knows? But I don't see him in the in the running for it. Only thing hottie has to battle besides an extremely competitive lineup is father time. So the north of 40s the very tail end of the for I think he's about 37. I I sorry I don't know off top of my head but he's in his late 30. He's like 3 somewhere between 36 38 somewhere in that range. That much I do know. Uh go back to let's go back to Nick Walker. Nick actually uh Nick actually posted a full body shot which you know most of these guys are not doing. Most of these guys are only showing us little glimpses. I'll give Nick credit for showing the He does he does have shorts on. Can you see it? Yeah. There we go. So, the one thing I will say about this and I know you guys like how dare you criticize Nick. His shoulders and his arms do make his chest look small there. You you you got to see that guys, right? Uh he doesn't have a small chest, but look at how dominant those shoulders are and those massive arms he's got. Uh the chest looks pretty small and narrow in comparison to that. He's younger than both Samson Andrew. Yeah, Samson is 39 and I believe Andrew is finally I think Andrew is 40. He's got to be 40 because he seems like he was 39 for a very long time. He must have turned 40 at some point. Simpson has that sunken face. Yeah. Was it uh I'll show you one sec. I want to just show Nick one more. I want to show his side chest because this is a freak. His side shots are are freaky. You know, he's Nick is freaky from all angles, but from the side, he's so massive. He's got that front to back thickness that not everyone has. I would love to see a little more chest thickness on him, of course. Again, look at this. Look at the massive shoulders and arms. They overpower the chest. I'd like to see the chest match and it would need to come up. I'm just going to throw in a number 30% bigger than what we see there to match to be just as freaky and impressive as the shoulders and the arms. But who was it? Uh trying to remember who did the the montage of his face. I'll I'll find it in a second, guys, because I really do want to show it to you guys. It was in my group chat. We had it. What's it Kevin Gretch? What's his I'll find it, guys. Where was this from? Fitness vault. Okay. Fitness vault. Yeah, this was again Samson's not showing physique, the whole, you know, shirtless or anything like that. But when you see the face, the face tells you everything you need to know. Where'd it go? There it is. Yeah, I think you could see, guys. Look at that. See the cheeks? The fat is is so low in this human being. Samson, his cheeks are are sunken in. His eyes are sunken in. Look at that. I mean, he's I hate to say it makes him look like 10 years older, but it does because anybody when you take strip away all the fat from the face and now you're it's almost like a That's why they call it a death face because you're starting to look like a skull facially. It's It's a rough look. I mean, it's worse on women because women, we're not used to seeing women's faces like that, but even on guys that that tells you right there, this guy is lean. He is I've never seen his face like that. It's always been had a fuller look. What's up, Blue? Blue and G. He's always had a more more fullness to the face. So, this tells me he's already in better condition probably right now than he's ever been in his life. Kulua Skulla 17. My predictions. Hottie wins or it could be Hottie or Nick. Doubt his second. Three is wide open. Okay. I mean, I've seen Nick as low as I've seen a lot of people with Nick winning or a lot even more people have Nick runner up to Samson. When I had Lee Haney on uh the video that was posted yesterday, he had he had Nick down six, but you know, Lee is biased towards uh more aesthetically pleasing physiques, taller guys. So, I I I knew that was coming. I still don't get why so many people think Nick is a shoe in for top two. Couldn't beat an off Derek. I don't know. He's got a huge fan base, Black Patron, and his fan base grew exponentially after he lost to Derek. I remember right before that show a lot of people were talking [\h__\h] because he dropped out of the 20 well he didn't drop out of the 23 Olympia he tore his hamstring at about a week out was forced to withdraw um 24 uh again didn't compete all year and then right before the Olympia had this mysterious withdrawal from the show which we never really got a satisfactory answer. So people were writing him off calling him Nick talker. He's done. He's a head case. He can't handle it. Whatever. They were talking all kinds of [\h__\h] Then he shows up at Pittsburgh looking phenomenal. And of course, as always, people always just they we have short memories in the sport, which is which is good. I mean, it's good that people don't hold grudges. As long as you come back looking amazing, the fans will love you. They'll forgive anything any any bad showing from the recent past. as long as you show up looking awesome. This was his Pittsburgh look. That midsection does still trouble me. I don't see how he could possibly beat Samson. Now, he does keep it sucked in most of the time, but a lot of times you see when he's between poses or he's walking around, he lets it out. And that's that's going to be an issue with the Olympia because Samson doesn't have anything like a gut. Don't assume Nick even shows up just get hurt. Well, so we're six days out. He's just got to hold on for six more days. mass monster. If he can stay injuryfree for just six more days, think naked hottie will wipe out the floor with Derek. He's not even close to their condition. That being said, strictly from the update seen so far, nobody knows on the day of the show. Yeah, Derek is not showing a lot from what I'm seeing in like, you know, tank tops and stuff. It it doesn't look like he's as shredded as I would like to see him, but who knows? Maybe he could pull out a fast one the next six days. Got a feeling Nick is going to finally bring it. Well, Nick's brought it. I mean this uh except for that I the wide waist I I hate to be that dick but it just I I can't ignore it. I keep my eyes keep getting drawn back. It's like it's like like what Milo Sarfev said, the midsection is is critical because that's center of the body from the front. The guys come out for the first time. You're drawn to the middle of the physique. You're drawn to that midsection. If it's narrow waist, flat midsection, really well-developed abdominals, that's a that's a plus. If it's a thick, blocky midsection, a wide waist, a bubble gut kind of thing, that's that's a disadvantage. Nick losing to Pittsburgh was the best thing could have happened. I agree. He's pissed. Put that energy towards the weekend shows. Yeah. I mean, he's bigger than ever. He's he's he was like 280 just a week ago or something, right? He just gets bigger and bigger. I don't know how much bigger this freaking kid can get. I call him a kid. He's like 31. I mean, look at that. That's That's ridiculous. That's just ridiculous. I think he put a video up from that, too, didn't he? Yeah. Here we go. I mean, this is one of the most massive human beings, the freakiest bodybuilder we've ever seen. He's up there with guys like Marcus Rule, Nasel Sati, Paco Batista, whoever, for those of you who remember who he was. Oh, he's still alive. I'm sorry. Gustavo Bedell was preiki. RIP. Yeah, Nick's gonna be hard to hard to beat. He's I think he's going to beat most guys. I could see him as hard as as high as second. I don't see him beating Samson. That's just my speculation. I could very well be proven. Once again, wrong Harris. Can't imagine Nick in top two. No way. Well, look at all the comments here. USA, USA. A lot of people have him winning. He's got a huge fan base. Huge. For Nick to crack break into the top two, he needs to bring his best ever package. Someone asked to Mrs. Mark. Yeah, I think Beirus may surprise a few of the top guys. His time to shine. Yeah, his name means I found this out. Let's go to Milos's page. Milos was kind enough to repost because one of you guys, one of you viewers from Iran uh translate his name for me from Farsy. Was it in Milos's page? Yeah, it was in Milos's page. I'll show you the one update. He's only posted one physique update, uh, Milos, of Beirus, since he got here, and this is it. It's kind of a time lapse thing. Kind of grainy. Not the best resolution on this, but it's a big dude. He's 510 or 5'11. That seems to be an issue of contention. Somewhere around 260 pounds on sage. He's a big, thick dude, and he gets into crazy condition. Crazy. That's Milos. Uh, what was it? Yeah, he reposted. Yeah, he's arrived. Yeah, so I posted this because one of you guys I I sorry I don't know off hand who it was. Uh he said he translates his name in Farsy. Beerus means Beirus means better day or update and Tabani means shine or giver of light. It's a pretty cool nickname. Yeah. I mean, I don't see this guy out of the top six, which is, you know, it's obviously he's going to have to knock out someone like Andrew or Martin to do that because Samson, Derek, Hottie, that's three guys right there. I don't see them out of the top six, any of them. Nick, I don't see Nick out of the top six. So, there's four guys right there. So now logically the next the next couple the next spot is gonna have to go to either Andrew Martin or Beirus. We'll see. So what do you got? SH Derek Andrew Martin. I'd like to show more of Andrew, but Andrew never shows. I've never seen him post physique updates. He's got like a sleeveless shirt on. You can see his shoulders and arms. They've all they're always massive. The only reason I'm not showing more Andrew Jack is because he doesn't show much. There's just not a lot to show. Why is it crazy to say Martin can win? Uh yeah, maybe that's maybe I'm being unfair to him. Maybe I'm being unfair. I mean, he Let's take a look at what he looked like last year. He was damn good. I mean, fourth place last year and myself and a lot of people had him ahead of Derek last year. So, if that's true, then he should have been could have been could have should have been third place last year. He's got an amazing physique. I don't know if he's gotten any better. Uh when he competed earlier this season, uh was it Pittsburgh and the Arnold? Well, anyway, in the springtime, six months ago, seven months ago, uh I didn't see any improvement. Uh I know he had put on some size, but I didn't I didn't see any difference personally. It doesn't matter though. He gets, you know, boss of Outlaw, his coach, gets helps him get into great condition. He's got great shape, structure, that round bubbly look to the muscles. Uh, the only reason I say it's it's crazy to state that Martin could win is because he's never beaten Hottie, Derek, or Samson. Not to say that he couldn't. You know, everyone has never beaten someone else until they do. This could be that time that he that he makes that leap and beats everybody. Uh, I'd be very, very surprised, but stranger things have happened. Stranger things have happened. It could happen. Beu's managed to improve his legs. He's not going to improve his legs now. It's It's too late. Uh, whatever he's got for legs, that's what he's got. Um, interesting comparison. Somebody did a bodybuilding sem. What is this? Bodybuilding Semut Nutella. They did an interesting comparison here between the top two Iranian bodybuilders in the world. Persian. I think that's awesome that we're probably we're probably going to have two guys from Iran in the top six, maybe top five, maybe. Who knows? Could be like the top two. You never know. The Olympia is so wide open this year and there's so many guys who have they've all most of these guys have beaten each other at one point or another. Yeah. And Beerus doesn't have the the quads that Hottie has and he's got a little higher lats and a longer waist, but overall he's got a very pleasing shape and structure. He's a big dude. He's got better biceps than Hottie. I think Hottie's a little shorter from the back. He's got these massive glutes that are shredded to the bone. I actually think he beats Hottie in this shot. The rear double side chest. He gives him a great run, too. I don't know, man. I don't know. It's going to be interesting. It's always going to be fire and hopefully no controversy. There's always controversy because it's a subjectively judged sport. It's judged basically on a matter of opinion. They do have standards. They have ideals. They have attributes they're looking for. It's the best total package of all these factors. Mass, shape, structure, condition, presentation, symmetry. You know, if someone has one leg that's way smaller than the other leg, there's so many factors to put into it. Um, and people have their favorites. So, if your favorite doesn't win or doesn't do as well as you thought, you're going to be upset about it. And that's where all the controversies happen. The only people who are going to be happy at the end of the night, and it's the case every year at the Olympia, are the guy who wins and his fans. Pretty much everybody else is pissed off. That's just the way it goes because they're all these guys are all amazing. They're fantastic. Where do you have hottie this year, Ron? I don't know. Richard Richard Ratner, I don't know. I mean, I think he could win. I think he could be as low as fifth place. It's it's it's all going to come down to who brings that elusive optimal package of fullness and condition. They all have their strong points. They all have their weak points. I'd be very very surprised if out of the top four. Put it that way. I could see him winning. I could see him doing second, third, fourth, fifth. I mean, there's good lord, there's so many if he proves his back will get the title. Well, like I said, nobody's improving at this point. They're not making any progress in the next six days on their physique. It is what it is. And I haven't seen Hottie's physique honestly change much at all in the past five years or so. You he won the he won the Vancouver in 2019. That's when he really exploded as far as popularity. Uh and everybody wanted him on the Olympia stage. Did he get here in 19? I think he did. Was that his first Olympia? 19 20 21 22 20 I'm not sure if it was 19 or 20 was his first year but he's been a he's been a factor every year that he's been in the Olymp he hasn't been out of the top top four once be surprised Beirus breaks to the top five taking either Andrew Martin spots yeah Beirus is damn good I mean as soon as his name was added to the list when he got that visa a lot of guys moved down a spot a lot of guys you know unfortunately for Not. It's It's a great thing for Babs and his fans. What's up? What's up, Muscle Central? Mike Diamond. It could be pretty, but Nick is going to bring a what the [\h__\h] moment. Oh, dude. When When Nick walks out there, you know, the place is just going to explode. People are going to go bonkers for Nick Walker. Not really mind-blowing. Yeah, I don't see any He's been in really good condition, Nick Walker, for a while now. I I don't see much difference, you know. I'm sure he's going to tighten up and drop the water and he'll he'll dial it in. He's he's got his uh he's got a game plan that seems to be consistent for him. Uh he looked great at Pittsburgh. Looked great in winning New York Pro for the third time. 20 years older. I don't know what that means. Sam says low-key striking man can't resemblance of LeBron. Yeah, that was a reference to the the death face makes you look 20 years older. I agree. Sam is low-key striking man of LeBron James. Yeah, I did see that resemblance. I didn't I didn't say anything. Don't think he'll be much different than Pittsburgh. What could he really have done? He got a little bigger and we're talking about Nick. He did get a little bigger. I mean that that's but he was already big enough. It's not like he needed to be any bigger. J says, "I was at last Olympia what we saw in person was very different from all the videos." Yeah. When we say you got to be there and I'll tell you this, it's not enough to be there. You need to be close. And I've had one year, the one year I went to Olympia on my own was it 2016. Uh that was that was the year that MD owed me a ton of money and they weren't they didn't have the money to send me that year. They were in dire dire straits financially back in 2016 and uh I bought my own ticket at the at the last minute and I was so high up nosebleleed section. Even the screens the big screens were not big enough for me to get a really good look. I would have been better off just staying home and watching the show from home on my computer. But I digress. Even AJ at AC25 look 10 years old to do good conditioning. Andrew Jacked should show Andrew. Let's give Andrew a little bit of love. I know he hasn't uh hasn't posted any really recent updates at all, but let's at least look him. That's Samson. My bad. So, I just saw AC for Arnold Classic. AC Andrew. All right. So, let's take a look at Andrew there. So, that was a good version of Andrew. He didn't look great at Fibo. He looked good enough. Yeah, this condition. I know we're This is not the greatest video quality. The stream, it's better when you're close up. When when the shot moves in, as we say in the biz, it looks better. No respect to Lee Wayne in the 90s anymore. Yeah, I mean, Lee Lee has his Everybody's got their biases. Everybody, the Nick Walker fans, they like that type of Zeke. the Samson and the Andrew fans, they like that type of physique, a little more aesthetic. You know, everybody likes what they like. It's kind of like beauty is in the eye of the beholder and so is what you what you prefer in physiques. It's in the eye of the beholder. We all have our own preferences and opinions. Nick Walker has that freak factor, but it should not supersede better structure, mild mass condition. Yeah. I mean, Samson's a big dude. Don't don't get it twisted. Poundfor-pound, Nick's probably the biggest guy on that stage because he's 57 on a good day and I think he's going to be close to 280. That's a big big dude. I mean, Samson is six foot even and he's come in around 300. So, you take away five inches in height and only maybe 20 pounds, that that makes Nick the bigger man. Doesn't make him the better man, but is the bigger man. Beer or Undrew Jack will come out on top. What do you think? Uh, >> if Andrew brings better condition from the back than we've ever seen, and if Samson is not his best, I mean, Andrew could win. Andrew's got an amazing physique. It's beautiful. It's just so I'm saying there's this this Olympia is so wide open. This is a tribute to Cedric McMillan who did a uh his posing routine with a blindfold on. If you're wondering why Andrew has that blindfold on. Samson and person looks insane. Once he marches on you, forget everyone else. If you want aesthetics, watch classic open. It's only for the freaky ones. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I almost feel like classic was created so that the open guys wouldn't have to have those little tiny waists anymore. We could let the classic guys worry about being perfectly aesthetically pleasing. Houston Fuks Derrick won the Orange Clearly. He won Pittsburgh and he'll win the Olympia, too. It's ridiculous how people write him off even though he's beaten all the top guys this season except Hottie. And he has beaten Hottie before. He's beaten Samson. He's beaten Hottie. He's beaten He's beaten Nick a couple times now. Uh let's go to his he's should go to his routine from the Arnold because that was a great look for him. Didn't look as good at the uh Pittsburgh AC Simpson AC Summerfield. There's a good comparison. This is a good This is some good footage of Andrew Andrew Simpson and Derek. Although it's going to cut to a twoot with Samson and Derek right there and hold it for for a while. I mean, they both looked really good there. Samson clearly was just a little bit little bit blurry. Uh George UK Samson better than the rest. George has been around like a long time guys like me. George knows his [\h__\h] So he is and he is in the UK so he might be a little biased but no you know it's like it's when's the prejudging for open? That's next Friday guys. So you want to go to mrolympia.com mrolympia.com for all the info and that's where you can get the pay-per-view. Mr.Olyia.com. I think you can remember the name of that website. It usually starts at uh like seven o'clock, but the men go on last, the open men. So, a lot of times the open men don't go on until geez, one year they went on past midnight. It was awful. The midsection is the focal point. I agree. Black patrol. The issue is that Nick fans will not judge Olympia. Nick needs for the other top three guys to be off chance. Yeah. I mean, the fans the fans like what they like, but they they they're not always looking actually they're rarely looking at these guys the way a judge would look at them. expects a small as midsection. Yeah, that is true. I mean, sounds brutal, but it's true. Hopefully, they don't let Nick win violin go insertion or big Ramy was a terrible mist. Well, that's your opinion. You're entitled to it. Such a unique insertions. Any news from Big Ramy? Will he compete this year's Olympia? Good question. I don't think he said Jack on his Instagram. Big Ramy. I I'm sure he hasn't. Could he pull a surprise? Yeah, he could. Could he be prepping secretly the way Arnold did? I remember Arnold did that 1980. This is old. This is old. Yeah, he's just reposting someone else speculating about him doing making a comeback. He's not saying anything. He has not said one word as far as I know. But wouldn't that be crazy if he just shows up at the meet the Olympians and he's competing? Paco Batista, you remember them? George Samson Mill's plan win by a distance and win the next two or three years. Got some man himself. Well, you've you've got contact with Samson. So, I that sounds uh that sounds exciting. I mean, I'd love to see Samson take his physique to that next level of condition and win and hold it for a few years because the title has changed hands seven times in the last eight years. Not that that's a truly horrible thing. It's exciting for the fans. It gives uh different guys a chance to win, but at the same time, it's it's not that exciting when the same when the same guy wins for years and years and years. The fans do get sick. After about three or four years, like into the Haney reign, the Dorian Yane, the Ronnie Reigns, the fans are like, "H, what else you got? What else you got?" I'll put up that guest posing. Uh, no, let me put up Derek, man. Let me put up Derek. This is Derek when he won the Olympia 2023, which I still think I still think this was his best look so far. He's had a lot of different looks. Mutin top this year. That's Nick. Nick's two nemesis. Protruding gut structurally aesthetically superior competitors. Valid points, Kalian. If Martin just improves on that leaked photo, keeps these lines, he's going to look great. Just a deep lineup for him. Yeah, Martin's great, but there's it's just there's a lot of great guys, so they're not all going to win. Jay Cutler City would have no problem with Martin winning last year. I think he said that on my interview, didn't he? Maybe. I don't know. I did have him on the the channel a couple days ago. If you didn't watch that, please check it out. Tyler Manion also had Martin beating Nick last year. Uh yeah, so yeah, it was it was a close call. Very close call. Each of their camps is going to be cheering. Oh, dude, it's it's going to be nuts in there. Beu's top four. I agree, Mike. That's very, very, very likely scenario. Just go pose by pose to be honest. It's your stuff. I have nine guys in my top six. I have like I have like 10 guys in my top six. So, even more than you. Let's get the show's wide open. Good. Veto can do really well, too. Yeah. Let's Let's go to Veto. What the heck? Why not? Good. Veto. So, Veto had a great uh couple great showings earlier this year and last year. He's he's had a couple good seasons. So, can he put it together for the Olympia? We don't know, guys. Remains to be seen. Uh that'll finish in a second. It'll go to Veto. Next year is going to be even crazier. Every year is crazy. Rean, we'll check out Rean in a second. Good veto. Back stealing a lot of improvement. Uh it's it's not the greatest, but that looks pretty good. That's good veto. We're looking at Vitali Wulnikov or as they call him, Kurvito. Kurvito. I don't see Rean in the top six. So that's why I'm really not f I'm focusing on the guys I think have a really strong chance of placing the top six. Doesn't mean other guys can't. Uh Antonio has a has a chance. Rean has a chance. Uh Rubiel, who knows? I mean the Bak there are guys who definitely have a chance. It's just going to be tougher for them based on what what I'm seeing. Most stacked Olympia since 2013. That was a good one. The gap between first place was very tight. A lot of quality. To me, Beirus is better than Martin and Martin got fourth last year. I I I like a lot of things about I think Martin has better structure and shape overall. Be has better muscle detail, better muscle maturity. And it's crazy because they're about the they're not that much difference in the age. I know Bay Ruse is only 31 or 32. He's early 30s. I think Martin's still in the late 20s. 28 or 29. Sing the guy looks worse than Stein will be the winner. Well, if so, that's it. How's your shoulder recover? It's going very well. I I never stopped training, Rick. I can get this arm. This is the This is the new shoulder. I can get that almost as high as the other arm, which I haven't I haven't been able to to raise it that high in at least 10 years. So, I'm pretty happy. But back to the show. Samson came in super dry. He lights up, but he never has yet. He has never yet. We'll see. This could be the year, guys. This is the year we're gonna I tell you, when they first when that lineup walks out on stage next Friday night, you know, we'll be we'll be on the edges of our seats at home. They'll be screaming their lungs out going horse at the show. It's going to be insane. Insanity. These stupid masks and costume. Well, technically, they're not supposed to have props. They can't ban dancing, but from what I understand, props are not allowed. I don't know why they haven't called these guys. If Andrew finally achieves better conditioning his hamstrings, bounces in trouble. Oh, yeah. I I think Andrew is fantastic. I'm a huge Andrew fan. This was uh So, this is a lot of people go back to this look when he won the Texas for the I think this was his second out of three Texas Pro wins right here. But a lot of people love this version of Andrew. Fullness condition was pretty good. Still not as good from the back as I want to see it. 5728. Yeah, that's We're talking about Nick Walker. I don't think he's going to be 295, but 57280. That is a giant human being. Very good seats in Orlando. Moreover, yeah, sure. 23 rows back. Close. Yeah, I'd say if you're in the first I I don't like to be any further back than 15 rows, but I'm spoiled. That was usually in the press section. Andrew had years to achieve that dugout hamstring. Yeah, I don't see a lot of improvements in Andrew honestly over the past couple years. I like Sims. So I think Nick physi is who wows me the most. Very that's apples and oranges right there. By starts in the middle alone powers I agree with you sir. Andrew blows it with his posing poses doesn't want to be there. He doesn't have a lot of energy on stage. Doesn't doesn't bring that fire. Like Nick comes out there and he's like roaring pretty much. That's Veto. What else we got? Veto. Let's go back to his winning the That was winning the Arnold Brazil way back in I think that was April. Yeah. Slow motion slow motion walk. I got Brandon Curry beating hottie. I you know that would be a shock. Uh Brandon still a fantastic physique. He's in his 40s now. I I do believe his best years are behind him, but he's still hanging in there. Last year was the first year since 2018, I think, that he'd been out of the top five. So, Brandon, you know, I wish him the best. We'll see what happens. Ramies look so crazy. Discom Liar. I do not I didn't partner up with them at all. Brandon Curry at fourth beating hottie. Yeah, it could it could happen. It's It's a long shot though. Blame Kansas. It's a long shot. I remember when Rammy squads are unreal normal X Ruby. Nah, we've never seen them next to each other. It's I'd love to see that. Samson, Walker, Derek, Karen, Hottie. I think Derek Splook was on the Arnold last year. Uh, you mean earlier this year? I think you want to say I think that's what you mean because he wasn't wins Arnold. He didn't do the Arnold last year. He did it this year. Yeah, this was Derek at the Arnold Classic in March of this year when he won and it was a great look for him. The legs were nice and full. They lost some of that pop and fullness by the time he got to Pittsburgh. S won't win. He'll get exposed. This is a mutant year. Ah, hottie's too blocky. Derek's side poses have slept on. Oh, no. He's got fantastic side. I love his side chest. The mutant is a people's champ, but ain't a popularity contest. Correct. It ain't. It is not. If I was blocking the one earth his neck, I heard him called Spongebob, which is brutal. He's not that He's not square, but I I still thought it was funny. He was clever. Damn, this list is going to be the best. Yeah. Arnold this year, not last year. Yeah, it's cool. It's fine. It was so long ago. It seems like it was last year. Doesn't the Arnold seem like forever ago? Samson number one. Walker got better legs than hottie. No, he does not. No, he doesn't. No. No, he doesn't. From the side maybe he's got great legs from the side. Nick from the front. Hot beats him in the in the quads. Samson Nick run Harris Sim for the win. Beu is in the first call out. Sam still got this since he's the most complete and obviously big enough to go against the others. We Nick Walker versus Hottie. Martin has way better quad sweep. He's more complete than Beirus. Yeah, Beirus doesn't have great quad sweep. Not at all. I agree. I if you're you want to pick things apart, I mean you could all these guys have something that someone else doesn't have. You could do that all day. The Beirus is Kool-Aid. I think Hottie is way better than Nick. I mean, Nick has never beaten Hottie yet. This could be the year that he finally does it. But, uh, they faced off a few times so far. Actually, only once, right? 22 Olympia. Yeah. He didn't do 23. He didn't do 24. He didn't do the No, I think so. He's only Nick has only faced Hottie once. Yeah, that's right. Hottie still bare the neck goes by pose. I mean, there's a reason Hottie just been Mr. Olympia. There's a reason for the contest, man. Who else What else do I want to show? I want to get Hon going soon. Uh Samson wins. Maybe I like that one. That's a good clip because I'm curious. I want to see if the money goes up this year. 600 last year. Nick just pulled out. No, he didn't. I got Curry as my sleeper to beat Hottie. That's a joke. I'm sure that's a cruel joke. Curry had one of the best back shots. Oh, Curry was a beautiful physique. He was Mr. Olympia for a reason. He won the Arnold twice. Xandrew's fourth year in bodybu I agree. I was there when he turned pro. 2022 Arnold amateur. He has not been a pro very long, guys. The Nick fans are arguing it's a muscle competition. Why didn't so many mass monsters? I mean, if it was just a a muscle competition, Marcus Rule would have won. Nashville, somebody would have won. I don't think you'd say Greg Kovac his physique was just awful awful shape going green whoever takes up space sticking the shadow toe freak Samson [\h__\h] when eight minutes answer glaring weakness started what hid squads are cross train with deep separation crazy detail Nick simply doesn't have that detail in the quads yeah Nick does not have a lot of quad detail from the side his legs have a lot of detail and separation stuff like that Martin's greatest strength is balance yeah Martin has beautiful shape and symmetry It's a great structure and shape. It really is. Winner needs to carry his title. Well, like Samson did as investor sport. Well, doctor, it could be could be Samson again. I'm like, if KZO was here next year, he I don't know why he didn't Well, obviously he tried to qualify. He did the Pittsburgh show in New York Pro. Can we get a Sims for Shan Ray comparison, please? I don't know how to do that. Simple as no one will know who went to the show. Best wishes. Yeah, 100% CK. 100% true. Black Patron. We'll see Koro after the Olympia. Yeah, Prague. He's doing the Prague. He's gonna have to beat Keon. We'll see how that goes. That's gonna be interesting match up. We'll see Ko Olympia next year. I'm pretty sure needs more ass. That's funny. Wait, is something going on? I did get some weird update. Hang on. Could I be the first one to break it? I'm just trying to see if that there's anything to that Nick rumor. No, no, nothing to it. It's a joke. You're right. Ah. Oh, well. All right, guys. So, all right, guys. I got to get going. I appreciate you all watching. Uh, I've had two really cool videos, Olympia preview shows, uh, in the past couple days with Lee Haney and Jay Cutler. So, if you haven't watched those, please check those out. I'll be doing coverage all week, of course. Not sure what I'm going to be doing yet during the show. Still kind of work that out. But appreciate you all watching. Have an awesome weekend, guys. And I'll see you again right here soon. Peace out.