What's up everybody? Ron Harris here with my son Christian who is now uh three days away from his first bodybuilding contest ever. been preparing a very long time. So, I thought I'd sit down with him just for a few minutes and talk about his prep. Um, first of all, Christian, when did you know you wanted to compete? Um, I don't know. I don't actually know really. Just like it always just kind of seemed like a pipe dream. I was like, I don't think I'm ever going to be big. And, um, I don't know. I put on like a decent amount of size between like the last three years. My weight was pretty stagnant once I started like actually putting on some size. And then I started to get chubby. I was like, I kind of want to compete. See what's actually underneath all this. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, you started out your your high point was like 170 was kind of chubby. Your you think you're 5'7 and a half. Yeah. Yeah. So, you've lost how much weight in this prep? 30 pounds. 30 pounds. Um, you know, we've I've been to like medical appointments with you where they were alarmed because they didn't realize you had to explain you were dieting. They thought, "Yep, you know, it's that's a legitimate concern when anybody loses a lot of weight like that. That's a that's a substantial amount." Um, and even, you know, you've had to deal with I tried to warn you ahead of time. People will be telling you, "Are you okay? You look sick." Because, you know, they don't understand what you're trying to accomplish and why you're losing all the weight. It's body fat. Oh, yeah. One of the uh things like my my co-workers are the least supportive people ever. They're like, "Dude, you look like you're going to drop dead. like be careful. It's windy outside. You might get blown away. Uh things like that are really the opposite of positive reinforcement. Yeah. I mean, unless you like work at a gym or something, you can you can't really expect people to understand what it is you're doing. You know, why you would want to be doing it. So, uh you started dieting. We're in we're in uh we're May 1st right now. When did you start dieting? Do you remember? It was right after my birthday. My birthday was the last day I had like a bad meal. I think we got like Mexican foods. So that was late September of last year. Yeah. So yeah, but I told you because you're, you know, 100% natural, never touched anything like that, you need to diet very, very gradually, very slowly to try to preserve as much muscle mass as possible. I think that's one of the main benefits of an enhanced bodybuilder or classic or whatever, an enhanced competitor dieting is that you have those drugs preserving the muscle. So, you don't have to be as careful. You can go really low on calories, tons of cardio, and you're probably not going to lose much muscle, but an allnatural, a drug-free competitor like yourself has to be very, very cautious. And I think we we pulled it off. Um, you know, are you 250 pounds? No, not like I ever was. Um, but yeah, I mean, you must be I told you it's it's taking forever. It feels like forever to get to this point. the prep is going to seem like years and years, but now this last week's flying by. Correct. Yeah. No, every day I feel like I blink and it's like over. Yeah. I mean, that's why I keep telling you, and you've heard it before, when we get to the the show day, try to really soak in every moment because it's over so fast. It's it's like you're on stage for a few minutes at the most after all those months and months and like, "Oh, that was it. Okay." Um, yeah. And so, his first show is Sunday. It's called the OCB, Spirit of America. That's a natural federation. And uh he'll be doing bodybuilding. Um two different divisions, a novice and a true novice, something like that. And then but they don't let you do crossovers. You have to stick with one division. He want because he's he can do classic as well, obviously. So, six days later is the NPC Natural Massachusetts. Unfortunately, the same day as Pittsburgh Pro. I'm not going to be following Pittsburgh Pro. I'll catch up on it the next day or whatever. Um he's going to be an open bantamweight bodybuilder in that and uh true novice classic physique. So he'll do two divisions in that. Uh but yeah, I mean you must be so excited right now. Yeah, it's very nerve-wracking but exciting at the same time. Yeah, I mean one thing the the two things I' I've impressed upon all the time know he's not the biggest kid. Um but the two things you can control 100% in your control are condition and posing. And he's worked very very hard. Has not missed any cardio. hasn't cheated on his diet once. Uh he's been working really hard on his posing. He's actually got a natural knack for it. Uh just a couple nights, couple was it last night? Uh two nights ago, he made a little change in his posing routine that I wouldn't have even thought of. Just a little angle change in a couple the beginning poses, which you know, I was perfectly happy with his routine, but it's a it's even better now. Let's go to the phones. Uh let's see. Wish him all the best. Thank you, Machine. Nice. How old is he? 25 25 years old. Um, just to throw it out there, he he is uh he was diagnosed five years ago. Yeah. With ulcerative colitis, the same condition that Carlos Thomas Jr. has. Uh, it's a form of Crohn's disease. You have lesions inside your colon. Uh, what does that do to you for the most part when like what in life? Yeah. I mean, what's how does that how does that affect your dayto-day? I mean, I don't really get much energy in general. um like super limited by food. Uh like there's so much food that can cause a flare up, which is like non-stop diarrhea pretty much for uh weeks to months on end when it's really bad. But eating right has helped it a lot. Uh and trying to not be stressed because I was stressing over prep from like the first three weeks of December and it got pretty bad. I was going to the bathroom like six time seven times a day. M I started meditating and it went away luckily and just I've been kind of coasting by ever since. And you don't even take the the misalamine the meds for No, I stopped. It was just an anti-inflammatory. Yeah. Yeah. So Mike says Mike Cox big Mike Cox. What's up or his waist so small? Great abs. We measured it at 26 inches, right? Yeah. 26 sucked in 20 like eight and 3/4 just rest when he pushes it out like tries to make you look fat. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I never had a waist that small ever. So, you know, we're different people. People are going to compare him to me, but we're not He's not a clone. He's my son. He's got some my genetics, got some of his mom genetics. He's his own person. I'm very very proud of him. He's got some shots like uh the side tricep I think is fantastic with that tiny waist. Uh he's got he's got the pecs and the quads from me for sure. He's man, good luck. Cody Joy, carb cycling. No, we don't do any carb cycling. Um, his carbs are pretty consistent. Um, eats more a little more carbs on training days, but you know, the carbs are fairly low. I think what we get down to like 50 grams a day. Um, I'd probably say it's probably like between like 60 and 80, honestly. Yeah. I mean, that's that's a pretty small amount. Like I said, I didn't want to starve him. I'd rather I I have them on and I didn't do I didn't have them doing excessive cardio because like I said when you're when you're a drug-free competitor you have to be very very careful. You're you're always walking that line where you could go into catabolic state and burn muscle tissue and you know you don't as a natural athlete uh in his case he doesn't have much muscle mass to spare. So we we we did the best we could to keep the muscle and get rid of the fat. Uh so now we don't carb cycle. I won't this won't let showing. Oh, there we go. Day flies by. Yeah. Yeah. He's gonna have one cheat meal after the show. Uh we actually have a wake to go to that afternoon. My our brother-in-law's mom died. His uncle's mom just passed away. So, we're going to have time, I think, for like one cheat meal and then we got to head off, go home and change and go to awake. I think we're just going to go straight to there from the show. One of my friends said he might bring me like a pizza or something from from town spa something. Junior heavyweight in 5 years. Bang bang. Well, heavyweight would be over 198 and a quarter pounds rep. I don't know about that. He is. You're like 130. 132. He's 132. He's five. What do you think? 57 and a half. Yeah. 57 and a half. So, yeah. I don't know. Heavyweight. I mean that that that would take gear and I don't want him on gear and I don't think he has much interest in going on gear for any anytime soon. Yeah, I need to hit my natural potential first. Yeah. I mean, I think he's still got some growing to do naturally before he even thinks about I like to see especially it's my son, but I like to see anybody really max out their natural potential before they start adding in the anabolics. So, I think he's got a ways to go before he he hits that plat that plateau. water depletion. No, I'm like, we're going to keep the water normal up until day of the show. Day of the show, he's just going to be basically sipping. You want water because the the carbs really can't um you know, the glycogen doesn't fill out inside the muscle without water uh alongside it. So, you have to have a little bit of water in there. If you're completely dehydrated, you'd be super flat. You know, I don't want him looking any any flatter. So, uh next two days, I'm going to have him eat carbs with every meal. is going to he's not current we didn't deplete and he's not really loading he's just eating a little bit more carbs keeping the water high up until the night before the show and then after that minimize it um he's actually first thing in the morning his he's supposed to go on at 9:00 a.m. on Sunday because the way this organization goes, OCB, they run it straight through. They're going to do the judging and the finals for every for every division like right away. And they start with bodybuilding. So, he's going to be going up at 9 in the morning. You know, a lot of these NPC shows don't most of them don't start the judging till like noon. Good luck, kid. Thank you. Thank you. I am very proud. I'm very proud of him. Regardless of whether he did this or not, I'm proud of him anyway. What's up, C? I enjoy the pro tan smell. He's getting sprayed by the uh the official uh spray tan people. So, I'm not really sure how he's going to smell, but I heard it's not the greatest tanning service either, but Well, let's let's not go there. But, I mean that that that's, you know, because he's pretty he's pretty pale. I think he's going to look very very different with a tan. I've never seen him he's never seen himself that dark. He's never had like a deep deep dark tan. He is half Cuban, but he's not, you know, dark complexed. So, this will be interesting to see him dark like that for the first time. Oh, Troy. Hi, Troy. That's Troy work. Yeah. What's up, Troy? I appreciate you popping on, Troy. Yeah. Yeah. So, Christian works in the deli. No, the meat department. Meat department at the local Costco where my wife has been for well over 20 years. It's a very physical job. Uh he's loading he's he's stocking uh the display cases with all the meat and the chicken and stuff. Yeah. That's, you know, what do you say? 90 to 120 pound boxes. He's loading and loading pretty much. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, before that, for a long time, he was doing uh the chickens, selling the rotisserie chickens. That was also physical. Yeah. That's he's cooking. What What was your What was your max? It was like 500 a day. Yeah. He cooked about 500 rotisserie chickens a day and, you know, sold them or members would just take them. Yeah. Had to put them in a display case. You grab them. Do you just look your son? Do you look just on the two? What? Uh, I'm not really sure what that means. Son's age. Did I Did I look like him? Uh, I mean, kind of. Did you look like him at your son's age? Oh, that's what I think he means. Oh, I mean, yeah, I was I was larger. Uh, my waist wasn't as small. We definitely have some characteristics in common. I mean, facially, I think we look pretty pretty similar. Thank you, Sako. Yeah. Sucks. Yeah. Does mental stress affect your physical Oh, dude. Of course. Yeah. I mean, you do your best to to stay stress free. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You do what you can. Looking like this comes at a cost. Epilepsy. Oh, mental stress affects my Oh, yeah. Yeah. Oh, wow. Yeah. I mean, epilepsy is no joke. That's that's a major major medical issue to have. That's why I totally cut out watching the news. Oh, because it stresses you out. Yeah, fair enough. Yeah, we don't get a lot of good news on on on the news because that doesn't sell. The negativity sells. Thank you, Kan. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. Thank you. Favorite bodybuilder today. Do you have one? Um, I mean, probably just like Sebum just that look, you know, Christian, he doesn't really follow the sport at all. He's not like a fan. He has he doesn't he doesn't watch the pay-per-views or streams or anything like that. I like Nick Strength Power because he's a Pokemon nerd. Yeah, but he's not really into the sport because he's not a fan. Put it that way, which you know, you don't have to be. Uh cardio. Um it's been like stairs mostly. Yeah, I think I took like a walk around my town for an hour one day with like just trying to hit 400 calories on the stairs. Like I'll split that up. do like 200 before my lift, 200 after, just so it doesn't feel like I'm doing stairs for eternity. Yeah. But um I don't give him like a time. I don't say I want you doing 20 minutes cardio, 30 minutes. I give him a calorie goal. I say I want you to hit I think we started with 300 and we bumped it up a little bit. I think it started at 200 and we bumped it up like 50 every month. Yeah. Yeah. I forget how long you've been in prep. Yeah. So that that's the way I like to do it with my clients. I am a coach. You guys can reach out to me if you want, but uh to me it just makes more sense because you're just trying to burn calories. You're trying to get into that caloric deficit. So rather than say I want 30 minutes, you know, 30 minutes, you might half ass it. You might go hard. Who knows? If I say 400 calories, then we know he's burning 400 calories. Now, even if that's not completely accurate, like they say, well, those machines aren't accurate. Well, they're consistent with themselves. So, if you're doing 300 calories on the same step mill now uh today and then a month from now you're doing 400, you're burning more calories. Is this a onetime thing or more shows be done? I mean, I got to like put on size again before I can never think about competing again. I wanted there to be a noticeable difference. Yeah. Between uh me on stage, you know, I think I think it's going to be one of those cases where he's either going to love it and say, "I can't wait to do this again." and or he like, "Well, that was cool. It was a fun challenge, but eh, I don't need to do that again." We we'll see. You know, so far, he's been really enjoying the process and everything, you know, when the two shows are over, uh, we'll we'll reassess. But yeah, he's if he competes again, it's not going to be for a while. He wants to take a good good soft. And I I've I've told him that dieting this whole time, being in the deficit, it's going to prime him for growth because if you're in a permanent offseason, your body gets just so accustomed to the caloric surplus and not doing a ton of cardio. So, you know, it's it's hard to get to get a growth response from the body when it's pretty much used to everything you're throwing at it. Whereas now that he's been in prep all these months and lower calories, lower carbs, more cardio, once we flip the switch, go back into putting the calories back in and taking the the activity, the cardio way for the most part. He's still going to be doing some I I think he's going to put on some good good size in the next couple months. Embarrassing secrets you can tell us about your dad. Well, I don't know if anyone wants I pleaded the fifth. I don't know. Oh god, this guy's just selling jokes now. Okay. Okay. Like, mate, your son's looking insane. Thank you, Duncan Shane. Duncan Shane, I believe you're in Germany, right? Yeah. Thanks. Job prep. I mean, he comes home exhausted. But a lot of times he gets out, he gets out of work. He gets home like 3 3:00, 3:30. Well, sometimes four. It's like I go in at six. Yeah. And you know, a lot of times he's he'll eat a meal. uh go in go in his room for a little nap, get up and go go to the gym. You know, that's what most people that compete, they they don't have the luxury of just, you know, eating, sleeping, and training. He worries about your son's test probably tanking. I'm sure it's tanked right now as a as a n natural competitors. I've seen studies where when they diet down to very low body fat, their testosterone does tank. And I I do want to have them tested uh you know, once the shows are over to see what's going on with that. Uh the issue is if we put him on TRT, he can't do natural shows anymore. And you know, if you're not doing natural shows now, you're up against people who are on every drug in the kitchen sink and all the trend and the masteron the test. So yeah, we got some we got some things ahead of us, some things to figure out. But um we'll see what happens. We'll see what happens. Kind of foods are safe to eat for your son. Uh if you're talking about with the colitis, the foods that you avoid are I I don't eat anything with a lot of sugar. Uh, no gluten at all. Um, anything like really greasy. Like fast food in general is just terrible. That's why it's kind of just good doing this prep in general for the colitis. Uh, raw vegetables. Scanny raw vegetables. They have to be steamed or fried. Most fruit ups upsets my stomach. The only one that doesn't hurt is pineapple. Um, so that's like one of the only fruit carbs I've had, I think, is just Um, yeah, just I eat just a lot of like chicken, rice, fish. Yeah, I mean that that we have he's going to have to be very careful with the cheat meals after the show because greasy foods, a lot of sugar really they they uh irritate his his colon, the lining of his colon or whatever, and he gets these flare ups. So that's the last thing we want is for him to get a living in the living in the bathroom for a week after the show because he enjoyed too many treats. But I think he's going to be okay. The first show he's only going to have one cheat meal. Second show uh you know probably a little bit more than that. Shador Sanders by Seot potential. It's funny guys support nice. Thank you. Yeah I met Mark many years ago in Honolulu. The only time I've been to Hawaii was 91 with mom. I was only there for three days. Except for first show some Yeah. You only get one first show. Yeah. You only have sex for the first time once. You only compete for the first time once. First day of school is only once. Is Yep. First wedding is only once. Does Chris train high volume or high intensity? Both. No, I wouldn't. High intensity. So if you mean by that real brief routines like a Dorian Yates, McMmener? No. No. More of a volume trainer. Volume. Yeah. I mean, leg day takes him two hours. Yeah, he loves leg day. Uh, up until recently, he was squatting every single workout. Loves squats. I mean, he's good at squats. Really get on stage. Everyone hits nons like, you know, that's why I'm proud because mo a lot of people a lot of people think about competing. They say they're going to compete, they want to compete, they never do it. And then there's a lot of other people that start prep and they never finish. They they quit. I've known so many people, you know, sometimes life gets in the way. they lose their job or a health problem or we got to take care of somebody in the family. Things happen. I understand. But a lot of times people just start prepping and they just either they can't stand all the cravings of being hungry and being tired or they start losing weight and it just mentally [\h__\h] with them. Like they look in the mirror like, "Oh, now I'm shrinking." And they just they bail. They they say, "I'm not doing this." I mean, it's been a mind it's been a mind for you, hasn't it? Yeah. just seeing like the the first 20 pounds and like I didn't really notice much of a change in my physique. I was just like I'm just smaller. I don't actually looked any more ripped. I'm just losing weight. Yeah. I mean, I think the first part of the prep is the hardest because you're getting hungry and everything and you're you're getting tired, but you don't see much happening with your body yet. Yeah, but it happened. It happened. So, do a vlog of the comp. I mean, I do intend to to shoot hopefully. Can you edit? I don't know. I don't NPC. I don't even think they let you record them. No, they don't. The OCB I'll take videos and pictures. So, we'll see. Do EAS have calories? I don't think they do. I don't think they do. I mean, you can if you look at the I I never even worried about it, but if you look at the the the labels on the the canister that would tell you good memories when I was younger much. Yeah, I'm super proud of him. you know, whether regardless how he places because, you know, he's got no control over who else shows up, how they look. He might be the only one in his class. There might be tons of people. You never know. Um, but that the things you can control, he controlled. He dieted. He got in shape. He's been working hard on his posing. He's going to have really good presentation, really good condition, and that's it. That's that's it. Cool. So, you're sitting here. Wish you best luck. Here's all you want. Yeah, absolutely. first wedding. Yeah, we're not talking about weddings now. Carb up, Cody. So, I'm just gonna have him eat a little bit more carbs over the next couple days because we didn't deplete. I don't believe in depleting and loading. Uh especially when he's already depleted. He's been dieting all these months and stuff. I didn't want to do that to him. It didn't make sense. But he's just going to eat up a little bit more carbs. Uh tomorrow's his last training day. He's just going to do a little bit for every upper body muscle. Last leg workout was a few days ago. That was Monday, I think. Yep. And um yeah, that should be enough just to fill them out a little. You know, I don't I don't believe in these voodoo tactics to try to radically, you know, you're not going to turn into Phil Heath the last few days by eating some more potatoes or Pop-Tarts or whatever. It's your physique is what it is. You if you've prepared, I don't want to do anything drastic to to take the chance of spilling over and, you know, ruining the the the tight crisp look that he has now. Uh just playing it safe. Yes, I'm his prep coach, Jack, obviously. Who's your son's favorite bodybuilding physique ever? I don't really I don't really have one. He's not really a bodybuilding fan. I hate to A Goku. I don't know. He's He's never touched a drug or and he's not on TRT. Jack doing He does. Jack Jack's like my biggest troll. Oh, yeah. Hilarious. It's always It's always in all caps. Yeah. Anyway, uh no drugs. I'm high off life. He's high off life. Yeah, he's no drugs, not even any recreational drugs. So, uh I think I'm going to I'm going to end it here because I told him we'd keep it short and uh we have stuff to do. So, appreciate you guys dropping by. We're going to do uh some footage. I'll take some video and take a lot of pictures on Sunday, his first show, and then he's doing another show that Saturday. So, really proud of him, really rooting for him. I'm his coach. I'll be backstage and uh it's it's going to be a good time. So, thanks everybody for watching. Peace out.