Hey, what's up everybody? Ron Harris here. Today I'm sitting down with my son Christian. We're going to talk about his first bodybuilding competition that he did this Sunday. Before we get started, I want to remind you that tonight at 7 o'clock, I will be talking live here on this channel with Michael Kzin aka Creo, the big man from Slovakia. He's going to have a translator with him. You'll be able to ask your questions live tonight. So again, that's 7 PM tonight live with Creo in Pittsburgh on this channel. So, uh, first of all, Christian, uh, my son, he started prepping back in early October. I mean, it was like end of September, all of October. Okay. I'm going to put up the, uh, Facebook the Facebook stuff here. Yeah. While we're doing it, so it was a very, very long prep. You were about 165 when you started, correct? Something like that. And you ended up at 131 on contest day. Yeah. Yeah. So, he lost a lot of weight. Uh, I knew he wasn't going to have a ton of muscle. So, the two things we really focused on were conditioning and presentation, and I I think he did a great job of that. So, just going to run through some of these. Uh, you know, you were super nervous, I know, but uh you once you actually got on stage and everything, were you nervous? Um, not really. No. Yeah. The work had been done, right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think this picture says it all. That the confidence you had up there. You look you look like you'd been up there doing this for years and years. And that was my goal. I wanted it I wanted you to look really comfortable and confident up there. So, you know, a lot of people they're they're scared shitless up there. And you were you were scared going into it, right? Yeah. I mean, what was what were your main fears? I don't know. Just being like tiny and judged upon. Yeah, I guess that's it. Yeah. So, I mean, this was a natural organization and I I didn't see anybody that I thought looked suspicious. I think they were legit with the polygraph results and all that and everybody looked like they were legitimately 100% natural. So, you know, you weren't really that out of place at all. I don't think you were There were people that were bigger than you, but you know, here's here's the first class. It was three guys. Guy in the middle. He won this and he won the bodybuilding novice. And I think he ended up getting his natural pro card that day if I'm not mistaken. Yeah. If you win your debut. Yeah. Yeah. So, and the the the gentleman on the left, I don't know his name, he was second place. He definitely had size on Christian. Uh a lot of size. I'm not I'm not doubting that. I can't even say that I'm not biased because I am his dad. So, I I had him second because he was a lot leaner um than this guy was. I wish I knew the gentleman's name. Uh he was leaner and he had much better color. This this guy had he could have used a lot darker color. You can see the winner and Christian here. Oh, the winner's name was Zach, wasn't it? I think he said his name was Zack. Was it? Was Jake. Jake. Jake. I think Jake. It was his first show, too. He was, I think, 27 or 28. U, they both had really dark tans from the spray tanning and stuff. So, you know, again, I'm his dad. I'm going to be biased. But, uh, I thought he posed like a champ up there. I was, uh, I was very, very pleased with your performance. You know, you didn't you didn't slip up. You practiced. How much talk talk a little bit about how much you posed, how much pra posing practice you've been doing. I mean, literally like if I had like if there was free space in the studio at our gym, I would do like 10 minutes there and then every time after I showered, I'd spend like 15 20 minutes. Yeah. So, it was pretty much an everyday thing. Half hour or 45 minutes a day. Um, did the routine many, many times. Uh, we'll show the routine eventually. uh the back shots. You know, I I told Christian, you know, moving forward competing and getting lean and dieting, one of the main benefits is if you're always in a permanent gaining slashbulking mode, your body gets accustomed to all the extra calories and the not doing a lot of cardio, you're going to stagnate. You're going to plateau. You're not going to make a lot of gains. people who compete and go through that process where you're in a caloric deficit for a very long time, for months, and where you're doing all this extra cardio. Then you switch back, which you'll be doing next week, to an offseason mode again, for the first time since last summer, really late last summer. You know, you're finally going to make some gains. Yeah, he definitely needs to make gains. I'll delete any comments that that make fun of him, but he knows he knows and I know he needs uh more more muscle mass. He is 100% drug-free and he also has ulcerative colitis which is a form of Crohn's disease lesions inside your colon. How does that affect your digestion, your your day-to-day? I think you got a good handle on it, but still I I I you know, your mother and I both think you'd be further along in terms of gains. You just don't even like you don't get as much out of food as you normally would. Like you have to eat way more just to get like from a normal portion. Yeah. I don't think your body absorbs and assimilates the nutrients as well as people with a healthier digestive tract would. So yeah, I took a lot of a lot of pictures. It's a good thing because his mom took the video of the judging, but it's it's horrific. She's got she's got a newer iPhone than me. I don't even understand it. Uh but yeah, this was the OCB Spirit of America, his first show. I think that's his best shot. Uh you know, he's not my clone, but I do see some things. The traps look like my traps. The chest definitely looks like my chest. The quads, he has the same sweep to the quads that I have. Uh, a much smaller waist than I ever had. I showed him a picture that I have on my bullet. Oh, did I not put it back up? I guess I for when I was getting ready for my first show. Okay. Uh, my waist even when I was much much smaller because I competed my first show 5'8 and about 150 and I wasn't super lean. neck should have been leaner, but my waist was m my midsection in general was much thicker than what you're seeing here on Christian. But yeah, that's that's the shot. This is my picture. The one I used for the thumbnail was taken by his friend AJ who he was seated got it from a little different angle. I like his picture better. That's why he's That's AJ's picture right there. It is more like diagonal from me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh here's a routine. Let's Let's I have to turn the music off or else I'm going to get hit with a copyright strike from YouTube. I forgot about that for a second. Yeah. So, we should have edited that a little better, but here we go. Here's the start. I know you can't hear the music, but uh just imagine it's What's the name of the song? It's It's Bury the Light from Devil May Cry. Yeah, it's from a video game. Christian's a gamer. He loves his video games. His computer's out of commission right now. Oh wow. He needs to take care of that once the show's over. So yeah, I mean I you worked hard. You put this routine together by yourself. I made suggestions. I did helped you make a couple tweaks, but Christian made this routine himself. And I think he did a damn good job. I think uh you know, like me, he's got a knack for posing. And uh you know, I would have just tried to make him pose exactly like I pose, which as our gym owner was pointing out to him yesterday, it doesn't work for everybody. Everybody shouldn't have the same posing style. So that's how you end. You always got to end with a crab, guys. Always got to end with a crab. So that was it. Peace out. So there are the awards. Got a nice nice medal for both. This guy got a trophy with a little eagle flying on it. Spirit of America. Yep. And yeah, like I said, I know I shouldn't have even said anything on the com on on the thing about, you know, I had him in second, but he's my son, so am I biased? Yeah, probably. But yeah, third in this division. He did uh this was so that one was bodybuilder like a first timers. This was just novice. Yeah. So he got third out of fourth in that one. So he beat somebody. These were all his friends. friends all came out to support him, which I thought was really cool because this was a it was a good hour drive down to Cape Cod, a city town, whatever, called Mash Peak, and they all these people are all, you know, in our area, Southshore for the most part, right? Yeah. Uh they all they all made the trip for him. So appreciated them coming out to support him. This was a Cheesecake Factory. That's what he was dreaming of for his cheat meal after the show was cheesecake. Yep. Got his slab of Oreo cheesecake. How'd that cheesecake taste? It was pretty good. The chocolate was a bit too like overwhelming. I couldn't even finish the whole thing cuz you hadn't had junk food since like last September, right? Yeah. Yeah. Like I said, it's I I tried to prepare them as much as I could and saying, you know, once you get these these cheat meals after the show, they sit in your stomach like like lead because you haven't had quote unquote bad food for so long. It almost feels like you ate poison. your body you just feel you don't feel good. It tastes good while you're eating it, right? I mean, yeah. I wasn't hungry for like nine hours afterwards. It's like waiting and waiting for this kid to get hungry and eat again after that. We went directly from here to awake and you know, I thought he was going to have to stop for food at some point. Nope. No, you didn't eat until So, this was like uh this was around 1:00. It was like noon. I think we left around 1. You didn't eat again until like 9:00 at night. Yeah. Yeah. So, he wasn't wasn't hungry. Uh judging judging your footage. It's so bad. No, don't even bother. It's Don't even Okay. No, you can't see any detail. It's like Yeah, I don't understand cuz I have a 13 Pro. Janet's got a 14. She was sitting right next to me. She recorded with a potato. Yeah, this looks like an iPhone 2. Looks awful. Like 8 bit. It's horrible. I don't know why it came out so bad. So, you can't even really get a sense of anyone's condition or now I'm like the stick figures going off on going off. Why? She should have stayed zoomed in. I don't understand what she was going for. Whatever. She's not a photographer. You know, I I was a film major. I took photography. I worked in television production. Uh, you know, I've shot a lot of videos, training videos for MD, so I have a pretty good sense of how to shoot these things. And Janet N, she's got many other skills that I don't have. It's like the one the one thing I'm better at her. Not many things I'm better at than she is, but that's one of them. All right, so let's stop that screen, take some comments. Congratulations to your son. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Raymond. Appreciate it. You sent me some physique updates after my contest this past weekend. I didn't get those. Maybe they're in my spam or something. Yeah, I didn't see that. Amazing. Great. Your mom's flip-flop. He's a You're I believe he's AI think you said you're 17 or 18. You're in Germany and your avatar is a flip-flop. It's your mom's flip-flop. So, he's competing again this Saturday, same day as a Pittsburgh Pro at uh a show called the NPC Natural Massachusetts. It's the first time they're holding this competition. So, I don't know what the turnout's going to be like. And of course, um I'm sure all the NPC officials and judges who were at that show were probably wish they were in Pittsburgh because that's that's like their that's a big big deal. It's the first time they're having men's open. It's going to be an expo. Um 17. Enjoy your youth, kid. Goes by fast. It goes by fast. Um so yeah, Saturday is going to be a different show. He's going to be doing at this OCB show. You couldn't do two divisions. You couldn't do bodybuilding classic. You can do multiple divisions. Like he did two divisions in bodybuilding. He could have even done open bodybuilding if he'd want to, but Well, I think you could because the kid that won in the teen uh for open bodybuilding, he's the one that won the entire classic physique. Oh, so they let him they let him cross over. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that short kid that was bit like a [\h__\h] a [\h__\h] house. Yeah, he was he was good. No, the kid that shorter kid didn't win. The one with the like the weird looking green tan. It was the one that was a little bit taller. No, the one that was a little bit taller. Yeah, but they're both on the shorter side is what I mean. Right. Right. Right. Bodybuilders tend to be tend to be shorter. So, uh, at this one he's going to be doing open bodybuilding bantamweight because he is under 143 and a quarter pounds. I don't anticipate a ton of competition in that class. I mean, I hope so. It's rare ever to see anyone at my size. Yeah. I mean, bantamweights tend to be shorter guys, like way shorter than you. Yeah. Yeah, the good ones at like the national level, they tend to be like 51 to 53 the bantamweights. Um because you know they're 143 pounds and under. But uh so he's doing open vante bodybuilding Saturday at the NPC natural mass and he's also doing classic physique true novice which is a division for the very first time you compete in the NPC. So Saturday will be his first NPC show. This is a drug tested show. He just had to send in his entry or not his entry his uh his polygraph form and you're gonna schedule that. It's pretty it's pretty far away. Congrats sir and son leg passing. Yeah. I mean I I never pushed this on him but he saw me in competing as a kid and my last competition was in 2013 when you were only 13. Yeah. Yeah. You were like that. So um you know he saw me toward the end of my career. He went to a couple of my shows, I think, didn't he? Yeah. Yeah. He didn't go to the last two because they were out of state. They were uh New Jersey and um Pittsburgh. My last show I ever did was in Pittsburgh. And uh you know, he didn't like training in the beginning. He hated it. But I I made him train. I said, "You don't have to be a bodybuilder. You do have to exercise." Like I made him do martial arts until he got his black belt. Got that. He promptly quit the next day after he got his black belt. I think that day he quit. Well, I got like the third degree black belt. It wasn't Was it just the black belt? Okay. Sorry. Taekwondo. If you want to know what style. Yeah. Bruce Lee style was the auto of fighting without fighting. It's from Enter the Dragon. Okay. But uh but then he he started I think I started dragging in the gym at 12 13. Yeah. Early. It was early like before middle school. He did not like it. Um when did how old do you think you were when you actually enjoyed training? Started to enjoy it, I should say. 14 maybe. Okay. All right. And by the time he was like in college, he really really liked it. Um, and that's where he finally started, you know, feeling like a bodybuilder, I guess, you know. Yeah. Didn't really start eating like a bodybuilder until when, would you say? Uh, 20 till he 20 years old. He's 20. He's 25 now. Okay. Where else off? Thanks. You found out I got Oh, boy. Water intake said going every half hour is pretty bad. Yeah, I I said get that checked out. I'm glad you because that's a simple I think they just put you on an antibiotic for a urinary tract infection. Clears it right up. Oh yeah. So happy to help, man. Happy to help. Thank you for the uh two pounds. Two and a half two and a half pounds. Is that what that is? Or is it euros? Euros, I guess. Thank you. One or the other. Appreciate it, man. Appreciate everything. Yeah. Congrats Leon passing a legacy. Yeah. He's You must be so sick of hearing you're so lucky to have an impair coach because you know we go to a gym with a lot of bodybuilders and older people, younger people. It's a good mix. But you know, every time like I'm training with him or I'm training him, somebody will end up like come up like, "Oh, listen to your dad. Your dad's Christian like yeah, whatever, dude." Good style parenting. Christian do stuff your parents do. Well, I mean, everybody should make their kid exercise in some way. Doesn't matter what form of exercise it is. It's as as they have to be physically active. I I think it's a form of child neglect or child abuse if you let your kid be totally inactive. Just like play video games, watch TV, and just stuff their face. Like, you know, I'm 55. I can remember when I was a kid, I'm going to say fat. The word fat is not a bad word to me. It's just a word. We we would have like one or two fat kids in our whole grade at school back in the old days. Like one or two. I'm serious. Everyone else was like normal or skinny. Regular or skinny size. And then now I think it's like half the kids are overweight or more. So euros. Thank you, man. Appreciate the euros. How tall do you think you are, Christian? 57 and a half. Yeah. So we're the same height. I was 5'8, 5'8 and a quarter maybe, but I've shrunk. You know, hopefully you'll you'll stay this height for quite a long time. Think we could see Sam's versus Keon guest posing. Oh, talking about the Pittsburgh. Yeah, I would I would say so. Is Keon going to that? I'm not even sure. Yeah, unfortunately I'm not going to be covering the Pittsburgh Pro. I couldn't do a watch party anyway because it's a it's a pay-per-view. Remember like a week or two ago, everyone's freaking out. They're not going to have a live stream. I said, "Relax. Pittsburgh Pro is gonna have a live stream. You think they're not going to have a live stream for Pittsburgh Pro? They're going to. It's It's" And I said, "It'll be Gilko, the best in the game." And sure enough, Gilko Productions is doing the live stream for Pittsburgh. I'll be busy coaching Junior here, so I will miss it. I wasn't I probably wasn't going to get the pay-per-view anyway. I was gonna probably was going to wait. Uh what else? General take on who will win? Derek Lensford. So, uh I'll be doing uh our final preview. Giles and I Giles Thomas will be doing our power hour final preview Thursday. Would have done it tomorrow, but my wife I need to help bring her she needs to drop her car off and couple it didn't work out. So, we're doing it Thursday. That'll be out Thursday. Again, I want to remind you tonight at 7 gonna have Krezo on. Creo live interview from his hotel room in Pittsburgh with a translator because I don't speak Slovakian and he doesn't speak English. Uh, what does your son do? Uh, just work and work out. So, he works at Costco in the meat department. Um, he does have he took the civil serv service servant. Civil service exam for environmental police officer. I passed and then they did a freeze on hiring. Yeah. Trump Trump is not environmentally friendly. Um, you know, he's got some policies I agree with them things and some things and I'm like, ah, and he screwed he screwed over anyone that wanted to be like a park ranger. He cut all those jobs and programs. He doesn't care about the environment. He's going to be drilling for oil like crazy and letting the companies pollute and whatever. But, uh, yeah, say love. But I mean, he does. Yeah, we talked I think his sister was talking to him a couple nights ago about at least volunteering at We got We have zoos locally. Yeah. I just had to wait till all this prep stuff was done to think about like switching paths. Yeah. Because he has a degree in wildlife conservation. Yeah. Yeah. So, he went to school for four years. UMass uh UMA for two years and one year one year, sorry. and then three years at UMass Amherst and the last semester of Amherst was uh semester abroad in University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia. So he spent five months in Brisbane. Yeah. Had a good had a good time with He's 25 years old. I know he doesn't look it but uh you know I used to be I looked very young for my age and it used to bother me until I got older and they're like, "Oh, I'm glad I look young. You know, I know I don't look like I'm 30 or anything, but I don't think I look like I'm almost 56." So, you know, it has its benefits. So, we'll continue competing in the future. Yeah. I I said two things will happen when you compete. You're either going to say, "This is awesome. I can't wait to do this again." Or, "Eh, that was interesting, but I don't need to do this ever again." Have you figured that out yet? I mean, I want to do it again. I just want to make a big change. Yeah. He won't compete again until he's made drastic improvements to his physique. He's got a stage weight of about 131 pounds, I think. It's got to be like way more than that. Yeah. I mean, he's well aware that he needs size. I'm aware. He's aware. We're well aware that he needs more muscle mass. He's got a good frame. He's got wide shoulders. He's got a tiny waist. I think your waist when you sucked it in was probably like a 25 and a half on show day. Yeah. 25 and a half inch waist sucked in. When he blows it out like a tries to make a gut, it's like 28 inches. Yeah. So, I never had a 28 inch waist in my life. Maybe when I was like 10 years old or something. So, the frames there. He just needs to add muscle mass. So that's going to be he's not going to be on stage again for for at least a year. Probably we're looking at more like two to three years. Yeah. You know, he's there's no rush. He's already in the men's class. He's not a teenager. He's not a junior. So there's no rush anymore. Trump is going to wreck your country and also the world. Well, maybe. Yeah. I mean, I wouldn't, you know, don't want to get into it. It is what it is. He's our president for the next almost four years now, so we got to suck it up. thoughts on getting on the sauce right? Uh, no, not on the sauce, but uh, I do want to have his blood checked, his blood work, his labs, and see where his test is at because I don't know if it's optimal. And obviously, if he goes on TRT, which would be legitimate through Frontline Alternative, the same same company I use out of Texas, a clinic, they're a legit clinic accredited with physicians that you do consults with. That's that's who Ronnie Coleman does his TRT through. They're legit. They don't give you, you know, trend and stuff like that. They just give you whatever you what you legitimately need to put you in a high normal level. They don't they don't put you in the what we call super physiological levels that a bodybuilder and enhanced bodybuilder would use. But I I do want to see where his levels are at because if they're low uh and if we can optimize them, he would not be eligible for drug tested shows anymore. But, you know, big deal. Um oh well, he's not making a career out of this. This isn't, you know, we're realistic. He doesn't have the potential to be a pro bodybuilder. I was pretty good. I didn't I could have probably turned pro in a very very fortunate situation. If I got very lucky, I would have been a [\h__\h] pro. Absolute [\h__\h] as a pro. Um and he's he doesn't have those genetics. He's he's a step below me. Yeah. So, he's doing this for his own satisfaction, challenging himself. He's having fun with it. You know, it's you against you. I said, we're going to prepare you the best we can. Then the rest is up to fate. We don't know who else is going to show up what they're going to look like. You never do. You can just prepare the best you did. And he did. He didn't cheat on his diet once. Didn't skip one cardio. Posed religiously. You know, I'm very proud of of how hard he's worked for this gets girls. What do you take into gear? That's what everyone wants to know. If he takes gear, it's it's not going to be for a couple years. I'd have to be like 30. I mean, he's 25 now. He's thinking like 30. I was 27. I had just turned 27 a couple months before I started gear. He's 25 now. And I had been competing since I was 19. So, uh, yeah, I had been doing and I've been training since I was 13, 14. So, I had a very, very good natural base. Uh, I had maxed out or close to maxed out my natural potential. I think he's still got some growing to do. I think he can put on our gym owner doesn't think he came out with this nine pounds like 9 to 10 lbs maybe. That's all I got left. I think he's got between 10 possibly closer to 20 before he's completely maxed out naturally in muscle mass. That That's my belief anyway. You follow natural bodybuilding. He doesn't cover any He doesn't follow any bodybuilding. I saw I mean I saw people saying like uh talking about Kevin Leone being like oh you you'll [\h__\h] on Will Tennyson but not this kid and I was like who's Will Tennyson? So I looked into it like this 30-year-old who just won the show. He looked great. I think they're asking if if I I don't really follow Natural Body either. I mean he's more of an influencer, isn't he? I think he was. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, Congrats to him. No, I don't plan to cover it. I mean, it's a small channel I have here and to get views, I have to cut focus on the big names. Like when I have someone like a Shawn Ray or a Lee Priest, uh, that's when I get views. Creo tonight, I'll get some I'll get some eyes on that. Uh, I'm going to be talking to Dorian Yates next week. So, I know Will Tennyson has, but I don't want to just jump on the bandwagon like like I've been following pretend like I've been following this guy. Like, I didn't make one video about Wes Watson, not one. Um, even though everyone else did because I knew nothing about the guy. I didn't follow him. I was aware. I was only aware of him once people started making fun of him, making videos about him, so I didn't jump on that bandwagon. Low body fat will wreck his test at that level. Hope it won't be too bad. Yeah. I mean, I've seen studies where natural bodybuilders uh when they diet down to contest condition, their testosterone goes in the [\h__\h] So, we'll probably wait a couple weeks before he gets his blood work after the show. I mean, so it can back get back to some more stable. I don't want it to look abnormally low like he's got no test. I want to see what it's really at because we're not he's not going to go on TRT if he doesn't need it. But if if he does need it to get to high normal levels, I have no problem with that. He doesn't have a problem with that. Hyperresponder on TRT. I blew up off 200 week. We'll see. Yeah, we'll see. I mean, we're not there yet, but that that would be exciting if he could. You know, I I see how hard he works. He trains hard. He eats his food five meals a day religiously. Drinks his shakes. It it sort of it it I don't want to say it breaks my heart. That sounds like it's a tragic thing, but I I hate to see him work so hard and getting so little in return for it. Um he should be he should be bigger than he is because he puts the work in. He really does. You know, he doesn't train like a puss. He squats, he presses, he rows, he chins, he does dips, he works hard in the gym. Um and I'd like to see him get some some better results from Does he eat enough? He eats five meals, five solid meals a day in a shake. Um, he's obviously been lower calories for this diet, but you know, I've been putting in the work. It just it just my body just doesn't really respond the way it should. I I think the combination of the colitis, the ulcerative colitis, and you know, when he got his testosterone tested last time, it didn't we didn't get the free testosterone tested, which was a mistake because the total doesn't give you the whole picture, but the total was 500, which isn't low, but for a 25-year-old guy, to me, that doesn't that's not sufficient. I mean, I I am certain when I was his age, my test was at least twice that naturally. Becky D'vorst from Sto. Well, I don't think she lives in Stoton, but she's uh from the old gold gym in Stoton 247. Will TS hilarious videos, dry humor. Yeah, there's a lot of great content out there. I just I'm focused on making my own. If you're a pegging enthusiast, Peg Watson. No, I I actually saw Wes because I spent um I spent 10 days or a week or 10 days down in Miami visiting my wife and I went to visit our daughter for uh Christmas and New Year's and uh Will was at that gym, Elevation Fitness in Miami. So, I saw him a couple times and I I missed that whole fight that he's being char he's being prosecuted about right now. Uh, I was there that day earlier in the day and I think I missed that whole beatdown with West Beat and his friends beat this guy badly by about an hour. I was bummed. Christian James Gary know from uh Bayore Athletic Club. Yeah, it's our gym. Behore Brain Tree Mass. Christian does a great job gym training. He's like see James was in there a couple weeks ago. I saw him training with his son. Son's a little younger. I think he's like 14 or 15. 14. Younger than that. You think he does not eat enough? I mean, you're basing that on his size, I guess, but yeah, you don't know what I do. I'm sorry. He eats quite a bit. He should be eating six meals or get on a gainer. I mean, I don't want to put on put on fat. He did bulk up to 170 at your high point, right? Yeah, but it was like, no, didn't look good on me. I mean, weight by itself, if it's if it's fat, what's the point if you're just going to get fat? Uh, I I'd like to see him put on quality masks and hold some kind of condition where at least you can see some blurry abs. When I see people with say they're bulking and they have like a double chin and you could grab big hunks of love handles on the side that, you know, like a gut big that that's gone too far. That's not quality. Because when you when you diet down, you're going to think you were a lot bigger than you were. And then once you get lean, you're going to, oh [\h__\h] that wasn't even muscle. That was all fat. It was an illusion. I was just a slob. Uh, says 13. Thanks James. I knew he was somewhere around that age. Not be bro before and after effect happened. You look cool or younger. Uh did you ever tell story picture frames behind you? It would be interesting. Oh, I mean you know just the one you see the black and white one there that's P Bernol uh portrait he did with me and my wife for a photo shoot one time. This one over my thumb that was a page from Iron Man magazine. Uh I had AI had a lot of pictures in Iron Man. I probably had a thousand pictures over the years in Iron Man, but I was a writer for them, so I had an inside. Uh, that is uh Daryl Dixon. That's a painting that my friend Giles from UK sent to me. The Exorcist. I had another one that fell. I'm not going to get it. It was another picture. Who cares? It's like you're wrong. He's Oh, he's definitely my son. My kids look a lot like me. I mean, with the tan, he's still got the the tan hasn't washed off. He finally looks a little more Latino because he is half Cuban. Yeah. Janet's my wife's 100% Cuban. Uh so him and his sister are both half Cuban, but you know, most people don't realize that because uh I guess the whitey the whitey jeans dominated or something. Yep. Looks like Yeah. Well, we both have short hair. Uh late question, you know, Chad, if you would ever go hands, you're trying to go as far as poss. Yeah, we just actually talked about this a couple minutes ago, but he's he wants to keep going natural and and uh you know, reach his natural limit, legitimately reach say this is as far as I can go naturally. And I don't believe he's anywhere near there yet. I think he's got 10 possibly 20 more pounds that he can put on before he even thinks about going on anything. He just talked about he's 25. I know he looks younger, but he's he just talked about an age he might think about going in hands would be like 30, which you know, most people don't wait that long. Uh I was 27. I just said when I started I uh and that's younger than a lot of people. I know there's like 15 16 year olds on trend right now. But uh he's going to wait. He's going to max out max out his natural gains and work hard that way. So great. Did a fantastic job. Thank you bipolar mom and criminologist. It's great combination, wouldn't you say? So he's got to get to the gym. He's got two more workouts for this week. Uh he did legs yesterday, his final leg workout before the show. Today I have him doing a full upper body, just a couple exercises for each body part, like three sets, just enough to keep the muscle full uh cardio today. Tomorrow's just cardio. Thursday will be another upper body circuit and cardio. Friday is a rest day, complete rest day, just work on the posing. He's going to get his spray tan again, polygraph. We'll see. And then Saturday he competes again, and then he's done competing for quite a long time. Yep. Uh there is a limit to natural. I mean, there is a limit. Maybe you haven't hit yours yet, and that's great. So, keep going until, you know, I'm not going to tell anybody to go on drugs. You know, it's your life. Natural is the way to go. You'll be healthier. I always say natural bodybuilding is a much healthier way to do it. There are healthier ways to go enhanced, but it's not as healthy as if you never used drugs. Anybody, you know, I I've used a ton of drugs in my life, a ton of steroids, and I would never say that uh they didn't they I they had no bad poor effects on me. I'm sure I'm sure I'm not going to live quite as long as I would have had I never touched a steroid. So, it is what it is. Got to get going. Okay, man. Thank you. Thanks for the uh the Euro tip. Appreciate that. Have a blessed day. You too. Most was epic. Thank you. All right. So, yeah, he's going to get going to the gym. And again, I'm going to leave you guys tonight. Another reminder at 7 o'clock tonight on this channel. I'm gonna have KZO, Michael Kzanek Creo, live from his hotel room in Pittsburgh with a translator. It's going to be an awesome interview. We're going to talk all about his shoulder injury rehab and how he thinks he's going to do in Pittsburgh. We'll we'll get to we'll take your questions. So, join us tonight, 7 PM, right here with KZO. And that's it. Thank you all so much for watching. See you later. Peace.