What's every What's up everybody? Welcome to Power Hour. I've had too much Celsius energy drink. Joining me this week filling in for Big Mike Cox. filling in. God, I I can't even, guys. I just had a surgery approved that I didn't think was going to be approved. My insurance company was denying me. Anyway, this is Power Hour. Big Mike Cox is filling in for Giles Thomas, who is arranging uh a huge tour with Ronnie Coleman. Followed immediately by another tour with Lee Priest. So, I need I needed another uh another meatthead with a with a great eye for physiques. Yes. Love you, Ron. Glad I could help, bro. So, uh let's We got three topics basically. Dubai I we we'll talk a little bit at the end about Beirus getting in and who knows if that's gonna happen but Nathan Dasha has sort of had a meltdown in the in the let's see uh how he looked getting his award as we could see here. So there's Mo Fod who was fifth place. I was very impressed with Mo honestly. Mo looked very good. Mo's got very very pleasing physique. Yeah. So he deserved I I think fifth place was a good call for him. They had him next to uh next to Baruse at one point in the judging though. So, I was thinking maybe they got him looking at him for a second. They were giving him They gave him a shot. He He was given his opportunity to I was kind of shocked that he was, you know, next to Beirus when it first came out. I thought, you know, Beirus, Nathan next to each other. So, here's Nathan getting his fourth place medal, and you can already see he's not pleased wiping he's I mean, he's at least he didn't like flip off the judges like Paula Burkham shot in 1992 with the New Classic. That was great. I was in the audience. It was awesome. That's a blast from the past. Yes. So, yeah. Sorry, but he had he didn't walk off, right? He didn't pull a hottie. That's true. That's true. So, uh I'm going to go to the clip because he actually did an interview yesterday with Matt Stinkerang and Chris Cormier. Matt does a real deal podcast on his channel with Chris Cormier every week and they were able to get Nathan on quickly like yesterday. Um and here's here's the intro to it. So listen to what Nathan had to say about, you know, he thought he should have won. Listen up. Like you should have won the show. Yeah, bro. Not just me. People in the industry who are eyes on there. I'll name them. Patrick Patrick Shaw, Amad Amadas, the the Italian guy who who have his athletes up there. Abdullah from Dungeon Gym. Many bro, many people up there should have fought. It should have been me Antonio for one and two. Then you put William next to Beirus who's big, blocky, was not in shape, bro. Yeah, William. He probably moan, but he wasn't in shape personally. Someone just wants to say it, man up and just say it. Every time I get judged, I get fourth. Every time, bro, go back to every pride show. I get fourth. Fourth. When you get judged, when you get judged, is it by judges? By Steve. And I'll say it now, bro, because end of the day, I got nothing to lose. you keep [\h__\h] me over anyway. Oh, I was on my ass. I couldn't barely walk to the toilet. I was pissing in bottles. I was I was physically [\h__\h] you know. I was fainting sometimes in the gym. So, I was I was on my ass. So, I knew I work for this, bro. End of the day, 2025 champ, Dubai Champs on your show. And that's how that's how should ended. I don't care for the money, but I care for the title and that's how I believe it should have ended. Me and Tonio one and two. Wow. Wow. Oh, damn. He just went scorch earth. I mean, man, he just did this to his career. You know, it's it's that's why they tell pro athletes to take a minute before you give your interview after a football game or a basketball game or even after a bottle show, get some fat, get some water, let it calm down a little bit, right? because you don't these these words are out here forever. It's one thing to [\h__\h] in your room to your homies, but you're doing this and I was watching that and I was watching premiere and every now and then you would try to kind of interject a little bit, but at the same time, Ron, it's entertaining, right? Bodybuilding isn't like boxing or MMA where you're going to kick somebody's ass. Yeah. This stuff gets clicks and this is the age we're in. Like it gets attention and you don't want to call out Steve of all people, dude. Dude, really? I mean, God, like he's in front of Steve Weinberger like in any capacity, Steve is gonna light his ass up. And we you it's just listen, every now and then, man, you got you got to take your ass kicking, right? Nathan might just got to take this ass ass kicking from Steve. It's just because you It's one thing to give your opinion. It's what to to make accus acc accusations and stuff. It's not it's it's another thing. Now, the whole bone act with a business partner, I don't know anything about that. I'm not that deep in the game. I don't know if that's true or I don't know. But it's a subjective sport, man. Like, to be honest, dude, Nathan was humongous, but I don't think he was as conditioned as Be Ruse. He had a fuller look, but Beer Ruse was was a lot leaner. I personally thought Antonio looked the best. Yeah. Yeah, but it's just that's why we have so many judges and I don't listen, I don't think any kind of anything weird went on. I was shocked, you know, when you were doing your your show here, I did comment. I was like, why is Nathan so far away from Beirus, right? You would assume and I guess I think they did put him together, but holy [\h__\h] man. He went off. But to say that Beirus wasn't in shape, come on, dude. Really? You know what, too, Ron? Be Ruse's color. I look at the somebody posted a picture on Facebook, right, from last year and this year. He was a lot darker last year. Um, I don't know, man. But the dude, the dude's very impressive. It was maybe wasn't his best look, but he wasn't like fat, right? He the balance isn't the best, but I thought Be Ruse was still the best on that day and he was he is probably in the best condition and in better condition than Nathan was. It's just it's a subjective sport, but don't name names, man. You can [\h__\h] all you want, but don't don't of all the people to name, right? Like that's just that's like making a threat against the president. The the Secret Service is going to come talk to you. Yeah. That's like yelling uh bomb as you're getting on an airplane. Yeah, man. There's certain there's certain things you just don't do. So here's you know Instagram stories are only 24 hours but we all have screenshot abilities and people screenshotted this and I saw it posted Nathan judging is so corrupt even at the even at the top even the best best of the best getting mugged off what I'm not sure what mugged off means like Zach jacked off I don't know British man or British thing if you have a voice or your tongue isn't up a judge's ass you get [\h__\h] wow dude damn maybe in 97 seven. Yeah. I mean, dude, the Listen, man. Even the Pittsburgh show that was it wasn't it wasn't a robbery. The judging obviously we've talked about this before. In the past few years, this has been spot on. Like, you can't you can't [\h__\h] about the judging, right? It's not like it was. It's not nobody's changing scores after the show's over with. You know, Wayne's not overseas doing shady [\h__\h] Like, it's fair. and Tyler goes online and says, "Here's what's going on." So, for you to make accusation about some shady [\h__\h] you you got to have some kind of First 48 type evidence, man, with some digital evidence, some phone, some, you know, proof because that's you that's a hell of an accusation to make, right? I mean, just look, he looks he looks good. I'm not I'm a fan of his physique. The guy he says he's got he's he's always gets fourth. has 12 pro wins. 12. So clearly there were 12 times when the judges looked at him and said, "This is the best guy on stage today and they gave him the title." But on this particular day, I don't know where would you have would you honestly have had him any higher than he was? No. Absolutely not. No. I listen I thought I would have had Tonio over Bonak, but I thought I thought from there on it was everything was fair. Dude, Chris Cormier placed second six years in a row at six years in a row. Right. I mean, like that's something that like kind of a few of those I'd be pissed off about. Right. But I don't think this was the best Nathan. It just it just wasn't, you know, in my opinion, right? Um but you can't just go off. Yeah, it's great. It's going to get attention, but it's going to get the wrong attention, too. This run, this is going to be everywhere. This is gonna be snipped and clipped and I'm sure Bob and Sean are gonna talk about it and everybody's have a have a say. Oh yeah, that's Yeah, boy. Well, this I mean this picture some pictures don't age well. This this one took like two days to not age well. So, you know what though, man? If you listen if he I don't know Nathan, but if you get out in front of this, right? Because you he said he's gonna do Portugal. I think Portugal, right, is the next show or it whatever. He should have done Italy. Okay. Um so I didn't watch the whole Muscle Discord interview. Did you? Yeah, I got watch. Yeah, he did. He said he's gonna skip this skip Italy, hang out with his kids, and do Portugal thing in two weeks. But who's judging Portugal? Well, the thing is I had heard I thought it was in the interview, but maybe it was off camera that he just assumed Beirus was also doing the Italy show and he was Did he say that in the interview? Yeah, he did. Yeah. Okay. So, that's why he didn't do it because he figured, well, they're just going to give it to him. So, he waited too long. He waited to see the list come out and then it's too late and he they they didn't give an exception. They won't let him compete in Italy because he missed the deadline. He would have won that show. That's that's no knock on that's Prey show. Prey and are the only two big names that I saw Rubiel and he'd beat both of those. I mean, he just beat Rubiel and he would he'd beat Prey. There's no no doubt in my mind. But now he messed up because he was worried about you know he was in his he's own in his own head thinking oh they they like uh Beir Rouge. They don't like me. Uh and you know now he that would have been a win for him. But God he looks good. He looks good but come on dude come on. Even listen, even if you even even if you play sport, right? Yeah. Just hit the diet hard. Go to Italy. Get E, it's it's a paycheck, right? And I'm I'm not in those guys heads. I'm not I'm not the one dieting. It's easy for me in Florida say, "Man, just hop on a plane and go to Italy and do a show. That simple. But you you're a competitor. You got 12 like 12 pro wins. You know, go ahead and fight him again. That'll make If Be Ruse was doing it, so what? It's competition, man. That's that's part of you want to beat the best guys there, right? I listen, there's a couple of shows where I thought I should have placed higher. Looking back at it, no, but when your friends say, "Oh, you got robbed, man. Oh, you should have beat that dude." Right. It gets in your head, but when you take a minute, you go, "Okay, he was better. I could see that. Let's just go back and do it over again." Oh, Mugged off. Thank you. Uh this is uh Xavier from Australia, which is uh they're not close to it. They they're descended from the British. Yes, they were British prisoners became Australians. Anyway, mugged off means dismissed basically. Oh, it's the same thing. They share some slang. They they call people [\h__\h] constantly. I know that. But uh if you're not dismissed, so okay, that explains it. Thank you, Xavier. Uh what is Nathan Noid about? He should retire. Uh 12 pro wins in what shows? He's won. They were all Oh, yeah. No, two Well, I saw him win New York Pro back in 17 or 18. I was at that show and then he went to Cali Pro the next weekend. He won that too. Back-to-back shows in the US and that was the last time I think he did the Olympia that year and that's the last time he's been in the US because he had, you know, like most a lot of bodybuilders, he had some legal issues with mailing some drugs to some guy who screwed him. Anyway, long it was it's it's cleared up in the courts years ago, but I think that's what's been holding him back from getting his visa. I mean, I'd love to see him at the Olympia. We'd all love to see him. We want to see all the best guys in the Olympia. He did say, Ron, in in in that interview that he he could come here, but he chose not to, but he did he did mention he wants to do the Arnold Columbus and kind of go out from there. He said earlier in the year, he said like last December that Arnold had got him a visa. Arnold's team had personally secured him a visa or something and he was going to be at this Arnold that we had back in March, but obviously he wasn't there. So I don't know. It's it sucks man because I mean I get the whole whatever visa whatever but I think when in athletics and even though bodybuild is not it's not soccer it's not baseball it's not basketball but it is a sport where you have international athletes that kind of transcend political [\h__\h] Yeah. Right. It should be a way for these guys for Beirus and Hottie, right? To even listen, just to be a first of all be able to get out, but to be able to compete here with the best of the best cuz listen, I don't think hottie's a threat. I don't think Bray Roose is a threat, right? But it's just they get caught up in this climate. But like you want all these guys. Can you imagine if Beirus, Hottie, Nathan, Derek, Samson, Andrew are all at the Olympia with Martin? That's just insanity, right? That's just And we haven't had that in years, bro. Like, unless they move this Olympia to to, you know, overseas, which What do you think about that? Cuz that people kept bringing that up in my live is, you know, why does it always have to be in the USA? Because you and I both remember it would be in the US one year they would alternate US usually Europe because you know we both remember uh Italy go Sweden all over the place Belgium look Dubai you know the women the women though can the are the women able can can you would wellness girls be okay in Dubai in the Middle East that that seems to be a matter of uh contention here because I said I said I don't think they can they can have female divisions. That's why they didn't have any women's divisions. Someone else said, "Oh, they have bikini stuff in Dubai." And I don't know. It's it's still a Muslim country. You know, they have skyscrapers and Bugattis, but that doesn't mean No, they don't follow the rules as the other countries is. From what I've read, it's still it's very safe and but it's still it's still a very strict comp. It's maybe a little more lax, but that whole logistically, man, because it's so big now, that's that's got to be hard, right? Um, but it's got to be hard to get to United States, too, right? For for people over Australia, Brazil, it's it's but I think it would add a little more excitement um knowing that's going to be some for those fans. Can you imagine the Olympics in England, right? Like or Germany, you know, or even like Dubai. It's just it would add a little more excitement to it. Um I'm I would love it to tell you the truth. I would listen I would love to have a show to where we're we're in bed at 10 o'clock. You know, we're not Would you Are you going to go to Dubai if it's in Dubai, though? Come on, dude. No, that's that's what I'm saying. I mean, I don't you know, tons of people are the Olympia is an international thing. People come from all over the world to spectate, to compete in it. But I don't know if it would hurt I don't know how many people would make their way over to Dubai, honestly. Even Europeans, that's not close to Europe. They have a they have a a ways to travel to get there, too. That's Yeah. Eight hour flight from England. I mean, even if you put it maybe I think I would think Germany would be at more of a hot bed for bodybuilding, right? You know, it always has been. So, maybe bring it back to, you know, Germany, you know, the fans go crazy and but it's just I don't know, man. Like, I guess now with with Vegas, they have that whole it's the atmosphere like the prize fight UFC and it's it's I don't know, man. Vegas is easy to get to for internationally. I don't know internationally, but yeah. Um it's just it's I don't know. It I would love to see that. I just want to I for me it's more of seeing guys that we that can't get here, right? I mean, realistically, who can't get here? It's it's only a few countries, right, that have issues. It's it's, you know, whoever we happen to be not on great terms with. Like right now, exactly. I can't every time I look at the news either the ceasefire is the war is over the war's going every change every hour but clearly some shit's still going down between Iran Iran and Israel are are still at war with each other right uh Trump Trump can't make everybody do what he wants them to do unfortunately by just saying cut it out guys stop it stop fighting but Trump impersonation are the fight even can can people even get out of like get back to over Middle East I mean some of those guys are still stuck in Dubai. I heard that the airspace is closed because so anyone that's didn't anyone that went to the Dubai show like Beirus and there was some other there was I I looked at the competitor lists there's probably a good 15 or 20 people from there. I think they're stuck there for the duration. I don't know. Can you take a bus back into Iran? I don't know because there's a ton of people that they must have had later flights later in the week and they never made it over. Like someone said, "Oh yeah, Beirus's uncle or cousin was supposed to compete another Tobani and he didn't make it." And a bunch of people. I'm looking at the competitor list as I'm trying to figure out who's who and I said, "This is so and so from Iran." And then it wasn't. I'm like, "Oh no, this must be so and so from somewhere else." Because that and that that's what happened. A bunch of them didn't make it. Yeah. And I think King Kamali had somebody that that wanted to compete. He had a client that was going to compete that couldn't make it either. So I don't know, man. It's it's like that kind of thing. It's just the closer we get to the Olympia certain you wonder how those guys in the Middle East, Andrew's out there, right? He's in Dubai. I'm not sure where he's at. So, you wonder how logistically that's going to affect some of these guys. And you know, Right. Can you imagine dieting for a show and not knowing if you're going to do the show, not knowing if you can get there. Be the last three Olympias, didn't he? I at least two. Was it two or three? Two. Yeah. It's been at least two Olympias that he's prepped and prepped and didn't find out until like the last week that he wasn't getting his visa. God, that's awesome. I can't I can't in my head think about being on low carbs and jabbing my delt multiple times and like not coming doing the show, you know? So, God bless him. Like, you know, miracles happen, you know what I mean? Like, you never know. Maybe something can be done, but I don't know, man. It just I want to see every one of those guys at the Olympia. Yeah. So, let's wrap up uh the Nathan part of the part of the hour. It's, you know, I I'm a fan of the guy, but he really he doesn't have anyone around him to say don't I wouldn't post anything like that yet. Just give it, you know, he he's a hotthead. He's got a temper and he ran right to social media and said some things that I'm sure eventually he's probably going to regret. You know, I know he's always been outspoken. He's never been one to like just take it take it quietly, take his but I just think this time it was it was a little much and he comes across comes across like a sore loser. And you you you can't bite the hand that feeds you, man. He we all know how this game works. Like we all know. So listen, if you get fourth in Portugal, you can't be pissed off, right? Like you got to just eat take a bite of pizza, you know? I and I love I love the outgo the openness and the the no nonsense no [\h__\h] kind of thing. No bull MD no bull, right? But you got it's the time and place for it, man. And and right after a show, you know, I know you want a platform and you know Matt gave you one, but man, you got to just kind of just chill on that [\h__\h] bro. Just relax. I will say that it wasn't uh it wasn't a clear-cut win. I think, you know, Beirus in the past, he's walked on stage and it was like, "Oh my god, there's your winner." Just it wasn't clear-cut like that. I think the top five could have gone many different shuffled many different ways than it did. I wasn't, you know, I when I was watching the show, I was like, "I have no idea." Like like I thought Antonio was was better, was going to win. So, we have all these different opinions that Edward Ali was was in shape and the German guy was in shape. So, you could have intertwined all these guys, man. So, it's just it's a subjective sport and that's that's what it is. Like, but you can't there's a reason there's so many judges, right? There's a reason that we have multiple judges. So, but it's just you got to like suck it up, bite the bullet, come back bigger and better next show. Yeah. So, I want to congratulate Be Ruse, you know, another win for this guy. And unfort he in his acceptance speech, he said, "I have one dream. It's to get to All right. The Middle Eastern guys are going to have me have my ass for this, but why can't they pronounce Olympia? It's always Olympia. I have one dream. Olympia. It's Olympia. Now, granted, I don't my my pronunciation of Farsy in Arabic would probably be [\h__\h] So, I can't I'm not one to talk. But the point being is this was his Olympia because I don't see him getting to the Olympia. No, dude. The rumor is that he's in he was he served in the uh Iranian military. Oh, yeah. That's a defin like a never you're never getting into the USA. That's like you you don't even get like an application like and it's it's it sucks. even listen even if he if he not a fan of the USA listen there's athletes that come here that don't like America that's just a fact right that's just how it is but they're here to compete not for politics right and and a lot and I think in bodybuilding too we're good because a lot of times no matter where you fall politically like we all we all are just meattheads man like we all you you I can go to some hick town al gym in Alabama and train with some dude That probably hates my guts. We can squat together, right? So, it trans it transcends. And yeah, you know, this guy deserves to be at I would love to see him next to next to Andrew, next to Martin, you know what I mean? Next to Hottie because I think these guys could be a top seven guy at the Olympia for sure. Thank you. Thank you for saying seven because that's where I would have him because you already have top six in no particular order. You got Samson, Hottie, assuming Hottie gets here. Derek, you got Nick, Martin, Andrew, Jack. That's six guys right there. Yeah. And then then you got to throw you got you also realize like Brandon Brandon's doing good. Um it's it's a h it's these guys, you know, it's it's very close. There's no dominant guys anymore, but you're defined unfortunately by the Olympia. Your career is defined by how you do on the Olympia stage. Whe whether regardless how how fair that is. That's the the the pinnacle of our sports. Like your career like your career is defined by Super Bowls, by NBA championships, right? So is it it's not fair. But if I was him, man, I would if I get a visa to every country that that's compete that's doing shows overseas. Yeah. My ads would be doing those shows racking up that money. And well, at this point, Ryan, you just hope he's safe, really. You know what I mean? So, let's talk about Tonio just for a second. Yeah. I mean, I I like I prefer his physique to Beirus's. U Beir Ruse has a lot more muscle maturity detail. He has that grainy hard look. Tonio doesn't have that. I don't know if it's just a muscle maturity thing that he'll get eventually or if, you know, if this is his this is the condition that we're always going to see him in, but it's a very pleasing physique. I mean, I would have had no problem with him winning the show. No, dude. It's just it's very very bubbly. I wish we maybe hold those poses a little bit longer because he has a lot to show, right? The small waist, that classic X frame. Um I again with him, it's time. Give these guys some time and we want them awesome now. We want you to be awesome yesterday. But I love this physique. When soon as he walked out, I'm like Tonio's the winner, right? Yeah. So let's see. Why does William beat him? Um, Williams a more he's a bigger dude. He's pound-for-pound, he's definitely a thicker guy. Mhm. Uh, he does have mus more muscle maturity, detail in the muscle groups that Tonio doesn't have, but it's it's still there there are a lot of flaws. I mean, he's got a short torso. His his waist is a little bit on the thick and wide side. It's not as pretty and pleasing a physique as Tony's. No. If you had to argue why did William beat him, what would you how would you argue that? Old man muscle. That's what it is, right? And again, we're not there. But when you see a guy with like muscle maturity and someone that kind I don't Tony doesn't have like AI don't want to say baby muscle, but he doesn't have old man muscle yet. Yeah. And when you're there in person, you can definitely see that difference, right? Um and William, the flaws, the physique looks like getting a little tired. It's been a very long year, but it's still good enough. And it was close. It wasn't like he blew him away. Um I honestly I would have had Tonio ahead of him but I can see William he has the side P his side poses are still killer man. Yeah like that side chest that side tricep he knows how that most muscular I think that's one of the best in the game and you know what he knows how to present his body that presentation goes a long way and Tonio still too he he he hits a little bit doesn't hold as long but William can twist his hips a little bit. You see how he does his his ab thigh a little bit, Kai his weaknesses. Um, it's a good farewell tour, Ron. Like I'm fans, appreciate what you're seeing because it won't be seen for a long time. Yeah. What's this? Uh, we got some info on uh I think we have some info on the p the situation with women in uh let's see who made it all the way. Oh, that's right. Nathan got Nathan went tried to get to Olympia and they stopped him at the Orlando or at one of the airports. They stopped him at at customs immigration didn't let him in. H so let's see middle east women be allowed women won't be allowed to compete. Okay well they go to Bahrain. So Bahrain I don't even know where that is. I don't know east women aren't allowed to raise their voice to a man in those countries. It sounds wonderful. Well no comment no comments. I didn't say that. We're not gonna We don't want to get not my opinion. Oh [\h__\h] Hello Samson. Never write letters. Speak to people while angry. Agreed. Just got here. No, we're going to talk about this. The scorecard thing will be last never be able to get into Oh, that's awful. Uh Olympia, I don't know, man. Like, right. If if Hottie's not there, that's a gaping hole in the Olympia, man. Like that's just listen, you can't put an asterisk near on the show, but it's not the same without hiding. Listen, how do you have four? I think he should have four Olympia wins by now. Like he's that good. So this we should I I do know that one of the judges I believe her name is Lena. Lena Lea. I don't don't recall the last name, but uh she is a part business partner Williams. I only know that because of this Euro muscle that was sponsoring the my my channel for a while. I'm still giving them some coverage up until the their show in July. All the info at the bottom of the screen. So, uh it's William, Lena, and uh Matthew that they're the three people. Matthew's really putting the whole Euro Muscle Show expo and all that together, but they were sort of partners in the uh competitive part. Like they were going to have a proqualifier and I think things didn't work out and that ended up not have they were going to have a pro show and a proqualifier for bodybuilding. I don't think that actually panned out. But let's move on, man. Let's move on. I want to get to uh Neckzilla. I did I was on um the podcast with Matt last night. The muscle me and Matt me and Phil Clayar and Matt uh were talking about uh Nextzilla and you know why isn't this guy in shape? We I threw his coach under the bus because you know what a jerk I am. I said, "This is the second time this guy's it's either the coach doesn't isn't pushing him hard enough to get to get leaner and lighter because he he's he's 10 to 15 pounds too heavy here as far as Of course. Of course. Either that or he's not doing he's not following the coach's protocol. He's not eating what he's supposed to be eating. He's not doing all the cardio something." Someone pointed out to me he has the same coach as Angel Calder on Frius who comes in shredded every freaking time. So, it's not the coach. He can't you can't be doing all the cardio. Like there's got to be something there that you're not doing 100%. Like if your coach said for this listen when he walked out my mind was blown. It Victor Richards I saw him one time in person and it looked like someone took a balloon and put it in his calf. I swear to God. Like it was ridiculous. This guy Ron if he's in shape he's going to cause a lot of problems. It's not pretty. It's just nasty freak. He's either first or he's last, right? When he's in shape, you got to he's got to either you he can't be second, third, or fourth. He's got to be either you're winning or not in the running. But the amount of muscle he has. He has to have be myostatin deficient because that's just it's not human for it's not normal for a human being to be look like that, right? Ronnie was a freak, but this is next level [\h__\h] Um, some guys don't want to suffer, right? Like he if he d even if he dropped 10 pounds of tissue. Yeah, he would be imagine his glutes peeled Ron and his quad striated what that would look like. Nobody's out musling this cat. But thing is he could afford to lose 10 pounds just from the legs. They're too big. He didn't have to train quads, man. It's just it's a next level size. And you know, you hope he hits it, but man, everybody doesn't hit it. Everybody doesn't nail it. Some guys never nail it. So, um, you want to kind of want to lock him in a room in a house somewhere and just feed him through a door and just put, you know, handcuff him and make him train, do cardio, and put him back in there and just that's it. Cuz everything's there. I would love to. Can you imagine the crowd in Vegas when if he walked out in Vegas? Yeah. Right. We were talking about Ramy had that problem where he his his condition wasn't where he needed to be. He got with Chad and Chad and uh Dennis James conferred and they they decided to have Ramy stay with Dennis out in Arizona for I think like the last six weeks. Yeah. The Olympias. And Dennis Dennis pushed that guy. He wouldn't let him eat what he wasn't supposed to eat. Made sure he did all his cardio. I think he posed him like four times a day. You know, he worked the [\h__\h] out of him. And what happens? Ramy wins the Olympia and then they do it again next year, comes back to Arizona, stays with Dennis, he wins another Olympia title. Yeah. So, there's something to be said. I I'm not going to, you know, we don't know that he's cheating on his diet or he's skipping on cardio, but all signs indicate that he's not suffering enough. Um otherwise, some guys been lighter. Don't run. Some guys don't want it. some, you know, like the live like everybody isn't Dorian or Ronnie, right? Um or Phil Heath or Jay Cutler, right? Some guys just like being a bodybuilder, being big and like this guy, I'm sure he's popular, he's f I'm sure he's doing well, making money, and sometimes like that can kind of like not have you as focus, right? But do you want to make history? Do you want to be remembered forever, right? Do you want to do like for us Ryan we like I we had re we had dreams of being Mr. Olympia. We we never were we were kids and didn't kind of realize the reality of that. Right. Right. But that's but we always want to be remembered forever like pumping iron. You want to like That's right. It's true. Right. And those guys those 19 guys we g their names. We know Larry Scott forever. I know Larry Scott. You know Larry Scott. Yeah. You how bad do you want to do it? It comes down to right. I'm not questioning this guy's work ethic because he's he's a pro bodybuilder. He's he's in shape. But we all know there's more to that. There's a lot more to that right there, bro. You know what I mean? Like, can you imagine if you if that was you? If you look like that, how hard you would diet? I mean, see, the thing is he's never going to be Mr. Olympia. He the structure is weird. You know, I don't love his overall structure and shape. It's It's an oddlook body, but with that amount of mass that he carries, and he doesn't have like a big bubble gut or anything. He's got a little bit of a wide waist, a long torso. Uh, so things proportions are a little bit off, but still if he was shredded out of his mind, he could be he could be doing pretty well. Not winning the Olympia, but no, top five. I mean, Marcus Rule was a top five Olympia guy. Exactly. And it sucks that the guest posing circuit isn't what it was because this dude would blow minds at shows. Could you imagine him walking out to a show in Boston or New York guest posing? That's what I'm saying. You know, because like Vicards, Vic Richards never competed as a pro. Not one. But he was hugely popular guest posing. People would come out in droves to see that guy. Sold a ton of merchandise. Same with Platt. Platt never won Olympia. He he made a [\h__\h] ton of money guest posing and selling freaking books, t-shirts, videotapes, you name it. Um, you know, I don't want to say that's this is that's the destiny of of Rubiel. It's just it is unfortunate that we don't have that anymore. Um, so the merchandise, Ryan, like your nickname's Next Zilla. T-shirts, stickers, everything, man. Like this, like your this physique is a marketing dream. Yeah. Right. Like, and I'm I'm sure his English isn't great. I don't know if he can speak English or not, but speak very very much English, but it's just it's there's so much there's so much there. And like I said, I'm not I'm a shape guy, but he does have abs. His ab thigh wasn't that bad. Um, but you wonder how much separation you get in those legs. Like, can those legs get really separated? You feel I mean, look at that. Look at Look at his calves. His calves are those I those are probably the biggest calves I've seen since like moderz. That's just it's ne it's something like we've we've never seen that before. Um, but now I don't know how long he competed in the other federation for. Yeah, a couple years. Two or couple years. And he's he's pretty young still, right? I think he's like 30, I want to say. 30 3. Okay. I mean, listen, it's always bodybuilding is the is the big what if, right? What if this guy ever got in shape? What if he brought this up? So, but this is the biggest what if, man? No, he's not going to win the Olympia, but god damn, I would love to see that like next to Samson just for shits and giggles. Him, Samson, and Andrew to compare. You can't that's you can't really compare him to anybody, but it would be funny seeing him next to Derek just kind of just to see the comparison, man. Yeah. Well, Mark Mark is pointing out that Rubio has only done four shows, but he was a pro in the IFBB Elite uh prior to jumping over to IFBB Pro League. So, he's he's not a newbie. He's not a rookie. He doesn't have like 50 shows under his belt. No, but he's not a beginner. Uh, I just think if if he could, like you said, if this guy could drop down, you know, it's it's not much. Just 10 pounds lighter than what we're looking at right here would make a massive difference. And, you know, like he they said he's doing the Italy show thing too this this coming week. So, um, do that, but you I haven't seen anything about his training or his diet or or what he does for cardio or just I don't see that. But you kind of wonder what you know if angel gets shredded like that. It's you can't condition is the one thing you can control. You can't control your bone structure or your shape, but you can control condition, right? You can make sure that that guy next to you isn't going to out condition you. That's and somebody's got to be in this kid's ear and say, "Man, just come in." Again, we don't know what he does at home, right? We're not there 24 hours a day. His coach is in there 24 hours a day. So, you know, it's Ron, listen to me. It's hard those late nights where you're by yourself and you're in bed, it's 10:00, your stomach's growling and like, man, grape would taste good or Oreo just some a piece of rice or rice. Even a rice cake would taste great, but you got to resist those temptations, man. I used sugar-free. Do you ever get the sugar-free pops the like ice stupid [\h__\h] like that? Yes. Sugar-free Jell-O. Just anything that tasted sweet that had it mean the whole thing of jello dude. But anyway, Rubiel is so round. He doesn't need to show up this big. Well, here's the thing. So, Prey Prey is not unbeatable at all. Um Preston very light in the legs. He's got a great upper body and his condition is great. However, if Rubiel sharpens up, if he can even five pounds from this, I think he he wins the the show in Italy this weekend. Ron, I think if he if he does qualify for the Olympia, the hype training is going to take off. Like he he's a he's a a spectacle of our sport, right? And he he's AI'm not saying it's in a disparaging way, but remember like the bearded ladies and those old those old like Carney type [\h__\h] Yeah. He's like the bearded lady, right? You want to go see this dude? Like I would, you know, my selfish ass thinking, man, we should do maybe we should do Tampa. That would be awesome. Oh, dude. Well, his bearded lady was remember that's what they called Jose because I think he referred to himself as that in the press conference one year. He didn't have a pretty It wasn't a pretty shapely physique. It was just a [\h__\h] ton of mass and veins and grainy striations. It's nasty. It's just and we need and the sport. It's a freak show, man. We love the freaks and he he is right now he is the king of the freaks. So here's a here's something people people say well maybe he has thick skin but you know we said that about Williams for a long time but he ended up coming in lighter remember last year he was shred out of his oh my god he had the glutes everything was looking awesome and it's because he decided he let go of that thing I got to be big and full and I have to weigh this much on stage he just went for condition and aim looked so that was a guy that I never I never thought aim was going to show up shredded and grainy I thought that was beyond his genetic or he had seal skin or whatever. But I I honestly believe anybody can get that if they just suffer enough and willing to not worry about being 270 or 300 or whatever it is. Condition hurts. Being in good condition in shredded condition is a very uncomfortable feeling for be for weeks on end like do listen the stepper two weeks out sucks. But, you know, like you you got to do it. And you listen listen, you you hope this kid finally nails it because the the bandwagon that people are going to be once he does, you know, is going to be absolutely insane, you know. So, I don't know. Fingers crossed, Ruby, man. Just suck it up. Tune in tune in right at Broccley, bro. All week. Yeah. I mean, like I said, I'm even if I'm not personally a fan of his physique, I I have to admit this guy's a freak. He's got some a crazy body parts and if he was shredded it would it would be impressive regardless of any structural issues or anything like that. Let Chad have like I said let Chad have him. That would be awesome. I'd love to see I'd love to see what Chad could do. Oh my god. Get an angry angry message from his coach now. Anyways, let's move on to the final topic which was [\h__\h] in China. That's right. [\h__\h] in China. So, it all started with uh this one post on Bibles without borders, the China pro. What was it called? Something Beijing. Okay. Shenanigans in Beijing exposed. Shenanigans. Shenanigans. Yeah, that's a long I wanted to put that in my thumbnail, but it's too It took up too much space. I love it. So on the left, somebody was able to get uh a picture with their phone of the scores from judging right after judging and those did not correspond to the judging scores that showed up later when they had all the scores together in the final placing. So uh for instance, so the winner was the clear winner. I don't think he changed. He had three in the judging. Uh just one guy that really stood out to me was Right. Uh well, let's see. The third place guy, Sha Ming. So, in the judging here, you could see he had Can you see that? Is it big enough on the screen? Yeah, I was I saw it earlier, too. I was looking at that. Okay. So, he had eight a score of 18 at judging, but then somehow later that got changed to 11. Uh let's see. Sergy, the guy from Russia, he had nine in judging and that became 10. He got You want the lower number? The lower number is the best number you want. Uh, so I don't know if this was across the board with Chinese athletes. Let's see. Chuming Park from South Korea had 24 went to 27. Well, needless to say, some of the scores just did not match up. And I haven't heard any anyone address this yet. This is something that uh Tyler should probably address. But go ahead. any anytime you have something like this with scoring, your credibility is is at risk, right? Especially for subjective sports. And we've seen all the the crap with like women's women's um figure skating, right? In the Olympics and all the the shady stuff that goes on in women gymnastics and it's just it's not like track where I beat you. So this someone should address this ASAP because it's just it looks it's a bad look, right? And we we've all you you don't you hope this doesn't go on, right? You hope that you hope there's a a logical explanation as to why this took place and first of all how this person like got the picture to begin with, right? So I don't know, man. Like that's just Well, here's some photographer Jonathan Maro. He tried to come up with AI don't know what if if he's right, but he said this might well might as well be a sheet requested by a single judge to the scorekeeper to have his or her judging printed out in order which does help to keep track. So I don't know if that's we don't have all the facts. So I'm not saying for sure. We don't know that there was some weird [\h__\h] going on or some some politics, but if it turns out that there were, they're going to have a hell of a time getting anyone from anywhere anywhere outside of China ever coming back to the show. No. And first of all, the picture that this that the picture shouldn't have been released. Number one, like listen, this is it's not like some kind of secret election ballot, but you know, the integrity of it should not have that. This shouldn't get out. This should not leak at all. The only scores that probably should come out is after the show when they give the the total scores, the breakdown every year. But when you have even the the the thought, right? It's like it's like a court hearing like Karen Reed, right? Remember the up in your area, right? Reasonable doubt. I was I was fascinated. That literally happened the next town over for me. Did Listen, the not to digress. I watched every single day of that, bro. I was hooked. But it's just you want to especially when you're when you're judging these physiques and fans especially fans of of our age. We all know the crazy [\h__\h] that went on and we know like like all the tom foolery that went on with scoring. And again, not to say this happened here, but the optics of it looks strange, right? It's just and you're waiting. I know Ty the video for the the show that Angel lost came out. There's I know he released a new video, so hopefully all this is going to come out soon. Yeah. But dude, that's just that's um that's some [\h__\h] isn't it? Yeah. Well, I I will talk about one last thing because I don't want to dwell on uh the score thing because we don't have all the facts and it might turn out. Uh so, the last thing I want to talk about Samson, this is Samson. I think we're 16 weeks out right now. Jesus Christ, man. Good lord, he's big. I think what is he? Three 330. He's 330 pounds here. And people, you know, the people some people because we we need [\h__\h] to talk about. The sport is freaking boring. So it is it's there's no basketball. There's no there's nothing really happening. No, there's nothing happening right now, right? With muscles. So they're saying, you know, is he too heavy? Did he get too heavy in the offseason? Uh I think it was Yeah, I mean he he's just coming back. So he had his health phase. He was off gear for a couple months. He's only been back on it looks to me like about a month or so. That's after a month. Yeah. I mean, I have no doubt. You know, him and Marlene, his coachwife, they know what they need to do. They lost the Arnold Classic. He lost to Derek Lensford purely on condition. Purely. If this guy's If this guy shredded out of his mind, nobody beats Samson Dota. Nobody. Dude, he he has abs at 330 pounds. He's in good condition at 330 lbs, right? Like, see, I don't know fans like when fans are so desensitized to this [\h__\h] that they may not understand this, but this is a is a large human being that has abs and leg detail at 330 pounds. And I think losing that Arnold Classic, bro, he's going to come in in probably all time best condition at the Olympia. I think it's going to be like a It hasn't been a knockout at the Olympia for quite some time. And it's hard. I think a lot of these guys are very even, but I think this dude's coming to knock knock these dudes out this year. I mean, really. So, do you think obviously we don't know what goes through his mind or or his wife's mind, but do you think he has like a number in his head like I can't be lighter than 300 on stage, dude? It's like we always want we we feel small. And I know even it's hard for us to imagine this guy feeling small, but we know when you diet, Ron, you feel small. So, you want to always feel full. You hope there's not a number in your head, but I think subconsciously sometimes we all check that scale, right? We all want to just kind of see where we're at. And that that scale, man, when you're on prep, it just it destroys your skull. It destroys your head. So maybe that number in mind. Um, but it listen, it's got to be fun, man. When you see your weight go up like that, when you be clean for a while and [\h__\h] starts happening and that scale starts going up, it's a fun trip. You know what I mean? That's a fun ride. But I think I know in one of his videos he said somebody had a Q&A, they said, you know, what's your goal? He said to come in hard. just coming as hard as I've ever been. I think a hard Samson is a hard problem for a lot of people. So, let's throw let's say this was let's he was 305 at the Olympia at the Arnold. I think he's right around the same weight. What weight? We're just being ridiculous here. But what weight do you think he would be unbeatable at? Even like 295, 297, right? Because you you listen, even if you come in a little flatter prejud, he's he's still the big other than Andrew and Andrew hasn't proven that he can nail it yet, right? Just yet, he's still the biggest guy up there with a small waist. Even if you're 295 pounds, your closest competitor is like 230. That's like that's still 60 pounds. And all right, I'm a little flat Friday. Eat a little bit, fill out, and holy [\h__\h] look at this guy Saturday night. So, I don't think I don't think Sam's going to lose the show, bro. I think I think he's going to like come in this year at the Olympia. Like, that's that's going to light a fire in his ass. He's going to like blow these dudes out. Yeah. Well, Xavier said he doesn't care about the numbers. It doesn't even look at his weight. I mean, I I just wonder do they do they do they did they think that condition was the best condition he could possibly get into? or now now that they've had time to sit back and realize that's the only reason he lost to Derek was conditioned. Are they reassessing and saying [\h__\h] I think we actually do need to be leaner than them? I you you have to you listen you have to study the physiques of your opponents. You have to kind of know what what they're going to do. I think for this Olympia you got to realize too is Derek in my opinion is going to have a hard time coming in 100%. Right. Ronnie can do it. Flex can do it. Chris can do it. And Derek peaked twice. Right. So that's a lot on the body to nail it 100% again. So u I think again that's just you know my me talking on my ass but I think going Samson just did the Arnold and so that he's got a little bit longer to rest. Um it's going to be a problem. I think it's gonna be a problem for some guys man. I think for me but Ron listen to me. Nick Walker is going to be going to cause some guys some issues if none of these guys are in shape. Nick comes in shape. It's not pretty. It's not cute, but it's nasty muscle. And the b I like the bald head and I love I love the I love the He's not cocky, man. He's confident. Shawn Ray, he's not any more conf cocky than Shawn Ray was or Flexi, but this dude, bro, I can see him placed in top two, especially if not there. Top two, top three, no Lord in third. It's It's not looking good for Heidi, guys. Uh I hate to say it, but it's it's it's not looking good. No. Yeah. And Nick, look at that. Look at that. You can't And he's You have you seen those pictures? He's in shape now. At 16 weeks out, he looks like he can hop in a show and do a show now, Ron. So, but again, at that same token, can you maintain that to October? Right. That's a lot. I wouldn't write him off. I would definitely I'm drinking the Nick Walker Kool-Aid. Oh, yeah. Big time. Oh, yeah. There's the bald head. You got I didn't realize he shaved his head. Yeah. So, and people forget when you're when you're not there, people forget about you. You know what I mean? It's just out of sight, out of mind. Yeah. So, you know, he came back. I think too the loss in New York got him some more fans back, right? because he had that underdog like we all thought each other won and you know how fans are, bro. Pittsburgh, you mean Pittsburgh? P I'm sorry. Pittsburgh. Yes. And um that's how fans are, right? Like they love the underdog. Nick he I think he him coming the way he did in Pittsburgh like he he backed the [\h__\h] up and I love to do for her. If Nick wins, he will have two heart attacks over Yeah. I mean, it's hard it's hard not to root for Nick because he's just he's he's a meat through and through. He's just pure bodybuilder, you know? He won't be eighth either. So, yeah. All right, I'm gonna take that one. Look at that [\h__\h] That's nasty, bro. So, man, I'm going to get rid of that. Stop sharing. All right, man. Uh I think I think we've been talking. Yeah. So, uh, as some people might be following my shoulder thing, the reason I was an hour late, I want to apologize. Uh, I was waiting to hear if I was getting my shoulder replaced tomorrow because at the last minute, my insurance company yesterday denied the coverage. So, my shoulder was not going to get replaced. And I've been on the phone with the insurance company and the and the surgeon's office. And uh two about five minutes before me and Mike went live, I finally got the information that's happening tomorrow. And God, it was like, yes, such a relief, dude. Such a relief. This That's awesome, bro. The pain the pain just sucks ass. H it's like soon enough, bro. Pretty soon, man. You'll be like doing this [\h__\h] again. Ah, I mean to to be able to raise someone said I was trying to do the high. Well, this this arm goes this arm goes all the way up. Okay. Like it doesn't go back like a normal arm should, but that's that's it for that arm. That's as high as it goes. That's like zero range of motion, dude. Dude, I have to have people help me take shirts on and off like an Yeah. Holy [\h__\h] There's a random question. Is there a random question? I was watching all the videos involved in the American I actually was the associate producer for the American Muscle Show from 1991 to 1998. Uh, you'll see my name in the credits of some videos. Uh, I had that the Iron Man. I didn't even realize the 93 Iron Man where Flex made his pro debut. I did a video last week about it. Um, we produced the home video for that. So, I I had my name in the credits of the video. I saw that. I saw that, dude. Uh, so I forgot I I forgot all about that. So, yeah, I produced uh I produced his video, Mass Construction, that we shot at my gym. I used to I was such a weasel. I used to make Oh, [\h__\h] I know that. Yeah. Yeah. I used to make everybody come to my gym in Pasadena just for for my own clout. Like, hey guys, I'm bringing Flex Wheeler next week. I brought Dorian in there, Morazzo, Deo. I brought so many to that gym. It was a hike from Venice, trust me. Yeah, I was I was That's how I got into the industry. I worked in that show from age 21 to age 28 back in the back in the 90s. I was this little little dopey meathead kid from Boston living the dream. Water, man. That's awesome, bro. Anyway, yeah, good times. Well, Mike, uh, I thank you because I told you five o'clock and it was six o'clock before we finally got rolling. I hope I didn't make you miss any meals. No, I'm actually having like um some some cereal, some uh Frosted Flakes. Yeah. When will I give an update on the surgery? I don't I'm going to be in AI don't know. I I have no idea what life with one arm is going to be like, so I'll I'll let you know. Be in a sling for a while. So, I don't even know if I could type with like that. I had shoulder surgery back in 2011, but it was arthoscopic. I was It was Yeah, just take it easy, bro. Rest it up, man. Gonna get some perks or Vikes or oxies or something and I'll be uh high for a couple days, I'm sure. Yeah, you will. Promoting drug promoting drug use. I'm awful. So, great. All right, man. So, uh thank you, Mike. Thanks everybody for watching the live stream. Appreciate you guys. And uh probably won't be on for a couple days, but I will be back. So, thanks for watching Power Hour with Big Mike Cox and me, Ron Harris. We'll see you next