Quickly. Hey everybody, welcome to Ron Lerport. Great guest today. 12time IFBB Pro champion prophecy joining us all the way from a family vacation in Turkey very late over there so I appreciate it Nathan no wor thanks for having me on thanks yeah so uh Nathan um last show last show you did was Portugal um I'll jump I'll jump right to it I honestly didn't have you winning I had Rubio winning that just because he's a freak and he's in shape but there's no way in the world you weren't second place and I'm not like your best bud. We don't hang out. I'm not biased towards you and I have nothing against uh Bruno Santos. I'm sure he's a great guy. Um but I've I've been to uh a thousand pro shows, a thousand national level shows. I know what I'm looking at now. I wasn't there in person, but this was interesting. I want to show the uh this was this was done by Bodybuilders Without Borders. I don't know who actually put these pictures, who took these pictures, but very interesting cuz until until I saw these sidebyside comparisons, like, well, maybe he did deserve it. So, if you can see it on screen there, thinking, you know, how many poses did this guy actually beat Nathan in? So, I might give him the front lat. I like his front lat spread. Um, I I give you this double front double bicep, much better arms. Uh, much better quads in this shot. Just it's it's a better physique for this pose. Side chest again, better chest, better delts, better arms. Uh, his side legs not bad. Yours is a little better. U, but I'm looking at the conditioning here because that's what we were hearing. TK, the head judge, was saying Nathan was off. Nathan wasn't in shape. And I'm scratching my head because people always look better in person. So these are pictures. So these don't even show how lean you were. Um rear double. You know, it's not Neither one of you had like super dry straighted glutes. But I give you this shot because from the waist down, your your lower body is much better. You're wider across the shoulders, across the back. Your lats go further down. Even though people talk about a long torso, you got a pretty pretty complete back in this shot. Rear lat spread. Uh, a little bit closer, but again, you beat him entirely on the lower body. AB and thigh. Thighs. You got better thighs. His abs are a little watery there. I hope I'm not coming across as like a Bruno hater. I don't hate Bruno. Nothing against the guy at all. Um, but yeah, it's it's just really it's really strange. So, and the score showed it was a perfect second place for him and a perfect third place for you. So, it it seems like all the judges were in agreement. So, I don't know if you've already commented on this or what you want to say, but is there anything you want to say about it at this point? I know it's it's it's ancient history now, 5 days later. I have nothing to say, bro. Um, I got third. I take it on the chin. I accept it and move on. I u let you guys speak. let you guys speak. I spoke up before so no put me now. Um I let you guys be the judges yourselves and the fans. Whatever you think you can think, you can put your opinions across by all means. Um for me, I got third, Bruno got second, Rubio won. Take it on the chin. Live another day. We move forward. But what I will say is that my glutes were shredded as hell. Um, example AJ. Um, AJ the commentator ask him, "Bro, he's seen us all backstage. I haven't been I've never been I was I've never been I've never been that dry. I'm a person I'm a p I believe a person who takes terrible pictures. When you see me in the flesh, it's so it's something different, you know. Um, man, I was full as a house. I was shredded. I've never had my hamstrings dug dug that deep. My glutes were there." People say I was under goon lighting. I me I have nothing to hide. I was posting pictures in the gym, in my kitchen, in the Airbnb kitchen, on the balcony. I post them all the time because people say, you know, it's lighting. But if you look at my Instagram things I posted, I post them where wherever I am. So I can't control the lighting in hotels and Airbnbs and gyms. So I just I just post it. And even if I look garbage, I still post it because I don't care. It's my Instagram. It's how I feel. And I I just I just put it up there for all to see, you know? Yeah. I mean, you post pictures full-blown offseason when your face is perfectly round. A lot of guys a lot of guys won't do that because they they're afraid people are going to talk [\h__\h] about them. Like, oh, what a fatso. But, uh, yeah, this was this was a couple days before the show. Workout in Blackout. This one was after after the show. Yeah, this was this was the Monday after. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I've I've only seen you compete a couple times in person because you've only you haven't competed in the USA since 2019, I think it was. Yeah. But I mean, condition has never been an issue with you. I've never seen you That must be Brazil. I've never seen you out of shape. I mean, I don't want to go off on TK too much, but it does it just seems kind of a like a weird excuse to say that's why I placed him where I placed him that that he wasn't in shape because you know, you were in shape. In shape. Everyone is a bodybuilding is an opinionated sport, right? And that was Tik's opinion. You got to you got to accept it and you got to move on, you know? Um, no point crying. always spilled milk. Done that in the past to just now I just smile, get on and congratulate the guys who beat me and and move on to the next show and you know if they want me to be even sharper I'll be even sharper. You know what I I believe I bought a condition that that outshun everybody at that show. Um but you know it it might come off that way. Maybe it was a tan or I don't know something. But you know if I if I need to be sharpener I will try you know. Um, this prep I have suffered a hell of a lot than um than previous preps, you know. Um, I dug deep. So, I knew I knew I was in shape, you know. I was ready for the shows four or five weeks out. Um, and people were saying that at the B show that I weren't in shape, but you know yourself, bro. If you're not at a show, you can't judge it, right? And I spoke to AJ at the B show. AJ says, "Was you in shape?" Says, "AJ, bro, listen, man. I was in shape. I was four. I was in shape." And he goes, "Okay, I'll I'll see you and I'll uh be the judge of that." AJ seemed me straight off a flight. Said, "You said, "You ready?" I said, "Bro, just come for flight. I'm ready. I take my clothes off and I'm not shy." And AJ said himself, "You're in shape." Said, "I know I'm in shape, bro." Like, I know, you know, um, for me, it's a matter of case just of of just filling up. The hamstrings were deep. They were dug out from the back. They're the best they've been. But, you know, obviously bodybuilding is a pain a penny sport. We just got to move on. We've got to get we've got to get better. Um hopefully I can come back next time I can improve and bring a better package, you know. Yeah. So, you you're on vacation. You're I'm sure you're eating and everything. Drinking drinking more than eating. Drinking more than eating. Good. So, you got liquid. But yeah, why there's a few more shows left to qualify and a few of them are right over there in Europe. you know, a couple couple hours of plane ride. Nah, no point. No point. No point, bro. Um, you still? Yeah, I'm here. I'm here. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, there's there there's no point, man. Um, you know, these shows haven't worked out for me. Um, don't want to waste more more time more time. And, you know, um get similar results um to people I believe I should have beaten or whatnot. So there's um I may as well get back to the drawing boards, improve um and head and you know focus on 20 2026 and go focus on the Arnold um and obviously Arnold UK. That's where I'll be focusing on next. I'll take take a long take a small break off everything, clean out, get my blood's work done and fix up and then obviously jump right back on um and get and do a better a better longer offseason. Um obviously, you know, I'll look back at the pitches and think where I can improve and what we can do. I know condition wasn't an issue. Maybe it's more of the hamstring from the side. From the back it was good, you know. Um, I know that need a little little bit more thickness up top. Um, but we can we can we can work on that. So, go back to drawing boards like I said and uh focus on the on on them areas. Okay. I mean, that's good to hear because I I hear I heard some people comment saying they they're just guessing. This is probably Nathan's last year, you know. Let them let them let them let them guess, bro. They can if if you haven't got my phone number, then your opinion means nothing to me because you don't know me. You haven't got a clue what I'm about. what I'm what what I'm about. I do bodybuilding because I love the sport. Even if if I was to come last in the next 10 shows, but if if the love was still there, I would still compete because bodybuilding is for me, you know? It's not it's not for the the judges or the federations, it's for me because I I'm a bodybuilder. I love to bodybuild, bro. I love the sport. And while that love's there and that fire still burning inside me, why wouldn't I compete, you know? And why wouldn't I keep going forward and trying to improve and get better while I still can? even know the age of M. I'm still improving every year. Um, this year was arguably the best the best n to date. Um, but obviously it it hadn't shown that hasn't shown that. So, you know, we said we come back next year, we work harder and we crack on. Let people talk, bro. Because they all people people who are people who are talking and who are hating, they're hating just cuz they're jealous and and and got nothing better to do, you know, rather rather than just say to someone, "Okay, move on. Well done. See you next year. They like to make fake accounts and try and pick on you and do stuff, but it doesn't really matter. It's just childish, you know. It's grown ass men making making fake accounts on Instagram and talking wet. So, I let I let them have their little saying, you know. And sometimes when Nathan's bored, I give a bit of [\h__\h] back, you know. If I'm doing if I'm doing cardio and it's 7 in the morning, I'll I'll answer and I give a ton of [\h__\h] back. But most of the time, I just I just laugh, smile, or delete them, you know. But like I said, everyone has their own opinion and they're entitled to that. And that's what uh social media gives gives everyone's voice to be heard. True. You know, but in this case, uh it was overwhelmingly in support of you. I've never seen so much support for you ever. And you know, social media has been around for most of your competitive career. Now, now, now I think this now I think they open their eyes and they see him, right? So, like I said, I don't need to speak no more, you know. Uh I even I had one guy he commented he said uh what did he say? He said I don't like Nathan. He's fully I don't like Nathan. He's full of [\h__\h] Don't like his physique. Like I don't like his physique but this time he should have won the show. And I I replied back bro because it takes a bigger man. It takes a big man to say that because that person doesn't like me but to obviously give me support. So it takes someone a lot of courage and a lot of pride to say that. So I replied saying thanks thanks for that. you know it takes a bigger person and I respect you then you know thank you very much because for that person to say that must have hurt it must have you know such something but at least people now can see you know that I do give it my all and people are saying I don't train hard if I don't train hard then why do I why do I leave my family for months of the year and I'm in Q8 killing myself kicking my ass so it's there you know you know Bob it's run it's there man I'm still the fire the fire is still burning there's still there's still more fuel in this in this old guy. Yeah. Um and we're getting better. We're get we're getting better and better. Whoever said you didn't train hard. I mean, you you can say a lot of things about Nathan Asher, but to say that he doesn't train hard, there's a there's a good few on there. I just smile and laugh. Smile and laugh. Train doesn't train hard compared to what? That That's my question. compared to Ronnie Coleman in his prime 2003 maybe I don't know right they're funny bro they people I think people just speak just for the sake of speaking you know and that's the thing with social media you know you and when you're in you know like a small like ourselves in bodybuilding you have to you have to leave a profile of public and that gives people you know a lot of a lot of a lot of uh advantage to trying to attack you or your family you know so that's that's a downside to Well, I just had someone make a video about how I I look like I suck a lot of dick and I should put my face down the middle of the machete and I don't know this is I'm not even kidding. This is real. And I have no idea why this guy hates me so much, but social media. But anyway, they never they never met you. They never spoke to you and you know and I've had a few I've had a few people saying you know when when they spoke to me, "Oh, I didn't I didn't realize you were like that." Like, bro, because you listen to what you you you believe what you listen to on social media, you know, and if you if you've never met me, you have no idea what I'm like in general. I'm a person who speaks my mind, but if you're polite to me, I'm polite to you. That's just the way life should be, right? You get what you give. True. You know, I I you know, I you've always spoken your mind in that aspect. You remind me of Lee Priest, another always spoke up no matter what, whether it was going to hurt his career or not. He he just spoke whatever was uh the his truth and all that, but are you going to be a little more cautious or is you do you feel like he might have been possibly punished for for speaking up? I don't know. Uh I hope not. I believe I hope not, bro. Um I really do. If that's the case, then that's that's not right. Um you know, it should be the best wins on the day. do I I don't believe I have done you know and I just believe Turma had his that was his opinion and you can't take that away from him you know um I know a lot of people getting on his back um by saying oh he's blind he's like Stevie Wonder and [\h__\h] but bro but you know I don't agree with that whether he whether whether it was the wrong decision or not that's his decision you know and um he he he's owned up to it he's stuck by it so when people are giving him a bit a bit of [\h__\h] on my behalf. Okay, I respect it because they're defend they're defending me and I appreciate that. No need to go in on the guy and give him and give him [\h__\h] you know? It's just his opinion and what on what he thoughts and if that's the physique he likes, then that's the physique he he likes, you know, and you you can't do nothing about it. There's no there's no set criteria for bodybuilding, they should be, but there's just not. Um, and you know, okay, it's it's it's it's aesthetics, it's condition, it's mass, it's this and that, but at the end of the day, it's whoever catches your eye, bro. It's, you know, we hear all the we all these things. It's it's bodybuilding should be this, bodybuilding should be that, but you know, if you look at if you look at Chipan, you look at you look at um Nezilla, two two totally different physiques, right? So, it's bodybuilding's just here, there, and everywhere right now. there's no um set set criteria whether it's going in one direction or or or not. So I think every judge has their own their own criteria what they like and what they want to see and that was his on the day and I I respect that. I have no bad way to say he's always been a nice guy to me. He's treated me with respect. He's always you know spoke to me. He's always you know in the past he's text me see how things are. So I don't believe he would punish me for something like that. Hopefully it's that was just I believe that was just his opinion and you know because it's him and I I agree with it and I just I just get on with it. Yeah. I mean it should be pointed out to the hedge jud the head judge doesn't get a vote. They don't get a score. Yeah. So even if TK hated your guts, I'm not saying he, but even if he did, he doesn't get a vote anyway. So he can't put you first or last. He's It's really just his job to manage the call outs and ask the other other judges. You know, have you seen everything you want to see, he's be you're basically a manager of the judging is what when you get down to it. Yeah. But but you know, some sometimes everyone can talk on it. So I just smile, bro. I'm just I was just happy to be there on on a day, you know. It's good. It was good to see Rubio win another show back to back. It's good it's it's it's good for him, you know, and good. good for his career and his his boost and that's that that's the main thing bro that people people are getting on with it and are doing are doing successful at the end of the day they can only be one one winner you know and that was Rubel at the end of the day I know that the talk is about second and third and you know it is what it is do I believe I should have placed certain place in my head I know what I think I should have placed am I going to speak about it no I just get on with it um and all I know is that all I can say is that I was in shape. If you know AJ has nothing to do with me, a guy called Jay has nothing to do with me. People have nothing to do with me. Patrick has nothing to do with me. And you look at you you look backstage and you asked him was I in shape and I was in shape, bro. I was full as a house. I was in shape. [\h__\h] was popping. Patrick Ch was like, "Nathan, stop pumping up. Stop pumping up." You know, I was I was ready to go. And I think, you know, pictures just don't do me justice ever. Even though even even now, I'm not good-look. don't even look that good-looking, you know. Um, I'm just not I'm just not a pitch I'm just not a picture perfect guy. People look good on pictures and people don't. I just I just don't believe that. I believe for me, you have to you and my a physique you have to see in the in the flesh, you know, and AJ caught that cuz AJ was like and like is he in shape for the B? I said, bro, I was in shape. I was sending him some uh hotel pics that was just basic lighting, just basic, you know, and and then and then he's like, okay, I'll see you. I'll see. He's like, "You doing Portugal?" Said, "Yeah, I'm doing Portugal. I'll see you there." He see me. He shook his head. He's like, "Damn, now he has nothing to do with He has nothing to do with me, you know." Um, so like even there, but I'm just stood there. You can see the vases, the vas through the midsection. Everything's tight. I'm just chilled, you know. You can see him. I'm not even pumped up. I'm still burst. I'm still bursting, you know. Ready to go. So, I was there, bro. I was I was on I I was in shape. Now, do do you think you should have beat Rubel at that show? Uh, listen, bro. Rubel won the show. Yeah. North Rubel won the show and he he won the show. Congratulations to the winner, you know. Um, Rubel's my boy, bro. Um, whe he's absolutely awesome guy. A lovely a lovely guy, lovely gentleman. Spent a lot of time with him, learn them English and scouts, you know, and uh, you know, it is what it is what it is. We're two where were apples and were apples and and a potato basically two totally different things. You know, you say apples and oranges, but they're both fruits, but I'm an apple. I'm a fruit. He's a [\h__\h] he's a truck, right? So, it's a vegetable. Yeah, it's two totally different things. But, um yeah, man. It's like you you had to be there. Um you know, and I don't know just I'm just I'm just happy that Rubio won the show, right? U he's a he's a gentleman, a good guy to the sport. He he deserves his just his just d, you know, and well well done on him. Good good man. So I'm happy to hear that. Now last last year toward the end of the year we heard you were coming to the Arnold Classic because you know big boy money 500 grand. It's 750 grand now. So that's more incentive. Um like I said we haven't seen you in the United States now for it's almost it's it'll be six years soon. years. Are are you able to get here? Is there I can get I can get there. Get there. People ask that's going to get there and will compete there. And my answer is this. I can get there. What's the point competing there? You know, I'm a European guy. Go. What does No disrespect to the US. What does it offer me? No. As a as a as as an as a as a business till the day, but I'm I'm a business. What does it offer me? Nothing. It offers me more in flights. It's like all the guys in the US, they fly around US, right? Yeah. And that's good for them because the flights are cheap. They're inbound. They get don't get no water detention. But when European guys do it, they get slayed. I can't even come to the US because flights are cheaper from Europe. I can get a flight from my house basically. Basically end basically the end of my road, Liverpool airport to Portugal for four for $80. Okay. You want to go to Yeah, bro. $80. If I want to go to the US and try and win 15 grand, it's going to cost me 12 grand to get there. What? cuz I'm my big black ass ain't flying economy to us. I fly business, bro. I ain't flying economy. So by the by the time I fly there, I stay there. Is you know is is it worth it for the big boy money? It's worth it. Yeah. But you know um I've spoken I spoke spoken to Brian anyway in regards to the idol next year. So Brian's Brian's the Brian's the powers that be. Um so I speak to Brian on a regular basis, man. And the plans to the plan is to be there when the when they um in January when Dece end of December my name will be on that sheep row and uh that's the big that's the big boy money. So like I said offseason get it bang a few pound on and then obviously for the both Arnolds coming something different but hopefully try and bring that classic that classic conditioning to the to the men's open suffer again and again and again but uh I'm used to suffering after this prep. I believe I've got it in me to do it again. So I I remember hearing you you you posted about the prep. Was this was this last prep that you did physically the most demanding? Because you said you were like falling asleep on your feet. Yeah, bro. This was this was the mo this was the most demanding because I knew I knew I knew that, you know, that I was going to get judged even more. So, I I had to, you know, come in a hell of a lot sharper. I knew it was going to be like, you know, I knew it was going to it was going to come down to a conditioning show. So, you know, a lot of guys who were competing were more aesthetically pleasing. So it was a condition thing as well. So I thought, "Fuck it. Ain't got nothing to lose, right?" Started prep a little bit earlier. Um Stefan said, "What's what's the plan?" I said, "Nothing, bro. Just going to just just just jump on it. We start normal." He give me 20 minutes on the bike. I said, "Fuck that, bro. Just I didn't tell him. I started doing 45 minutes on the stair master." And then the weight the weight was just coming down, coming down, but my legs were staying. For the first time ever, my legs were staying. And then I got a friend Rob. I said to Rob and um you know my legs are staying. He's like yeah keep on the stair master. Keep on the stair master. So with with Rob doing he has big legs anyway. Um so kept on the stair master bro. The weight was coming down. Everything was was in line. Stefan with Stefan was giving me the food. He was giving me like 120 20 grams of uncooked rice for example. I was eating 120 grams of cooked rice and I told him like four weeks down the line like look bro like I'm kind of sticking to the diet kind of but I'm kind of like uh lowering the lowering the carbs you know because I just want to get nasty like I want to get that European nasty nasty condition and he said listen whatever you want to get we'll go for it. So I was just literally bros I was kill I was killing myself. I stopped stopped the chicken went to fish about six weeks out. Every meal was was just fish. Um and then we just started like taking the carbs away a little by little and then the weight like series started to drop when I was in Q8. Went from like 190 120 kilos like 117 in like two days. So it was a matter then of just balancing the weight, balancing the condition. I was I was eating a lot more cheat meals regularly but I was just I was obviously at the same time as eating the cheat meals I was keeping the the stair master in Stephan was saying Nathan just do 20 minutes stair master and uh you know my friend fad he was saying do 20 minutes I wasn't listening I was doing 40 I just wanted it you know and uh it was demanding on the body bro like I was physically exhausted you could see in my face you can see my cheekbones my eyes were just my eyes were red they were just dead I had nothing in the tank I could train but then after training it was just a matter of just sleeping, resting, just sleeping because I had no I had nothing in me. But you know I believe I like the look. Everyone there like the look you know as far you know um Patrick like they like the look. Chris Kir liked it and you know the look was good. So I know that that's where it needs to be for next season. Um, just make I probably I could probably try and come in a little bit harder. It'd be hard, but I could probably try, you know, nothing nothing's impossible. Just suffer a little bit more and jump on a bit more clin and I'll be cured, right? And a few more a few more pre-workouts. Why do you keep going back to Kuwait? I mean, it's the fact that you have young children, you have a gym, it just seems like it just it just allows you to focus, bro. The last few weeks allows you to focus. I've been there. I've got it's not a matter of just training in auction. I've got I've got a lot of close friends there who are close like family, you know, who always help me with prep and you know where I like to see them guys training. And sometimes when I'm in my own gym, I I train for 45 minutes, an hour a day, but it takes me an hour to get out of the gym. People want to talk to me asking me questions. Nathan, you look tired. How are you? When's the show? How are you looking? So, it takes me it takes me an hour to get out of the show. So, when I'm in Q8, I don't get that distraction. I'm just Nathan, you know, and uh I walk in the gym, I walk out and no one's p no one's to talk to me, no one cares. So, it's just in and out. And I get that like just that levelheaded mindset. And, you know, I get to just go to my room, relax, focus, up in the morning, cardio, haven't got to school, run or nothing, come back, you know, relax, eat, train, sleep, cardio. It just puts me in that in that small box that in that little bracket run, you know, and it just helps me just just settle down, be calmer, don't panic, don't stress the body out. Just the the last four to five weeks, you know. Yeah. I mean, that that that makes sense that the last place a gym owner who's competing would want to be the last four or five weeks is his own gym because everybody knows you and everybody's going to want to at least chitchat for a minute. And yeah, when you're done with your workout, I can't imagine you have to hang around for an hour because if you don't, you're an [\h__\h] A bro I want I want I just want to talk to him for a minute and he snugged me. So yeah, you know, and even in my gym, even in my gym, I'm just knifing, but people want to people want to talk to you about gym, football or whatnot. I'm sat there at this year. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't want to feel arrogance. I don't want to feel arrogant or abrupt. So if I'm not there, I haven't got to do it, you know, and but obviously now I go back, everyone everyone everyone does understand, you know, and I get that, but they don't understand how physically demanding is on the body. They don't mean no no badness by it, right? But when it's like when your meals are 4:00 and it's 25 4 and you're like, I need to go. I need to go, you know, and you keep talking and talking and talking, it's just hard to get away. Yeah. One thing you told me in our messages that that blew my mind is that you only sleep three hours a night. Yeah. Three, four hours. Nothing. Bro, I I can't imagine prep when you're doing all that cardio and you're on no food and you've got kids and you're running a gym and you're sleep you sleep three hours a night. That is ridiculous. Wow. Sleep when I'm dead. Sleep when I'm dead, bro. Sleep when I'm dead. I don't I just I just don't need much. I probably go go to bed at like 1:45 2 in the morning UK time. Last meals at 12 up at 5:35 for cardio and I just always function just I just don't need you know I might go to the gym and have a little a little 20 minutes like this but that's uh that's all I need. I just don't really like to be in bed like sleep. Fair enough. So, um, yeah, you talked about the Arnold UK because we we did not have an Arnold UK this year, but Brian Powers did announce it's coming back for 2026. I don't think they've announced the prize money. I hope it's I don't think it's going to be 750, but it should be substantial. It's is 250 for first. Yeah. Now, you won that. What was it? What year did you win that? Uh, 20. Was it was it 20 22 or 21? Sounds about right. I think one of the co years. It feels like it was to me. But yeah, you won 12 shows. You can't even keep track anymore. But um so it's would that show would that would winning that again mean obviously the 750 for the US arm would be better in terms of finance money but you know you I'm sure there's like a sense of pride where you're the UK's top open pro bodybuilder and you know that's it's not a defending title because it was a few years ago but still how much would it mean to you to win that title again? Mean a lot, bro, to win Arnold. Even to win any title, it means a lot, you know. Um, on home soil, I guess all the UK guys do it. Be a hard show, you know. I'm sure Samson would do it, you know. U Mr. Olympia, I'm sure James Hong would do it. Sassan, there's so many guys in the UK now that are doing the UK proud. Uh, it' be good if everyone just jumped on stage together. We got a and we got a one to five, right? How cool would that be? I have to apologize. I'm going to get destroyed in the comments section. I just said you're the UK's top open pro and we have Samson Da and I'm sorry Samson, I did not do that on purpose. I'm an old man and I forget things. Okay, but Nathan, you're right up there. But Samson's Mr. Olympia. I got to give him his props. But uh yeah. Yeah. I mean that's the last question before you know I'll let you go soon. It's past midnight there. But how cool was it for you? I mean, we haven't had you haven't had a UK Olympia champion since Dorian's last win in 97. So, it was a very long time. It must be it must feel good to have the title back home in your your own country. Yeah, man. It feels good. Samson's a good ambassador to the sport. You know, he's doing he's doing he's doing good bits this year. You know, it's even better if he can hopefully he can defend it. Fingers crossed he can. He can bring back to UK soil. It's going to be a bloody hard fight though, that's for sure this year, you know. Um, any one of four I believe can get it, you know, and everyone knows everyone knows I'm a Nick fanboy. Um, you know, just cuz the work ethic he puts in it. Um, so it's it's it's crazy, bro. And um, any one of the four can get it. I told him I'm really I'm really excited for it. I think I think everyone should be excited for that, you know. Um, it's it's it's coming up very very very quickly. Before we know it, it's here. Um, who do you have winning it? Question. Me? Yeah. Uh, I think Sam Sam, who do you have? Who do you have winning it and who do you want to win it? Uh, well, I I don't want because I like all the I I have no nobody who's like my best friend or anything, but I I see Samson tightening up because after he got beat by Derek at the Arnold back in March, I think that sent a lesson to him and Marina that you can get beat if you're not, you know, he I don't consider I don't think he's ever been 100% condition. Like I've never seen him in the condition I've seen you much drier and striated than I've ever seen Samson. He's got this crazy structure and shape and so much mass. He gets in really good condition, but I think he's going to have to be in much better condition because if Derek shows up 100%, if Hottie is able to get to the USA at 100%. Nick Nick Walker's not playing around, it's not going to be an easy win for anybody. Whoever wins it this year, I I'm gonna have to give them their props. It's going to be a hell of a show. But I think Samson will do it, though. Yeah, I hope he does it, bro. It's gonna be It's gonna be It's gonna be a good fight, right? Well, you say who want who I want to win. I like I like to root for the underdog. So, I would say Nick Walker because nobody expects Nick to win and he got [\h__\h] on. Bob Cherello saying eighth place at the Olympia and you know he's he's he's taken a lot of crap. So, you know, I'm again I'm not I'm not biased personally. Yeah, you're not biased, but you know, you always have like a little a little a little patience to do want to do it. Like me, I'm a Nick fanboy. Yeah. And uh just because the way how I see him train, he's like myself. He just he just balls to the wall. Doesn't give a [\h__\h] Just start it. Nasty, dirty. I'd love him to win it, but at the same I love Nick to win it. At the same at the same time, I want Samson to kick his ass because he's English and bringing him to the UK. So for me, for me, if either one win it, if either one of them win it, I'm happy. Fair enough. But do you do you think Samson is going to win? I hope he wins, bro. Um I believe he if he can come in if he doesn't watch if he doesn't watch the scales he [\h__\h] the scales off. Don't worry about how big he is. I think if he comes in around two if he if he kiss the SC comes in about 290. Yes. It's finished. Everyone's finished. Don't because he's the biggest anyway. So no one's going to outmuscle him. No. And nobody. He doesn't need to be full cuz he has that big black man genetics. He's always round. Yeah. He just if he comes in around 290 if it's on the if he's wor about the scales 290 no one's that weight it's game over and he's shredded it it's it's finished broing it like I can see him getting bigger and bigger but he doesn't need to get bigger he could he just stays right he stays where he is for the next four years five years he's Mr. Olympia, you know, and he's he's just just like just get just get that condition here in Marlene. But like you said, I think they know that and I think I believe Marlene is going to give him give his ass a good spanking and uh push him push him through push him to the gates of hell, bro, cuz she's not uh she's not shy, you know. Um she'll she'll make his ass work for sure. So, uh last question about the Olympia Rubiel. Some people have him as high as six. Some people say he'll be lucky to make the top 15. Where do you personally see him? And do you think again just like Samson, I I think another 10, 15 pounds off of Rubiel would be much better look for him. Uh if he does that, where how high do you see him possibly getting? Uh I would say eight. Okay. Uh let's say I say I don't think he beat the game. Yeah. I mean, you got look look at how look at up front. Samson, Hottie, Derek, Nick, Andrew Jack, Martin Fitzwwater, uh, who am I forgetting? Tonio Burton, Akeem. There's seven guys right there. He'd be He'll be He'd be I don't think he'd be Tony because obviously that's that's been done before, right? Tony Tony beat him the other day. Tonio, Akeem, bro, you got you got you got a few. I think I would put him between eighth to 10th. That's And that's, you know, for for your first Olympia, I think he's like 27 years old. That's That's awesome. That's nothing to be ashamed of. Eight eighth eighth attempt. Yeah. You know, and that's that's everyone's in. But I'm sure we're missing we're missing someone, right? Yeah. I always do. People like to remind me in the comments, you [\h__\h] You forgot about so and so. Yeah. Yo. Yo, Bonak. Missing Bonak. Ah, Bonak and Brandon Curry. Bron Brandon Curry. So, you know, you're looking at Yeah. 10th. I mean, it's tough. It's the toughest show in the world. You know, what do you expect? Yeah. These are the best of the best. So 10 for 10, bro, is still 10th in the world, right? Be happy with that. N I bet if you did the math, 99% of pros, open pros, never even get to the Olympia ever. Probably not. If you knew how many pros there actually are. Thousands. You'd be shocked. There's thousands of them now. There's a lot of pros now. There's like 40 pro cards per per show nowadays, right? We have a show, the USA Championships in a couple weeks. 87 pro cards. It should just be one pro card for the overall winner. One pro card. That's how it was when you won, right? Yeah. One pro card for the men's for the men's open, bro. One each corn. But that's But that tell me the best of the best. That tell that tell me the amateur is better than the best of the best. You know, one pro one pro card per class per nationals. So, you know, if you're North Americans, then obviously one pro card there. The championship, one pro card for the men's open, one for the classic, one for the physique. Make it make it better. Yeah. Lee Priest told me for three years in a row he won the Australia at age 17, 18 and 19. They wouldn't let him turn pro because he was too young. So for three years, the country of Australia did not produce one pro. Isn't that crazy? No. You know, they didn't feel it was this, you know, we're going back 30 35 years, but what crazy, right? Yeah. Cool, man. Well, it is past midnight over there in Turkey and you've been very generous with your time and I appreciate it so much. So enjoy your vacation with your family. Enjoy your offseason and I hope you do get to the USA, Arnold. We would love to see you back in the USA. It's been so long and you know I remember seeing you win shows here. I was at your New York Pro win and uh you know the fans love you here. So get your get your ass over here whenever you can, please. Thank you. But it will do, man. We'll do. All right. All right, guys. Thanks for watching Ryan Line Report with the prophecy Nathan Dasha. We'll see you next time.