What's up everybody? Ron Harris here and the Flex Pro weekend show just wrapped up over in Italy and Nextilla fans, your wish is coming true. A lot of you guys have been waiting and waiting for Rubio Mosca from Colombia aka Next to get into the Mr. Olympia to be on the Mr. Olympia stage with guys like Samson Da, Heidi Chupan, Derek Lensford, Nick Walker. You're gonna get your wish. It's coming true. He just got his win and ticket to the Mr. Olympia. Let's take a look at some of that. So, I'm actually gonna go to Nick's strength and power uh footage. Sure, he won't mind. He's got a zillion viewers. He can uh he can he can share some of his footage with me. So, this is the the uh prejudging footage that he posted. And we have it up. Let's make sure it's up before I start rolling it. And yeah, here we go. Uh, okay. So, let's take a look. Uh, this was the top four. I don't know all the guys, so please apologize. I know that is Joseph Ketan from Czech Republic in purple to the right of Rubiel. That of course is Andrea Prey to the left with the uh chest hats and the deltat there. So, let's take a look. Front of a bicep now. Rubial. I I've gone on record. I'm not a huge fan of the physique only because I'm a real fan of shape, structure, you know, pretty aesthetics with plenty of mass. Rubial doesn't have those pretty pretty aesthetics. What he does have is loads and loads of ungodly mass. some of the biggest legs we've ever seen in all of bodybuilding history, including guys like Tom Plattz, Big Ramy, uh Paul Cuadzilla, Deo, the late Paul Rubil is up there with them, but he's he's been having uh placings haven't been quite where he wanted them. He was sixth place last weekend. Um geez, what show was last weekend? Apologize, guys. I'm on some painkillers from my surgery here, so if I'm not 100% coherent, please please forgive me. But you could see that Rubiel holds his own. Even though Andrea does have prettier shape and structure, he is lacking quite quite noticeably in the lower body. You could probably fit two of Prey's thighs into one of Ruby's thighs. It's not just because he had the big thighs that he won the show. He's a huge, huge guy. He's got the shoulder width, the back width. Uh, you know, I I I'm not in love with this pose, even though he has pretty good midsection and great great quads. I always want to see more separation and so forth. But Rubiel did sharpen up considerably from last weekend in the Dubai Pro. I had to look at my calendar to remember what show was last weekend. Dubai Pro was just last weekend. So, what do you guys got to say? Yeah, nice. Got to cut now. All right. See you later, April Eric. That was quick. Ruby to the Olympia. Yeah, how's your shoulder? It's getting better. Thank you, Goku. So, yeah, Rubial, he was a pro in the other IFBB, the IFPB elite. The other big champion that they had was, of course, uh, Kiso, Michael Krzanic. Kiso, they were the two stars of that elite pro league, and they're both now top competitors in the IPB Pro League. Kruzo has been to the Olympia. Uh, Rubial has not. This is his first first chance that we're going to see there. first time we'll get to see him up against because a lot of people think Rubiel with all that mass and especially if he gets it dialed into great condition and his condition is better here than I've ever seen it. Uh certainly his coach did an fantastic job tightening him up from last week in Dubai to here. That was only one week's time. So props to his coach for doing that. Um if he can continue that and continue to get into much better condition than this. I don't know about top six at the Olympia. That's going to be very very crowded because we have three, we actually have four Olympia champs going in. We have reigning champ Samson Dada, Heidi Chupine, Derek Lensford, and Brandon Curry, four Olympia champs along with uh Nick Walker, Andrew Jacked, Martin Fitzwwater, Tonio Burton. There's some there's some really good guys. And remember, Antonio did beat Rubio last weekend, so it's not not crazy to say he beat him again at the Olympia. What else you guys got to say? What's a big run? Nexil looking solid. Great conditioning. He's taking it serious. Yeah, I I don't know if he wasn't taking it serious before. You know, I I don't want to assume that an athlete is lazy or is not following the coach's uh guidelines and doing what the coach says in terms of diet and cardio. That's what people were speculating because whenever a guy's not in top condition, immediately you either going to say the coach sucks or the athletes not listening to the coach. And I don't know if either of those were the case. Maybe it was just a case of the coach uh who was also the same coach of Angel called it on free us learning his body and learning how it responded to different variables and that delicate balancing act of keeping someone big and full while shredding them up and getting them lean and tight and dry. Now, Rubiel has so much sheer muscle mass that I don't think it would ever be an issue for him. Even if he flattened out a little bit, how would you even know? He's so thick and full anyway. If he was 10, 20% less full, would we even notice? I guess we might, but I think he would look so much better as he got tighter and leaner that it would make up for any difference in that fullness. He would look he would give that illusion of looking bigger regardless. Hope the shoulders all well 9 from your daily activities. Well, it it's going to be a bit before I'm back to normal, but I'm I'm I'm here for it. I'm I'm ready for the rehab. I'm all set. Rubel versus Paul Deo. The biggest leg. Uh in terms of throwing a tape measure around it, I bet Rubiel has has the bigger leg. It's hard to say. I mean, I knew Paul, you know, I knew him. Not like we weren't best buds or anything, but I was, you know, fairly friendly with him. I always talk to him at shows and we're both Boston guys and you know I did spend a little bit of time with him driving around to different events and things like that. Um but I don't know Rubiel has some of the biggest he's got the biggest quads I think right now in pro bodybuilding if if we assume that big Ramy is not currently competing. She's not. Snort those oxies Ron. No I really I'm really trying to lay off the oxies. I'm only going to use them to go to sleep because I don't like feeling stupid and and tired all day. And that's what they do. They make me want to take naps and I don't want to take naps. I mean, I don't like feeling unproductive. And if I'm taking a nap in the middle of the day, what am I doing? It's not like I'm working so hard I need I need a break. His squads are huge, but they look kind of swollen away. It's It's cuz he doesn't really have deep separations. Your mom's flip-flop. They are big. That's the end of Nick's. Let's go to some more footage. Instagram had some good stuff on uh Jonathan Marose Jonathan Maro the photographer Mario I don't know if I'm pronouncing it right present he has some really good good footage he shoots like he shoots video and photos at the same time he's pretty amazing uh Instagram so this is the winning shot that I used for thumbnail you can see how much tighter Rubiel is here than he was even a week ago I'd I'm I'm going to take a wild guess. I I'm sure we'll find out in interviews. He'll go on Olympia TV because he's a good friend. Chris Cormier works with him. So, I'm sure Chris will get him on Olympia TV. I bet he came down 10 pounds in in a week. He looks 10 pounds lighter and leaner to me, but the overall impact is that he looks bigger because now the separations are a little deeper and more clear uh overall. Let me see. So, I think we have posing footage of of uh Rubiel on this channel. Take a look. I need to make that smaller. Come on, Ron. You can do it. You can do it, Ron. Search Mario photo. Yeah, we're there. Okay. I did see the routine. Pretty sure I saw it. If not, I I saw it on some other other websites, Instagram pages, I should say. Oreo photo. All right. Well, here was here's some good video of the top two. Rubiel versus Prey. And you could hear uh you could hear if you put the audio up. The crowd was definitely all for Prey. It's Italy. These are his people. But look at the difference in that lower body. Uh prestige Prey's got a fantastic upper body, but Rubiel matches or surpasses him in upper body size and greatly overpowers him in the lower body. It's not even close. It's amazing how much bigger his lower body is. See, Sergey wish recovery. Thank you. Appreciate that. Real comm. Yeah, top 10 I don't think is is unrealistic. Uh, when you say top six, that's when I was starting to worry that maybe nah, that's a little that's asking a little much for him at this point because like I said, you do have four Mr. Olympias competing. I don't see him beating Samson, Hottie, Derek, or even Brandon Curry yet. He he might beat Brandon. Brandon's, you know, Brandon's starting to slide down just a bit, even though he's he's been staying in that top five ever since he left lost his title years ago. Uh, Adolf looks most bounced. Yeah, we'll take a look at we'll take a look at Adolf Bhart third place because he definitely deserves some credit. Adolf looked fantastic and I never heard of the guy until this season. Nathan would have made this lineup more competitive. Yeah, I wonder, you know, Nathan beat Rubiel last week in Dubai. Um, he did have a little bit of midsection control problem if if he had he still beat him. So, I'm saying if if Nathan came in to this show, which he missed out on the deadline by 12 minutes. He tried to enter and it was just he got the uh he got the application in 12 minutes too late and they didn't let him in. But it's it's not crazy to think that Nathan would have won. Nathan would have uh would have won this. He could have. He won this last year. Uh I saw get got going. It's all right. I mean, it's it's late over there. I understand we got a time difference. Rubial looks oversized. I mean, he could stop training those legs for I don't think he would ever have to train them again. Honestly, if they downsized like 25%, they would still be huge and they would balance out. His physique would look more balanced, I think. Uh, Rubiel looks like Ron Love swallowing a big potato. Good reference. Ron Love uh from Detroit, Michigan. Uh, really popular star, late 80s into the early 90s. He was a police officer. used to train with Linda Murray. I believe he was Linda's boyfriend at one time. The eight time Miss Olympia Linda Murray side triceps is one of the best of all time. I agree. Rubel's side chest and side triceps. Here we go with the side try. That is just such a complete shot and so it's just a it's shock and awe the mass and fullness of the tricep that side leg. He's got some of the biggest calves I've ever seen, which you know, the stereotype is that African-Americans or I guess a people of African descent because African-Americans only covers people in America. Uh, you know, they have high calves. They're they can't get big calves. And we've obviously had some exceptions to that rule. Samson's got some huge calves. 1982, Mr. Olympia, Chris Dickerson had some huge calves himself. Uh, and Rubiel, look at look at those things. Rubel won the show eight weeks ago. was in the same condition. How did he win it eight weeks ago? Paul, come on now. How's the shoulder? It's It's starting to feel better already. The surgery was Wednesday afternoon. Does this mean he's now in the Olympia? Yeah, he qualified. Everybody that wins a pro show. Every pro show qualifies you for the Olympia. So, Rubiel has his he has earned his place at the Mr. Olympia. I'm going to do a video at some point this week about that whole issue about Olympia being an invitation only, which that would never work. And I I I'll talk about it when I do the video, but it's it's it's not a practical idea. Neckzilla. Yeah. Let me move that. Maybe it's the neck of Rubio that makes me not a fan. He's got just it's a weird structure. I mean, I'm not a huge I'm not a fan of his physique. I'll be honest with you guys. I respect and and you know, I appreciate the mass, the freak factor that this guy brings. This is a freak. This guy's got all the size in the world. Got some insane body parts. those that entire lower body is just ridiculous. Uh his side shots are some of the freakiest I've ever seen. The side chest side try, but he's kind of got a wide waist. Uh the the proportions are just the structure and proportions are just that things don't flow. It's not a pretty physique. It doesn't mean he can't go far. I mean, look, he just won a pro show. He was six in Dubai. I do believe he's very capable of being in the top 10 at this Olympia. Very weak lineup lock sing. I agree. Uh the only other guy aside from third place Adolf Burgkhart I'd even heard of in this open lineup was uh Samir Trudy and I didn't watch the show so I don't know how Samir did prey will compete. Yeah because they still have shows coming up. Uh there's a Portugal pro there's more shows in Spain and there's another Italy show there. There's a there's still a few more shows over there in Europe which prey Prey likes to hit a few shows. He's not one of those guys that hits one show and disappears for a year. He'll do I've seen him do like four, five, six shows in a season. He'll he'll do it. Uh but I don't think Prey uh the only way Presty's gonna make the Olympia if he hits, you know, a fairly weak lineup. I hate to say it, but he's been to the Olympia. It's not that he's he's not awful, he's just not really like an A-lister. Rubio is just ugly physique, no balance. Adolf looked the most aesthetic. He should have won. We'll take a look at that. I definitely want to take a look at that. Andrew also have massive calves despite his high insertions. Yeah, Andrew Andrew Jacked, considering you're right. His calves insert pretty high and typically that that's not a good indication that you're ever going to be able to build substantial calf mass when you have calves that high inserting the way Andrew Jack does. But he's built them up. You know, I've seen guys with short biceps build up some pretty huge biceps. They're short, but you know, Al Beckals had short biceps, but they were super peaked. Ronnie didn't have very full biceps. They were they were on the shorter side compared to other guys. They didn't insert all the way at the elbow like uh Sergio Levo or even his son Sergio Jr. does. Taylor Shawn Rabos Cavs. Good, good point. Curry Smith, there's something wrong with Rubio. Well, I'm I've said it, Paul. I'm not AI'm not a fan. I don't think the physique flows. It's It's just not pleasing to me. But I understand that there's always going to be a place in the sport for the freaks. And Rubiel Nexzilla is a freak. Uh just so much mass. He's huge. He's one of those guys like a you know a Nasser or a Marcus Rule. Even though Taco Batista that you look at them and you're like geez this guy's just huge. We'll tell him myostatin efficiency. Yeah. So people have suggested maybe he's myostatin deficient. But others have pointed out that people who are truly myostatin deficient, they don't need to lift weights to be huge and muscular. They're just huge and muscular anyway. Just like those Belgian blue cattle, the bulls. The new Victor Richards once keeps working to refine the muscle. He should be a whole lot of guest posing frequency. Yeah. Un I don't think they have much guest posing anymore. Unfortunately, that used to be a huge money maker for the athletes. The guest posing circuit. They could make 10 grand just in the appearance fee to guest pose and they they could sell all kind of merchandise at at a show. And you know if you do that some of these guys like Modazzo, Tom Platz, they would do 30 40 appearances on weekends a year. So add that money up. Does look like Nathan Dasher Rubio. Yeah, there's some there's some similarities. They might have a a common ancestor like a thousand years back or something. If Olympia was Olympic, the most popular fitness. No, I don't think it would be popularity contest. But you can't you know the Olympia is all about merit. The Arnold is about inviting people. And historically, the Arnold has invited people that sometimes they didn't even have any business being up on that stage, but maybe they represented a whole continent or something like they'd have somebody from from Asia or somebody from Russia, even though they weren't of the caliber the same caliber of the other guys on that stage, but you know, just to have a global a show that looked like it had a global representation, uh, and to to make the fans of those places, you know, happy, they would invite all these people. And pick one Nick Walker. Uh, pick one for what, David? To win. I think Nick Walker has a much better physique than Rubio. Personally, kind of takes you back days of Edgar Fletcher. Yeah. And Edgar couldn't turn pro. Remember Edgar Fletcher was an amazing amateur in the early to mid 90s. I saw him compete a few times. Um, never turned pro. Got second, third. He was top five many times and he was fantastic. But just like Rory Littlem, Matt Mendenhal, some other guys of that era, there were so few pro cards given out, so few opportunities that some guys who were just incredible never got never got to be seen on a pro stage. Um, I don't know if he's so very cool, Allan. I don't know if Nexzilla is tired there. I assume this was I I don't know if this was from judging or confirmation round. what we're looking at right here just like Victor Richards Fletcher within two years to leave a Mr. I don't no I don't believe we're ever going to see Rubiel as a Mr. Olympia and um I don't say that out of any um ill will toward Rubiel. I don't have anything against him. I don't know the guy at all. I don't love him. I don't hate him. I have nothing personally for or against Rubio. But looking at him aesthetically, you know, Nick Walker, they people have said Nick Walker's never going to win because of his structure, but Nick Walker's structure is way better than Rubio's. Rubial's uh just the the proportions, they're just really strange with that giant neck and the giant legs and the arms that don't quite match in the front double bicep. The biceps take up more than twothirds of the arm, which it's supposed to be the other way around. It's just a It's a lot of wonky things about him. Nick Walker's a freak. Yeah, Nick has a better structure and shape. It's It's not a pretty physique, but it's a lot prettier than Rubio's. Yeah, Betty Knights. Betty Knights. Rubio needs a good bit of work. Yeah, I mean, he's just just kind of getting started. He'll be 16th Olympia. I think he could be in the top 10. And I don't say that out of I'm not just kissing the guy's butt. I don't really care. Uh let's go see if we got All right. So, here's a good here's some good shots of the top three, which was Andrea Prey was second. Rubial right there, your winner. And Adolf Berghart's from Germany in third. And yeah, Adolf uh Adolf looks damn good right there. You could see I actually he does have kind of a wide waist. Now that I'm looking at Adolf, which I haven't really scrutinized that closely before, his waist is on the thicker, wider side. You can tell in that, which is why I don't know why he doesn't do what the other two guys, Andrea and Rubiel, I would have the hands in front to sort of detract away and hide that waistline. Instead, he's got hands on the hips exposing it. Uh, front double. Yeah. You see, uh, this is it's I I really think Prestige just loses loses the show because of his legs. Condition was fantastic. His upper body is it's maybe not as big as Rubio's, but it's got better shape structure. The waist is a little thinner. It's not quite as wide. Uh but he's his legs are just so weak compared to Rubial's. Same with the front lat. Yeah, Rubial just he just dominates people in mass and he did tighten up considerably. I would still like to see deeper deeper cuts because these thighs, as impressive as they are, uh they would be that much more impressive if they had some deep deep clear separations between the quad heads. Right now, they're kind of blurry. They're they're not as clear as they could be. I mean, Prey, those legs are just those are like amateur legs. I I really I hate to keep putting them down, but that's it's a glaring weak point. You see from the side, Andrea's legs don't look that bad. They actually don't look that weak at all because he's got good, really good hamstrings and his quads look a lot better from the side than they do from the front. You can see his condition there. The glutes, those striations in the glutes nice and crispy clear. But Rubiel, he tightened up a lot. This this side leg shot was not as detailed last week. And Adolf, that is just damn near perfect side right there. You can see the quad sweep from the side, which is that's tough to do. Nice ham drop. That deep, deep separation between the quads and the hams. Those glute striations. Side try. Of course, this is Rubiel's best pose. He he kicks everyone's ass in this pose. If I were Prey, I would twist the torso a little bit. He's not doing himself any favors here. He makes his waist look wider by not twisting his torso more. The way Rubel keeps his, see, Rubel keeps his waist, and he does have a wider waist, but he keeps his midsection nice and flat. He sucks it in during this pose. and really plays up the mass up top and the mass on the bottom while making that middle that midsection look as small as he can where Prey not doing that here at all. Uh Berghart to an extent he is and the rear double. Yeah, Prey has a really good back, but Rubiel's back is no joke either. Very thick and full. He definitely he definitely tightened up considerably. I'm impressed with what they were able to do him and his coach from last week to this week. Rear Lat, not as good a shot, back shot for him. It looks kind of blurry. Ab and thigh, of course, he's got those thunder thighs. Look at that. Yeah, that's a great shot for It's a great shot for Rubial. Even though the waist, you can see the obliques are bulging out a little bit, he does have a thick midsection. Uh Pre doesn't look that slender here either. Bergart. Uh just the HABs, they just don't look they don't look that developed to me. You see how blurry they are? It's just because they're not that developed. Let's go back to uh back shot. Show that. Okay. Where we Where did we leave off at? With bigger delts and arms. I could see him looking better ever than narrow. Yeah. All Rubio can do because his hipbones are what they are. His waist is it's a little on the wide side. Nothing he can do about that except continue building more width in the shoulders and the upper back and I'm sure he'll do that. He's still a young guy. I think he's only in his early 30s. Should not be able to win a show with eight weeks out condition since six weeks south show. Well, Paul, the thing is it it's who did you stand next to that day? And this was not a strong strong lineup by any means. Not to put the Flex Weekend Pro Italy show down, but this wasn't a strong lineup. Nathan would have made it a better show had Nathan not missed the deadline by 12 minutes, but he did. All he needs is more upper body and next Ronnie Rammy hybrid. Uh Ronnie and Rammy had better better structure and shape. Uh you know, I don't want to keep I'm not I'm not really I I swear to you guys I'm not trying to [\h__\h] on Rubio. Uh, I'm really happy for him that he won a show and he's going to go to the Olympia and he does have that freak factor and we've seen other guys in the past like Marcus Rule do pretty well. He got fifth place at the Olympia one year, Marcus Rule. Um, and he was not the most aesthetically pleasing physique either. Think Rubel can win the New York Pro. They love a good freak. Yeah. Would he have beat Nick Walker this year? No. I mean, it all dep every show. It just depends on who else shows up, right? So, if you catch if you catch a show where no top Olympia guys are there. Oh, just yanked my shoulder doing that. Ow. Grabbing the mouse. Ouch. At least be six weeks out. I I don't know, Paul. Do you really Do you really believe Rubel is looks eight weeks out here? I think you're being a little harsh on him. I'm not a huge fan of Rubiel either and I would like to see a lot more separation in his legs, but to say he's eight weeks out, I think that's I think you're being uh very unkind. Fans, yeah, I mean, the guy's got like I said, there are a lot of fans that they don't really care that much about aesthetics and shape. I mean, that's that's classic. Now, if you're a huge fan of aesthetics and pretty shape and symmetry and flow and lines and all that, classic is your is your division to follow because that's what classic is all about. X- frames and small waists and nice cap delts. Uh, you know, no torn body parts, no thick waists. Um, but open there's still there's still a place in open for freaks like Rubiel for sure who calls their kid Adolf. Awful name. Well, I agree. you know, especially anyone of Jewish heritage would probably not appreciate that name because that was Adolf Hitler who was a leader of Nazi Germany. But it's a traditional name that, you know, there were plenty of guys named Adolf Hitler before Adolf. So, I guess they felt like why should we have to stop naming people Adolf just because of one one bad apple, one a-hole. It's like saying no no Muslim countries can have anyone named Saddam because of Saddam Hussein. Rubio destroyed him from the back as well. Yeah, let's take a look at that. Yeah, look at that back. That's a great back. Rubel's back back double bicep is actually a really good shot. I I don't think I've I keep saying his side shots are his best, but his rear double is is quite good, too. 14th at the Olympia. So, somebody had him 10th, someone had him 14th, someone had him 16th. I think he's like a 10 to 12 guy. Honestly, they're going to make Derrick look like a [\h__\h] Derek McMillan Mass is really well he's not beating Derek I'll tell you that right now Jada great he's not beating Derrick Lindsford Derek Derek shits all over this guy in terms of shape and structure uh I mean even if you look at mass Derek Derrick Lynford's a huge guy I know he's not a tall guy he's 5'5 or maybe 5'6 on a very very good day but uh he's massive he he's a freak he's a he's an aesthetic freak and Rubiel is a freak without the aesthetics Rean verse Stefan and France. You think Stephan could be Rean? I don't know. I don't know. We're not talking about that right now anyway. So, Roman Fritz very quiet this year. Yeah. One of the only other top open pros out of Germany. Rubio has scoliosis in the back double. His spine goes to the right. I don't know if he has scoliosis. Let me take a closer look at that. Huh. I do see a little curvature. I don't know. I think we would need a medical professional to to really comment on that. Mandy says he looks abnormal. Yeah, Mike. Big Mike Cox, my man. Yeah, kind of like uh in the movie Young Frankenstein, Eigor the the hunchback took the wrong brain. Said abnormal. He said it was some guy named Abby. Abby normal. The crowd at the O is going to love lose their [\h__\h] Yeah. I mean, listen, there's a lot of people that don't, they're all about the freaks, and they don't care if a guy might have a little bit of a wide waist. I mean, even all the guys that we knew back over the years with bubble guts, and I don't have to call him out by name, but every guy that had a bubble gut, as long as he had plenty of mass and he was getting shredded and freaky veiny and all that, they still had a huge huge fan base because there are a lot of people that will appreciate the mass and the freak factor and it doesn't really bother them that maybe this guy's got a blocky waist or a wide waist or a little bit of a bubble gut. They don't care. Yeah, it was a weak lineup. I'm excited to see what the oats for shits and giggles. Rubio Samson Andrew. That would be quite a call out, wouldn't it? Normal German name widely used here. Yeah, there you go. Venfuks. I mean, he would know. Venfuks is over there in Germany. I mean, in Austria and Germany, I'm sure it's it's probably like a it's like a name like John or Michael or Christopher or Thomas or something over here in the US or UK. I did see other foot. I saw some posing footage of Rubio. So, let me look for that. Was it on Beyond Stage TV? Somebody had some iPhone footage of him. Was that it? Here we go. Yeah. Next time. So, this is somebody's iPhone footage. This resolution is not doing him any favors. This because it's an iPhone zoomed in from, I don't know, 10 rows back, maybe. It takes away from what the condition truly was. You could see in those shots we were looking at for the past half hour that he was a lot leaner than this would indicate. I think I saw even other other footage that was better than this. Yeah, that's not the best footage. See time is that chanting. It's good footage of just the two. The chanting was for press D. Prei because they're in Italy and Prey is their best their best open pro right now. So, of course, they're going to they're going to cheer for their guy. Yeah, I know. I saw some some good Rubio footage somewhere. Where was it? Where was it? This is better. All right, this is a little better than what we saw. At least it's from the front. It's not off to the side. Yeah, that that the lack of separation the legs is really bothering me because they're so massive. They're so impressive the way they are now that I can only imagine how good they would look if they had some deep deep cuts between the different heads of the quads. He's a big dude, man. He is just a monster. I don't know what he weighs. Yeah, stupid big. I mean, like I said, he could stop training legs probably forever. They're never going to be small. He'll be 14th Olympia to just gay. What? You just gay with you look for aesthetics. We talking about a freak show called bodybuilding. Well, unfortunately, the judges don't just give it to the freakiest guy. The judges do look at many different factors, not just raw mass. Sports about freaks. He's a freak. We never saw Vic Richards. This is the closest. Yeah, this is it's like the new Vic Richards. You're right. Get my big Ramy back ball of quads. We want to see Nick Hadi Rubial Lunford. Water. Who the hell is water? Fitzwater. I know I don't speak whatever language you speak, but your English is yikes. It's It's rough. It's rough. Like Victor Savior Fletcher. Why is everyone calling him Rubio? I don't know if they're doing talk text to talk and that's how it's coming out. Yeah, it's Rubiel. Rubel Rub back looks like K and 50 units of GH Krill X. I want to see Andrew too. Okay. Well, I mean Andrew's uh got great Who comes third in this week lineup? It was Adolf Bhart from uh Germany. Too bad they don't have a lot of guest puns anymore. Yeah. I I asked I asked asked I asked Jay Cutler about that years ago because he puts on two amateur shows in Boston, the Jay Cutler Classic in the spring and the New England in the fall. And we haven't had a guest poser at that show for at least 10 years. And he said it just it doesn't doesn't increase the ticket sales. It doesn't it's a terrible return on investment. In the old days, people used to come out to see guest posers because there was no social media. And that was their only chance to really see much of these guys aside from them competing in the Olympia or whatever. But now you guys have their Instagram, their YouTube, their Snapchat, their whatever. You're seeing plenty of these guys. You're not going to go out to a contest just to see them pose, especially in the offseason. Rubio won. Yeah, Sam Sanders is a bad idea. Those two guys exposed. Yeah, I mean I I don't think he'll get a call out with them at the Olympia. He's he's not going to be I don't think he'll be a first call out guy. He'll be a second. It's [\h__\h] quads. Yeah, they are ridiculous. Let's see what else. Who else had stuff on Rubio Rubil? I want try to find more footage of the the top guys. Maybe I'll just go back to go back to the Nick Strength and Power stuff. Yeah. What the heck? All right. So, this is Nick. Nick's strength and power. He bought the webcast. I did not. Thank you, Nick. Appreciate it. Came third in this week lineup. That is Adolf Bhart. Uh, you'll be able to see him momentarily. Is that him in the red? All messed up. Jess Rubio on stage. No, there were several other people on stage as well. And that's Joseph Keton, the bald gentleman there. His calves actually was crazy. Yeah, they look like cows. Like I know that's such a cliche. They're not calves, they're cows, but they really are freaking ridiculous. This be the biggest calves ever. He don't show the cuts. Yeah, he doesn't have deep muscle separation, Rubio. No separation at all. And that would make him look so much better because mass by itself is it's it's great. It's impressive. But mass when it has a lot of detail and separation, it's that much crazier. That's why Phil Heath used to be able to beat guys who were so much bigger than him because he had mass Phil, but he also had really deep cuts between the muscle groups, deep separations, I should say. And a lot of details, striations, little you could see every little fiber on on uh on Heath posing. Welld deserved for Rubial. I agree. I agree. Promise he doesn't do calf raises. Yeah, Paul. Most of the people I've ever met with monstrous calves never train calves. We see, you know, the middle-aged middle-aged dads with the big fat guts walking around with these 20-inch diamond shaped calves. You think they go to the gym and do calves every every other day? No. They just get those calves walking around because their calves insert very low. When your calves insert very low, close to the ankle, you probably don't ever have to train calves. They they'll get plenty of work just walking around just supporting your body, you know, assisting as part of the chain in things like squats and leg presses, lunges, things like that. They'll get plenty of work. I remember the late Mike Monzo had some of the best calves ever. He didn't train his calves. He would do them for photo shoots just for shits and giggles to get the pictures. But he would tell me that card, even cardio, his calves got so pumped he would have to stop after 10 minutes, take a little break, shake them out, squeeze them or whatever. I don't know what he would do and then get back on the treadmill or the bike because his calves were so dense that uh everything everything trained him. He won't show as called genetics. Fritz Fritz was about freaks. Marcus would have won at least one time. Exactly. Now Rule did win some pro shows. He won the night of champions of New York back when that was like a show with 35 45 guys in it. He won I think the Toronto Pro and he was as high as fifth at the Olympia. I remember that. So Rule did very well but my English is [\h__\h] Well I don't know. I don't I got to give you credit. You speak some English. I don't speak anything of I don't know what language you speak any if you want to tell me but I don't I don't I barely I barely speak passable Spanish. It's the only second language I have. knock 20 pounds off. I think Rubiel if you took 10 more pounds off him, he would look that much better. Yeah, you're understanding. Rubel posing improved tremendously. Yeah, his posing Chris Cormier has been working with him on his posing. I was trying to get Chris to come on here because he had he tried to call me on on audio on Instagram audio call and I my dumbass couldn't figure out how to accept the call and I sent him an invitation to come on here but he hasn't taken I mean he's busy. It's it's late over there. He's he's probably celebrating with Rubial at this point. It's Casbro. I never wear pants. I mean I'd wear shorts every day if I had legs like that. Except Frog two years ago. Yeah. Varing line. He's a he's a work in progress. He's still a fairly young guy and he hasn't done a ton of shows. I know he was a pro in the other IFBB, so he's not a rookie. He's not a newbie, but he's still got a long way to go. He's still getting better at presentation. His coach is figuring out his physique and getting him a little bit tighter every time. Came fourth and fifth. I have no idea what I'm saying. I didn't watch the show and I apologize for that. I could go back to uh Beyond the Stage TV's pants off going crazy. Yeah. He said the myth about Arnold is that uh he cut the pants off all his the pants he cut the cut his pants off made turn them all into shorts so he would have to see his weak ass calves but Arnold was also accused of being of having calf implants back in the 70s I don't know if they could even do calf implants I mean they were just barely doing breast implants so I don't know if there was any truth to that Marcus Lud won two shows New York and Toronto much better back then yeah Marcos is very I was very fortunate to see him compete a few times and he was so impressive. I promise you, bro. I wouldn't take that bet. I don't think he's done a calf raise in his life either. I think they just grow. Any idea what he weighs? That's a good question, Mike. So, he's about 59, 510 because Prey, I've stood next to Prey. Preie is about 5'9 or 510 and he looks like he's a little bit shorter. So, I'm going to say Rubel's probably like 5'9. He looks to me like about 260 270 if I had to take a wild crazy guess, but I have no idea. Did Ruby already get call from that show a year or so? Yeah, because it was it was the Prague show I think that Samson won. So Rubio was in the top I think he took fourth in Prague. So he did get a call out with Samson last year, but I don't see him getting that call out this year at the Olympia. Marcus is also often ripped off back then. It's much harder if he was a non-American. Judging sucked back then, Ven Fuks, judging was so political back then. It was awful. They changed scores all the time and they favored people due to sponsors and just it was it was messed up. It was it was a lot of injustice back then. Judging now is way more way more fair. Stop sharing that. Okay, go back to Instagram and see uh if they have all the placings. Do they? Next wins. No. Yeah, I was hoping that uh Hold on a sec, guys. I was I'm still trying to get the final place. I wouldn't I bet you I wouldn't even know who these other people were, though, to be honest with you. Yeah, they just said he won. Coach Francisco Jose Espin. Go to his page. You wonder what he's got on this page. He's got some good Does he have some good stuff? So there's this is his coach's footage. Look at that. And he's got like a longer torso, higher lats, wide waist. It's just it's not a pretty The biceps in that shot should not take up more than half of the arm. And they do. The biceps are supposed to take up oneird of the upper arm. the triceps supposed to be two/3s. I know I'm being so so picky, guys, but that's how you have to be because otherwise you're just saying everybody looks great. Everybody looks perfect. Everybody should win. Well, everybody can't win. We got winners and losers in bodybuilding just like any other sport. Rubio won. So, props to him for pulling off the win. Look at that beautiful shot. Look at those calves. Those are some sickening sickening calves when he opens up that back nice and wide. His his back is so wide. It doesn't he doesn't look doesn't look doesn't look uh like he has a wide waist in that. What else is What else does coach have here? I think this is the the minute he got announced as winner is probably what we're looking at right here. I'm guessing he has getting Oh, they're going to invite him to the Arnold. You can guarantee they're going to invite him to the Arnold. No doubt in my mind. No, I've never tried Yamamoto. I've never even seen a Yamamoto product in the USA. I don't know if they distribute here. They're huge in in in Europe and they sponsor a lot of athletes, but I've never seen a Yamamoto product in my life. Tier one shows three or more. You do one should qualify two. Oh, this is a good idea for how you qualify for the Olympia. Comprise for open tier one shows. Yeah, that may I agree with all that. Andy never trained calves. Yeah, most of the people I know with awesome calves never trained. Yeah, come come back Raven when when I'm doing a show because I will do a show about the qualifying for Olympian stuff. I just don't want to I don't want to take away from Rubiel's win here. Most of the time black guys have high interest calves. Yes, that is true. That is true. And I'll say it right here. Chinese and Korean bodybuilders seem to have low insertions. Japanese bodybuilders low calf insertions. Why? I don't know. Why would people from Africa have higher insertions and people from Asia, Eastern and Southeastern Asia? Why would they have lower calf insertions? What reason would God or or Dart or, you know, evolution have for that? I have no idea. Best product is Portuguese. Oh, Portuguese. Bracio. Oh, okay. Oh, Portuguese. Okay. Well, see, you probably would have liked Artha Labs. I I've been stealing her footage for the last couple show show coverages I've done. Uh, Artha Loose in in Brazil. She does commentary in Portuguese. Fantastic job, I'm sure. Uh, so I always tell people go watch her channel, if you want to get the commentary. If you speak Portuguese and you want to hear some great commentary, Arita Arita Area does some great work. What else? So, this is his coach. This is coach's footage or he posted it anyway on his timeline. Here's Rubiel backstage. This is the the coach took this footage. Yeah, he's an all the way big dude. What made Ryan the missile time? He's a freak with shape size. It's truly unique. Yeah, you don't you don't often see all those attributes in one person. You'll see a lot of people with great shape. You'll see a lot of people with great conditioning. You'll see a lot of people with great size. It's very rare to see all three of those things in one person at the same time. So, when somebody has all that, they usually just kick everyone's ass, let aceto prep him. Well, I he seems to be very happy with this coach. So this guy says Chad should prep him. I mean it's up to Rubiel. Rubel is going to have to be the one to decide if he wants to make a change. Three from my house. The Iron Beard Iron Juanopoulos big bodybuilding scene in South Brazil. Yeah. Um Brazil is one of the greatest bodybuilding nations in the world right now. Cavs come for your dad's balls. Orlando should prep him. Columbia fans, fans. I don't know the word for fans. Uh, very happy. Congratulations. Well, anyway, my Spanish sucks. I'm doing great. I speak some Spanish e not the greatest. Let's see what else his coach put up. His coach has some obviously some some some footage no one else was able to get. Morning check. Those are that's how he looked the morning of the show. That's the hotel lighting. And you can see these pictures taken on portrait mode on on your camera on your iPhone, which blurs out the background. I love portrait mode. That's Melman. That's a different guy. All right. I gotta go back to another Instagram page. Uh I want to see some other stuff. That's why that's a nice shot. That's a cool shot right there. Yeah, this was your top five. And I don't know all these guys. I really don't. And I feel awful. I know Joseph Joseph Caveton from Czech Republic. They're on the left, the bald guy. Obviously, I know Andrea Pressy, Rubiel. That's Adolf Burkhart. Uh to the right of Rubial. And I don't know who the guy on the far right in the blue trunks. I have no idea who that is. No idea. Let's see. Well, Nathan's happy for him. That's good. That's a great shot, man. Right there. It's a cool shot. Everyone loves him. Big butts. Division wellness. Latinas Braasilenas. Rubial needs more delts and he look more wider up top. Yeah, I agree. That's the only thing you can do cuz his midsection is not getting any smaller. It's it's bones. He's got a wide wide hips and waist. It's not going to get any smaller. So, let's go brutal on conditioning. I see him top six in the O. No, I don't see him top six because there's so many guys. We got four Olympias competing. Four Mr. Olympia champs. There's no way he's beating Hottie, Derek, or Samson. I'm sorry. There's just no way that's not going to happen. He's not beating Nick Walker. That's four guys. He's not beating Andrew Jack. That's five guys. Uh I don't think he's beating Brandon Curry. That's six. Martin Fitzwwater. So right there. No, I I I appreciate that you're a fan and you like the guy, but I don't see him cracking top six. Shoulders feeling better, Katherine. Thank you. It's a little better every day. Surgery was only Wednesday afternoon. I didn't wake up till 5:30 p.m. on Wednesday. Another black guy. I had great cast Paul Dlette. True. from the UK Rubio the flex weekend pro and Italia Milan Milan good in sealable languages see Portuguese no follow no follow Portuguese no follow I don't speak it ven top six unrealistic only when he stands top guys it become clear how superior they he doesn't have structure It's It's just a structure thing with him. He's got all the size in the world and I do believe the condition can get better. It's pretty good. It's not bad. He just needs more separation. I don't know. He probably just needs to be lighter and lighter. Salig Columbia Sophia narco. Yeah. I don't know how much it eats to maintain that. Yeah. Should be only 20 Olympia spots. 20 pro shows would count. Yeah. They they they're not going to have less pro shows because the organization gets a sanction fee. They get money from just allowing more pro shows. The promoters make money putting on pro shows. So Rubel Moscia, okay, with the waste. Yeah, it's a big waste. Next was secured everyone this time. Oh, eslia. Okay, Brandon Curry was the greatest MRO of all time in 2019. Uh, he was the greatest in 2019. I wouldn't say Brandon was the greatest Mr. Olympia of all time and shooting with pair of black and white picks. Ah, that would be awesome. Longer limbs, more dispersed heat from evolving warm climates. That's a that actually kind of makes sense. Actually, that's the first first time, Paul, I've ever heard anyone come up with any reasonable theory as to why African people would have higher cap insertions than people from, say, Europe or Asia, if that makes sense. Fantastic in Brazil. Just rice and beans. Rice and beans. Ouch. Oh, sorry to hear that. Six months. I'm going to get juice now. Surgery. Roden was actually best Olympia. Not even kidding. Well, aesthetically, yeah, I I wouldn't really argue with that. I think Roden was awesome. Roden was awesome. Let me go back to some other What else we got on this page. So, I'm going to dip out because I uh I came straight from the gym. I trained legs today. My son brought me to the gym because I can't I'm not going to be driving for probably like three more weeks. Uh so, I did a workout. I need to eat. All I've had is a shake and a nectarine. And yeah, I'm pretty hungry. Uh, we'll look at some more pictures. See what else Morio has. I think he had some really good comparison shots. Top three. Yeah, I already I know I already showed those. Yeah, I showed them, but I'll show them more time. What the heck? Rounder muscle belly to disperse more heat. More theories on calves. Why people from different parts of the world have bigger or smaller calves. Oh, you did the surgery. Oh, you should be okay then. Myo. It's Mayamo, not Mammo. Mayo papa papulo. Time of the least. Breaks off. Phil, I liked the early Phil. Heath was Phil in his first couple Mr. Olympia wins, first like two or three. He was just fantastic. Ronnie, his first two Olympian wins was just fantastic. strength tendon screw in the bone. Here goes a surgery free. Yeah. Miles surgery. Cool. All right, guys. I'm going to take off because I'm so hungry. I'm very hungry. So, anyway, uh I want to congratulate again Rubel Neckzilla Mosca on his first pro win over there in Milan, Italy at the Flex Weekend Pro. Uh my brother lives in Texas as [\h__\h] So, uh he is on the way to Olympia. Next stop, Olympia. Good for him. And that is uh a wrap. We'll see Rubio next at the Olympia, how well he will do. We're going to start doing Olympia Olympia predictions in a couple months, I'm sure. Even the show is not till October. We're almost in July right now. So anyway, guys, appreciate you all watching. Thanks for doing that, and I will talk to you guys next time. Peace.