Hey, what's up guys? Ron Harris here and Portugal Pro just ended a few minutes ago. And look at this. Neckzilla did it again. Back-to-back wins. Didn't even need to keep competing. He had his Olympia qualification, but he stayed over there in Europe. Went over to Portugal from Italy. And look at that. He's got another win. Let's take a look at how he looked today, which I give the guy credit. He tightened up. I'm I'm never going to be a huge fan of this guy's shape, structure, all that, but boy, that's that's a lot of muscle. And could he be even leaner than that? Sure. Sure. It wasn't the toughest lineup. He's going to have to be a lot leaner than this to crack top 10 at the Olympia. He's probably going to have to come down a few pounds, which I do not doubt he will do together with his coach. But look at that. This front lat spread. Very, very impressive shot for him. Really, the only shot of his I don't like is his front double. That front lating. His side chest, side tries, just astonishing shots. This guy's just a freak of nature. He is a monster and uh he pulled it off and as you see he beat out Nathan Dasha who I thought was going to be his closest competition. We'll look at the call outs of top four in a second because I I honestly had Bruno in I'm sorry I had Nathan in second. Bruno Bruno Santos ended up in second place. Fabian Mayer. We'll we'll take a look at him too. That's interesting because he just missed the weight for Classic. He had hoped to be a little taller today and he was not. So that's what happened. So, here was top four call out. You have Nathan, Rubiel, Bruno, and Fabian. Said Fabian had counted on being a little bit taller and making the next the next weight categorization in classic, I guess you'd say, but he missed it. He was just under the weight, under the height that he thought he was, and he had to jump in here with the big boys instead of just going home. And, you know, good for this guy. He ended up in fourth place against a pretty pretty solid lineup of open guys. Had he done classic, I I do not doubt he would have won. He would have beat horse MD. We'll take a look at horse, but Fabian would have beat him. But look at that there, Rubial there. That that rear double. He's so I said he's not a he's not a wide guy. He doesn't have the widest clavicles, but he has so much mass on top of those clavicles. Uh the the upper back width. Shoulders could be better, sure, but bam. And he's This is a work in progress, guys. Uh he's a young man. He's just just starting out in the IPB Pro League these past couple seasons. Uh I think he's he's going to be moving up the ranks and he's going to be someone we're going to be watching out for for a very long time. Nathan, I thought Nathan actually looked better than Italy, but it wasn't enough. Um there were already a ton of people commenting that Nathan was punished here for his comments about the judging and just the disrespect that he was showing the the judging process and the judges themselves after he was uh fourth place in Italy. And I I did him have him as the rightful second place. I don't think he deserved to beat Rubiel. I don't think he was robbed of the win. Uh but still I I I think they did knock him down a place. I mean, I'm not a judge, but I've been to a lot of these things. Uh we'll see what they have. Rubio. There's some good backstage. There's some better lighting. You know, that's the stream, which I didn't get, but this was uh this is Rubel before he went on stage. And yeah, this is just this is just a massive massive human being. Yeah, you can't help but be impressed. It's it's not the prettiest physique. No, but but god, he's he's just loaded loaded with so much muscle. And the conditioning, it's it's pretty good. It's it could be better, but you know, we're nitpicky. We're looking for the best possible condition that a human being could have. Uh this is uh that's a runner up. We'll take a look at that. We'll take a look at classic in a minute, but right now I want to stick to uh discussing open. So, who else had that? This was Body Was Borders. Beyond Stage TV had some good stuff on there, I believe. I think they did. Anyway, uh no, maybe not. That's That'll be for the 212 class when we get to that. Uh let's go to Bibles. Is that where we just were? Yeah, we were just there. If you guys know of any really good footage anywhere, let me know on Instagram. I don't think Nick has put his stuff up yet. Who was the best bodybuilder? It's Nathan backstage. Who's this? No. Yeah, here we go. This was Fabian. So, I just want to take a good look. This was a guy that just missed classic weight. Um and he he uh could have just said screw this, take my ball and gone home, but he stuck around, jumped into open. You know, typically most classic guys, they they don't have the mass to hang it open. Now, size-wise, he was not one of the bigger guys on that stage, but just for example, he was fourth place. He beat out someone like uh fifth place Joseph Caveton from Czech Republic, who was probably got 50 pounds of muscle on him, 40, 50 pounds at maybe an inch taller. So, props to this guy, Fabian Mayor. Again, a lot of chatter that he would have been would have been the open winner had he done that. So, here's uh some more looks. This is still photos of the top four top four comparisons. And you can see Rubial just size size. He just dominated everybody. Biggest man up there by a mile. And Fabian over there on the right. I mean, he looks half of Rubial's size. So apparently he wasn't scared. Uh Bruno, you know, I mean it's arguable, but did Bruno really deserve to beat uh Nathan? I'm not there in person. I'm just going off some stuff on my computer screen, so it's kind of hard for me to say with any degree of authority. What have you guys got to say? What have you guys got to say? Let's see. Nathan lost again. Yeah, lol. What's up, Paul? Just got home. Did Bruno deserve it? I I don't think so. I mean, I I like Nathan's physique better than Bruno Santos. You know, Bruno's got a solid physique, but Nathan's at another level. That's why Nathan has 12 pro wins and Bruno has a zero, as far as I know. What's up? I'm recovering well. You can see can't even barely see my scar, right? Just little little scratch there. Yeah, it's better. I'm not I don't even want to wear my sling. Only when I go out. They punish Nathan for talking [\h__\h] Paul. That That's how I feel. Uh I I That sounds like a very plausible, logical theory to me. It's just a theory though, right? Nathan will say he should have won. Yeah. I mean, Nathan thinks very highly of himself, which you have to as a pro. You have to believe you're the best up there, but uh Rubio Rubio had tightened up and that really just slammed the door. Didn't leave didn't leave the door open a crack this time. He tightened up considerably from a week ago and he got it. Rubio smoked everyone. Love your love your lives, Ron. Oh, thank you, man. Appreciate smoke. He's got better tweets. the only guy that's sweating comparisons. Yeah. I mean, Rubel Nathan again, Rob, we'll be hearing from Nathan. Don't worry. I'm sure he's got if you if you follow him on Instagram, I bet the story will be up now. If it's not already up. If if it isn't up now, it's going to be up soon. EP sing. He's not at the level he used to be in the third person. I mean, the only difference I see I do see his obliques starting to bulge out a little bit um to the side with Nathan. Other than that, I mean, it's it's the same physique that's won all these other shows. It's just conduct yourself in a more dignified way. Now, if they really wanted to punish Nathan, he wouldn't have been third place. He would have been like out of the top five. But, you know, then you could say that's too obvious, too blatant. It would be too obvious that they were punishing him, so they gave him third place. But, I don't think he deserved first regardless. Yeah, just ask Nathan. I think he was he was a solid second place. That's where I had him from all the stuff that I've seen so far. Fraudes has a weird body has been penalizing me because he's downsizer. He's talking [\h__\h] I don't think Bruno Santos should be beating. Yeah, I mean nothing against Bruno, but I think I don't think he's at the level of Nathan. I think Nathan's Melman. Yeah, let's look at Melman. What are we going to focus on? Focus on this for now. Uh who's got some good stuff of Melman. Yeah, 212 winner Mleman. I got his full name because it's a long name. I think his routine is here. Yeah. Oh, that was the 212 top three. It was Mleman. Nasser Sed. Who's killer of giants? Roman Linko. I have not never even heard of this guy. From that name, he sounds like he's Russian. Uh, but let's see. Where' I go? I already went right past it. Okay, so there's your 212 um name whose name is Jose Maria Mete Wii Wer. I don't know. He lives in Spain. He's got two flags on his Instagram. I'm going to go nuts and assume the other flag is somewhere in West Africa where he's probably originally from with those genetics, but he was a very clear winner from from all the pictures and the the video clips that I've seen. Mleman, he's a very popular guy. He's got over a million followers, too, which is there's not too many 212 competitors that have massive followings. He's one of them. And uh yeah, solid from from top to bottom. in the Sky Mleman. Great back, arms, legs. You know, calves could be better, but who cares? The only people that care about big calves are the people that have big calves. Oh, that is that's a wacky way to hit the rear lat spread. He kept crunching it in. Uh, let's go to the individual individual with Middleman. I know. I saw an individual with him, too. So this is Beyond the Stage. We got the horse horse MD won the classic. Yeah. Now horse I actually had this other guy uh beating him. This Eduardo Eduardo Dwarte from Portugal. This guy on the left. I think I like horse a lot better as an open bodybuilder. The only thing that he's kept uh are those massive quads. Everything else is just so downsized. It's It's like seeing he's either natural now or he's very close to natural, like super low dose because he had to drop it was between 30 and 40 pounds of muscle from open to to get to where he is now in classic to make the weight for classic. Take a look at his routine. Yeah. I mean, when you're this flat because he's Yeah, he's still got the biceps. the legs didn't really they they're down from where they were when he was 30 40 pounds heavier. Um but man, he just looks really flat, really depleted to me. Apparently, according to Miguel Chain, even even about half of the people in Brazil thought the other guy should have won, which is insane because the Brazilians are fiercely loyal to their athletes. And for them to for them to think horse MD who horse is very popular, another guy with over a million followers, good friend and training partner Ramondino, uh for them to think that he didn't deserve the win, that that tells you something because typically the Brazilians are very very biased toward the Brazilian athletes. Um but you know, I'm I'm not too concerned about it. I I do believe looking at that Fabian Mayor guy from Austria, Fabian would have blew this away, but he wasn't as tall as he thought he was and he missed the weight. Let's go back to the comments with Nathan's last split in this one. Actually might be a ripoff. Yeah, but it was only one place, Paul. I'm sure it was a difference of a couple thousand bucks. Um, he wasn't winning anyway. Fab had the most pleasing physique up there. Yeah. I mean, well, that also makes sense, Jerry, because he's a classic. He's a classic physique pro. As far as I know, this was his open debut and it was not planned at all. He did not mean to. Trick was head judge. Yep. Yeah. Well, there you go. I mean, I I don't know why TK would have anything personally against Nathan, but TK is from Brazil and Bruno Santos from Brazil, so let the conspiracy theories fly. I'm I'm not saying anything. That's that's the way it's going to go in the chatter on the boards the boards on the social media. Bodybuild should look like Fabian, not Rubel. Aesthetic, symmetry, conditioning, Gustin folks, I agree with you 100%. I'm not AI'm not a fan of of Rubiel's shape. I like the guys with the better shape. That was a top four again. All right. So, this was Beyond Stage TV. Let's see what IPB Portugal's got. Portugal had some stuff up, too. Did they have Fabian? That's just pictures. These are just still photos of Melman, Jose. Yeah. Who had the video? Who had all the video, man? That's what I want. I want video. Who was the best bodybuilder? Uh, nope. They didn't have it. So, the next one is I'm not even going to go into the guest posing because what that's not that important today. Body without borders. Okay. So, who they got? Oh, that was the top four. We've already seen that. Yeah, guys, tell me what you see in the on Instagram if you see anything really good. I'm curious. I'm curious as to what's out there because I didn't get the stream. It was 60 bucks and I'm a cheap ass. No, I am a cheap ass. Uh, were they even covering this? Yeah. No, that was last week. That's not even today. That's Italy. So, be on stage TV. Who was best bodybuilder? Man, I'm This was uh Melman winning. Good stuff. Who's going to place higher at the Mr. Evolution Pro? Nathan or Fabian? Well, turns out it was Nathan. Nathan beat him by one one spot. Nathan was third. He was fourth. But I mean, give the guy give Fabian credit, man. He was not he was not supposed to even be in this show. He wasn't supposed to be in the open. Put it that way. Uh I thought uh I thought these guys had had some posing footage. Fabian who's got Let me look at the board. Let me look at you what you guys are saying real quick. conditioning isn't going to play tough. I make this profanity. I got leave something else up. The moment the crowd booed. And the Portugal crowd, of course, their guy, the Portuguese guy got second. They weren't happy about that. I'm not too surprised. Not too surprised. Got cry again. Christian is going to place top six the Olympia. Oh, I I Jimmy, I don't think I don't think Rubel had a had a real a real chance of being top six at the Olympics. We already have four Mr. Olympias competing. We have Derek Lensford, Simpson Da, Hottie Chupan, Brandon Curry. I don't think I honestly wouldn't have Rubel beating Brandon unless Brandon's a little bit off. I know I know Rubial's so big. I understand that sizes and everything. You also have Andrew Jack. You also have Martin Fitzwwater. Probably a couple other guys I'm not even remembering right at this moment. Nathan's profanity for the judges. Yeah. I'm curious if wonder what Nathan's got up on his stories. You guys want to see? Has he posted anything yet? Oh, Nathan. Let's hope he didn't go too co too crazy. Nathan's stories. Uh, that was that was a long time ago. 20 hours. I'm just curious if you posted anything since since the show was over. That was six minutes ago. Okay, here he is beyond the stage TV. I don't remember seeing that on there. Well, you know, he doesn't look happy, but he's not doesn't look like he's really really upset. I'm sure he is. You know, I mean, like I said, I I don't He might think he deserved to win. I don't think Nathan was beating Rubiel today. He beat Rubiel in Dubai because uh Rubiel's condition was I think Rubiel was about 10 pounds heavier fat in water in Dubai than he is right now or today in Portugal I should say. So all Rubio had to do was tighten up to move past Nathan. Nathan's damn good, don't get me wrong. A dozen pro wins, 12 pro wins, guys. That's that's not insignificant. That's pretty damn good. All right, so here's his routine. Somebody taped it and he put it on his stories. Can I make that bigger? Yeah, I can make that a little bigger. This is an iPhone from like the 20th row. Look, I'm thinking. Yeah, I mean Nathan obviously everyone everyone's got issues with their physique. Everyone something you can pick apart. Uh was he better here? I don't know. I mean it's this is very very blurry footage. This is not AI wouldn't judge by the by this the conditioning cuz I bet you'll see the high-res images posted soon and you'll be like, "Wow, he was shredded." You know, most people look way better in the still photos than they do in the the stream unless it's like a 4K stream from Gilo, but yeah, I mean, third place, I know it's not what he wanted, but it's not embarrassing. Like I said, did they punish him? I don't know. But if they were really gonna punish him, I think they would have placed him even lower than that. I think they would have put him in, you know, like sixth, seventh, eighth place, something like that. But you say that would be too obvious. That'd be too obvious. Who's the best bodybuilder? See if Beyond Stage has anything new up. I need to refresh my screen. Huh? That's Horse MD. That's Melman. I'll leave horse 7 MD up while we're getting into some of your comments. Rubio will finish somewhere between eighth and 12th. Yeah, Ven Fuks, that sounds about right. That sounds about right. Correct. Yeah, I agree with that. I mean, and that's not bad. If he could even make 10th, top 10 in your first Olympia, that's that's very prestigious. I mean, most pros most open pros never even get to the Olympia. They don't. 95% of all pros never make it to the Olympia. of those that do, you know, you can chop off another 70% of them never make the top 10. Nathan's punishment was just Yeah, it was a place off. He Gus, you're right. He wasn't gonna I I don't I didn't have him winning. Rubel definitely deserves first. Nathan should have been second. Uh I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. No, no. I actually I do agree with that. You're right. I'm not I'm not disputing you. I'm just trying to do too much thinking at once and that doesn't really work out well for me. So, who has the best footage is what I want to know. That's what I really want to see. The best comparisons. I guess I'll just leave this up for now while we're talking. Yeah. Unfortunately, this banner that I have up, um, you can only see it when I take the comments off. Like, if I go like that, there's the results. So, Bruno has one pro. Oh, thank you. Yeah, Gus. I think he won a show in Brazil. I think it was a post Olympia show. I'm could very very well be wrong. Very very well be wrong. I'm wrong all the time. Okay. So, let's see. Text my son back. Bruno has one pro win. Bruno had a BBL. What? Uh, does Milo still coach Bruno? That's a good question. It's a good question. Uh, you know, you can usually tell I'll go to Bruno's Let's go to Bruno's Insta and see what uh if he has it in his bio who his coach is. Sometimes the athletes do and sometimes they don't. They don't list their coach. Oh, he's got nothing up from He's got nothing up from today. You know who had the uh there's a relatively new Instagram uh called Muscle Insights H Muscle In Muscle Insight Q HQ uh and they do is this it? Yeah. So what they do they have the lineup and they tell you the coaches. So Bruno Oliver Santos. Okay. So, Bruno is coached, as you can see, by Ricardo Korea, who was a really good 212 pro from Brazil. Uh, he hasn't competed in a while. I don't think it's been a while, but it tells you who the coaches are. So, like I don't even know most of these people. Nathan is coached by boss outlaw Stephan Kensel. Uh Katon Thomas Bur Santoan Loth who was fifth was Martin Winston. Rubial is Francisco Espeen who is also the coach for uh Angel Calder on Frius. Yeah. And I think they're gonna do they have the coaches for everyone else? Oh, there you go. No, that was a different That's Italy, guys. Pay no heed to that. Mr. Big Evolution Pro. Okay. Yeah. I wonder if Nick has his video up yet. Do I dare if Nick if Nick Strength and Power has his video up? I would be curious. I would check his video. Scriptions. Nick. Does Nick have his video up? Videos. No, Nick has not put a video out yet. Nope. Has not. Uh, that's Bruno. Uh, should probably look at this Antoine Lock. I mean, he was fifth place. I would I'm not very familiar with him, so I'm going to give this guy credit. He did make top five on a pro show today. He's the Grumpy Grizzly. Let's follow him. That was him last weekend in Italy. Grumpy Grizzly. Yeah, not a massive guy. I mean, for an open guy, he's he's not huge, but uh condition was right there. I'm sure that's Yeah, look at that. Look at that nice crispy condition. I'm sure that's what helped him get into the top five today. I mean, this this was last weekend, but I'm sure he's uh I'm sure he's in the same condition, if not better today than he was there. What else we got from him? Yeah, there's the there's the gym lighting. Looks pretty damn good. Antoine Loth. Yeah, I guess I'll leave Grumpy Grizzly. Bles up orders. Leave Rubial up. Who is this guy? Don't know who that is. Take some more comments from you guys. Used to be classic. Did Berno used to be classic? Is that who you're saying? Rude boy coaches Bruno. Yeah, we just found out. I mean, I'm way behind on the comments. No like prep coach. Rude boy to Bruno's diet. Roger that. What's up, Gregory? Rubel is getting better, which is a good thing. Yeah, you know, at this point, I mean, between shows, it's it's not like one week to the next you're going to change. He's never going to change his structure or shape. It is what it is. But he can continue to build up his delts, his triceps. Uh cuz in the front double, I know his triceps look big in the side shots, the side try and and but right there, the biceps really just dominate that shot. If his tries swept down a little bit more, that shot would be even better. His front lat is a great shot. I love his front lat. Obviously, any most muscular with a guy like that with that much mass is going to be crazy. Invite Nathan for an interview here would be nice. Well, he's not going to talk to me now, but I would like to get him on soon. Coach P's in the house. What's up, Alon? Will Nathan complain? He hasn't yet, but give him time. You know, I mean, I don't want to I don't want to sound like I'm agreeing to the fact that he was being punished today because I don't know if that's true. I It's It's people are going to say that and I don't know if it's true. I believe he from the pictures and videos that I'm seeing, but I wasn't there. I would say he should have been second rather than third, which is still it's not like they didn't rob he wasn't robbed of the win. He wasn't winning anyway. The difference is some money. He lost he lost a couple thousand dollars where he would have gotten ma made more money in second place than he did in third, but he wasn't going to win the show anyway. Rubel had tightened up. He looked better today, you know, and that's that's it. when when Rubiel is un until he gets to the Olympia where it's going to be other guys with really good it's going to be guys with, you know, better better shape and everything that have the same level of mass. No, no one's going to have those legs, but they're going to have him on on aspects like muscle separation and detail, muscle maturity. He's going to have a tough time. I I I agree with what the gentleman said before. 8 through 12th is a very reasonable expectation for Rubial at his first Olympia in October, which is nothing to be ashamed of. Coach Powers Fabian would have beaten horse. Yeah, I agree with that. I agree with that. Rubio reminds me of Victor Richards. Yeah, Victor actually had really good structural proportions. He was a very stocky, thick guy. Uh I knew Victor kind of. He went to my gym for about six months in Pasadena and I would spot him occasionally. Trust me, he didn't need a spotter. I don't know. He just wanted someone there in case. Strong dude. He he'd repped the 150s on dumbbell inclines for like three sets of 12. No problem. He could have he could have done 180s or 200s. I'm sure Olympia there every Olympia stack. Bruno placing second is insane. I didn't agree with it. Getting worried about these Vic riches comparison. Ruby. Yeah, I agree. I agree with that, Paul. I mean, it's not fair because Victor Richards, I'm not going to say he was a a coward, but he was a they gave him a pro card. Basically, they set up a show in Nigeria. Um, which there had never been. I don't think I don't the Nigerian championships would never have been considered a proqualifier. Um, you know, prior to that. I don't know when this was like late 80s, 87, 88, 89. Somewhere in the late 80s they uh they had a Mr. Nigeria and Victor went back there. He was from Nigeria originally. He lived in California, Los Angeles area and there was I remember seeing a picture of Victor on stage with like three three guys who were literally half his size if that and he just blew them away. But he never never once competed. He never got into contest condition. I saw Victor many times uh either guest posing or walking around and he would get I'd say a six to eight weeks outlook would be the leanest you would ever see where you could see he definitely had about another 15 pounds or so 15 or 20 to be shredded. He never did that. He wanted to stay big and full and he made a ton of money guest posing because he was a freak. He was I think they called him the Nigerian nightmare. There's that famous Fibo footage where he posed down with I don't know who the other guys were, but Dorian Yates was up there in the offseason and he looked bigger than Dorian, but Dorian competed. Dorian backed everything up. Vic was always like a what if. What if Victor actually competed, but he never did. So, give Rubel I give Rubel a lot of credit. Not only does he compete and he's been competing for a few years, but he did not need to do this show. He earned his Olympia qualification last weekend at the Flex Weekend Italy Pro in Milan, Italy, and that would have been it. He could have easily just flown back home to South America to Colombia, started relaxing maybe for a couple weeks, give his body a little break, and then get right back into Olympia prep. But instead, he stayed over in Europe, stayed over there and did one more show, and he's got two two pro wins now, which is two more than most pros ever get. Good for him. Nathan definitely deserves second. Agree with you, Paul. Rubel is more complete. Nathan was better than Bruno. Uh, I believe so. What's up? Get Nathan to interview pronto. Oh, yeah. I'll try. He might be mad because, you know, I I was probably critical of saying he shouldn't have said those things to the judges, but I'll try, guys. I'll try. We'll see if he'll give me one. Sometimes people do. I mean, I just had Lee Priest on yesterday. That was a surprise. I got I'll be talking to Kevin Leon soon, but you know, Nathan might be not not very happy right now. Here for the updates and comments. Milos doesn't coach. What's up, Xavier? Xavier Xavier is over in uh Australia where it is currently 5:16 a.m. in the Sydney time zone. I don't know if that's where you are, Xavier Willis, but I give Xavier a lot of credit. He did a watch along. He does it with the still frames because uh I see people complaining in his live chat, why pictures, why no video? Because if you stream the live stream on your channel at the same time, uh you might get away with it if nobody if nobody calls you out on it, but the people the promoters of the show could easily because the Olympia has done this many times. If someone streaming the Olympia live stream their pay-per-view at the same time and it's they're miss every every viewer that's watching that the Olympia is missing out on $80. So every time for say this was $60. Every view that someone on another channel is getting while they're streaming it live, that's somebody that theoretically could have paid $60 to the promoters for the stream. So the promoters, if they have someone checking during the show to, you know, just checking YouTube, doing searches, and they report you, you get a strike on your channel, you can lose your channel. And if you're a YouTuber, if that's your main source of income, you don't want to lose your channel because then what do you do? You know, you might have maybe have to start a whole other channel. What if you had 100 thousand subscribers or a million subscribers? You know, I'm being crazy here, but you lost all of that. You got to start from scratch again. Anyway, uh Xavier, I give him a lot of credit because he was he was doing this all he's been up all night. I think he started his coverage at like 11:00 at night, his time, and he's still awake. God bless you, Xavier Willis. Xavier in the house. Still bigger than me. You know, I don't buy those 10 before shows anymore. I I think want parm I think people are more conscious of skin cancer now. That's my suspicion is like why do they don't want to get skin cancer you know every time you get a suntan it is it is damaging your skin you are technically technically risking skin cancer and you know some people just don't want to do that. You're going to have some kind of skin allergy. Yeah he's he's been allergic to like every kind of tanning product that he's tried so far. Nexilla is too narrow. Yeah, I agree. Structurally, he's on the narrow side. I agree. Just curious if there's any more footage out yet. If there's anything up yet on any other channels. Let's see if Beyond the Stage has anything new. Nope. These guys are slacking. They don't have enough stuff for me to to to steal. Come on now. I want I want your footage, guys. Where is it? Where is your footage? Uh what about Body Goes Upboard? They got anything new? This was actually a guest posing. This is Mark Hector from UK, guys. He's going to be he's going to be someone to deal with. He's been a pro for a few years, but he's been he's been kind of quiet. I think he had injuries. Yeah, I'm just showing because I think he's pretty damn impressive. This was Fitzswwater guest posing. I guess I should show. So, this is 14 weeks out from the Olympia. guest posed yesterday during the amateur portion of the uh Portugal show, the Pro qualifier looks good. I mean, the condition obviously for 14 weeks out, he's ahead in terms of condition to most of the guys I've seen posting. Certainly way ahead of Samson, but I don't know, man. He doesn't look bigger to me. I know he supposedly put on all this muscle from last year. I just I don't see it. I don't know. Let's see the back. Let's go. Fitzy, you Martian. He is a Martian. Yeah. I mean, I don't know. I think I I don't see him getting fourth place again this year. I think he's going to get knocked down a couple um just because he caught Lungsford slipping and Nick Walker wasn't in the show. That's who I forgot to mention when I was talking about the top six guys. So, you got four Mr. Olympia that I already mentioned, Samson, Derek, Hottie, and Brandon. That's four. You got Nick Walker, that's five guys. You got Andrew Jack, that's six. So, there's your top six as far as I'm concerned. Let's say Brandon gets knocked down and up again. Marartian could Martin Marartian could pop in there. Um, but as far as Rubiel beating all those guys and making top six, it's going to be that'd be a stretch. That would be a real real stretch. But, you know, we'll see what happens. I don't like to write people off. And you you can't judge people by the way they look at 14 weeks out. It's too far away. 14 weeks. A lot of things can happen to the body for better or for worse in 14 weeks. So, this was the minute horse MD got the win over Eduardo Dwarte. And the crowd booed. Not surprising because Dwarte is from Portugal. He's a hometown guy. Horse. You'd think he gets some love because he's Brazilian and he speaks Portuguese, but he's not the hometown guy. He lives way across the Atlantic Ocean in uh in Brazil in South America. Dwarte, the guy that the guy that's right in front of us here. This is awful. You were just seeing these guys from the back. Who decided to post this footage from the back instead of something from the front? Oh, we taking Oh, okay. Well, I think he's telling the crowd. No, it's okay. Yeah, he's telling him to stop booing. He's telling him to stop booing, actually. And now he wants to now the crowd. Great crowd here in Portugal. And horse does it. It's going to the old I'm going to play it again to hear the booing now. I want to hear the booing. Mr. Who wins it? Since I'm going to call the second place wins it and the second place begins with a seven. Who takes it? The second place of Mushian Pro 2025 is from Portugal. Horse MD wins it. Horse MD wins. M. Oh, the crowd is they're not Well, we're home. That's how it is. The crowd are not feeling it, but that's how it goes. Brazil and horse MD takes it as horse. Now the crowd great crowd here in Portugal. What a gentleman. That was good. He that's that's a that's a gracious loser. As you know, someone could say Nathan is not a gracious loser. He doesn't like losing. But that's a gracious loser to tell the crowd don't boo for don't boo for the winner even though he beat me. And you know, nice of him. Very nice of him. Let's keep going. Rooster Fuks, did you reveal this? Next is going to win my opinion. Shout out from the UK. Next is going to win what? Michael, don't tell me you think he's going to win the Olympia. If so, whatever you're smoking, give me some of that. I want that. It sounds like you got some good stuff you're smoking. He won this show. The show's over. See, results are right there. Martin was guest posing, though. He look great, but check out the biceps, dude. Well, there's just no detail at all. I mean, him and Derek both, you know, we have to be hyperritical. These are guys that are trying to win the Mr. Olympia, and Dererick's already won the Mr. Olympia. It shouldn't have just a big I could say the same thing about Samson. The biceps are like these big mushy balls. They don't have any detail striations. I mean, look at old pictures like Ronnie Coleman's biceps at the Olympia. Gez, like Lee Priest. I'm just random random people popping into my head. Uh Brandon Curry, uh Sean Rhoden, look at their biceps. They had all these splits and striations and details. These guys, even when they're super lean, you don't see any of that. People say that's from SEO. I don't know if they're putting oil in there or not. Can you even fit any more mass on his frame? You're talking about Rubio or or Martin? No, Martin's already likes the word reveal. I heard. Yeah. Talking about the glaze sweating off the biceps. Yeah. I mean, you're you're hinting around that there's oil on there and he might. Duke Nukem, great video game. Love your content. And he's got a is that one of the Decepticons in there? It's one of the transforms. Unsubscribed. Thought he left the business. I don't see the MD banner anymore. Oh, MD is gone. Dude, there is no MD, dude. MD went out of business in uh November 16th, 2023. A day that we're living in infamy. Uh I got a phone call that day saying the company was shutting down. Um it was a Wednesday and Friday the company was gone. They they still have a YouTube channel, but nothing's been done to it for almost two years now. No videos have been added, nothing. It's just sort of because, you know, YouTube, you know, god forbid, I could die tomorrow. My channel would be would go on forever. YouTube doesn't like remove channels unless there's like a complaint that there's, you know, obscenities or or violence or pornography or something. Other than that, you could be you could be uh dead and your channel could live on for many many years after you. No, I never did a video about it because it's like what's there to say? Company, the owner of the company was over 70. He decided to retire and he'd had a long illustrious career in the in the industry and unfortunately I had a great gig over there and it's gone. Rubio Six and Nick and Good Vito would be awesome. I think we'll get to see that. I think we'll get to see that because the only reason we might not is because Nick is a first call out guy. Nick is going to be in the callouts with Samson, Derek, Hottie, assuming Hottie can get here. Um, Andrew, I don't know if Rubel's gonna be in that. And I don't I don't I don't I don't think Veto is gonna be in that first call out. So, unless they mix and match the call outs, which sometimes they do to make things interesting. Ron didn't leave the business the biz. Yeah, Paul. It's It's a bummer, man. I I had a really great gig. I was making really good money from me, you know? I wasn't like buying a Lambo or anything, but I was doing well. And now it's it's a grind. He won't be the first call. Yeah, he won't be in the first call. Used to make my mom buy them empty when I was a kid. You weren't jacked enough to buy them. Anybody could buy them. If they let Derek win on with the subpar Jimmy biceps, if they let Derek win with subpar Jimmy biceps is fair game for the league. Well, I mean, Sam Samson doesn't have a ton of detail in his biceps either. Hottie does. I don't think Hottie puts anything in his arms. If you don't like Rubio, stop watching by Victor. We had Victor and Paul Dlette, too. Samson, too. Yeah. I mean, if you're gonna call I feel like it's if you're gonna call some one guy out on something, you might as well just call out everybody on whatever's the issue is. It's only fair. Did no Nathan post his reaction video yet? Uh, let's check. I I'm waiting. I I think he's going to be more cautious this time as far as what he posts and the tone of it. So, he's got a bunch of posts Uh, I hadn't seen I don't think he's posted anything talking about No, he's just got posing stuff posing backstage. Yeah. No, no, no reaction videos from Nathan. He's uh I don't want to say learned his lesson, but he probably realizes it it doesn't do him it doesn't do him any favors to uh to complain and whine online. I mean, it's it's not going to it's not going to help your case. It's not going to the judges don't look kindly on it. I'll just leave horse. Yeah. I mean, horse I think horse is natty now. If he's not natty, he's on like barely anything because he had to drop so much muscle mass. I want show you I'll show you what horse looked like before. So, this is what he looks like as a classic guy today. Horse empty. I liked him better as an open guy. He wasn't doing poorly. Here he is in Prague last year. Look at that. I like that look a lot better. so much bigger, fuller, rounder, everything. Now he's like bottom heavy because he's still got the legs didn't lose as much as the upper body did. He's still got some good biceps, but I mean, compared to this, he looks like a shadow of his former self. There he was with Hakee at a different show. Was that it, bro? I don't know what show that was. There was so many shows There's so many shows in Europe every year. Yeah, there is a Bruno who just uh Oh, no, that's not Bruno. Oh, Brazilian guys are going to kill me. That's actually Raphael Bundal. They had the same little scruffy beard. Yeah, I I like this this version of Horse MD. I hope you know I don't know why he went to classic. If it's a health issue, then that's fine. But if it's not, I'd love to see him look like this again. This was to me, this is so much better, so much more impressive. Oh, there he is with hottie. Yep. Look at Sam's biceps. Yeah. Swear I'm a little dead, huh? Yeah. Go to bed. Go to bed, Xavier. Geez. Take him down for streaming today. Well, uh I thought Artha was going to stream it. Uh Arita Artha Labs. She's a journalist in Brazil. Artha Lewis. Beautiful woman with glasses. Anyway, that's I know that's beside the point. It's probably sexist to me to even point out that she's attractive. But she was she's been streaming shows lately live. you know, she's got them herself in a corner and but that does they don't care. So, I don't know who who was it. Uh because I know the only other guy Muscle Discord does exactly what you do. Um Matt Matt does the screenshots just like you do. Boss is having a tough 2025. I mean, he's still got a bunch of top guys and they're doing well. Just because they're not winning the shows doesn't mean he's a terrible coach. It's not really the fault of the coach, though. Honestly, it never is. And Paul should know he's a coach. You know, clients don't always do what the coaches tell him to do. Great interview, Lee. Thank you, man. Yeah, thank you. That's up on my ch on this channel as well. Lee priest interview that I posted last night. No good photographers. Yeah. Hey, Muscle Insight. Yeah, I mean Jonathan Maro, he's over there, but he's he went to the show in Tunisia, I think today. He had a pro show in Tunisia that muscle contest put on. And I see his I saw his his Instagram page had a bunch of pictures from that. Little color from sun should increase your skin cancer rest on the sunblock. I don't know, man. I don't know why people don't tan anymore. K. Martin's holding his hand in the front double. Bye. Oh, now I got to go back to Martin. Okay, fair enough. Be on stage. They have Martin. I think they had Martin up yesterday because yesterday was the big amateur day. Where was Martin? That's some terrible footage. I just go to Martin's page. I bet he's got it and fits. Nope. Martin. Come on, Martin. Where you at? I just saw it. Here we go. Martin the Martian. Okay, let's leave this up. We've already shown Ruby about a thousand times, so what the heck? Can we hold his hands? Yeah, he's obviously it's still a good very good physique. It's world class. He's been fourth at the Olympia last year. So, Vitz looks a bit I don't know if he's improving. I don't know if he is either. I I don't see it. He's bigger guns. I mean, they're the front double. They're just not very impressive. His legs don't even look great right now. I don't know. Maybe it's as he gets leaner they look bigger. But he does have great I know he's got great legs. It's not hard to make it look peaky. Well, I think it is hard to give the if you're using SEO and I'm not I'm not talking about Martin. I'm just saying in general from people I've talked to saying there's an art to it and very few people are that gifted to be able to pull it off and make make a peak. Um other people, no, they're not. This looks like he blows Rubio away. He should. He was fourth place in Olympia. Think he's really freaking out. Top three for me. Yeah. Did Nate get beat by Nexil? Now he sure did. He actually got third place. Nathan beat Nathan has to be pissed. Yeah, these are results, guys. Concerned about the biceps. She picks a Mark Hector guess posing. Yeah, I showed that. He looked pretty damn good. He's got Rubel 12th to 16th. Yikes. Next. She needs to work on his shoulder. She's narrow, but his shoulders are one of the weaker body parts. Makes him look narrow because of that. Yeah. I mean, it's those legs. His legs are so huge. They're so they take up so much width on the lower body that that you would have to have shoulders that were significantly wider than what he does to truly match them. So, he's got his work cut out for him. He really needs to blow up those side delts. Respect the guy for calming the crowd. Yeah, that was uh Eduardo Dwarte, the the uh classic runner up who a lot of people had beating horse MD. Damn, I hate Ter. It's TK. He's like a worse versus bug. Chick is a hype man. Well, you know, he does. They Jake Wood hires him. He's got he hosts uh Prime Time Muscle, Olympia TV. He's He's doing pretty well. Yeah, Rubio is now Hill Heath. Phil Heath did not have the widest cloud goals. That is true. That is true. That was AJ Kelly in the mic. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So, to clarify, if he was if you that annoying the voice that was annoying you, Paul, was not TK. That was AJ AJ Kelly Robert who used to host uh Global Muscle Show podcast with Giles Thomas for MD a few years back. When's next compete against Nathan? It was today. Where'd you go? You missed it. Mark Hector is doing Italy in six weeks against Sergio. Oh, okay. So sir So Sergio's coming back Italy. Stefan's coaching arm has a lot of kinks lately. His athletes are slipping places every show. Boy. Well, I mean is it really? Maybe he's got too many clients. I don't know. I'm just throwing that out there. Does he have too many clients? They didn't even do a post for uh for Rubio winning this this channel beyond the stage. I'm surprised. So, I'm going to go back to by those up orders. Just leave that up while we're a few more comments. I'm going to take off because we've we've said all we need to say, guys. I think if you die tonight, thank you. Your words will live forever. You die twice. I don't want to die. I hope I don't want to die for a very long time, but I appreciate that. We'll never forgive you either. Forgive and forget. Well, I don't want to be forgotten. You know, I did. If it was just the magazines, I think I would be forgotten because people don't people don't really uh read anymore. Alexis one wellness definitely coaches her. There you go. So, there's a win for him. Thank you, sign host, Kevin. Yeah. Well, Kevin called me up the other day. I was really surprised. I had heard from him in a while. So, we're going to be doing it. We were supposed to do the interview today. He pushed it back a day, which is fine. Yeah, Rubiel is going to be I mean Marcus Rule had the crowd eating out of his hand at the Olympia and he did get fifth place one year, but you know Rule was a guy who was never going to win the Olympia. He didn't have the the the shape and the the aesthetics for it, but he had so much ungodly mass. Nathan has no chance. Nathan is old local injur Nathan has no legs compared to Rubel. Nobody has legs. Horse lost 33 kilos. Holy crap. 33. Now I got to do You're going to make me do math. 3 3 kilos is 2 * 2.2. Holy crap. 72 lbs he draws. So I was way off. He actually lost a lot more weight than I thought he did. Horse MD came down 72 pounds from open to classic. Wow. Horse is natty. I believe he is. Could I see? I believe that because if he lost 72 pounds of muscle, he had to he has to be off everything. BB no baby please. Torn bice probably is very long midsection was actually good. Talk about Nathan is everything agree his waist for open horse and had put weight on it looked amazing classic. I think he's too big for classic. Okay. Uh I don't think horse is too big for classic. I think he's just really flat looking. I I'd love to see him go back to open. biceps. Brando, okay, Ronnie, very short torso, long limbs. Kai Green, Phil, even Dorian also had short torso. Smith has incredibly long torso. Well, you don't want a short torso. You want an average torso. You want proportionate torso, arms, legs. You don't want your head to be too big or too small. You want everything in proportion ideally. See, Brazil is for his healthy. You don't need to train like he's open. Okay. So, horses horses made that decision to move to classic for his health. That's fine. gets by using the writing for the show. You start to transmit. Okay. Flex W short look the best in my opinion from Yeah, those are Come on. Those are some amazing bodybuilders right there. Why do you think Martin's front last looks so bad? Uh, it's not his strongest shot. Charles Glass was king of where to shoot SEO. If you were to do the inner, it blurs the line between the tricep. Where can I find the result? Uh, it's it'll be on the IPB website. Sometimes it takes a couple hours. Keep checking. I know it's Yeah, it's not that late for you yet. Think Martin got lucky placing fourth. I think it beat perfectly. The judges just loved how he came in. I think that's why Hunter took time off. Yeah. Oh, that's right. Hunter Oh, was Hunter taking this whole year off? He's not even competing. Martin performed better than the Olympia deserve fourth place. I just don't know. Was that his like one was that his one great show that last Olympia? Because sometimes you never see the guys look that great again. It's like a one once one show where they looked amazing and they never repeat that. He's off off his new sponsor Pink is paying him big. Well then good for good for horse. Make that money. Get that bag and a solid broadcast. Thank Ron Harris commitment. Thank you Paul. I always appreciate you. Uh appreciate you being on here. Yeah, I'm gonna take off. My son's home. We're going to go. We're gonna go to the gym. I can train my right side. Yeah, let's stop. See, I'll show you my scar before I leave. How it's uh healing up. I I I'm supposed to be wearing my sling. I'll wear it to the gym. But yeah, baby. Look at that. Ooh. So, that's where they sliced me. Got a whole new $40,000 titanium shoulder. Can't wait to heal up, go to my physical therapy, get that thing back into condition. And I want it to be performing like the left side, the right side has been for years, and I'll be very But I'm just very grateful I was able to get this done. Anyway guys, I appreciate all of you for joining me today on the stream. Put the results up one more time. Horse MD, not horse. Horsemd did win classic uh Melman aka Jose Maria Mete Buddy Bay. He won the 212 division of course. Next Zilla Rubio Moscara from Colombia. Back-to-back wins. Flex weekend Italy Pro Milan last week. Today in Portugal uh at the was it Big Man Evolution? What do they call this one? The Portugal Pro, I call it. So, he's got another win under his belt and uh congrats to him. He's he's headed to the Olympia in a few weeks. So, congratulations. And that is it, guys. Thanks so much for watching. Enjoy the rest of your night. See you later.