Hey everybody, welcome to Ron Line Report. Today's guest, one of my absolute favorite human beings on planet Earth. I'm not even kidding. Eight time Mr. Olympia, first NPC national champion, the living legend, totally awesome Lee Haney. Welcome back. He was in Hey Ron, how you doing my man? I'm doing great. So, you you're a little jetlagged. You spent the week you spent a few days in Italy. Oh, yeah man. Had a great time. Uh guest of Panata. Uh fantastic equipment. The best in the world if you ask me. And had a great time. I was there with Ronnie, Phil Heath, Bob Tech, uh Rubio, he was there. So, I had a chance to see him, the new upand cominging, uh talent. And then of course Abani, he was there too from Iran. So it was a fantastic uh time together. Why not? Well, I always love talking to you, but this time I I thought to contact you because you were in the bodybuilding news, Lee, about a week ago. You are you you're aware of this, right? I'm very aware. Yeah, I was hoping so. So, it was a podcast uh I don't know. It was a like a major podcast, not like this one, but this is the quote that everybody took from it that that ran. Bodybuilding has lost its way and appeal to the general population. No longer is it being showcased as it was in times past. This is apparent to the teenage athlete that I'm greeted by in my travels. There needs to be a reset before our sport comes crashing down. However, let's keep hope alive by making the necessary changes to save our sport. So, that went viral. It was on everybody's pa Instagram page. Millions of people uh saw it. Thousands and thousands commented. Um so I thought I want to get Leon because I'm from your era. I'm old school. Uh so I was around in the in those days when you were competing and the the very first magazine I picked up a flex magazine in fall of 87 that inspired me. I actually became a bodybuilder. The day I picked up that magazine. you were inside. Shawn Ray, Rich Kaspari, Barry Demay, Lee Labrada, Mike Christian, Gary Stridum. It was just an for me that was a magical magical era. I think a lot of guys would say whenever they got into it was but uh I wanted to get on and and talk to you about the changes that could be made because I don't e I want either one of us to come across as the old guys saying our time, our era was better and this era is horrible. You guys are you guys stink. let let's let's try to come up with some ideas, some some ways that things could change and make the sport better. So, first and foremost, what what is the most what's the biggest thing that you think needs to change or could change? Well, I I feel and I I I really want this to be communicated the right way. I wasn't speaking about a reset of bodybuilding as a whole. We both know statistically that the the the largest, let's say, category of our sport that's still growing is that of classic physique. Yeah. You know, we have people like Chris Bumstead, you know, and and and uh the the guys that are competing on that level, they're beautiful and the general public run to them. I mean, the numbers are real. and uh and and so they speak for themselves whereby when you look at the open class of bodybuilding, the the numbers don't add up in comparison. Yeah. Then I listen to what these kids are saying, you know, as I travel from from Italy to Germany and here throughout the United States. They're saying, "We love what we saw during the old school years of bodybuilding. We love the symmetry, the balance. We love that. That's why we fell in love with the sport." And then many of them all are commenting saying, "Well, I don't want to look like these guys in the open class. you know, they're too big and and I don't want to have to resort to dying prematurely because of of where bodybuilding is. Now, I have teenagers that are saying this. So, that says that there's an imbalance somewhere. Now, I'm speaking not of the classic or the physique, but I'm speaking of the of the open class. Yeah. And particularly when you talk about comparisons when you have a guy that's 5 foot seven 56 and he's weighing over 300 lb in offseason then he's on the stage at 260 lb or 250 at that height. That is that is it looks odd. Number one, uh, it doesn't fit the physique. Now, when I say fit the physique, I'm saying what the criteria was during yesterday year. And yesterday year said to me, said to you, said to the reason why we wanted to become a bodybuilder that we, it looked good, symmetry, good muscle separation, great presentation. the thing that made our sport something that the general public drew to and that got kids excited. I mean, I used to rush to the mag magazine stands and couldn't wait to flip it over to take a look at Arnold and Robbie and Frank Zane and Chris Dixon, all of these beautiful physiques. That's what I wanted to look like and that's what I geared my training around looking like that. But that's also the culture that was being communicated during that time during that those years. That what the culture said. And as I said on other broadcast with you, Ron, 1984, I was 243 pounds. 1991 I was 254 pounds. I had to make sure and it was it was uh demanded during that time that my symmetry and my balance always be in check. Not having a thick wide waist, not having imbalanced symmetry. So all of that was important. You look at all the great bodybuilders of that time, that's what we aspired to look like. So somewhere along the way, we the outsport has taken the you know it it took the I guess it it it the foot has been taken off the off the the the gas or we put too much you know we we got our foot too heavy on the gas. Yeah. Yeah. and we went too fast too quick and the things such as symmetry, balance, presentation has been lost in the shuffle. And that's what I'm getting to. I'm not, you know, and what you see on the stage of bodybuilding when you see guys that are that height and that heavy, you know, carrying that kind of weight, it's not their fault. What the industry is saying is it's okay to look like that. And so they become what the industry says it's okay to become or what the industry saying we yeah that's what we want to see. Well, who is the we? I mean I really fought the judges with where we are. Period. You you they say well you can only judge what you see. Well you judging what you're demanding. If you say okay we want to see tapering waist. We want to see great presentation. we want to see symmetry, then if you're going to have that as your your goal or your standard, then that's the way that that's what it should be. If you're saying, okay, we just interested in conditioning, which what I see now. So, symmetry is not a part of the equation as to what I'm speaking of that I see on the stage. Now, I'm not saying all the athletes. I'm saying many of them. When you see guys arguing about first, second or third, and they, you know, when you have a shorter guy carrying that kind of size, which looks awkward, you know, looks very awkward, doesn't look good. There's no symmetry there. There's no balance. It's just a bunch of muscles. Then it doesn't fit properly. Wide waist, big awkward looking shoulders, huge arms, huge uh huge thighs, you know, no taper, none of that. just a bunch of muscle as though somebody close their eyes just plunging muscle everywhere. That's what I'm talking about. And then the other thing you got to look at, what does it take to look like that? You know how much gear these guys have to use to look like that to create a physique like that that the sport is saying, "Yeah, we want to see more of that." Yeah. More of that is going to cause these young athletes to die prematurely. We already said it. Our sport does not have to be the most dangerous sport in the world. Wasn't meant to be that way. When you look at Alba Beck's 88 years old, you look at Frank Zayn, 76, I mean 78. You look at Robbie around 78. You look at Arnold, you look at Chris Dixon passed at age 82. You look at uh Bill Pearl, Bill Pearl was like 90 when he passed. Yeah. I mean, you look at uh Dave Draper, you you look at all of these athletes that were there, the originals, and how long they lived. I mean, I'm 65 now. Feel great. No joint problems, all of the good stuff. But I've always made sure my health was a priority. We're into this thing for our health. At least we was at one time. Do we care anymore about how long these kids live? You know, where are we? If I'm wrong and the only concern is about, okay, let's just whatever, you know, just let it be, then okay, I'm in the wrong place, okay? You know, but I care about these athletes. I care about my own health. 65, I'm a granddad. I feel good. I want these guys to experience being a grandpa one day, too. But at the current state of what's happening in the open class, it ain't going to happen. Now listen, I'm not throwing any shade on physiques like Andrew Jack or like uh Samson or Abani or Hardy. These guys are beautiful. They are masterpieces and they carry this type of size with no problem. They got good balance, good muscle separation. Now hottie is a whole another level. I mean hottie Japan, man. He he, you know, as far as conditioning, it's hard to get past hottie. hottie looks great and he's not a tall guy. So, it's not a height thing that I'm concerned with. It's what these guys are having to do now to please uh uh this this new era of this is what we want to see. Who is we? Who is we? And I and I sort of question the the legitimacy of some judges. you know, when you argue about, okay, you know, let's say for instance, uh, let's say the height of Nick Walk and the and the size that he carry. Yeah, that's very awkward for his height. He is nothing balanced and symmetrical about him whatsoever. Conditionwise, yes, Nick is incredible condition. bless his soul. I hope he make all the money to take care of his family and I I wish all of that athletes, but I more so wish that hope that he's in great health for years down the road. And I hope that the industry is not continue to push young athletes, you know, Nick and the up up and cominging athletes and including Derek also to do things that are not natural for their bodies. to walk around at 300 pounds in offseason and you're 56, 5'7. It's nothing natural about that and nothing good can come of it. I said a lot, Ron. But I wanted to make sure the the the listeners understand where I'm coming from. I'm not coming from a place of hate or jealousy. I'm not I'm not talking that, right? I'm talking about health, fitness, wellness. I'm talking about uh the general population, you know, admiring who we are, what we are. I'm talking about the kids coming up that want to become bodybuilders and they're scared to death concerning what's needed to go to these different levels. That's what I'm talking about. As a father would speak, listen, sometimes you have to save people from themselves. True. Let me uh let me just bring this up. This was the 88 Olympia. This was 37 years ago. So, we're talking about guys competing now. I wonder how many of them are going to be in good health and thriving 37 years from now. We got Barry Demay, uh, Rich Gaspari, Lee Labrada, yourself, Gary Stridum, uh, and Mike Quinn. The only one who's not with us anymore is Mike, but Mike had recreational drug issues. And I don't think it was necessarily the the gear and things like that that were responsible for him not not living a a long long healthy life. But everybody else on this stage right now is still not only alive and well, but looks still training, still looking fry looks fantastic. Lee Labrada looks fantastic. Rich still trains hard every day. I mean, I I I don't know if and I don't, you know, I don't want to I don't want to sound like a hater either. I don't know if these guys right now, are they going to be around in 37 years? If so, are they going to be in good health? Are they going to be looking great, feeling great? I hope so. I wish the best for all these guys. You know, you and I both, we love the sport and we have the utmost uh love and admiration and respect for all these guys because it's a tough tough sport and you know, we we share that we all share the same passion. So we wish the best for everybody in every aspect. Healthy, wealthy, wise, love, you know, like you said, you're you're 65 years old. You're enjoying life with your grandchildren. I mean, I I want everybody, you know, I want everyone to have that same opportunity to live a long healthy life and relax in your older in your in your older years and enjoy your grandchildren and travel and just do all those things that that uh we we look forward to as as young men. Yep. Exactly. And that's all I'm saying, you know, and of course the choice is the athletes, but you know, and again, the industry have to make up his mind which way we want to go here, you know, and and I think some judges need to reert become reertified, you know, but even with that, the industry have to make up his mind, okay, where are we going? Which direction do we want to take? Yeah. you know, and and I really admire the fact that there there's several different classes and several different ones to choose from, which gives everybody a place to compete. But um I think guys at a certain height when they're forced to put on uh because the industry is is given a stamp of approval to turn a guy that's 5 foot uh 6 5 foot 7 into a 240 250 lb guy. Something's wrong with that. You know it doesn't look right. And then what it takes to do that the kind of gear it takes to do that is is hazardous and it's very dangerous. Yeah. So I mean uh I I never have and I never will ask you what you did in terms of that but in your era do you have any idea we're talk let's just say the 80s in general because now it's very common that I hear guys using four grams of test three two to four grams of testosterone a week a gram of tren a gram of equ you know it it totals out to something between four and four and six grams for a lot of these guys for the gear 10 to 20 grams 20 I use of GH a day in the 80s. Do you know did you guys talk to each other? Do you know what was there a standard amount that that was lower? Because when you say that what's it take for these guys to to look like that now? You have to sort of compare it to what was being used back then. Do you have any idea? Well, the deal is Ron. We were very we were very uh let's say matter of fact when it came to training and nutrition. We were scientists, you know. We just didn't do something just to be doing it. You know, when I won the Teenage America, I was 212 pounds, you know, all natural. I won the junior, I won the uh the Mr. South, the Mr. P medal at 218bs, placed fourth in the Mr. USA Natural, 224 lbs. Wow. So the foundation of training, the foundation of good quality nutrition was already in place. So what we would do was only use just enough gear to polish up, not to put on size. That was never that was never our goal to put on a lot of size. Yeah. You know, because we knew that putting on too much size would destroy the balance and the symmetry of the physique. So it was just a polishing, you know, just just a polishing of the things that we incorporated. There's stuff out there now. I I can't even tell you what it is, but I hear about the amounts these guys are using, but it's because of the demand that's being placed upon. It's not their fault, right? Not their fault. The industry could say, "Well, listen, we we want to see a tapering waste. We don't at one time remember it was all in the news about a bloated gut. I mean you even heard honor talk about it. Guess what? All of a sudden we start to reset at that time said no we don't want to see bloated guts. I mean that was everywhere. And uh then all of a sudden you had uh uh golly uh uh the Mr. Olympia that passed Sean Rhoden. Oh yeah. Sean was a breath of fresh air coming back. Had that nice tapering waist. He looked good. no bloated gut. Then you had Duran came along. Duran, you know, Duran was, you know, after me size. He had Duran had real good balance to his physique, no bloated gut, and then, you know, then you you sort of kept that, but all of a sudden the mass thing start to take over the symmetry, balance, and the presentation, you know. So there was a system whereby the scores that were three different categories to be scored symmetry has been thrown away. Correct. Also posing presentations been thrown away. Yep. Those were you see now the one with the best condition, the one with the best friation up their butt. You know that'll be our winner. He's got to be dry. He's got to be hard. That's all we're looking for. Which means you gota you have judges that don't know daily crap about the integrity of the sport as it was and as it should be now. That's that's what I'm talking about. If you say, "Okay, we don't want that no more." Okay, I'll just be quiet and you know, you guys do what you want to do, you know, but if you want to do it right and you wanted to have health, if you want to be wanted to be admiral in the eyes of the general population, then that's what we got to do. You know, you remember a time when uh the wide world of sport was covering us, NBC was covering us. Remember we had a show on ESPN? You know, everybody wanted to look like bodybuilders. Everybody wanted to look like bodybuilders. How many is saying that now? None. Yeah. This was AI'm showing a clip of your you had a weekly workout show for years. Yeah. Lee Haneis championship workout. You know, then it was a body shaping. Everybody wanted to look and be like us. Nobody's saying that anymore. And I wonder why. Well, yeah, that I was going to get into the mainstream thing, but I want to wrap up the the the gear conversation with this question. I know it was very common in the Arnold Schwarzinger, Robbie Robinson, Frank Zayn era for the guys to they trained naturally most of the year and you would see them sort of downsize if you saw pictures of them from so-called offseason. They weren't trying to get big and huge in the offseason, bulk up and then diet down. They would get on the they would get on the gear, I don't know, 12 weeks, 16 weeks out from a competition and they would quote unquote grow into a show because they'd be putting on muscle as they were losing fat, which we don't see that now because the guys, like you said, they'll get up to 300 lb and then they'll diet down. So, they're always on. It's blasting cruise. It's they're either on a ton or they're on a little bit less, but they're always on. In the 1980s, from talking to your peers, was that was it still the case where guys would train naturally most of the year or by that point were they were they on gear most of the year? No, they were not on gear for the most of the year. If anything uh during that time we practice what it was a uh a 8week cycle then we would uh go to and and in those cycles we use just a minute a small amount or maybe a test or maybe a deca or anavar very small amounts like a a one cc a week or something like that half a cc a deca 1 cc a test and then we would use a bit of uh the anavo But it wasn't but it was only for eight weeks and after that two weeks would be uh HCG to reboot the system and then you would be off uh because you really get the the the the greatest results once you go to the HCG because your body kicks in with whatever still remnants is hanging out there synthetically. Yeah. So the body really experience a growth then. So you would stay off for about a month and a half to two months. Okay. And then only do small cycle and then you know like 12 weeks away then you would do your long 12week cycle. But and again it was very minute. You grew uh you grew basically from not basically without a doubt from the training and good quality nutrition. And we didn't get fat in offseason. So we would always train up for a show. You never saw the the legends of the sport get fat in offseason. Not Arnold, not Robbie, not uh not Danny Padilia, not you know, not Chris Dickerson, none of the guys would ever do that. I've never seen a fat old school bodybuilder. I've never seen that. True. Yeah. Well, not I'm not going to throw Ronnie Coleman under the bus, but I think it's a good example because you talked about you turned pro weighing about 230 pounds. Is that correct? I turned pro. I won the I won the Yeah. Yeah. I won the IBB world championship weighing 232 pounds. Yes. Five. And you were 5 foot 11. Same as Ronnie, same as Dorian. You guys are all 5'11. Your last Olympia 254, right? That was nine years later. Exactly. So, in nine years, you went from 232 to 254. If you do the math, it's it's a few pounds of muscle a year. It's nothing earthshattering. Um, you know, by the time Ronnie came around, Ronnie was followed Dorian. So, the ma the level of expectancy of how massive you were supposed to be had dramatically increased because Dorian was winning Olympias right around two 255 260 and then Ronnie took it to another level. So, Ronnie turned pro naturally, which I believe and every time I say that I get blasted by saying either you're either you're lying, Ron, because you want Ronnie to look good or you're just a [\h__\h] and you believe everything people say. But I honestly believe because Ronnie turned pro at about 215. That's all he was when he won he won the World Amateur Championships in Poland. I think it was 1991, the same year you you uh retired with eight Olympias. And he would eventually become on stage as heavy as 296 pounds. So that's a ma that is a enormous increase in muscle mass. And I'm not saying Ronnie was, you know, abusive with the gear, but I would hazard to say he probably used more than you did if he put on that much more muscle mass because, yeah, he's got awesome genetics, but come on, you're I don't think anyone would argue Lee Haney had some of the best genetics of all time as well. You said, you were as a teenager, you were competing well over 200 pounds. You know, you look like a grown man at age 18 on stage. Yeah. You know, if you put Ronnie Comr's mom and my mom together, they look exactly like sisters. Really? Yeah. My mom was 5'11 and a half, you know, 200 lb. My dad was 5'11, you know, 220 lb. Yeah. So, genetically, genetics definitely worked in our favor. But I'll say with running, see, the body works in the way of demand and supply. Running came from the world of powerlifting. When you look at powerliffters, these are some huge individuals. Those are some big human beings. Yeah. And since the body do work in the way of demand and supply, the more physical stress you give to a muscle, particularly in the way of the basic fundamental power movements, the body will compensate with size. Now you add some gear to that, you're talking super sizing cuz runny use super weight. I never use that kind of weight. Runner was throwing stuff around. My deal was that of Robbie and Arnold, the mind and the muscle connector. We wanted to feel the weight. Runner just push the weight. That's a whole different kind of world. And I I you know I I I I I strongly feel uh because of using that type that type of poundage coming from the powerlifting mentality and using it in the sport of bodybuilding allowed him to be the biggest bodybuilder ever. But it also allowed for a lot of injuries, you know, and Duran faced the same thing. You know, Duran end up he recently had his hip replaced. I think he tore his tricep off the bone. There was several injuries that didn't take losing that kind of weight. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you and we've said this before because it's astonishing to me that eight Olympias and you're eight Olympia titles, 65 years old, no joint replacements, you've never torn a muscle, correct? Nothing. Nothing. Nothing. And you're Yeah. No pain. You get out of bed and you're not like, "Ah, no. None of that, man. I just fit his back and shoulder superset a few minutes ago along with abs and I stretch in between sets. You know, somebody else I really want to point out that I had a chance to spend time with was Phil Heath. Um I was with Phil there in Germany as we represented Panata and we were also there in Italy together. And I really admire what Phil was able to accomplish with his physique. And I mean Phil is not injured. I mean, he turned what was not supposed to be. How do a basketball god become a Mr. Olympian? That's some of the best of bodybuilding engineering that I've ever seen. So, I I just got hands off the field. I thought to myself, man, I don't know how you did that, but it was the engineering at its best. And uh I think Honey Run had a lot to do with that with field determination and tenacity. But none, he's a whole another level. And uh that came by way of training, good nutrition, understanding the science. Yeah, we're looking into some of the panadas because you guys were all hanging out in Italy over the weekend together. Yes, we had a great time. Yo, R and Rudy Panado, man. He's uh he's the best host ever, man. You can't get better than Rudy. He loves the sport of bodybuilding. He's 73. He looks great. You should see this picture. Him and him and Ruby are doing the most muscle pose together. I mean, he's holding his own for a 73 year old, for A-50-y old, if you ask me. You guys got a You guys got jerseys and everything. Wow, look at that. Yeah, man. Yeah, Bernard is the best. We love it. Rudy, if you're listening, hook a brother up. I'd love to come over. There he is right there. There's Rudy. Yeah, there he is. He's the man. So the other the only other big thing I wanted to address is uh the other issue people had was they felt when you said bodybuilding wasn't as appealing to the mainstream anymore. You got a lot of you got a lot of push back on that because they pointed out the fact that well we have you know people like Sam Solic who have you know uh 20 million followers and and all the social media stars and it's just there's so much more awareness of bodybuilding. We have all these different divisions. The money is better now. I mean, you I think what was your biggest payday for for winning the Mr. Olympia in 1991? Uh, I think about $60,000, maybe 65. Yeah. So, Samson just got 10 times that last fall. Yeah. And Arnold Schwarzer has raised the bar again. So, next March, somebody's going to get $750,000 first prize. Um, so that's what people would say. is like, Lee, how could you say it doesn't have mainstream appeal when we have millions of people on the over the world following bodybuilders on their phones? Uh whereas back in the day, you could say it was more of a cultish sport where it was like a little click of us. There were it was worldwide, but it was a smaller amount of people. So, how do you answer that when people say, "Lee, look at all look at how popular it is today compared to that." Well, you because of social media and you have a lot of what you call social media influencers that understand how to get clicks and you know how to grow their business. Yeah. And and a word of caution to that itself is that a lot of these people you have with the trend twins and these guys on here boasting about gear and how much they use. Yeah. A lot of that is not good for our sport, you know. And then a lot of these guys that doing this stuff, you know, they're not recognized as being a Mr. World or Mr. uh NPC national champion or anything. They just understand social media and you can always get a lot of blind followers. Anybody can do that. But you know, the cream always rises to the top. So yeah, you can get a million people, you know, million thousands of people that's blind that and blind leads blind people sometime. Yeah. You know, but how much is of that is is coming by way of people who who really understand what they're talking about who's putting good safe information out there. That's the danger of social media. You can get a lot of bad information there. So I mean, let them do their thing. Fine. You know, the influence is great. Fine. Do your thing. But I'm over here to make sure that this next generation of bodybuilders remain safe. You know, this year the Lee Gangs, I'll be doing we're going to have a teenage division, you know, for teenagers because uh that doesn't exist anymore, you know, under the NPC. And uh I had mentioned to Mr. Manion uh few years back, I said, Jim, you know, you know, the IFS, that's my certification organization. Yep. wants to be sort of a feeder uh into the sport by having the teenage division, you know. So anyway, we're in the process of doing that now for teens interested in competing in our show. It's going to be about symmetry. It's going to be about presentation. It's going to be about overall balance. It's not going to be about super super conditioning in that only. It's going to be a combination of things that'll determine who the winner will be. And we'll make sure we have good qualified judges. You know what that should look like? Right on. So my deal is building real stuff. Real stuff. Not just just this fly by night crap. Cuz just one push of the button, you know, social media can change stuff just like that. AI can tell you you know what are you what are we looking at here? Yeah. So yeah, I mean you brought up a good point there. You know, back in when I when I was reading the magazines and when I started following the sport back in the in the mid to late 80s and throughout the 90s even, it was very rare that any bodybuilders ever came out and talked about their their peed use, the gear use. So, a lot of these current guys, they're very what they call transparent. They'll tell you flat out, "This is what I use." And they're they're hailed as heroes by the young generation now because they're so honest and you guys were keeping the secrets from them, you know, and you were lying. And you know, Joe was selling all these all these supplements and making us believe guys like you and Gaspari and and that were all natural. And but the thing that I'm seeing is so many young guys now, teenagers, young teenagers as young as 13, 14, they're jumping into using steroids. Not only steroids, but Tren, which Tren is so powerful and toxic. You guys used parabolin back in the day which was 76 milligram ampules. One or two a week is all that was used typically. Some of these kids are using 500 milligrams. A gram of tren a week. They still look like they're natural. There's covered in acne. Gyno. I see like 18-year-old kids with hairlines up to here now. Um, so that begs the question, was it was it are we really better off now having so much honesty and transparency about drugs as opposed to the old days when it wasn't really spoken about and it was thought of as a quote unquote finishing touch. The youngsters hate when we use that term. They hate it because they say, "You never would have looked like that without steroids, so stop calling it finishing touch." But at the same time, I don't remember seeing an epidemic of teenagers on steroids back then. There were young kids on drugs, but it's nothing to the degree that I see now. So, is that what you're talking about with the youngsters today, the teenagers that you meet? Yeah. Yeah, that's that's exactly what I'm talking about. You know, and what what a lot of them don't understand and the ones that's putting this crazy information out there is that, you know, I've met teens in recent shows. They look great. Their testosterone level is out of the roof. When they take a pee, they can pee from here to 50 feet ahead of them because of their pee levels. Healthy and the growth hormone is so high, they they don't need this kind of a stuff. Whenever you start putting gear in your body and you're in your teens, your pu puberty years and so forth, it shuts your system down, right? And it makes your system rely on that. So, your ability to continue to grow muscle beyond using enhancements is going to be very, very slim. If anything, it's going to stunt the ability of your body to continue to grow in a natural way. Yeah. So, I would never advise that during the teen years. I wouldn't advise it until you won the Creek Water USA. And most guys haven't even done that. All of a sudden, they own gear. You know, it's like giving a a 15y old a Maserati. You know, what is he going to do the first 10 minutes in the thing? He's probably going to wrap around the tree and kill herself. Yeah. That's why I say sometime you have to save sometime you have to help people save themselves. Yeah. And that's what our sport needs to do. So when you get people on these social media influences out there, you going to have some people going to listen to what I have to say you what you got to say wrong. then you're going to have something they don't know what they're talking about. Kids always been like that. That's why you have to train up a child in the way it should go. That's what you have to do. You have to train up a child. But they got to be a willing hearing hearers to receive wisdom, receive information the right way. If not, then you know they'll they'll sooner or later they'll find out the truths. And when you're young, you can be pretty you can be very vulnerable when you're young. you believe everything that somebody tells you, especially if you got a muscle. Well, the the the in the ironic thing, the crazy thing to me is when I I hear from a lot of these young kids, they put a lot more credibility and belief in people who are close to their age who have very little experience. You're going to listen to someone who's 20, 21 years old tell you all about gear and everything and it's perfectly safe and this is how much you should run. And somebody who's 35, 40, 50 years old, who's been doing this for decades, has all that experience, they totally dismiss them as they don't know anything. They, you know, they they're they're just old old heads, old guys. I'm going to listen to this kid who's, you know, two or three years older than me. He's been doing it for he's been bodybuilding for three or four years, and he's going to be my expert instead of someone who's been around forever and has, you know, learned from the best coaches and athletes. and and Ron, one of the things that though as you just mentioned that that comes to mind is everyone that has stepped on the stage, whether it's the NPC nationals, whether it's the the uh World Championships, which you know, they don't exist anymore, or anybody on a professional level, their mindset is not that that you just mentioned, that's the mindset of a kid, of a youngster. Yeah. Yeah, they never make it to professional stage. They burn out soon or something tragic happened to them or they they wrecked their system. So, they never get there. Anyone on a top level, any true Olympians would differ from the mindset of these of some of these young people that are following influencers because we know better. When you've been there, done that, you know better. You just shake your head and shrug your shoulders and well they'll learn sooner or later. You know sometime you know you've a burnt uh or that u a burnt child dreads fire. So sometime the fire have to hit their feet before they for the eyes of their understanding be made open. Yeah. Yeah. Because you know people like I said it's it's not unusual for young guys to start on steroids. I've I've watched personally many many guys start 17 18 years old 19 whatever and I'd say the vast majority of them they were done with bodybuilding for one reason or another either they burnt out physically or mentally had a health problem they didn't they had no last longevity that the people that do were were few and far between. The ones who waited a few years and built a natural foundation of size and strength, then added the gear once they had their bodies all figured out and they were, you know, mentally and emotionally more mature, those are the ones that lasted the longest. And it's, you know, I I can I can attest to that because I've seen it personally, up close and personal, hundreds, thousands of cases over the years. Yep. and run the the guys that when I won the Teenage America back in 1979, the guys who started with me, I don't know where any of them are. Wow. Haven't heard from any of them. One I talked to uh via the internet of Messenger probably a year or so ago, but of course he's not competing anymore. But that's the only one out of a whole group of people that was in the top six, top five that was at the Teenage America. And and I mean at that time it wasn't a matter of using a lot of gear. It was just training and determination and nutrition and sticking with it. So a lot of them have dropped by the wayside period. Yeah. Without influencers. They just didn't have the heart for it. Yeah. Oh, I mean, if if if somebody is 55, 60 years old and they've been bodybuilding since teenage years and they're still doing it, I'd say they're the 1%. Exactly. Yeah. Less than 1%. Yeah. I mean, someone like you, someone with you that's still training hard and injury-free, I'd say that puts you in a point. Let's put 10 zeros in a 1%. A lot of O's in a one, man. Man, I tell you what, Rod man, when I was walking through the airport, you know, uh, going to different gates, you know, as I was coming home from Italy, man, you know what? I am so happy and so glad that I followed the rules of health and fitness and stimulate don't annihilate because man, that those were some long walks. I didn't run out of air. My hips wasn't hurting. My back wasn't hurting. My knees wasn't hurting. Everything was good. And I was so thankful that I was able to physically do that without being in pain. Yeah. Not many can say that. I mean, you didn't have to have you know the carts that they drive people around on to the gates. You didn't you didn't have to hop on one of those, did you? No, I didn't. I thought about it, but but no, I didn't. And that's a blessing, man. I thank the Lord every day for my health. But I've always been focused on being healthy, you know, cuz when we train for competitions, like I said, when I trained Evander Holfield, I was actually sprinting and running with Vander. Wow. As I trained for the Mr. Olympic competition, the world during that time, man, we we did, you know, we did sprints and pio and and karaoke drills and that kind of thing to be conditioned. We just didn't turn into a big old blob and walk around like a big bull out of shape. but not overweight in all season. So, you were training with Evander for his World Heavyweight boxing match, doing the same training alongside him. That's right. That's at the time. Yep. Matter of fact, in 1990, Evander came uh he he was there at the Mr. Olympic competition to support me because I was there at the training camp helping to train him. Uh there's chance of me and him together uh at the at that Olympia, too. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I just I wonder I'm not putting the guys down today, but I just wonder how many of them could do that. Train train like a a world class professional boxer if they had to. Probably very few. Yeah, very few. That's a whole another world there. I mean, but they I wouldn't expect them to. It's sports specific. I wouldn't expect anybody to go through that. But for you to to hear that you were able to do it, I'm very impressed because I've I've done kickboxing years ago and that's even that was a a lot of uh the cardio demands with the sparring and stuff were just intense. Very intense. Oh yeah. Yeah. Now I didn't get in the ring wrong. Okay, fair enough. I just did some sprints and pio with that kind of deal. So I just want to wrap it up because you know I I want to make sure that you didn't come across as a hater. I'm not a hater. If if anything, it's the opposite. We care so deeply for the sport and for all the people that have the same passion that share that as we do. We want everybody to be healthy, live a long healthy life, have no aches, pains, god forbid, worse, you know, organ problems, nothing like that. You know, you just we want the best for everybody. And that's that's why we come out and say, you know, let's let's start emphasizing more on shape, symmetry, and not so much on counting how many stripes somebody has in their glutes to to determine the winner. You know, you had 44 stripes and he only had 40. So, you win. Yep. Exactly. So and and you know and you know and again the the the judges if you know if if a reset is needed need to be there the athletes will will act accordingly you know act accordingly to the demands as I did. Okay. I had a 31 and a half inch waist when I competed. I think eventually hit up to about 32 in when I went up to 254. But that was what I was told I needed to look like during my era. So the same thing can be communicated uh to the guys. Now they will make the adjustments because they know that listen if I go go uh if I put on a certain amount of size I lose my shape. You know I think uh what fist water. Yeah. I think he gained 12 pounds. Yeah. the 12 pounds he gained did not allow him to be as sharp as he was when I saw him in his first Olympia. I mean, me and Jay were sitting there, we watched I said, "Man, I didn't even know." I'm looking I said, "Man, this this guy looks great." And uh Jay said, "Yeah, yeah." He said, "I've been in touch with him." I said, "Man, tell him." I said, "He looks great. I love his balance. Love his symmetry." And what does he do? He put on 12 additional pounds. He didn't need 12 additional pounds. You know, from 1984 to 1991, I put on 11 pounds. The integrity of his physique has been compromised when you do that. But who is saying you need to do it? It's the judging. Well, it's, you know, people will only do what the judge reward. If the judges don't Exactly. Yeah. So, like I said, all these divisions that have gone out of control, like women's physique, women's bodybuilding, all it's because this is what the judges chose for the standard. If women got bigger and and harder and grainier and nastier looking and the judges didn't reward that, they wouldn't have kept doing that. They were only doing what what they had to do to win because you look and see who beat you. Why did they beat me? What do I need to do to beat them next time? And that's all it is. They're just they're just following a path to to to winning based on what they see as the best option. So, exactly. A lot of food for thought there, guys. A lot of food for thought. Well, Lee, thank you so much for taking the time. Uh, I did want to get you on here to clarify all that because last thing I want is for that to be all people see those quotes that were I don't won't say taken out of context, but you know, I want I wanted people to know what the place you're coming from and how how you actually do feel about the sport and about all the athletes and all the people around the world that share this this crazy thing we do called bodybuilding. And, you know, we we we love them. We want the best for everybody. And that's why that's why we're trying to make or suggest changes. That's all. Yeah, that that's all we're doing, man. Listen, I love all of the athletes and man, I do anything for athletes. I still get them calling me and so I recreate program for them and uh make recommendation. Love you guys. I want to see them make lots of money. And one of the things I always emphasize, you know, when I'm doing my workshops, I say, "Look guys, I got eight Mr. Olympia comp trophies. I can't eat any of them." So, while you're young in your career, be wise with your money. Be wise with your health because it's not going to last forever. We don't make as much money as a NBA player, NFL player. We don't do that. So, we got to be careful with all of those things I just mentioned. So, I love you guys. Thanks, Ron, for having me on. And no, I'm not a hater. I'm a lover to the core. Yes, sir. All right, that wraps it up for the Ron L report with eight time Mr. Olympia Lee Haney. Thanks everybody for watch.