What's up guys? Ron Harris here and New York Pro is just two two days away. I was going to say two years. two days away. Nick Walker the Mutant, he gave me this shirt at the Arnold Classic in 2023 meet and greet. After I was patient enough to wait for all of his fans to be done talking to him, taking pictures, and buying merch. Thank you, Nick. So, he's looking like the heavy heavy favorite, but I want to take a look at some updates from him and a bunch of the other guys. um and taking your suggestions and taking your comments because we did a power hour yesterday, myself, Giles Thomas, and Big Mike Cox, but that was not live. You're free to comment and there's some great comments on that under that video, but we didn't have any live interaction. So, this is your chance to interact. Tell me who you want to take a look at. Give me your opinions. So, uh, let's start with Nick and then I'll I'll start soliciting some, uh, some requests from you guys to who we should look at. Uh, so Nick, Nick Walker. Well, he doesn't he doesn't really need to put any updates up, does he? because we just saw him a couple days ago uh almost winning the inaugural Pittsburgh Pro where Derek edged him out by one point in a bonus judging round that doesn't even exist in most cases. Uh it's a very controversial win. A lot of people had Nick winning. I'd say most most people watching had Nick winning. We weren't there, but a lot of people that were there said the same thing. They had Nick winning. So, he is your front runner for sure. Definitely, Nick. I'd be very, very shocked. There's his mom. What's up, Tracy? If anybody could beat this, uh, looking at the lineup, there's no one in that lineup that really stands a legitimate chance of beating him. And that's not disrespecting uh, William or Sassan or Rean or Ko or any of these guys. Nick is just that damn good. He's been top three at the Olympia. And uh I predict he could be top three again this year. Some people are thinking maybe maybe higher. Maybe this is his year to win the whole damn thing. You know, crazier things have happened. It's it's unlikely because we do have not only Derek who he did almost just beat, but we also have Chupan who's been dormant, hasn't competed since last Olympia. He's taken this whole year just to focus on the Olympia, which is a great idea, I think. Uh he's fresh. He's not going to be h subjecting his body to multiple preps this year like Samson did by doing the Arnold and uh Derek by doing both the Arnold and the Pittsburgh. Um very very risky on his part to do that. So we'll see. I'm trying to find the the posing footage here. Gilkco Productions. Here we go. All right. So, there's Big Nick Walker, the the mutant, as he appeared as he appeared at the Pittsburgh Pro. Looking amazing. Straightup freak. Killer shots, super confident, massive, ripped, everything you want a pro bodybuilder to be. What's up, your mom's flip-flop? Looking forward to this. Yeah, it's going to be a great show. No chance for any else. Nick comes in like the Pittsburgh come close I think and correct me if I'm wrong but I think Nick said even if he had won Pittsburgh I believe he was going to do New York anyway just to make it three wins in a row three I should say three New York pro titles which no one's ever done before would you have given it to Nick your mom's philop yeah I would have I would have given it to Nick not by a landslide Derek had a lot of strong points to his physique but I I would have given it to Nick absolutely no one's beating Nick at this show yeah I I totally agree is always off. He won't suffer. I've never seen Rean shredded. What I consider really shredded. We'll take a look at his last update in a minute here because he has finally posted something pretty recent. Hopefully Hottie retires. He does nothing for the sport. Well, let's see. I think the Middle Eastern fans, particularly all the fans in Iran, would disagree with you. They have a statue erected of Hadti Chupan in his hometown. Um, you know, when he comes home, he gets a hero's welcome. Thousands and thousands of people, throngs of human beings at the airport congratulating. They had like a big victory parade and everything. Sauce may be more aesthetically pleasing. That's not all that matters. Don't be mad. Yeah, I want I want to take a look at Rean because I I haven't really had a chance to look at this last update of his. I wonder how much he's showing. Where are you, Rean? Grimy. He's so grimy. I was a little harsh on him uh on Project Bodybuilding that we did yesterday. So, this is He'sarkening back to 2018 when he went classic. All right. That is not a recent update at all. Okay. Do we have anything recent? Let's look at his stories because that's my concern with him. Condition. Oh, there's him and manager Matt. There's oatmeal. No, I don't see anything that gives me any confidence that he's going to be uh shredded. I'd like to see him shredded. He's got a great physique, great back, but where are the updates? You know, some people when they don't post updates, it's just because, well, they they don't want to show anything. They just want to save it for the stage. Other people, maybe they're not in the condition they need to be in and they're just hoping for a miracle at the end. Like, you know, a lot of guys will drop water. They'll take a diuretic or something and hope that's going to make the difference. But if you don't get all the body fat off, doesn't matter how much water you take away. Body fat's not going anywhere. You'll just be flatter. Diuretics don't know where that water is coming from. They take the water not only from under the skin, like where you want it, but they take it from inside the muscle cells as well, which you don't want. This is why a lot of guys go flat is from Direct. So, okay, Rean, nothing new from Rean. Nothing new at all. Can't say I'm surprised, but that that does make me a little hesitant wondering what's going on. What's going on? Is he in shape? Is he not in shape? I don't know. Last thing from Sauce. Does Cassan have anything recent in his stories? Well, there's your top four. Wow. Okay. Well, they got Colossus Ken in that top four. They got They don't have Bonak in the top four in this prediction. And I promise you Bonak will be in the top four. It'd be very very shocking. There's a great back shot from Cissan. Sass will be in shape. I'm not worried about Cissan's condition. This was uh Oh, this was three weeks ago. I mean, he just did the Detroit show. He was in fantastic condition. This was two weeks and four days out from New York Pro. Looks great. Uh, let's see who you guys want to look at. John Stewart, former Night Champions, please. Interviewing at Swedish. Okay. Andreas Colling on the show. I worry that nobody would watch. I'll be totally honest with you, John. A lot of times when I have these guys from the past that weren't like mega popular, the views are really low. Um, there's a couple other guys I want to get ahead of him. I really want to get Samir Bonud on 1983, Mr. Olympia. But thank you for the suggestion. Don't you think Nick should stand wider and point his knees out in his front poses like he does from the back? Uh I I don't really have any issues with Nick posing. Um some of the shots I would uh on his like side tricep I would twist a little bit more. He doesn't really twist enough. There's Sass from this was two weeks ago. Yeah, you know Sissan is going to be ready for battle. I mean I I could see Sas as high as second if he can get ahead of Bak, which is not going to be easy. Bak's damn good. This was him in uh Detroit. Yeah. Look at the look at the thighs, man. Look at the the separation. All four quad heads. Nice and clear all the way up to the hipbone. That rectus feorous the teardrops crossstrated vasis lateralis crossstrated. That's proper conditioning right there. When you have all that detail, not just big blueofy muscle is with uh Andrew Jack. Was it Fibo? Yeah, Fibo. second second Andrew. Who do you think? Well, obviously Nick Walker. I mean, I don't think it takes, you don't have to be a Nostradamus to to know that Nick Walker's almost certainly going to walk away with the win at this. It's after that it's like who you got second, third, fourth, fifth. Olympia is going to be the best in a long time classic especially opens pretty much all open for who could win it. Yeah, I mean Had Hassan Hadti is a strong favorite in my mind. Uh he's won it before obviously he's been second a couple times. He's been top five many times. Samson the reigning champion. Little more conditioning on that guy and nobody's beating him. If he got beat by Derek at the Arnold purely based on condition. If Samson had been in the same condition that Derek was at the Arnold, there's not a doubt in my mind Samson would have walked away with that Arnold no problem. But he wasn't in condition. So if if doesn't matter in bodybuilding I should say. Could have, would have, should as we say. Ron, you know your stuff, so tell us. Yeah, we'll do predictions. Give Give me your top five, guys. Give me your top five for New York Pro. And if you don't know the list, I'm going to show you the list in a second here. Uh, share this tab instead. So, this is competitor list. There's your competitors. I don't know if you can see that very well, very clearly. Let me make sure you guys can see that. That's Kennedy Ananw. I wonder if he's Nigerian too. Originally from the USA, but I bet he's Nigerian because that's where all the genetic freaks seem to come from. Samson blessing Andrew. You got Kennedy, Ananmu, Pablo Bane from Czech Republic, William Barnak, Mark Arthur Dutertree from USA, Jeanluca Deorenzo from Italy, Dennis Friedrich from Germany, Rean Grimes from Canada, Sasan Harat from UK originally. He's Persian just like Hottie. Michael Kzanic Creo from Slovakia. Vincent Mason from USA who I just did Pittsburgh and Nick Walker of course. All right. So, we'll go back to Insta. Share the Insta. Yeah. Uh, who do you guys want me to look at? This is your This is your live, so you tell me. Tell me who you'd like to check out. I'm probably gonna go to Cro in a second regardless. Uh, let me go to Creiso and then I go back to your comments because I know Crezo posted I didn't check it out too closely, but there was a a posing update I think from from today stories. This was five hours ago. Okay, so boy, he looks tired, doesn't he? No, this is a training montage. They always put the the posing in the beginning to make you think it's going to be like a posing update, but it's usually not. Oh, there we go. There we go. That's Big Steve at the East Coast Mecca Powerhouse Gym. I don't know if that's now. It's probably today. It was five hours ago. Steve helping with the posing. Good. Because Kiso really needs help with his posing. He does not display his physique optimally, I don't believe, to its best advantage. That was yesterday. Assuming this is also Beavenon Steves. No, I don't know where that is, honestly. So, five days out from New York Pro. I have to translate the Arabic. We have Sasha Herat on the roster. Nick Walker. Yeah, I mean, come on, George. It's only going to get better. So, that's his his top five after which I think is pretty accurate. I think this is your in no particular order after Nick. This is the rest of the top five. Sassan, Kio, Bonak, Rean. I think it's probably going to be second place Bonak, third place Sassan, fourth place Kiso. If Rean is in shape, he could be ahead of him. They could flip-flop, but right now I have Rean in fifth for that. It's a great shot of Creo. He's got one of the best crabmost musculars in the in the whole game right now. There's no doubt. All right, let's go to some more comments. Elliot says, "I enjoy cont. Do you think that Nick Walker downsized somewhat?" No, I don't think so. No. No. Does he look downsized to you? The only time I ever saw Nick downsized was that 2023 Arnold Classic where he took second to Samson Dada. He went for him and his coach uh at the time Matt Jansen, they went for a more streamlined look. They were going for ultra condition. They were trying to bring his waist in, but I think most people agreed that was that's not a good look for him. He looks better big and full. And he still can get in great shape and maintain a lot of fullness as we saw. Kito Czo's damn good. Very, very good. So, if I'm harsh on him sometimes, I want to see I want to see the best he can possibly be. I want to see more hamstrings on this guy. I want to see a little more more back thickness. Conditioning is fine. The color looks a lot better here than it did on the live stream. Right. Live stream color was iffy. Very iffy. That's an awesome shot, man. That is a crazy most muscular. Nick Walker is very dangerous now. Lop saying for Congress. I'll vote for you. He'll beat Derek and win the 25th Olympia. Well, he doesn't have to just beat Derek. Lop saying he needs to beat Hotti Chupan. And he needs to beat Samson Da. And thus far in his career, he has never beaten either guys. Either guy. He's never beaten Derek either. Although most people believe he rightfully beat Derek. He had Derek by the balls at this Pittsburgh show. It wasn't a blowout, but I think he edged him out. I feel flat. 19 hours of fasting so far with weights. Have we done? Yeah, I would never never train with weights uh while I was fasting. But that's your deal. You do what you want. Your mom slip definitely didn't downsize. Yeah, he came in bigger for sure. I mean, the the updates he put out at like 10 days out, he was 273. So, I'm sure he was still over 260 by the time he hit the stage and he probably dropped his water. Maybe like two 262 to 265. I'm just going to I'm just guessing. But at 5'7, that's a massive human being. Derek, however, his legs were slightly off worse at the Arnold, which I just seriously wonder why they gave to Derek. It was one judge made the call. So, it came down to one point in an extra round. If they didn't have that round, it would have had to be a tie. We can't have ties in bodybuilding. It's just not permissible. So, somebody had to lose and the fans and most people would have given it to Nick. But that one judge is the one that swayed the point that onepoint decision over in Derek's favor. And Derek Derek has a title. Cool thumbnail. My NG which have to use. I use got Canva for everything. Can cva and I'm not great at I'm not great at thumbnails. I think my thumbnail yesterday for power hour probably could have been more eye-catching. Maybe the colors are too dark. I mean, this YouTube thumbnail stuff, it's a freaking science. The titles, the thumbnails, the description, like, god, there's so much to it. But I think the people that make awesome content, it doesn't even matter. Like, I've never seen a really fancy thumbnail or even the editing is too f. I don't edit, but Sam Solic is who I'm trying to talk about. Sam Sollet doesn't do any fancy crazy thumbnails that would win any awards in the in the thumbnail awards category, but he's got awesome content and people watch it for a sass over William. Yeah, I mean they have different looks. Different looks for sure. Uh let's go to let's go to William. Why not? Let's go to Yeah. Where is he? Got a lot of lot of people up there. Um, Sash, did he have his Detroit up there? His posing? I don't think Did he? Yeah, here we go. Oh, that was the Emperor Classic last year. I don't want to see that because he's better. He was better in Detroit. He's getting better as time goes by. This was Detroit. Okay, so here's Cassan who is in contention. Damn it. They see how they screw us over every time, man. They make you think you're going to see a posing a whole posing clip and then all you see is two seconds of posing and then talking heads. All right. Well, this was Detroit, right? Yeah. Sassan is very, very good. I love the quads on this guy. The the sweep, the shape, the detail. Look at those hams popping there. He's really good. Is he better than Bonak? I I I give the edge to Bonak in in most ways, but I could definitely see Sassan theoretically getting ahead of Bonak. I mean, neither one they're not that far apart, put it that way. They both have their strong points and weak points. Sassan is awesome. I'm a fan of this guy. This is somebody's iPhone footage. This is not the official Gilo footage, but yeah, he's put together, man. He's thick as a brick. doesn't have any weak points, any weak body parts. You can't say he needs more of this, more that. Great lat spread there. Yeah, but he needs to win a show this year if he wants to get to Olympia. Bonak had him in Detroit. Andrew had him in Fibo. So, he's missed it. There's no point system for open bodybuilding. You got to win a show to get to the O. And right now, Cissan still needs a win, but he's got plenty more chances. There are more shows just this this month alone. We still have New York Pro Saturday. The Saturday after that is CalPro. Saturday after that is Legion Sports. June, you have Toronto Pro. You have Dubai Pro, which is 140,000 for first prize. Very nice prize money. Good job over there in Dubai with putting out some nice cash for these guys. They work hard. They deserve it. That was Cassan. Is this the better footage or the worse footage? is Fibo. This was Look Fibo. Great latch spread on Sassan. That bicep uh that we're looking at on the right. His left bicep looks like it was torn. It's shorter than the other bicep. That is distracting. Although Dorian Yates won his last four out of six Mr. Olympia titles with a a gap there, a poor a torn bicep that he never had repaired. Look at the leg. The side leg on him. That ham drop is awesome. Yeah, Cissan is he's he's deadly, man. He's deadly. So, I could see him as high as second. I could see him I could see him up there. He just has to get past Bonak. And I don't think he's going to have a problem getting past Regan unless Rean is just shredded out of his mind, which yet so far I've never seen that. Um I haven't had a Creo. Cruis still got some things he needs to work on. Yeah, I was uh arguing with uh Dylan on Project Bodybuilding. I don't know when he's going to put that video out. Today, tomorrow. He's a huge KZO fan. He had Kzo winning a lot of shots. We went like pose for pose with the other guys. And you know, it's no fun when we all agree with each other anyway, but we were strongly disagreeing on a lot of things. Uh see who else you guys want to look at. Come on. Let me let me click on this one. Uh agree with you 100%. If Sam comes in peeled, if Samson could be shredded every year right now, I don't see anybody that's beating him for a while. Frank Zayn is best be able to win open show today. No, no, not at all. No way. Nope. Nope. Nope. He's not. Frank is or he was. He's He's alive. But I'm saying at his best he was 5'9. He was about 185 to 190. 190 I think was his best weight. So 5'9, 190. That would put him in classic physique today. He would fit perfectly into classic. Would he win classic physique Olympia? Yes, that I do think so. I do think he would. Mike the bike is winning hands down. Correct. Correct. It won't be close. Yeah, that's why I didn't talk about him too much. Blanak and Sassan will be duking it out for second place. True. I agree with that. Ko Regal battle for fourth. You might as Rean I mean Rean if he comes in conditioned but he is such an unknown entity. When when have we ever seen him really really shredded? Uh who'd you mention there? Who do we want to look at there? Uh Wesley Cody Dro was Colossus Ken. I know. I had him up there at one point cuz he's making his uh his pro debut. Ken. I spell his name. Kennedy. Kennedy. Anyu. It's Colossus. It's Nope. It's not Colossus. Like that. Is it Ken Colossus? Yeah. This is when you don't make your name. Just so and so. IFBB Pro. Ken Colossus. Yeah, Colossus. Ken. Here we go. So, this is somebody that could be a surprise. Could be. So, he won the USA a couple years ago. Uh, he's obviously put on some muscle, unless that's photoshopped. I don't think it is. That's when he won. He was he was, you know, you can see the potential, but he needed to be bigger. And he's clearly put on some decent decent muscle. That's his pro win again. No, what'd he win? North American. I think he won North American. So, this is the most recent posing update we had from him. It was yesterday or the day before. Uh, I'm not loving this condition. That doesn't look to me like somebody who's only a couple days out from a big pro show where he's up against he's going to be standing next to guys like Nick Walker and William Bonak. Um, you know, but I wish him the best. I don't know what he's going to bring to the stage, but you know what? He could surprise me. He could surprise me over the years. Your mom's flip-flop goes Nick Sass Bonak Creo Grimes. It's fair. Creo's posing is just not all there. His back double by sucked the pit. Yeah, he he squeezes it together. Let's go to Gilko. Gilko's got some awesome videos and pictures. You're supposed to spread the uh the rear dough bicep. You're supposed to spread your back apart. Just like in a rear lat spread, you're not supposed to pinch it together. Uh but that happens. You know, not everyone's a posing wiz. This is Gilko and there these are the other divisions. Uh guest posers we don't really need to look at. I'm looking for some of the actual Yeah, that was day two with the women. Classic guys. Looking for videos. Give me videos. Well, we'll get we'll get to uh we'll get to Josema and Terrence in a moment here, but I want to find I don't know if there is any video of PZO or Bonak. I think for Bonak video, I'd have to go back to Detroit, but I use this shot in my thumbnail. I know this is sharpened up and everything that look at that. That is crazy. Back has an amazing crab shot, too. You know, 42 years old, his legs have really held up. You know, they say legs start to go after 40. and he had a bad injury. I'm not sure what it was. I forget it's one of his quad heads in the right quad tour, I think. But he had an injury and he was out of competing for he took a full season off and I wasn't expecting much when he come back. A lot of these guys when they come back, especially if they're over 40, it's very underwhelming and you could see their time has passed. It's it's really time for them to go, but a lot of them just don't know it and they hang on for several years after they really should have should have stopped. But he's not one of them. still he's still up there with the best of them. This was something I didn't I didn't get to see uh the comparisons on video with Jose Jose Manuel Munos who's only 23 years old and rough diesel Terrence Ruffin but the back thickness destroys Terrence there. I'll tell you that. I know it was very close and I a lot of people were saying they had this guy Josemo beating Terrence. He beats him in this shot. There's no doubt about that. He's got a crazy, look at how thick that back is all the way down to the lumbars, right in the midback. Terrence needs a lot more midback thickness if he's going to hang with that. I think I have to go way back to Detroit if I want to see a Bonak posing. I put up when I load the video clips. These video clips sometimes they they lag. They don't I don't know what show this was. Some other show, Midwest Muscle Classic or something. Gilko does a fantastic job with their 4K videos and man, they do a great job overall. Okay, I think that Yeah, this has to be Detroit because look at the black backdrop. I'm going back to Detroit because I want to I want to see Bonak. Nope, that's Yeah, here we go. So, here's Bonak in Detroit where he won. Fantastic physique. Look at that. Look at that though. He is He is a great poser. Look how he sets up every pose. Look at the transitions. how confident he is. He doesn't roll back, doesn't lean back, doesn't pitch forward on the front lat. He's straight up and down. He's a He's a true professional at posing. He knows exactly how to present this physique to its best to it to its best advantage. And that's that's a skill that takes years of practice. And I you know, like if Cruzo could pose like this guy, come on. Cruz would be doing a little bit better. I'm not saying he'd be winning these shows, but I think he would be doing a little bit better because his physique would be, you know, you'd see a lot more of it. You'd see proper lat width instead of losing a little bit of lat width when he crunches his shoulder blades together on that rear double. Yeah. What else we got? Appreciate all you guys here. Anyway, let's go. Nick. Yeah, Nick's all set. Don't worry about Nick. Just saw a video on Draper and Pearl critiquing by in early 2000. I wonder what they would say today if they were still alive. They both passed away. I think they would both be fans, Dave Draper and Bill Pearl of classic physique because it really hearkens back to the attributes, the ideals of the golden era, so-called golden era. Talking about like the 50s, 60s,7s when shape, proportion, a small waist, posing, presentation, these things were all very, very important. Uh, mass wasn't as important. There weren't many massive guys back then. There were there were a few. Dillow, my man, what's up? You're recovering from some shoulder surgery, Dan. I hope you're feeling better. Dan's uh he struggled with addiction in the past like a lot of us and a lot of people we know and he is recovering from a very major should shoulder surgery with no pain meds. So damn, God bless you. You are a freaking trooper. Big Mike Cox. Mike, there was someone who said that can't possibly be his real name. Well, Big, obviously Big's not your first real name, although legally you could change it. But Mike Cox, I said it does say Michael Cox on his driver's license. Now, if it was Mike Hunt, that'd be a different story. I think that was a fake name. But Mike did a fantastic job yesterday uh with me and Giles on the Power Hour. Hope you guys catch that on this channel. If you haven't watched it, please check that out. We talked about Pittsburgh for the first half and then we did a New York Pro preview for the second half. Bonak is defying time, but SAS, yeah, they're close right now. I'm giving Bonak the edge just because I don't think Cassan's ever beaten him. That doesn't mean he can't. But uh on paper, William has done so much more already in the sport. He's won two Arnold Classics. He's been second place at the Olympia. I believe he was third place another year. He's been a top top guy for years. Sassan, he's done well, but nowhere near the level that that will of accomplishments that we see with William. Who's my top five? I go Nick. Well, maybe I'll just do AI'll put it on a graphic. How's that? My top five, Mick. And you guys, I want to hear yours because I'm sure we don't all agree. I think a lot of younger people who are big social media fans, they seem to really favor Rean. And you know, I I like Regan a lot. I just don't know. I've never seen him really cut up. Best condition I ever saw him was when he did classic when he went down to like 218 pounds or something ridiculous. Creo Regan. So, okay. My top five. This is my top five. Okay, there's my top five, guys. Derek, wait. No, that's a different show. I thought I made the banner. The hell? Oh, I was on the wrong Sorry, guys. I was on uh the wrong the wrong tab there. So, I'm going to go Nick first, second, Bonak. Third, I'm going to go Sassan. Fourth, GTO GTO. Make him Italian. Why not? It's a Slovakian and Rean. Rean B. No, Rean. a banner. My top five right there, guys. My top five. Please excuse that comma. That should be a period. Do I need to edit it? I'm not going to bother. Uh here's the info. Unfortunately, you missed out on the early bird special that ended last night. You could have got it for 1999. So, I guess I need to edit this. I need to edit that. Yeah, because you can't get it for 1999. I don't want I don't want people thinking, "Hey, Ron said Ron said it was only 1999. Now it's $34.99. Oh, that was yesterday when we did power hour. You could have got it for 1999 if you got it yesterday. So now you're paying 20 20 bucks more because you didn't get it early. So there's your info for the live stream. And I know you're going all [\h__\h] and moan. It should be free because Fouad had a free live stream. Fouad had a black backdrop. Everybody should have a black backdrop and a free live stream. I get it. I get it. Uh but no, it's not free. That's what you got to pay if you want to see the show. my top five again. Let's go back to your comments. Wow, I'm way lagging behind the comments as usual. Uh, we have a great day. We're on fine time. Who's your top five? Okay. If Nick Walker got punished for midsection versus, why not Bonak versus Hassan? He might. Yeah. I mean, Bonak doesn't have the the flattest midsection. He does not. So, yeah, it could come down to that. You know, maybe it will. Depends. You know, these are judges. They have different opinions. They all They all like what they like. So many shows. Be a great summer. Great. Kind of sucks. There's so many pro shows. It sucks that there's so many pro shows. I thought you'd say it sucked that Usually people say it would suck if there weren't many pro shows. I think you'd be happy there's a lot of pro shows. Is Nick there still punishing him for pulling out Olympia? I don't I don't think so. If they were punishing him, if it was politics, J.R., if it was politics and they wanted to punish Nick, Derek Lungsford would have won Pittsburgh with a perfect score. And you know, people would still be very upset. But it seems to me people are just as upset that he lost by that one point, which means it was super super close. And a lot of the judges, including head judge Tyler Manion, stated it in his recap that he did on his Instagram and YouTube. Tyler had Nick winning. So the head judge himself said, "I had Nick winning, but we had this extra round and it was a tiebreaker round and the judges scored again and one of them, one of one judges score is what made the difference." Thank you, Kan. Thank you. Yeah, we got a lot of pro shows. I mean, open pro shows, we have ton, but dude, in some of these classes, like classic has, I think, almost 100 pro shows. Of course, most of the women's divisions, not bodybuilding, but like bikini has like a 100 pro shows. Figures way up there. Uh, Open actually has the least amount of pro shows. No, that's not true. I think it's women's fitness because there's not that many women doing fitness these days. It's It's kind of going away. Robbie should have beat Zayn one year. Well, yeah, Mike. That was the year, one of the years that they did uh lightweight heavyweight classes at the at the Olympia. I think they only did that I want to say 778 778 79. I think they only did it for three years. Zayn was the champ. And he won the lightweight which was under 200. It was over and under 200 lb. So I think Robbie won it twice over Zayn. and Zayn beat him for the overall. And the other year was Mener in 79, the year before that very controversial Mr. Olympia in Sydney, Australia, where Arnold made his comeback after five years and won a seventh Mr. Olympia title. Um, they did away with the short and tall, which they had done for a few years. They did away with light and he lightweight and heavyweight, which they did for a few years. They just went back to one big class and Arnold won. And what was I think Menson was fourth or fifth? You really think Zayn went against someone like Summerfeld? Well, your mom's flip-flop. If Zayn was competing right now, none of those guys from 30, 40 years ago, they wouldn't look like that now. We have different drugs. We have different nutrition, more updated nutrition knowledge, supplements. We know more about training. These guys wouldn't look the same. So, it's really not fair to compare a bodybuilder from 40 years ago as far as exactly how they looked to a guy from right now. There's so much has changed. Zayn would look better. He would look bigger. He would be bigger and fuller. There's no doubt in my mind. Smoked dog by you muscle nickel win going away. Sash will be William and I'm predicting Rean will come in third over William and Ken Creelo better start doing some cardio. Work on his posing or else Well, we did see him uh working on his posing with Big Steve there. So, that's a very encouraging side. Very encouraging sign. Uh who else was there? Do we have got to go way up top to get to the Pittsburgh stuff on the Gilo Productions page? Who else we want to look at from uh guys want to talk about classic at all? I want to look at these routines at least. Oh, is this video? Ah, that's a good that's a good the pose down. That's some good footage right there. Some that low angle stuff. I just them waiting for the award. They're still doing the pose down. Nice. Yeah, the energy I really wish I'd been in that show. The the energy must have inside that theater must have been just ridiculous. Through the roof. Yeah. Nickel going away. I already said that. Where'd it go? H I get I get so far behind. I don't think Ken will be ready place top five. Yeah, his condition he looks like he needs another two or three weeks from what I was seeing. Frank say with the modern advanced trainer should be a force to reck with. Yeah, he wouldn't. So, let's say he wasn't much heavier, but he would look fuller. I mean, we have different drug regimens these days and that does make a difference, guys. he would be probably using everything that we they use now. The you know the insulin, the GH, they had all the they they had stuff like uh obviously they had test and deca and winstral and prima bowling back in his day. Uh they weren't using trend. Trend wasn't really a thing. They had parabolum but I don't think that came around until I want to say the 80s. Yeah. Back should have gotten third in Pittsburgh. Yeah. I mean I I could see that argument. OM would have beaten Terrence if it went by open judgy standards, hands down. Yeah, we'll take a look at those two in a second. If Bonnack was third, I'd be okay with it. Martin was way too full. Fitz Watering all over stage. Ah, that's a good one. Somebody might steal that. William the Conqueror. Yep. Martin is lucky to play as he does. He has a nice look physique and shape, but he doesn't have the density, completeness, and width of the others he competes against. Uh, I don't want to talk about Martin here just because we're focusing on New York Pro, but I agree. Uh, you know, he put on this weight supposedly. I didn't I didn't see it. I didn't see an extra 10 pounds, eight to 10 pounds of stage of muscle tissue. Couple shots you see Martin still look great like the crab. But, uh, what about 212? Who's winning? Okay, let's get to some 212 guys. Why not? It's about time. 212 guys don't get enough love. I I totally I totally agree with that. So, uh, my pick for the win here, and he's won it before. He's won the New York Pro before. Talk about Spain's Angel Calderon Frias. These are stills. Look at that. He's built like a brick [\h__\h] house. He's from Spain. Uh I believe he's actually won he's done some open shows. I believe he won an open show over in probably Spain would be my best guess. It's his family. Okay, look at that. I mean, he's been as high as second place at the 212 Olympia, you know, massive. He's a very short guy. I think he's like 5'2. So, you know, aesthetically, he's not like a Keon, but who really is? But boy, just packed with muscle. And look at that condition. It doesn't get it doesn't get more detailed and etched out than that. I mean, when you have striations like that in your pecs when they're spread out, like in a front lat spread, that is condition, guys. That is some awesome condition. So, here's his most recent update. This was two hours ago. I don't know where he is there. Is that Bevon Steves? I don't know. I think it's Beon Steves. Yeah. Most of the guys, even though the show's in New Jersey and Long Island is not close, it's not close. It's It's a good hour away. uh with any kind of traffic, but man, he looks ready to rock, doesn't he? So, Angel from Spain, definitely my pick. My pick to win this. Uh he's just he's he's very hard to beat. Very hard to beat. Uh it was yesterday over Bevon Steves. He's there with Victor Martinez and big Steve Weinberger. Yeah, he's ready to go. He's ready to go. But, you know, he always is. I He's one of those guys I never have to question. Look at the glutes. Look at how dug out they are. There aren't many guys where you just know without even wondering, is he going to be shre? Is he going to be ripped? No. Angel's always ripped. I've never seen him out of shape. That was earlier in the week, five days ago. Old man muscle. I don't think he's even that old. Um I'm guessing that's a men's physique pro he's with there. Yeah, I mean that is proper conditioning Angel has. Look at that. That's amazing. Awesome. Yeah. So, I'd be very surprised if Angel doesn't win this. He's won a lot of 212 shows before. He's done very well at the Olympia several times, but there are some other really good guys. We'll take a look at the youngster. He's probably not He's still young. He's not as young as he used to be, but who is, right? Talk about Francisco Varios Barios Vic from I think he's originally from Argentina. I think he lives in Brazil now. A lot of these people move to Brazil because Brazil takes a lot better care of their athletes. So this was last year's Olympia I believe. So very very nice shape and structure, very complete. He's been coached by the great Patrick Tour from Switzerland. Same coach as Keon uh for years since he was uh since he was an amateur years ago. Geez, when Giles and I saw him at the Arnold amateur, it had to be well over 10 years ago at this point, I'm guessing. He's fantastic. Very, very passionate about the sport. You can see the fire in his eyes as he poses. He loves this. Look at that. Look at that confidence. You got to You got to love that. It's infectious. You know, confident without being arrogant. He knows he looks good. He knows he worked very hard and he's in it to win it, as they say. Want to hear my crappy Spanish? I'll stop in a minute. All right, I'll stop right now. Yeah, look at him. Francisco, we used to call him the kid. He's still a kid. I don't I think he's like, what was this? Battle. This was the Texas Pro. Texas Pro. Uh, who won that? Did uh Garrett Bajjo win that? The 212? I can't remember. Some of you 212 people who follow 212 very very closely would know that immediately but this was Francisco at that show looking awesome. Should get to your comments before I get way behind. Bonk have been dying has been dying a long time. Yeah, a lot of these people have. Martin is overrated. Maybe Bonak was eating chicken rice and broccol best birth. Well, he's from Ghana in West Africa which is right next to Nigeria. So clearly that region of the continent of Africa has the best bodybuilding genetics. You don't want to be from the eastern side of Africa, Ethiopia, Somalia, bad bodybuilding genetics, very very skinny people. But the west side, big, strong, long muscle bellies, better bones structures, huge erection. That's a good one. Mike, I love your avatar. It's his cat. Is that Chapo? Mike's got a cat named El Chapo, which you know, it's a narco. The stream with Mike and Giles is fire. Thank you, Jr. Oh, that's my Oh, I put it in the comments instead of uh instead of as a banner, dumbass. Barnick's got those bowling ball biceps. Yeah, I'm a big fan of his biceps. All right. Well, that is Francisco. Let's see a couple because I see him as the only one I see right now that's got a strong chance. This was yesterday at Bean Steves. a strong chance, a legitimate chance of beating Angel. Angel's definitely bigger and thicker. Francisco's got a little prettier shape and structure. He has put on a lot of size, though. When we when Charles and I first met him, he was like half that size. He's probably put on a good 20 pounds, maybe 30 pounds of muscle since we since we first met him. I don't know what he's doing there. It's a physiootherapist or something. Yeah. Going through some therapy. Yeah. that cool dog. Okay, so Francisco, I wish you the best of luck. Oh, okay. What was this? This is a week ago. See how he was looking a week ago. See that little wink? He's confident. He knows he looks great. Yeah. When you know you've really put the work in, you're confident because you're not really stressing out like, "Ah, did I die long? Did I start my diet too late? Did I have too many cheat meals? Did I have too many refeeds? Did I did I should I have done more cardio?" So, you know, when you're when you're in great shape and you know it, you're not stressed out. It's the people who are like behind and they're it's like they're hoping for a miracle at the last minute. All right, I want to go to Cody Dro for a second. We'll go to I want to go to classic in a second, too. But Cody, it's the last guy we look at in 212, unless you guys have some special requests. So, Cody pops up and competes and then he sort of disappears for a while. Oh, that was that was well, that was over a year ago. I'm not going to show you that. Six hours ago. His wife. That's There he is with my my my guy. I like Neil Hill a lot. That's his coach. He's looking big. That's his wife, Nicole. She's competing in women's figure, I believe. Yeah. So, he must be her coach, too. Cody's got the the mustache now. There's Big Steve. Oh, no. That's Neil. My bald guys. Big Steve looks very similar, but he's like a foot taller. He's he towers over most of us. Cody looks great, man. I just wish Cody I hope he competes more because he he'll do a show and do pretty well and then disappears for another year, year and a half. So, don't do that. Keep keep going, guy. You're you're too good to just What' I do there? You're too good to just go away like that all the time. Cody, Cody, Cody, and these are some updates. Yeah, Rean beats Krisanobot. Krisnob butt. His name's Kzo. Mike Croanic actually. Fans love Regan. I mean, look his Insta. How many followers he got? It's in a mill. It's It's well, it's like millions. It's not just like one million. I'm just curious. Rean Grimes 1.9 million followers. So, let's round it up to two million followers. It's not Sebum numbers, but it's pretty freaking great. It's pretty freaking great. Uh, I want to look at Classic Guys in a second. You think Kriezo beats Rean? Well, we know Kriezo is going to be in shape. I don't know if Rean's going to be in shape. Uh the the updates I've been seeing of Rean, I'm not seeing anything special with condition. I'm not seeing what I consider great condition. You paid 30 bucks for Pittsburgh, you got robbed. Oh, no. No New York Pro for me. Well, you know, uh I encourage everyone to get the stream because I'll be using other people's footage of it. It won't be mine. I never steal the stream, but if I see somebody else has put a bunch of it on their YouTube video, I'm not stealing the stream. I'm stealing their video. And I don't run the whole thing. I see some channels from places like Brazil, India, Middle East, they will pirate the whole stream. they'll put it on their YouTube channel and get and get the monetization the uh the AdSense money from from the pay-per-view and you know they're legitimately stealing because they're streaming it exactly live just like the the contest promoters. So they are stealing from the promoters those people. I don't do that. I don't do that. Uh I want to go back to Giloko because I want to look at uh I want to look at Terrence. Terrence and Josema. Jose, I know they were very close and there were people, numerous people who felt that uh Josema was the rightful winner. I know he's got some very, very strong points with physique. I got to get past all these female divisions here and the guest posers and so on and so forth and more on men's physique. And there's Martin. All right. So, guess we'll start with Ruffin. He was your winner. This was his first show back uh since fall of 2023. So, he took all of 2024 off. Put a few pounds of tissue on. Tissue as they say. They don't say muscle. Some people say tissue. Uh definitely bigger and fuller in the upper body than he was before. Um still not a massive guy next to someone like a Somerfeld. Somerfeld looks a lot bigger than him for sure, even though they're probably around the same weight. Uh Terrence still needs more back thickness. I'm not in love with that back, but geez, the shape, the way he hits his poses. He's the best poser in the world right now, as far as I'm concerned. Nobody does a routine like Terrence. Look at every trans, even the transitions look like a work of art. Every pose is just like unique, where he positions his hips, his wrists, his knee. every little de every the attention to detail, the amount of the amount of uh perfection that goes into this guy's posing presentation is just it's off the charts. Terrence is a is an amazing amazing poser. Uh let's see. Josema, come on. Where you at, Josema? There you are. Okay, so this is the 23-year-old from Spain, Josema Beast. structurally not as crazy as a of a Vtaper as Terrence, but condition is crazy. Just rock hard, drain it hard. Those glute striations going dying right into the hamstrings. Arms could be better, guys. Let's be real. They look good in that shot. There there's some angles where like even from the back, you would want to see a little more fullness to the triceps. You know, I'm one to talk my triceps suck ass, but I'm critiquing the best physiques in the world right now and I can be picky. That would help him out. That would help him out. A little more tricep fullness sickness. Awesome back. Glutes are just dug out. Look at the thighs. Dry, separated. Stumbled there with his posing. I think it was I don't know if it was Weinberger that said his posing cost him the show. And I mean, look how Oh, compared to Terrence, that's an awkward posing routine. you. He's got a great physique, but does he really display it as well as he could? I would say no. Uh he does he does a good job. It's it could be a lot better. It just some of the transitions seem a little forced, a little awkward. They don't he doesn't flow seamlessly from pose to pose the way Terrence does. But the guy'S-23 years old. He's a kid. He's going nowhere but up. Nowhere but up. I could see this guy being eventually the the Olympia champ. There's another great shot of him there. Yeah, look at that. Fantastic. Look at that. Look at those seratus. He's even got crossstrations in that head of the quadricep that's under the other three heads that you can't see. I can't Is it the vasis intermedi? I think that's called. Look at the crossstrations, those hatches in that. I mean, you have to be How lean do you have to be to see crustations in that part of the freaking quad? And again, look at that. Look at that. It's feathered up here. I don't know if I've ever seen that. Certainly not to that extent. And the seratus. Geez. The shadows because the the the separations are so crystal clear and deep. Same thing. He's a little bit of gyno. He needs to get that taken care of. It's not it's not horrible. We've all seen much worse than that, but I would get that taken care of. Yeah. I mean, a shot like this, this is where you can see that more triceps would help him out. They sort of thin out from some angles. Good, very good chest, great delts. I'm very, very impressed with this young guy. That back is phenomenal. Very, very impressed with that back. Yeah, he's he's definitely one to watch. Um, I see him as pushing Terrence. And, you know what? Who knows? Who knows how it's going to go at the New York Pro? We don't know. Uh, let's see. I don't think I'm too far behind, am I? Someone will put it up for free. Yeah. I mean, it won't be an American. It'll be some some channel from Brazil or Iran or India, somewhere where they don't think they're not worried about getting their channel take. They're not worried about copyright strikes. But YouTube does take these things seriously and they don't care where you are in the world. They don't care if your channel is based you're in America, USA or, you know, Antarctica. They don't care if if someone from New York Pro reports you reports you to YouTube for stealing their content. Uh, you're done. Like Dallas, as I said before, none fan back with physique. I'm still old school Bonak fan. Would be cool if the IP division has a subscription where you could pay monthly. Yeah, but there's a lot of people that wouldn't. I I agree, but there's it's it's something that could be offered. I agree. That's not that's not a bad idea at all. Who did your son My son doesn't really follow the sport, Muscle Machine. He doesn't care. He would probably just go with Nick. He knows how good Nick is. My son was in the front row at New York Pro last year. Was his first so far his only pro bodybuilding show he's ever been to. My son was at the New York Pro uh front. We weren't exactly center of front We were just to the left looking up at the stage, but we had really good seats. My [\h__\h] remember a few months ago everyone was writing Nick off. Dude, Nick went from Nick went from Nick talker Nick sucks to, you know, everyone's on his jock now. Everyone's everyone's back on the Nick Walker team Walker Nation bandwagon. And yeah, exactly. A month ago, people were saying Nick talker, he sucks. He's not going to show up at the show. make that I would certainly believe politics and grudges over Zeus and these judges. I mean, they're human beings, so I'm not going to say it's impossible. I want to see Samson Sassan plays top two. Well, Muscle Machine, you might get your wish. You might get your wish. How many bikini MPD do you think will be at the O? Oh, 80. No, let's let's double. Let's go. If there's 60 each, let's say 50 to 60 each, we're looking at 100 to 120 total. Or you think there'll be 80 each. Well, there are like over 80 qualifiers for each of those divisions. What's MPD? Men's physique division. Men's physique division. If they had a tank top division, Kzo would win it. I mean, there's a lot of people that win the tank top division. Coach Power is tough. I have New York predictions. Where are they? Are you teasing us? K. 74 was the first year twoeight class win Olympia till 1979. So, yeah, 74 and 75. Franco won the lightweight under 200. Arnold won the heavyweight or was it short and tall? No, it was under and over 200. It was Frank and Arnold both of those years. Uh, and then by 76, uh, Arnold was gone. I can't remember who the heavyweight winner was, but yeah, you're right. What's likely Nick can look this good again stage after New York? It's a good question, J. I mean, what what are the odds that that Derek can look as good as he looked at the Arnold at the Olympia? Because he didn't look that good as good in Pittsburgh. So, that makes me wonder. Obviously, he was on prep this whole time. He didn't he didn't go off prep in those eight weeks between Arnold and Pittsburgh, which I think hurt his physique. I think his legs took a beating from all the cardio, and that's why they were flat and downsized. That's my best theory as explanation as to why his legs were down. Um, so if I were Derek, and I'm not clearly, but I would take a few weeks off, all the gear, cut back on the training, don't do any cardio, let the body rest, recover, heal, uh, and then start up Olympia prep again strong, like, you know, probably late June, early July because the show is not till October. Legendary Serg was a Bible used to phenoplex, the precursor parable in which story populariz. Okay, Angel's definitely on point. He always is, Michael. He always is. Did you see some Martin Zly's videos channel? He's so high and so he's slurring his words bad. I did not. I hope he does not have and I don't know. So, I'm not perpetuating a rumor here. I'm not spreading a rumor. Uh, a lot of people are speculating and making jokes and it's no joke. Addiction is no joke. You know, I know I've said this before. I lost one of my older sisters. I have had two. I have one left. They were both heroin addicts for many years. One went to prison and that's where she got clean and she's 35 years sober now. God bless her. Uh the other Jackie, she did not go to prison. She never got clean and she passed away at 49 which is pretty young. She had been an addict for many years. So it's it's in retrospect it's it's amazing she lived as long as she did uh because her body was just so toxic, so so abused. But as for Martin, no, I I have not seen those videos, but people are talking a lot of crap. They're saying, "Look at the dark circles under his eyes." Uh, I hope I I very much hope he doesn't have a problem with with some sort of recreational drugs or new, whatever. I don't know what it would be, but if he does, I hope he gets help because addiction is no joke. And it it it ruins lives. It ruins not only the addict's life, but it affects everyone around them, their friends, their family. You know, it's it's awful. How tall is Angel? I'm going to say 52. I've stood next to him a couple times and I know 5'2 because I've been with my wife for 36 years and she's 5'2. So, I know where 5'2 is. He's he's 5'2. Weed or something else. Sounds like weed does that. I'm hearing that. I've never used Kraton, but apparently if you take enough of it, uh, it gets you pretty pretty messed up. Pretty high, I should say. Messed up. Rooting for my good personal friend, Sassan Lord Crawford from the UK. Yeah, I wish him the best. Hola, Sen. Yeah, I can read Spanish. I don't speak it as well as I'd like to. Your Espanol has been Chris Cormier. I mean, I would He's been with a lot of Spanish women, but I've been only with a Spanish woman for, you know, the past 35, 36 years. 36 years. So, my Spanish better be some pretty opiates. I hope it's not opiates. Opiates are very hard to kick. Very hard to kick. Westside always rocks regardless which country it is. West side. Yeah. Westside. So, make water and constipated smoke opiates. Yeah. I mean, that's why a lot of people don't like pain pills after surgery because they can't poop. And I don't know how many of you guys have ever had to deal with constipation. You know, you don't want to be [\h__\h] your brains out, which I had seiff. It's a it was a a bacterial infection a few years ago. Uh these bacteria breed inside your colon. You know, you catch it. I caught it at a gym. Touch my eye or something after touching a piece of equipment and you're you're [\h__\h] your brains out like constantly like 20 20 times a day. You know, I crapped my pants a couple times. It's you don't have any warning. It's just like, oh, there it is. And you know, you think you have a fart and it's actually blasting out. What's up, Ron? All right, guys. Uh, any final requests? Cuz we only got a couple more comments. Oh, yeah. Thank you, Ka. Yeah, I mean, it's it is what it is. I mean, like I said, she lived to be 49. I had a lot of years to get to know her and stuff. So, you know, a lot of people lose family members at at a young age and you know, I've known people that lost a lot of people lost parents when they were like too young to even remember them. So, but thank you very much, Coach P. Okay, finally his his predictions. Nick, shocking. Bonak. Yep. Sassan Regano. Same as mine. I had Creo ahead of Rean because only because I don't know what kind of condition we're going to see from Rean. If he's really sharp, he does have better structure and shape overall than Crezo. Crezo is a freak, but we'll see. See, we got stra judge the calves and said, "Well, thing is, Stephen, the reason I think people get away with mediocre or bad calves a lot is because they are pretty much genetic. If you have high insertions for your calves, you're never going to have great calves. There's nothing you can do. You can't put muscle tissue where there's no muscle. you can't grow, you know, if you have super short biceps or calves, you can build a bicep peak high, but there'll still be this massive gap in between your bicep and your elbow crook. Uh, same thing with calves. If you have high insertions, you're always going to have that long gap all the way down to the heel. Um, but glutes, you know, most people, if they suffer enough, if they get lean enough, they will have very strided glutes. You have to get down to a very sickeningly low body fat. I bet I bet your body fat has to be like three 4%. To really see stride glut, which is insanely low. It's not healthy. It's not sustainable. You can't hold that condition for long. Dorian, my brother died the same way. Uh addiction sucks. It really does, you know. Uh so there's the stream info again, guys, if you want the stream plus all the scheduling info because it's a long day. It's 8:00 judging where they're going to go through all the divisions and the order of the divisions is on that website new yorkpro.com and the finals are at 8:00 I'm sorry 5:00 pm 5 pm for finals. So 8 a.m. judging finals 5:00 pm. It's going to be a long day and night guys because Steve doesn't do a lot of promoters will spread out over two days but Steve wants to get it all done in one day and night and he does. It's a long day but they move things along. They they they're very efficient, him and his crew, and they keep things moving. And uh we should be done. If I'm going to guess, I think the whole show will be done over and done with by nine. Four hours should be enough time to do finals comparisons. Final comparisons and routines and awards for all the divisions. Let me show this one. Share this tab instead. competition information. See if I could show you banners, rules. Uh, you'd have to go to the website, I guess, for the Yeah, you'd have to go to the website for the that New York Pro New York.com. Is it over here? Is there a link to it? Uh, it's a promoter website. New York Pro event dates and times prejudging. Okay, so there's the order. I don't if you see that. Can you guys see that? I think so. That's the order of events right there. So, they're going to do uh they're breaking up judging. They're going to have a little break there because it's a lot of people to a lot of athletes to look at. women's physique, men's physique, wellness classic physique 212 and then a break and they're going to come back at noon for women's bodybuilding figure bikini and finish with men's open bodybuilding finals at 5 and the same thing. They're going to have two different blocks of 5:00 pm finals. Same thing as they did same exact order as they had for the uh the judging. That is the order of events. Yeah, that's the order of events. Yeah, there we go. See, so it's all on that website, new yorkpro.com. Yeah. Size and shape of muscle is really prank on length sides as much as you genetic, not genital. Come on now. It's largely a genetic component. I see. But genital sounds good, too. We all know Bible is a game of genetics. Training longer than you alive and there's some things can't develop. You've been training longer than 55 years. God bless you, sir. I'm 42. 42 years of training. I'm not 42. I'm 55. That's a long time. If you've been training for more than for 55 years, God bless you, sir. Oh, yeah. I mean, I never had triceps. My triceps never were impressive. Quads blew up. Pecs were I had better pecs than a lot of pros in my prime. Better calves still right now than a lot of pros. Biceps are okay. Triceps were never good. Never. And I see so many guys in my gym who don't have a effing clue what they're doing with better triceps. Priest Google auto correct. Yeah, Google auto correct will screw you sometimes. You really got to look before you hit send. I've been I've made some really bad mistakes that way. 72 55 years. No BS. I believe you, Stephen. I believe you. God bless your soul, Stephen. God rest your not rest your soul. Bless your soul. All right, I'm going to take off, guys. We've been going for over an hour or so. There's the info right there for the stream. Uh, obviously, I'm not going to be doing a live watch party. I will be doing recaps of judging and finals once those are all over and done with. But in the meantime, appreciate you guys all watching. Check out Power Hour from yesterday on this channel. If you haven't seen the great interview I did with Dorian Yates a couple days ago, check that out. I'm really pleased with that one. Not because of my interviewing skills, because Dorian is just he's just a wealth of knowledge and wisdom and I I could talk to Dorian all freaking day. So that's it, guys. Take stop sharing that. And that's all. So thank you all for watching. Have an awesome weekend if I don't talk to you until Saturday. And we're out.