 and。。。。。。。。。。。。 Always a pleasure to be on with you. I called you last week, nine days ago, because I saw a Brazilian Instagram page had an obituary for you, and my heart just dropped. And I was doing a podcast, and I saw a notification come up, and I said, I got to cut the podcast short. I have to call Lee. And you picked right up, and relief just washed over me. So happy that you're still with us, Lee. Thank you. Thank you for being lively. Well, me too, Ron. I'll tell you what, it's weird in our industry. I recall something happening similar to Robbie. Yes. It was probably a year or so ago, and I had to reach out to Robbie to make sure it was fake news, and of course it was. But you always got some cat somewhere that's trying to, I don't know, trying to get likes or hits or whatever it is they do. But, no, I'm alive and well. I'm functional, and everything is good. Okay. So we did get some news. I never knew you had any health problems. I mean, here you are, 63, 64? How old are you? 66 now. 66. Even better. I mean, picture of health, walking around, functional, not walking with crutches or in a wheelchair and wits about you and all the good stuff that we like to see. But then this post came out on your Instagram a couple weeks ago, and it turns out that you've been dealing with kidney issues for many years. And nobody, I never heard about it. I don't think you ever made it public until just now. Am I right? No, this is the first time I made it public. And I found out about this over 28 years ago. Wow. It's amazing. I was with my mentoring program on my ranch at the time at a 40-acre ranch during that time. And I would have mentoring programs there for boys there. And we had a billy goat to get it loose. And so we had to run the goat down, and I bulldogged the billy goat. I caught the billy goat. But at the same time, let's take it over. I took a shot to the gut when I caught him. He didn't hit me. I jumped on top of him. And so I later had blood in my urine and went to my doctor to get it checked out. And he said, Lee, you have cysts on your kidneys. I said, cysts? I said, what is that? He said, anyway, he said, somebody in your family was born with something called polycystic kidney disease. And polycystic kidney, of course, I never knew of anything like that. But after I later done research, I did find out that other family members had dealt with this similar thing. But polycystic kidney is something real slow, very slow progressing, depending upon how you take care of yourself. And with me being in the area of health and fitness, wellness, I was able to slow the progression of it for over 28 years. Wow. You know, because in my normal training, even in Mr. Olympia, I never got into doing red meat or pork or processed foods, you know, sodas, you know, things that are detrimental to your health anyway. So as a result of that, you know, 28 years later, I'm still fine. However, I'm at stage four, which means, OK, you're not operating at 100%. So we need to take a close look at this. And that look is for myself as it relates to my doctor is that I need to go ahead and reach out and see if we can find a living donor. And that was the reason for that being proactive, not waiting till I get sick or something bad happened, but being proactive. I mean, matter of fact, my doctor is one who headed up some of the studies dealing with African-American kidney disease throughout the United States. Yeah. So I've known about it for a while. But and again, some people can live with it for the rest of their life and not even know it. Wow. You know, so I'm I'm I'm going to say lucky. I'm blessed that I found out about it. So I was able to do something about it. You know, what my plant based diet, vegetables, fruits, good water, you know, regular exercise. And I've been able to avoid dialysis. Not on dialysis either. You know, do I want to be. But, you know, in case there was something that that would cause my kidney to just totally fail. And I've had what is called a fistula put in my left arm in case. Yeah. So but I'm fully functional. I just got back from I did Arnold in Ohio, just finished the one in the UK. So I'm getting over my jet lag now. Yeah. You got some great pictures. I want to get to those. But, you know, I have to I have to address the elephant in the room. You're a bodybuilder. You competed. You were the greatest in the world for almost a decade. Of course, some people are going to jump to conclusions. Well, it's Lee must have done a lot of steroids and diuretics. And that's why his kidneys are messed up. So no. I get that. I saw that online. But you don't know what you don't know. So I don't blame people who make those assumptions because it's true in our industry. Yeah. You know, however, in my case, my uncle was 75. He never competed in the competition. Yeah. And several of my cousins, they never competed in the competition. And so they've dealt with kidney disease. So you can't. My career in bodybuilding was very short anyway. I won the NPC nationals and so-and-so in World Championship in 1982. And I retired in 1991. So my time there was real early, you know, from, what, 22 years old? 31. To 31. So that was, what, Ron? Did that nine years? Well, your first pro show wasn't until 1983. That was your first Olympia when Samir Banu won. Right. And your last Olympia was? 1991. Eight years later. So it really was, that was a very short career. You got out while the getting's good, as we like to say. Exactly. So I got out with my health. And I was at the age of 40. Let me see, 40, a little less than 40 when I found out about that. And it was just hanging out on the farm. Not that I got sick. It's just, you know, what is that? It came out of nowhere. So, no, that's not the case. No. It wasn't from steroid use or anything like that. You know, it's like sometimes our industry, whenever anybody deal with any kind of health challenge, they always point it back to steroid use or something along those lines. They don't do any better. And I understand, you know, but the fact of the matter is, our body's age. I don't know. I don't care who we are. And we're going to deal with some health challenges. That's just the way it is. This body is not made to remain on the earth forever. And so, I don't fear those kinds of things because I know that inevitable death waits for everybody, you know, and it doesn't pick a specific time or specific person. You know, it is what it is. But I also understand to be absent with the body is to be present with the Lord, you know, and that's my faith. That's what has kept me strong over the years. That's what keeps me now. And so, I see a lot of people say, oh, my goodness. Oh, no. Whoa. What's it? You know, me? Nah, it's not that way. I feel great. I'm functional. I'm at peace with whatever situation arises. And I'm happy that several people has already chimed in saying that they would go in and follow the links that we had placed on the site and get tested. So, if I get a second chance, hey, there you go. But I lived an awesome lifetime already. Couldn't take anything more, but some more. But all is well with me. Yeah, you remind me of years, this was probably 10 or 15 years ago, I was at mass with my son and there was a visiting priest from, I think he was from Kenya. And first thing he asked, when he got to the sermon part of the mass, he said, put your hands up if you're afraid to die. And, you know, 200 or 300 people put their hands up. And he said, why? You're all going to die. Nobody get a pass from that. Nobody. You know, but the deal is, when you die, where are you going? You know, what's your next step in eternity? Eternity waits for all of us. I just want to make sure I'm on the right side of eternity. That's why, you know, my soul is found as a follower of Jesus Christ. You know, I've always confessed that. I believe that. So I have peace. Either way it goes. Awesome. So let me just show this again. So this is on Lee's Instagram page. I have the page there on the bottom. You can go to at Lee underscore Haney underscore official. And there's a QR code. And you can contact Lee's transplant team there and get tested. And all the testing and transplant costs are going to be fully covered. So no one has to, you don't have to worry about that. The only, the only, only thing you're looking for is you have to be a healthy adult between 18 and 65, which I would imagine based on what I've seen in my YouTube demographics, that's everybody watching. This is, is in there. So I'm curious, have you had any people tested yet to try to get a match? Well, you know, Ron, I, I, I can't see that information. They, they don't allow me to see it themselves. They'll, they'll speak directly with the people there at Emory university, but I've had people that I know of that has reached out to me and said that they had gone in to get tested and you know, for most part they've been younger because most people, my age, they're dealing with different type of health challenges anyway, whether it's diabetes or high blood pressure, you know, however, that's not the case of a lot of people in our industry. You know, a lot of us are in good health because we, we were proactive in making sure that we took care of ourselves. And that's what I'm being. I'm being proactive, you know, not waiting for something to happen, but let's move forward with it now. So we can prevent that sort of thing. Yeah. Look at this. You've been married for 43 years. Wow. 43 years to the same beautiful girl. And I'm not me, you know, she's my, she'd be my caretaker. Of course, you know, after going through this type of surgery, she's a real trooper, you know, and then of course my daughter Olympia, she's with me and Joshua, they're, they're being tested, you know, with this kind of thing, polycystic is such that, you know, if it's something been passed down through the family, the likelihood that Joshua Olympia may have had, may have it also is, it is, you know, from what the kidney doctors are saying, it could be pretty high. So, anyway, we're praying that that's not the case. I hope surely awesome genes cancel out the negative ones in mind. No, I mean, my kids came out a lot better looking than me because my wife's a lot better looking than me. There you go. I didn't realize how tall Olympia was. You're, you're about five, 10 now, five 11. Yeah. Olympia was a volleyball player and basketball player. I'm sure. She played for SCAD and she left records. Olympia could jump 10 foot, five inches. And she's roughly around five foot nine. Wow. Okay. Yeah. And some more Lee Haney trivia. Have you and Shirley been together since like fourth grade? Shirley was my second grade, sweetheart. Second grade. Second grade. She's been after my money for a long time. She finally got it, you know, that was a wedding day. Hey, I just want to stay here a little longer to help us. And this is a, one of your seven grandchildren. Yeah. Yara. And little, yeah, Miss Yara, I helped up. We did a little strawberry patch the other week ago. So very cool. Beautiful family. And, you know, I mean, everybody, everybody deserves a chance to live, but you know, you have a lot of people that want, that want you around for a long, long time. There's Josh right there. Yeah. Yeah. Heaven can wait. Heaven doesn't need me up there. He needs me. The Lord needs me down here. So I get an opportunity. I stay as, as long as I, as long as he need me here. I always say that to people who, you know, they recover from illness or something. I said, or they, they're in an accident and they get better. I said, God, God must need you here for something still. That's right. For some reason, you're still here. Yes. Is that Josh as a baby right there? Yeah, that's Josh as a baby. Man, how time flies, you know, none of this cat, he heads up my organizations now and Lee Haney games. And, and, uh, we got I, I, I, I, I, I, bodybuilding.com up and running. That's our organization. Now that, uh, you know, that covers teenage bodybuilding. We've now, the game is expanded. Now we also have this year. We have arm wrestling. We have a transformation challenge. We got deadlift competitions. We have a first responders challenges happening. We got the teenage challenge where high schools bring teens as well as first responders are bringing teens also. Um, then of course we got the female, uh, uh, bikini and figure wellness as well as the classic bodybuilding. Classic bodybuilding is, is classic physique. Same deal. Yeah. They just gave it a different name. I wanted to bring it back to that old school name. And of course we have, you see that teenage there, we got the teenagers. We've already gotten teenagers sign up early this year, you know, uh, and it is my hope and my vision to make sure I give the younger athletes, uh, opportunity to get good, solid knowledge so that we can build a future group of our bodybuilders and a nice, safe and healthy way. So it's all about educating, you know, and, uh, uh, you know, this year's leading the game, 2026, we got some incredible judges. And what we look for is symmetry, presentation, and muscularity is a third deal. We're not looking for athletes that look like devil warmed over, you know, striated glutes and, you know, you're sick and you dehydrated. Now we're looking for a healthy look for athletes. The thing that made bodybuilding beautiful and, uh, and allowed it to grow and be accepted by the general population. So that's, that's our goal. And so far we, we doing a great job. We got several promoters that has come on board. People wanted to promote under the IAF S, which is good. And they'll follow our policy, our rules and so forth. And, uh, it's going to be a lot of fun, you know, so I'm looking forward to what we're doing and the growth of it. And for promoters who want to be a part of the IAF S, we have some special packages set up, you know, we, we understand getting started is a little bit rough for some, and we're not, uh, price gouging people. We're not doing none of that craziness. And then we're offering some, uh, some great perks for our athletes going into 2027. Great perks, you know, and, uh, those will be, those will be announced soon. You get more than just a card with us. You get Lee Haney and my team. And you moved up the event to, uh, July this year. Wasn't it usually in October? Yes. It was usually in October. Uh, well, November, first of November, because we were the last, uh, NPC event in Georgia. So we had it at that, that date initially. However, since we're not under the NPC anymore, and we, we have our own organization, the international association of fitness science. Um, we moved the date to July, which is better for families, uh, better for the general population. And that's, that's who we're looking to draw, you know, in the bodybuilders that are, uh, you know, summer is a whole lot better than late fall. Yeah. So we made all of those changes, you know, so it, so it's good for everybody. And we're back to the Georgia international convention center, which you fly right in, you know, you, you go straight to the venue. You have your hotels there. You don't even have to rent a car, which is great. You know, let me tell people, if you don't know how convenient, I was there for a few years ago for a show. There's a shuttle that runs directly from the airport right there. That's right. Yeah. You don't even need an Uber. It takes you. Don't need Uber. Just, I think run is probably five minutes. Yeah. And the convention center, the hotels, everything's right there. You don't, it's just super convenient. Super. Yeah. The food is great. Everything is good. So we're excited about it. And I got some great people this year back again. High tech pharmaceuticals, my dear friend, Jared tweet. Jared has been with me now for over 10 years. So man, hats off to high tech. Thank you so much, Jared. And we recently had a UPS. Oh, wow. To come on board with us. So they are part of our event. Matter of fact, we have a golfing event too. That's, that's going to be in September though. But the bodybuilding and the Lee Haney games, uh, will be July the 18th. Then we have, uh, Bay and associates, John Bay, which have several law, law, uh, arms to, to their organization. They've been with us now for over 10, 11 years. We had, of course, my dear friend, Jan Tanner. Jan is with us again. And I think we're the only bodybuilding show in the U.S. that Jan, uh, bags. So I'm very happy to have her as a friend and as a sponsor of our event. And, uh, uh, then we have him a garden racing team, uh, which, uh, run him a garden that won any 500 a few years back. He was part of the original guys who started the European health spa. So we, we got some real deep rooted folks there. We got for the, uh, team challenges year with the teams, uh, high school, bring teams out. We have Alan Vigil Ford. That's a Ford dealership. That's been with us from, I mean, from day one. So they're sponsoring that particular event. So we got some great solid sponsors and people who love what we're doing. And again, what we're doing, we are 501 C three. So we have, what this helped raise funding for our mentoring programs that we do for young boys. Okay. So that's the, that's one of the reasons behind this event. We have fun, we have sports camaraderie, but we have a passion to help change the lives of other young men, give them good direction and so forth. So, I mean, for those of you who listening, if you, you'd love to be a part of it, help change the life, want to be a part of Lee Haney games. Uh, let's just go to Lee Haney games.com. And get registered. So bodybuilding is going to be off the chains this year, you know, on every different level, the men's with the female. I want to see you guys come join us, sign up and run. And I'm going to be doing, uh, we'll be set to do some lives in this upcoming week, giving directions as to how to prep for the show, where you should be at the particular stages of your preparation. So that's going to be an ongoing thing that I do. I have to leave for the feeble on the 13th, 14th of April, but we're going to do our lives this upcoming week. It'll be right here. It'd be my Instagram lives. Okay. So the Instagram is right there. So you just got back from, uh, about a week. I think it was in the UK and man, you were there representing Panada, the amazing equipment company based out of Italy. Yeah. Look at the champions here. So let me count the Olympia titles. 16 plus Phil is seven. That'S-23. Jay is four. It's 27 Olympia titles in this one photo. Yep. It was an awesome time too, man, Panada's first class organization. You know, they, they, they, they flew us out to be a part of the event. You know, me running and feel had an awesome time. And Jay was there, which was like icing on the cake, man. We had a fantastic time shaking hands and saying hello to the fans. And then, uh, on top of that, we saw Andrew take the title for the second time. I mean, a million dollars in less than a month, man, I wish I could turn back the hands of time. You were, I believe in your area, you were, it was around 50 or 60. Yeah. Around 50, 50, 55. Yes. I think they, I think it might've been like 55 by the time you, by the time you retired. Yes. Yes. Yeah. Just a couple of quick notes. You want, did you watch the show? Oh yes, I sure did, man. And I tell you what, Andrew brought an incredible package. You know, I, I don't know if he was better. Uh, it appears to me, he was better at this particular victory than he was at the one in Ohio, but either way it go, he stuck out like a soul thong. He was the best of the best period. You know, wasn't nobody close to him, you know, and that's what I love about what I, what I'm seeing now between you got Andrew and you got Samson, you got guys with masks, but at the same time, because of their height, it flows so much better. They don't take on that squatty look. Yeah. You know, they got somewhere to put their mask, put it that way. Right. And so it was something beautiful to see. And, and, uh, I was proud to, to be there to meet Andrew. I think for the first time, I didn't, didn't really get a chance to speak with them, uh, in Columbus, but we talked a bit here in the UK and, uh, that was awesome. Yeah. He's a cool guy. And he's, he's still working as an engineer. This, this isn't this, just like Ronnie, bodybuilding was a hobby to, to Ronnie Coleman. All those years he was a police officer. This is really kind of a hobby. His real occupation. He's an engineer. He travels the world. Um, but I, I know last year we talked about Samson. You called him Excalibur. So now we got Samson and Andrew, both over six. Well, I think Sam, I think Sam's is over six foot, but they're both tall guys with beautiful shape, plenty of mass. Yes. I mean, what do you, how do you, how do you judge that? If they're both in top condition, I don't know what to do. I wouldn't. Yeah. That's, that's going to be tough. And the cool thing about it, their lines is where they need to be. You know, they don't have blocky squatty waists. You know, they look like they're supposed to look and see, that's the thing about when I see two 12, sometime you see a guy go from two 12 to, you know, trying to go in the open division. They lose a lot of that. You know, you're trying to put on more sides and match up with, you know, bigger guys, but it's just the picture of it. Just don't come. It don't flow as well. Yeah. You know, it just don't. And I give the guys to 12 hats off to them, you know, for being able to accomplish what they have, you know, hottie, Mr. Olympia. And, and then of course you had, you got hottie. Then you had in this past Olympia, Derek. Yeah. Derek. Yeah. But you can still see that this, uh, two 12 trying to bloom into a heavyweight. So, and in my sight, you know, leader broader was able to stand with me, although he was shorter and he didn't sacrifice his shape for size, you know, the same way they, they didn't have to cause, you know, the flow of the physique, symmetry, presentation, muscularity. it was still the package of that, that person. Yeah. So, so that's where I see the difference is. Samson and Andrew don't have to, you know, they, they, everything fits, you know, uh, the young man that, that won the, uh, you have Wes, Wesley. Oh yeah. He looked great. He looked incredible. I think, and we judge and body, but no, no, the different level. Now, Wesley looked great. The German, he took second to him, but I'm sorry. What's his name? No, no. He won this time. He won. Mike Summerfeld won in a UK. What's his name? Uh, Mike Summerfeld from Germany. Yeah. Mike, man. I've been watching Mike for a while. Yeah. I love his physique. And the difference I saw between him and Wes is his less flows better. Wes less is a bit high, you know? So, and again, I'm, I'm speaking symmetry because that's where I'm from. I'm not trying to knock any of the guys. I'm just saying that's where my mindset is from. It's always about symmetry and balancing an overall proportion for me. Right. You know? And, uh, so I love what I see in a, in the classic physique category. And I like for guys to, to maintain that and not get crazy. Well, I need to get big as I compete against. No, no. Beauty is in the eyes of the judges, period. It's all about what the judges want to see. You know, you can't change, um, the standards that's been established that can only be done by judges. You know? So I advise guys stay in your lane. You know, I heard Mike Summerfield say, no, I'm not trying to go into open to get bigger. I'm not doing that. And I think he's correct. And, and saying, so, you know, play your game, stay true to your physique, your philosophy of what beautiful bodybuilding is supposed to be. And you're good. Samson and Andrew is staying true to who they are. They're tall. They can carry mass. There's nobody out there can carry mass like them and make it look good. So they are where they're supposed to be. I'm just glad to see mass in the open with symmetry and balance return. You know, you got other guys that look, look good and don't carry that squatty deal. That's fish water. I liked the way he looked, but he's got to be able to dial in better. You know, he's got to dial in better. You know, he just, just, I don't see that hardness about his physique yet. So once he get it down though, you know, me and Jay Cutler was sitting together at, I think it was, it was almost a year before last when I first saw him on the stage, man, this young man got what it takes to be Mr. Olympian, you know, and I still feel that. Yeah. Well, take a look at this. This was Prague when he won the Prague show last fall and he nailed it. Just bursting full, tight as a drum. And if he had brought that look to the Arnold shows, it would have been a different outcome, but I think he has a lot of potential. He's got that roundness, like Phil Heath, great shape and structure. You got to nail it on the contest day. That's, that's just how it goes. That's right, man. You know, you know, the formula to peak, once you get that, you got it. But to be, you know, what's so hard these days is the guys, you know, they have to, it's a two day event, which, uh, I never had to deal with that during my era. Right. It was always one day. So when athletes have to peak two days like that, you know, you, you sort of hope that things turn out, right. You know, we have ways of doing things like that. Uh, uh, and it, I felt it would still, it would have still turned out right because we did things a little bit different than the guys. Now, you know, we call depleted and we knew how time caught loading properly. That's a science. You have to, you have to get down before you're able to, to really step onto the stage and be at your very best. We had no problem with that. You know, when I say we, we, I'm talking about that whole younger era that I came through. And the ones after like with Sean and, you know, uh, Kevin and flex and they could peak twice. They could hold their peaks for a couple of days. A little bit different. Psychologists being played now and prep, you know, as being done now, things that I'm like, Oh, really? I'd never heard of that in my life. They're all on a road of true tide. Now it's, uh, it's in the same family of drugs. The GLP one is, as those end pick away going, but it's so different, but it's, it's just, it's almost like a must now for all top amateurs and pros are all on red or true tide, which crushes the appetite, but it's supposed to reduce the influence. It's supposed to have other beneficial effects that like ozempic doesn't have, but I, it just boggles my mind that so many bodybuilders are on all these drugs that are meant for diabetes and asthma and, you know, God, a whole, a whole litany of other things. It's sports changed quite a bit since my first Olympia, which was your last Olympia, 1991. Yeah. You know, Ron, one of the things is, you know, a lot of guys trained like 40 pounds over competition weight and 30 pounds. Yeah. We, we never did that. You would always see us train up for a competition. Arnold would train up. Robert would train up. We never trained down and had to use result to things. They have to get rid of the body fat and drop water. And I was going to have to do that. Cause we never got, we, we stayed in control of our physiques and all year round. Striking. It's going to rain. Okay. Lee, I need you in Germany. I need you in Japan. I need you in Italy. I need you wherever. So we were always on our toes, but we didn't have to result to weird stuff like that. You know, then we were scared to death of it anyway. That's one of your, everyone knows your, your top quote is stimulate, don't annihilate, but I always like you can't flex fat. That was another great one. Yeah. Flex fat. Yeah. Whenever you try to get rid of 40 pounds of boat, which is really fat. Yeah. That's that. Your body's going to look like you tried. It's going to be a fatigue. They're going to have a fatigue look and the muscles is not going to pop. Like, like it should. That's why you don't see cross variations like you used to. That's a ratchet. You see cross variations. You know, that's why I was so impressed when I saw Andrew, he brings cross variations. When I see aunt Samson, they bring a hottie, bringing a hottie is very good at bringing cross variations. When I saw him at the Honolah Ohio, and then, you know, the morning show to prejudice, I'm like, okay, a little bit off. But then all of a sudden, man, when he hit that, uh, the night show, I'm like, wow, man, what a change. Yeah. You know, two years ago. So I'm not referencing that one, but when he's a hundred percent on it's, it's something, it's pretty spectacular. It's something to see, man. It's something to see, you know, and who knows all the different things that he, he's had to endure mentally. And that kind of did the stuff going on in his country. I mean, the boy that producing cortisol is just no telling. Why, you know, his, his system just didn't produce the best physique, uh, at this last, uh, at this last honor. I mean, considering everything you went through, I was amazed he looked as good as he did. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. All right, Lee. Well, uh, I want people to know that you can go to Lee's Instagram, Lee underscore Haney underscore official. There is that post there with the QR code. If you're interested in seeing if you are a donor for a kidney, please check that out. And, uh, he would appreciate it as would his lovely wife and children and many, many lovely grandchildren, seven of them and, uh, information on the Lee Haney games happening in Georgia, July 18th. Everything you need to know is that Lee Haney games.com. What do you want to be a competitor, sponsor, exhibitor? It's all there for you. So check all that out. And I thank you so much for taking the time. Always a pleasure. And I really mean that always a pleasure talking to you. Makes my day. Well, thanks Ron. I really appreciate you and what you do for the sport. Thank you for allowing me to come on and explain what was happening. And I appreciate all of you guys has been out there praying on my behalf. I can feel those prayers working. I feel good. I'm functional and God bless each and every one of you. And thank you so much, Ron. Awesome. All right, everybody. Thanks for watching. And we'll see you right here. Bye.