Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour starring me, Ron Harris, and of course the one and only Tiger Thomas, Giles Tiger Thomas from the UK. Today we're going to be talking about the top two names or two of the biggest names getting ready for the Arnold Classic coming up shortly who are doing this without coaches. We're talking about Nick Walker and Sam Sull. And Giles, uh, we've spoken about doing this without a coach before. We're not anti-coach, but I know you also are of the belief that it can be done without a coach. It's been done successfully many times. >> Yeah. I mean, really, when did the when did the whole coach thing really come in? I mean, it used to be I mean, the first coach that I really knew of that kind of really was prominent was Chad Nichols. And you're talking like late 90s, wasn't it? Like about 97, Flex Wheeler, then the Ronny, NASA, they all worked with him because I remember one year um because he used to take was it 15 or 20% of their the deal was he took 15 or 20% of their their prize prize winnings. Yeah. >> So, I remember um I forget where the story was in the magazine. I heard it somewhere. I've got, you know, it's it's quite a well-known story that Chad was in the audience and he um he basically was adding up with a with on a piece of paper or calculator or something um how much he how much he'd made because it was like 15 or 20%. He's like, "Okay, well, he's getting 100, so I'm getting 20k of that." >> Nice. >> And then it was uh and he was trying to work out which one was the one that um wasn't, you know, going to was going to play sixth and get lowest, but he was basically working out the [\h__\h] Well, you know, regardless, I've pretty much made this much today because this is the top six because remember when the top six used to be the pose down um that was that was it. But um yeah, so he was kind of working. So anyway, that was the kind of first real coaches. But um a lot of the pros back then, you know, the Lee Priests and everybody else, they never even entertained the idea of working with coaches. Just they just had training partners and people like that looked at them and stuff like that. But actual coaches, um then it was kind of a STO that came along. Um and then the kind of the Hanny Rambods and all the you the Patrick tours and stuff. I I'd say that the whole coaching phenomenon has only really come come along in the in the last 20 years. Then I think every five years it seems to be that it goes down a level as in it's at the point now where you got first timers you not even considering competing unless they've got a coach which to me is absolute madness. I mean that it's not the thing is it's madness to me because I'm from the era of you know the 90s and stuff like that. So where we never even considered having coaches. I mean I competed from 2004 to and um I mean people at my level back then you never even considered working with coaches. I mean in UK maybe you had a couple of the the JD Dadis and a couple of top pros that were working with someone and that was someone that was local that could train with them and look at them. You know all this kind of remote coaching and check-ins and stuff like that that's really only in the last what 10 15 years. Yeah, it's it's it's become almost mandatory or in the minds of most competitors that you can't do this on your own. And I I I wonder if it's just because the pharmaceutical side with all these other PEDs like the peptides that have come along, it's there's so much to know on the peed side. There's so many more different drugs and you need to know the doses, the timing, the interactions. And I think just most people are too lazy or they lack the confidence to do the research and learn all about that themselves. So they say they hand over the reigns. Nutrition I don't think is ever that complicated. I mean guys were dieting successfully in the 80s on you know chicken, rice, broccoli. It's it's not rocket diet is not rocket science. You cut the carbs, you eat clean, you get lean. It's not there's more to it than that but there's not a whole lot to it. But I'm gonna I'm gonna get into the let's let's look at the guys. Hang on, hang on, hang on. I just want to pick you up on a point you just said there about the gear thing. It's like it's so complicated. I think gear is about as complicated as diet. I don't think it is very complicated. And I think the ones that over complicate it. The ones that want to put it out there that it's complicated are the coaches that are basically people are paying to say, "Oh, this is complicated. You better pay me to tell you what to take." I mean most of the pros I mean you and me have touched but literally you know we've spoken to everyone and yeah we have even though I had to actually try to avoid the subject sometimes the subject has come up you know and maybe especially if like you're training with them or you're spending time with them you know and they just they just kind of like they just kind of they're baffled at what some of the coaches are coming out with and these were the guys that were the top of the top you know so a lot of them do say like well I just took the basics and I mean I won't even say his name but like like a real certain top pro that I was speaking to in the last couple of years. You know, I was talking to him about certain things and he's like, Charles, I've never even heard of that. He says, "We just use because I was talking I remember I was talking about um clutron >> and he said I said, "So, how much how much clen what are the fat burning, you know, sort of betagonus or whatever do you use?" And he says, "I just use 40 microgram of clen." I said, "So, how do you cycle it? When do you take what do you take it up to?" And he says, "No, that's that's all I take." I was like, "Okay." He said, "Well, I went up to 60 once." He says, "And I I felt so ill. I had to go back. I had to get go I went to the gym felt so sick and I couldn't train. So I got in the car went home and basically just until it wore off. I didn't like it. So you know even the even the top pros are really not they're just not the top pros because they're in the know. I mean I think that's what I think that's what the mystique is. That's what they want to put out there. They want they want you to think that it's so complicated and the these coaches are giving these these pros these magic stacks and turning them from a a local regional guy to a top six Olympic guy. It's just not the case. Well, like again, this goes back to trying to spread the the myth or the fallacy that average genetics can be overcome or compensated for with tons and tons of drugs, which that's a great selling point because most people are average. There are very few of these genetic elites out there. So, if you tell an average guy, listen, it's all drugs. I can take you to the top, you know, just listen to me. Do what I say. versus telling them, you know what, you don't have the genetics and then they're gone. They're not your client. >> Yeah. >> They might they might not compete. So, you want to keep these people competing. You want to keep these people as coaching clients. You keep reinforcing that belief that whatever shortcomings you have genetically that your parents did not bestow upon you in the womb. I can help. We can let's take x amount of this, x amount of that, and you know, transform you into this Arnold Classic champion or something. So, not gonna >> All right. Well, let's listen to Sam Sull and here's what he had to say about who his new coach and I knew he was going to knew what he who's coaching you this prep. You're looking at him. You're looking at him right freaking here, man. With the coaching, I mean, I feel like I kind of like I want to be able to just do it on my own cuz I know my own stuff. I'm doing it because I want to do it. I feel like at the end of the day, it's my thing. So, I want to be 100% responsible. So, come the Arnold, I mean, [\h__\h] if I show up looking like total trash, that's on me. That's 100% on me. I got to own it, you know? >> Good. Good for him, man. Good for him. I mean, especially as a young guy who came up, he's only 20, I think he's 24 years old. So, as long as he's been doing this, everyone's had a coach. So, for him to have that uh confidence to be able to do it himself a second time, because remember this was a year ago, not even a year ago, where he won the Arnold amateur classic physique overall, coaching himself, and he got into great condition. So, I'm sure he's been he's been contacted by more than a few top name coaches in this past year, probably offering to coach him for free because who wouldn't want to say I'm Sam Sullich's coach? and he has not only the courage but just the the uh the belief in himself to say, you know what, no, I'm gonna do this just I'm gonna do this on my own because then it's going to be 100% on me whether I look fantastic or I look like dog [\h__\h] Do >> you know the um the thing I like about Sam is he kind of um he kind of marches to the beat of his own drum. He doesn't he just kind of does what he wants. He hasn't he hasn't sort of he doesn't seem to sort of um fall prey to the the kind of trends like like somebody was saying when when he first hit the scenes, have you about the Sam Sul guy and his he said I don't know why he's getting so many views because his videos are just they're poorly edited and they're this and they're that and it's like well whatever he's doing is clearly it's clearly working. So he's somebody he seems to be like someone that just basically not I would say like it looks like he's a loner but he's someone who just basically does his thing. He does it with authenticity. And I think that's um that's probably why people are so drawn to him because you you know like sometimes you see these these um not even like I mean he's he's done reasonably well as a competitor so far. Um but sometimes you see them and they you know what soon as they get a bit of um you know what fame or popularity whatever you start to see them with an entourage and they they're mixing in different circles. I just like the fact that he's still the same kid that he was a couple of years ago. He doesn't seem to have changed. He just seems to be a young kid doing his thing, doing it the way he wants to do it, having the time of his life. And um he's he he doesn't seem to be affected by everything. And I think that's um I think long term I think that's going to really um I mean it's benefited him short term, but I think long term I think it's really going to um I think it's really going to sort of benefit um you know his his overall career because he's he's someone that's probably he's not going to fall prey to the oh I'm going to have to take high doses. I'm going to have to do this. I'm going to have to do that. He just basically does what the hell he wants to do. Likes to take the credit for it when it when it goes right or if it goes horribly wrong, he takes the fall. Um I think he's just someone who's just loving what he's doing. Um making a great living at it. And um yeah, and I think that's um like I said, I just I like the way that he doesn't seem to be influenced by um you know, like I mean, can you imagine how many coaches would have been beating his door down? I mean, literally probably every single coach has probably sort of like sent him a message or, you know, got somebody to reach out to him and and I love the way that Sam's just going, "Nah, I'm just going to do my own thing." I love it. I think it's brilliant. >> Yeah, you make a good point out about he hasn't changed because he is one of the most successful people in the entire industry, bar none. >> Much more successful than most guys on the Olympia stage or the classic stage in open bodybuilding or or classic or anything. And um you know I don't see him driving Lamborghinis and with the >> Yeah, that's what I mean. That's that's what I like about him, man. Like I wasn't I'll be honest, Ron, I wasn't a fan straight away because it's not that I was a hater. I wasn't I wasn't I wasn't not a fan. It's just that I'm not the demographic he appeals to because I mean if I was 1920 and I you know like like now and he came along I probably would be following everything because he's he's you know he's just he's just very grounded and very sort of real and and I think and honestly when when he competed and um you know and and chose to do that show and he looked good and he won I my respect for him went to a whole new level and I started to look at him a bit more closely because I just thought you know I don't really know I don't really know much about this kid so I can't really comment but once I started looking closer at him, I just thought I really like the way he goes about his business. I just think it's um it's very very cool. And uh and like I said, he's just a young kid just, you know, living what, you know, I mean, I I can identify 20-year-old 20year-old Tiger can definitely identify with Sam Sul. I mean, imagine, you know, whole 20s. I mean, you'd have just been looking up to him as like, you know, he speaks for us, you know, I can you can really identify with everything. He's got the cats and, you know, and he's just he just loves to train. He just loves getting big. He loves, you know, like I see all these funny memes where he's at um uh business meetings and he's pulling his pants down and stuff and but someone superimposed it. And I like it. I like it because that's who he is. And I think if he ever I think if that ever changes, I think then then I I think his popularity will start to dip because um there's nothing fake about him. And I I think that's what that's what um I think that's what will because a lot of these influencers, you know what it's like. um they're here today, they're gone tomorrow. You know, who's popular today isn't popular tomorrow. Um and I think as long as he stays interested in bodybuilding, I think he'll I think that's what basically guides him. I think that's what keeps him on the on on track. Um because I think first and foremost he's not he's not somewhat like there was a kid in the gym a few months ago and he had a vest on and he had he had no legs and he had a bit of a pretty good upper body and he had his tripod and he was filming himself and he didn't move off this one off the cable crossover because he was doing push downs and he was doing it in front of the mirror and he was looking at himself and then he was behind the counter and he was talking about um how he can make so much money being an influencer and doing this basically like talking about his care it was like he was sitting down in in a job center you know talking to the careers officer saying you know I'm going to be an influence. I'm going to be this. You know, and you can imagine rolling their eyes. But this kid was just like, I'm doing this because I want to make money. I want to do this because I want to be famous. I want millions of followers. I can't imagine Sam, you know, it's like when I told Ronnie how many um subscribers he had on YouTube on on his podcast and you could see he didn't know. >> And he he was like, "Yeah, I know. I think it's the best news ever." And you could see he didn't even have a clue. He didn't even know because it's just it's just things like that aren't important to him, you you know, and I think with Sam, I think what's important to him is going to the gym, getting big, and he just happens to be documenting it all. Um, and millions of kids are identifying with it. They're loving it, and and I think it's inspiring them. So, I think he's um I don't think he's a bad role model at all. I think he's I think he's I think he's good. Um, and like I said, I haven't really watched that many of his videos, but um I think um what he does comes across uh I think it comes across with real authenticity. >> Yeah. And you know like like you said that you you see people who are getting into training, fitness, bodybuilding, whatever specifically to become influencers to make money. >> And I think if with rare exceptions, I think if you go into it for that reason, you're you're destined to fail because you don't have any real love or passion for it. This is somebody who had a deep driving passion lifting heavy weights, getting big, and he just started documenting it. I don't think he ever had the expectation or the intention of becoming rich and famous. It just sort of followed because like you said, he he speaks to a whole generation. They can identify him. This is another kid like them with the with the curly hair and the hat and the you know, he's he's he's not fake. You could you see some of this content and you almost think these people are reading off a teleprompter or they it's it seems so rehearsed, so staged, you know, they're not being their authentic selves. And you you can tell what we're seeing on Instagram or YouTube, that's not who they really are day-to-day real life if you ever met them. And I've actually met some of them and and and I've seen that where they're two different people. And Sam, I'm sure, is exactly the same kid off camera as he is on camera. I I'd be really disappointed if it turned out that he was manufactured and it was all planned from day one and his whole persona and his personality. I'd be I'd be really like oh no, you know, like sometimes you you know some of these um these influence and stuff I feel like sometimes you know they they've got like these management teams that get hold of them and they you know like these um you know these these pop star audition things you know you can see they you know you see them when they go for auditions and then they become famous. see the trans the transformation they go through. And it's none of it by their own design. It's always by someone looking at them and saying, "Right, I'm going to do this. I'm going to change your hair. I'm going to do this." But I think with um with Sam, like you you never see him around people. He's just I mean, I saw him at the um I was picking Ronny up for the first the first tour we did in March at the Arnold UK and I picked him up and he was saying goodbye to his family and Sam just walked through and he was just by himself in the you know, he wasn't dressed differently. That's how he dresses. Um, and I think um I think as long as he as long as he maintains that I think um I think he'll always be popular. I think he's gonna be popular for for a few years. And thing is it looks like he might end up being a pretty good classic pro because I mean I'm not expecting him to win it because I mean he's going up against Summerfield Wesley and I think they might like I said on the last power I think as long as he looks good and in condition and he's improved from when he turned pro only a year ago I think he's um it's a win for him. But um I just um I just hope he turns up in good condition. But um like I said, almost competing for him is like is icing on the cake. It's not like some some pros, they have to do well to maintain their their income, their contracts, and um and Sam doesn't have to do any of that. I mean, he didn't even have to compete to be, you know, to make a living and make a good living and be popular and and and and be able to make a living at it. But some pros, you know, the moment they stop competing, that's it. their income just goes from it goes off a cliff. >> So, I like the fact that he's the there's no pressure on him. He's just doing what he loves. And um and I think that's really cool. I think that's really cool. >> Yeah. And you know, two things. He never had to compete like you said >> because putting putting yourself up on stage, you risk losing. And then there were so many haters who would have been like, "Ha, you see, he was just an Instagram bodybuilder. He was he was all hype. He was never uh never that good. But he did that." And then he turned pro. And of course, he didn't have to ever compete as a pro. He could have done what so many people do. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> But change their Instagram tob pro. >> He could have just done it as a one-off just to sort of say, "Right, okay, then I'll like I started competing because there was a few people in in the in um like for the because I was in the media like nearly 10 years when I started decided to compete. But I'd always been like training and weight training, bodybuilding, looked like I trained, but there was that small pocket of people that were a bit like he's writing about us. Who does he think he is? he's never even competed. So that was one of the reasons I competed because I thought I want to shut those people up. And I think that's what maybe maybe at the back of his mind Sam was like, you know, maybe he didn't feel like um not not feel like a fraud because he's, you know, he's got a physique, he goes to the gym, he trains hard, he eats well, but maybe there was something nagging him just saying, "Right, okay, I think I need to uh I think I need to sort of um you know, do this." Uh because it's not like his popularity was starting to stagnate or drop off. I mean, it's it's not like he needed to compete at all to kind of even maintain his popularity, let alone grow it. But now um doing that and uh and also winning um you know, I mean, I'm not looking at him thinking he's going to be challenging for the Olympia title anytime soon, but um it doesn't matter. He doesn't have to. And like you said, I like he could have he could have got his pro card and never ever wanted to compete. And no, I don't think anyone really would have blamed him for it because he's got so much going on. Um it's um it's kind of um it's like I said, it's kind of a gamble for him really again, but like I said, all he has to do is turn up looking good under those lights and get some nice pictures and to be able to put the pictures side by side with the year before and saying was he 24 and his physique is better than it was last year. That's a win. So, um I hope that the I hope some of those fans aren't disappointed when they clearly don't maybe maybe there's some people out there that are expecting him to come in and win this. Maybe they think he's Mr. Olympia classic material. I don't know, but I mean they're probably going to get a rude awakening, but it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter for him because um it's not going to affect anything of what he's doing. Um and um yeah, so yeah, good on him. And like I said, going into the Arnold Classic, but Brian Powers and Arnold are very, very happy having him in the show. >> Goodness. Great. >> And uh yeah, it's good. I think it's great. I think it's really really great. It's great. Like I said, he's um he's um Yeah, he's old school and I like it and I think he's I think he's cool. >> Yeah. 7 million Instagram followers. >> [\h__\h] Seven. >> Wow. >> And they're going to be watching that stream. I whether it's free or they'll pay for it. A lot of these kids, they'll pay for it. So >> that's that's more followers than you and me combined. Ron. >> Uh almost. Yeah. Yeah. Just go a little bit. But, uh, you know, another thing I want to give him credit for is he could have done there are hundred roughly a hundred classic physique pro shows a year >> and a lot of them are in far-flung places. Uh, and there's not there's not a lot of great competition. He could have picked any one of those and probably as long as he came in in great condition, would have been a top five, top six guy, maybe even possibly could have won one of those. Instead, he goes into the Arnold Classic, which is the highest paying classic physique pro show in the industry. Pays more than the Olympia. And uh it's he's going up against Somerfeld, Wesley, is it Men? Menagga. There's a bunch of really tough tough guys in this. >> Yeah. >> So, and you the last thing I want to say is what would a coach really have done differently? He's going to come in condition because he did it on his own as an amateur, but what what difference would a coach really have made? Maybe a little sharper, maybe a little fuller. Well, all all that would have happened is if he did look good, they'd have been able to take credit for all the improvements. So now it's like if he started working with a coach the last six weeks and he shows up looking better than he did last year, then you've got the coach stepping forward saying, "Well, all these improvements are because of what we did in the last six weeks." That's what people think. So, it's good that he's um that's that's why I never had a coach because I I I never even considered at the time, but I didn't want to give any credit to anybody else. I wanted to be able to if I look good I wanted to be able to say I've done this and I've done everything myself you know so I think maybe you know it's the same with him you know it's like he said if I if I if I fall on my sword then it's um you know I don't look good or I or I bomb out you know then it's on me and I like that I like that attitude I think it's um I think it's ballsy >> yeah and I mean the way the the placing is going to be determined obviously condition is going to be critical but shape and structure they they're so so important. And when you're judging a show, you've judged, I've judged, shape and structure, size, all these things. And a coach wasn't going to really do much to change any of those factors anyway. You know, they're not going to change his genetics. >> He's doing great. All right, let's turn to our good friend. Let's listen to what Nick Walker had to say about coaching. >> So, I guess now would be a good time to say, I I'm going to do my own coaching. I'm going to do it myself. >> I know what I'm doing. >> Of course, I'll have an eye of close people that are around me, but I'm I want to do this myself. I'm tired of coaches. I don't I don't want anyone around. I know what I need to do. I know what works and what doesn't for my body. And, you know, it's already working. So, We gonna handle business my way. >> So I guess >> All right. Well, he's going up against people who are coached by Andrew Jack is coached by Chris Acetoti Chupan is probably coach coached still by Honey Ramad secretly. Uh Martin Fitzquarter Martin coached by Boss of Outlaw. I mean, he's going up against people who are coached by the very best coaches in the business right now of this generation. And he has the confidence to take it upon himself, which he's never he's he's competed as a pro all these times with with a coach. He's never done it on his own. And now to go into the biggest money show in history, we've never had a first place of $750,000 in the sport of bodybuilding. >> Good point. and he's putting three quarter million dollars of money on the line doing it himself. >> Wow. >> Yeah. Because if he if he messes up then it's like you know then he's missed out on a big chunk of prize money. If he if it knocks him down from I don't know say second to fifth or something like that and and people like and then he admits it himself. It's like maybe I should have had a coach. It probably would have made me beat this guy or that guy because this would have looked better and this will look different. Um, but then again, you know, like, okay, Samson at the the Olympia, he had a coach and look what happened. He lost 25 pounds of muscle. So, it's not like things can happen and they don't get noticed because sometimes you have a coach and things still don't get noticed because I mean like Sam's lo 25 pounds of muscle with no better condition. At what point between zero and 25 did you think okay you know but I mean this is um I bet the coaches the actual top coaches I bet some of them are a little bit like it's in our interest that Nick doesn't do well here because you know what I mean because if he if he shows up looking the best he's ever looked um then I mean thing is he said it there he said like I've got people around me that I trust to look at me. It worked for Dorian Yates. Dorian Yates had Kerry Kay's Brian Bachelor. He had um my friend Paul Baxenddale. He had uh um Leroy, you know, basically what they do at the end of every week, they go into the, you know, into part of Temple Gym and say, "Right, can have a look at Dorian, have a look at Dos, he'd strip off, he'd do his compulsories, and then Dorian say, "What do you think?" You know, because I've been there. I've been there when I've sit there with Roy Patterson or Wayne Robinson, my training partner there. He just won the British finals, by the way, the 70 kilo. Finally, after like 20 years, he finally won it at age 52. Um and um he improved a lot training with me >> because he's he was uh he was he was a 70 kilo guy and he was always getting like top six of the British finals but he's um he just his training was so sloppy. So I basically made made sure that every single rep was more like this you know this kind of training and he went from sixth to second just by purely paying attention to his form and his technique. It's like when um Neil Hill I said to when I introduced him to Zack Khan and I said how's it going? How's it going? because I introduced one. I wanted to see, you know, I wanted an update. And he said, "Jars, I'm not [\h__\h] surprised that guy's never won the British finals." He said, he said, "Is cardio?" He said, "He just plots." He said, "So I was pressing the button, speeding it up in the incline." He says, "And his form is shit." He said, "He's strong." He said, "I've seen him bench six plates." He says, "My god, his form is terrible." He said, "But honestly, I've got him training right. I've got him doing cardio right." And he says, "You're going to see the best version of Zakan ever." And he did. He won the British finals. That he's never That was the best he'd ever looked, bar none. So um so Nick now um yeah it's uh like you said sorry going back to what I was saying about like Dorian and stuff like that all you need is someone just to sort of give it to you straight you know someone to say you know like um like say like Samson had like a you know coach that was actually actually said to him you need to um you know you're dropping too much weight now maybe you look like can we get on the scale I know we're not using the scale but can we get on it because we need to find out. So, um, as long as Nick's got someone there to say, "Yep, you're looking good." Uh, because thing is for me, it's not about, because I keep having this disagreement with people online about the Olympia, but I thought his condition at the Olympia was fantastic. >> So, why are people saying that he was off and then blaming on the coach and I mean, they were saying he looked better at the finals because he was flat at prejudging, but I I didn't see it. I mean, I mean, he doesn't actually he doesn't look amazing there, does he? He doesn't look rock hard like normal there, does he? He looks a bit spongy there. >> Well, that was this is the finals, I think. >> Oh [\h__\h] Actually, this is Hang on a minute. He doesn't Hang on a minute. The photos I was looking at, he was looking a lot hot, especially from the back. I thought he was absolutely bang on from the back, but he looks watery here. >> Uh, I mean, I've seen him, we've seen him better, obviously, but this wasn't a this wasn't a bad look. I I think the issue with him was the midsection. And if >> Yeah, that's not has nothing to do with condition. >> No, condition looks great. I think I mean it's I mean it's as good as it's ever been. I mean look this was this is probably the most conditioned I think he ever was. The 23 Arnold Classic where he took second behind Samson. >> Is that 21 you've got there or 23? >> Uh this is 23 when Samson won and Nick was Andrew was >> uh so that's the year that him and Jansen went for condition and I think this is >> conditioned he ever was and it was a pretty damn good look. >> I don't understand this. I'm I I don't understand this. We're going for condition this year. It's like you've got to go condition every bloody year. It's like I'm going to bring I'm going to bring 100% to this show. It's like, well, but I'm and then I'm going to look even better for the next one. It's like, well, you've got to bring 100% to every single show. You should never, you know, otherwise you get what happened like with Andrea Shaw when she did the um you know, the Rising Phoenix and and and admit she's coming in at 85 90% and then go get get beaten by somebody who is 100%. It's like this attitude of, you know, like if you're if you got a re if you've got a qualifier or or a pro show to qualify or or a pro card qualifier and it's four or five weeks out from your main show, make sure you bring your 100% to the first show and then just try and and then try and get even better for the next one. I don't you know, so this we're going for condition [\h__\h] I just think you should go for condition every single show because, you know, that's basically the criteria in bodybuilding has never changed. has always been, you know, cuz thing is when he looks tighter, he looks actually like bubblier. You know, everything looks more rounded and full. Everything's popping more. His legs look his legs look good there. Um, you know, because he's he's in he's he's obviously in better condition. But, um, thing is, I've never really known Nick to struggle with condition anyway. So, I mean, I've never looked at him and thought cuz thing is a guy like that who doesn't have the smallest waist or like the prettiest shape, you know, if you're not if you're not in condition, you just look like a bloody you look like a blob. So, you've kind of got to come in shredded and gnarly, you know, and then with with that amount of size, it looks so bloody impressive. And that's why one of the reasons why he's been so successful. >> Yeah. See, I I I hope he brings something similar to this look with a tighter midsection because look how look at the midsection there. >> And I mean, look at it here. >> Yeah, >> it's a lot it's a lot thicker. >> But do you know what annoys me is the um is the is the comments about the um the midsection and nothing seems to be getting done about it. It's like or Oh, no. I tell you I'll tell you what does bother me is when we see all these pictures of him in his bathroom and it's I'm not saying it's photoshopped but it's a careful angle and people are going look he's fixed the midsection and then four weeks later he shows up at the show and it looks it looks exactly the same because you know these updates unfortunately are making people too like that they look at that and you think there there's you look at that picture there and you think there's no problem with his waistline there if that was the first time you were see seeing a picture of Nick Walker and saying what do you think of this new guy be like yeah looks great nice small waist wide shoulder shoulders, big arms, looks freaky. You don't think, you know, but then when they get on stage and then they got these the midsection doesn't quite look like that. It's always a disappointment. >> Yeah. See, I never know like like right here, the midsection doesn't look the same. Obviously, it's a different pose and everything, but >> you know, I I I honestly think the whole key for Nick is coach whether he's coaching himself or someone else is coaching him is keeping that midsection smaller because he's so big and thick. He's one of the most massive guys of this entire generation of bodybuilders. There's there's no He does. He could lose a little bit of a little bit of size and fullness in exchange for a smaller waist and I think overall it's >> No, hang on, Ron. Ronnie tried that in 2002 Olympia and all he did was end up everything came in small and the waist stayed the same. So that approach doesn't always necessarily it's not always a case of okay let's drop 10 pounds and we'll probably drop two inches off the waist because I've seen it happen where guys drop 20 pounds and the waist stays the same and then the the the shoulder to waist looks even worse. So that's not always the case. I think that's a fallacy I think that has been proven wrong many many times. So if um say if Nick Walker or a Nick Walker type physique came to you and said Ron please coach me. I've got I'm getting penalized to my waist. I need to bring it in. It's the only thing holding me back. I've got size condition. I'm not lacking really any body parts. Um, you know, I'm I can get in condition. You know, what can we do? Like Ry did, you know, but when he before he came back in 2016 with his way. So, I've said many many times, it can be done. It can be improved. But my frustration is whether he's okay, he's coaching himself. Okay, then what is he going to do then to tackle the midsection or is he just going to be is he just going to be in denial about it? Because it seems to me sometimes if you keep bringing like with Ramy all those years kept bringing the same package and yes he was getting bigger but the strengths were the same the weaknesses were the same and nothing was being fixed. It was just the bigger same version of what we'd seen before you know and and and not really any improvements because yes you can get bigger but it doesn't necessarily mean you're improved if things aren't starting to balance out because if you got a weak body part putting 20 pound on is just it's not going to make that weak body part go away. It's just going to basically put size on and probably draw more attention to the fact you've got a weak body part. So Ron, if he came to you, what what would you what would what tick list would you do to t say, "Okay, we got six months or we got a year to bring the waistline in." What would you do? What would you suggest? >> I would cut down the food portions. I would cut down the GH, cut down the insulin, uh have them doing vacuums every morning. I'm not a huge believer in the waist trainer, but I think it can't hurt. At least it makes people more aware of keeping their stomach sucked in at all times. So I think I >> I worked for Ry Ry admitted to me on an interview and he said I said, "So what about this?" Because I saw the video online. I said I brought up the when I saw that video when he answered the hotel room door and he had one of those corsets on. And he it's funny cuz he I told you this before and he said he says he says I was really I didn't really want to wear one. He says cuz I thought they were kind of gay. He said that. He said that in the interview and I just love Ru even more because he was so innocent when he said it. He said it like I was just like he just said that on on camera and he was like he thought it was kind of gay. He says but you know it worked. It worked. I was like do you know I'd love to find that interview and find that clip because he was he was completely innocent to the fact of what he just said. Really it was very very it was a very funny moment when I was doing global. But thing is my point is he used it and he said he hated using it. He said it was a pain in the ass. He said it was uncomfortable. Except but it worked. >> Yeah. I mean, but let me ask you this. Do you think it works for any actual physiological reason? Because I can't what is if you if it's squishing in your internal organs, which you know what else is it going to be doing? Wouldn't it just Wouldn't they just go back to normal after you stop after you take it off? I mean, you can't you can't compress your organs and they stay that way. Well, a lot of the I mean, obviously the whole waist trainer thing started in the bikini category because the idea because remember that 2019 when Issa Punini won the bikini. We were there and I sat there because I didn't I wasn't really that familiar with her and I was sat there looking at some notes and I looked up and I went 121's won that. I my I instantly drawn because this girl had a tiny little waist. In fact, her waist was like freakishly small. I mean, I swear to God, it was probably closer to 20 inches than it was to 30. I mean, it was like if anything, it looked too small. And if you looked to look at her in the last couple of years, her waist doesn't look as like it doesn't look like like whoa, like freakishly small. Um, so maybe she stopped using the waist trainer because, you know, just maybe didn't feel the need to maybe just could wasn't it wasn't worth it. Wasn't worth the uncomfortable. But it all started in the in the bikini division because obviously it's not about having the biggest delts or the biggest lats or the biggest pecs in in a bikini. It's about having the small waist and the cap shoulders and the glutes and you know so all those girls were sort of jumping on it first and then the guys were kind of following suit you know so um and thing is really proved it it proved it can work you know so and thing is you've got two types of um waist issues you can have the distension and then you can have the the width and I found personally I found personally from what I've seen guys starting to use either start to use insulin or up the insulin or you know use it more uh more prominently in their prep. It's usually that's what causes the width. That's what causes the width. Um and then the the the stomach like bloat usually comes actually from the heavy carb ups. It comes from um I mean Ronnie said to me, he says he said, "I didn't have like a huge gut in the offseason." He says, "But Chad Nichols, I've been eating so much food." He says, "And then obviously you're pumping all those that rice and all those carbs in with the with the with the with the insulin, you know." He said because he would come to his room and he said he was have these Tuppware containers full of rice. He said, "Then all the needles will be loaded up with insulin." I've seen it and I've seen he said he said, "No, he's not telling you." And I said, "And I won't tell." There's another top pro. I went to his hotel room and and the and the coach was over him shouting saying, "You got to eat that and make sure you take your insulin when you take the carbs in." And you know, and he was like, "Oh god, I can't eat." He barely was like, you know, so that's what causes dension. That's why you should never carb up too late. I mean, um, I was always told to like carb early, like in the week. if you compete on Saturday like start carbing Monday, Tuesday because if you need to pull back, you've got a day or so to pull it back and obviously fill the muscle but also empty the stomach. So, it's it's that timing because we've seen guys that have um you know, then that's why I was say, you know, you know, when you hear about these these athletes flying into a show the night before and you're thinking you're not going to look your best on stage and then what happens is they either come in flat or they they panic eat um and they try to do a carb up in a very short window and they end up with the the stomach. It's like with the weigh-ins, the classic in 212. when they're too late, my my heart always sinks a little bit because I just think, "Oh, you you you're not you're not going to be carving up until you until after you've weighed in because you can't because you're on the limit." That's so those are the guys that either come in flat or they come in because they, you know, they they they can't they haven't got enough time to get the food in to fill out because they have to suck it right down to get under 212 or the classic weight limit. And then um or they um or they just they just leave it too late and then they end up with a distended stomach. and a classic guy with a distended stomach. That's basically that's just that's just instant last place. >> You're done. Yeah. So I I you know, but that's so that's something a coach a good coach would be able to really monitor closely. That's why they're going to their room every hour or every 90 minutes looking at them. You've eaten this meal. Let's see how you look now. How's the midsection? Because things can change so fast. You know, I remember Jose Raymond, you know, I I I was I'm still good friends with him obviously, but I knew him when he was when he was competing and winning shows and he he was very cognizant of the fact that he could have a big gut if he wasn't careful on stage if he carved up too much. So, on contest day, he would barely eat. He says he would just take little little nibbles, little bites, and little tiny tiny sips of water because he never wanted to risk having a distended gut on stage because then the guys with the better he he knew he was going up against guys with better shape and aesthetics. Even though 212 it's not like classic, but still if you have a bubble gut in classic, you're done. >> So >> yeah, he had Christo coaching him the whole time. I um I remember that there was a couple of times in Dexter's career where I thought he was starting to dip and I remember the the the second and final time when I thought okay he's done now was in 2012. >> Um and obviously he was won the Olympia won the classic and he showed up and he had um because he he was like Nathan Dash had a long waist >> and then his lower abs I remember stood on stage and he wasn't even trying to hold it in. I think maybe sometime maybe he thought okay I'm clearly not winning this and he knew but I remember thinking okay now this is his physique starting to show wear and tear and he ended up in fifth place. >> Yeah. >> Um and then the year after then he went to the Masters Olympia looked probably one of his best ever because I was there in Miami. I was there party partying with uh with Crystal and all them lot >> and and you guys and uh yeah and no so Pete McGoff and yeah everyone was at the hotel. It was cool. Um and then um yeah and then sorry and then then he kind of like and then the 2012 he kind of made this surge comeback and he looked amazing and he won the auto classic in 2012. >> Um no no it wasn't 2012 2013 sorry 2013 >> but um yes sorry the point was um I said how did you get how did you get that distension then? And apparently it was because he was um he was he was carving up on h George Farah told to carve up on hamburgers. >> Oh hamburgers. So he'd obviously gone flat and panicked and George wants to say, "Oh, eat hamburger. It'll fill you out." And I think maybe he had too many because it really and obviously the timing of it, whatever he ate, didn't agree with him. And all that prep was ruined. It was all that prep was ruined because he ended up looking and I think he just gave up and in the end his stomach was just hanging out on stage and I was thinking, "Okay, he's done now. He's at the tail end of his career." And then he had and then he came back and carried on another like seven, eight years. I think I think most really good coaches and Nick Nick will probably do this on his own. We'll do a test run >> maybe the week before carb up and and see how that affects them and take notes. This is in pictures and this is how I'm looking after I had this food and that 90 minutes later because >> it's the timing is just so incredibly tricky. These guys want to be full and ripped to shreds and have a small midsection all at the same time. It's almost impossible to strike a perfect balance between those things. >> Do you do you think he should be doing the Arnold Classic? >> Why not? Yeah, why not? I mean, what's the wor The worst he can possibly place in my mind is fourth. Unless >> Yeah, >> I I can't I can't see him coming in out of shape. He's not going to be He's already He never got out of shape. He stayed very lean since the Olympia. >> Maybe he's gonna he's going to be disappointed with fourth, though. >> If if he ends up in fourth, of course, he's going to be anybody. If Andrew, sorry, if H hadi, Andrew, and Martin show up like as we expect them to, he ain't I don't think he's I I the reason I'm saying I think it was a mistake for him doing the Arnold Classic is because I think he needed more than six months including a prep to sort the midsection out. If I'd have been him, I know the thing is the prize money is so good, you know, and and they would have been they would have been has, you know, Brian and Arnold, they would have been like, "Get that Nick Walker in. He pulls the crowd. it's popular, you know, because he is he's a he's he's a he's a, you know, he pulls he's he's he's box office, in he, you know, >> so I think I think if I'd have been him personally, I mean, obviously means nothing. Um, I would have like taken that that time where he would have been prepping for the Arnold Classic to try and fix the midsection, bring the chest up to match the shoulders and arms a bit more, bring up the quads. And I would have rather than um because I don't know I'm not really sure what improvements he can make um unless he's just trying to redeem himself, you know, like a knee-jerk reaction from the sixth place the Olympia because I mean people like talk some some of his fans talk about like sixth place being a disaster at the Olympia. Still top six in the world, you know, and he you know there's some bloody good bodybuilders that beat him, you know, the best of the best, you know, so um I don't know. I mean it's he's in so let's see what happens. Um, but I think it would take Martin Haddie or or um or uh um Haddie Haddie, Andrew or Martin to be off for Nick to beat them because I think Nick needs a bit of time to, you know, bring those to bring those uh those areas in and and up, you know. So, I just um but you know what? He looks so good that Pittsburgh show, didn't he? I think that was that was a that was a robbery. That that was a robbery >> indeed. Well, yeah. Getting back to the sixth place being a horrible outcome for Nick, consider that's his worst placement ever at the Mr. Olympia. He's been >> he's been third place uh and fifth place, right? He's only done three Olympians. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And look how good like um Brennan Curry and Veto looked. I mean, no one really would have like gone crazy if if they'd have beaten Nick as well. I mean, so, >> you know, I mean, so when Bob Chick was saying eighth place, I mean, it's I think it's like God, this that's the thing. there's this there's this this if you if you don't win it's it's a loss and it's a failure mentality. I don't like that. And I think sometimes, you know, the guys with the real like crazy fan bases like Nick, you know, they just they just they're like bloody they want to jump off a bridge if he doesn't win every single show. And it's like no, Body Bum's not like that, you know? Look at Samson. I mean, Samson just, you know, he went from, you know, thing is that could he could easily make a comeback this year and win the Olympia back this year, you know. So, it's um it's not um but I don't I don't know. I think if Nick if Nick comes in and he looks really really good. Um which I I'm kind of hoping for. Well, we're all hoping for >> um it'll be interesting what what ramifications that will have for for coaches in the future because Quint's doing it by himself and >> you know and I think you don't really learn anything. I know I mean I've spoke I've spoke to like friends with like Patrick Tur and Neil Hill and stuff like that and they said they they've got these kind of um clients that won't question a single thing. They just follow everything to the letter and then when the guys get to the end of their 20 career you try and interview them and talk to them about you know we've interviewed them and about about bodybuilding and they don't really know much or I've trained with some of these guys and they're just clueless because they've never had to learn anything for themselves through trial and error. It's all been I just do I just do as I'm told. I just do I go over there I do this for how many reps and I train hard and I do this and then I eat this and I take that and it's like they haven't got a clue like they just it's like for me I just I was too OCD I was too hands-on I needed to know exactly what everything was doing and I just for me it was part of the whole it was a part of the enjoyment of the process maybe Nick will because by by the sounds of it I mean I don't like the throwing the the the you know like you put comments online about sort of um you know coaches causing a lot of stress and stuff like I'm thinking, well, probably the other way around, mate. You probably caused your, you know, I just, you know what I mean? I just think, come on, just I just think, come on, guys. You got to keep it private. Keep it fully private. Do you know what I mean? Don't sort of make out that this because these guys, you know, they put their these coaches put their heart and soul into it. I mean, >> you know, I've spoke to certain coaches when they've split from certain athletes, let's say, and you know, and it really upsets them. I mean, it really like it's um because they these people get very close, you know, they become they become almost like father figures sometimes you because they're a lot older, you know, these coaches. >> Right. And uh and it really really devastates them, do you know what I mean? Because they come they become, you know, they go through these these these trials and tribulations and these contests and these all these different challenges together and then all of a sudden they split and it's everything's online and everyone's got an opinion and I kind of feel um I kind of feel like um I felt a bit bad for the coaches and you know sometimes think just just keep it private mate you know just you know you're going to do your own thing because thing is now if if Nick turns up to the Arnold Classic and he looks absolutely terrible you know it's going to look good for the coach. Do you know what I mean? It's like the thing is having said that, like I said before, I thought Nick looked great at the Olympia. I don't think he was I don't think the coach did a bad job at all. I thought he did a great job. >> Yeah. So, well, you mentioned Samson. So, that brings us to our third and final topic, which I didn't advertise in the uh thumbnail or anything, but you know what? We're talking about Nick and Sam. So, Samson doubt uh he left hostile. I think it's been about a month, maybe less than a month, and speculation was running rampant. And now we know uh as of yesterday officially that he is with the world's largest supplement brand, My Protein. So, good on him. Uh don't know how much money or anything, you know, that hasn't been made public and that's really none of our damn business. But if they're the largest supplement brand in the world, I think they can afford to pay him a very nice salary. And he is a Mr. Olympia champion. He's an Arnold Classic champion. So, uh there's the sand out to prove it. He's well worth it. And uh yeah, like you said, with their support uh and obviously all the physical gifts and work ethic, he could very well win this Olympia game again. But you know, my protein I I'm not familiar with all these because I'm not you're more familiar with supplement because you've actually worked in the supplement industry yourself uh at a high level. So you would you would know more about this, but were you familiar with My Protein? >> Yeah. Yeah, they've been around years. is I mean what it was they were the first company to go direct to retailer sorry direct to direct to consumer so you can't you can't actually you can buy them in supplement stores but it's only because they've actually you know they they basically insisted but this was a company that only sold you could buy online and buy retail basically you can't go through a distributor you can't go through a a supplement store you know you won't find any of their products in supplement stores like I said but they do now that was their that was their business model and um and it it to upset a lot of the um the industry because of all these distributors who spend you know decades building these brands and building these companies and these relationships and then you know and all the gym owners then all their customers that come and buy supplements from them and now buying from my protein but you know that's the business model they've done very very well I used to use their products I used to buy the the green tea capsules and the way I and then I stopped using them because they give me horrible customer service on something so I was like that's it I'm never buying from them again it was really arro but it doesn't matter but anyway it is a big company a very very big company um it's a good fit because It's obviously they're they're Britishbased. Um and um yeah, it's it's it's thing is it's it you know obviously it comes down to the Dairo and if if Samson said he wants to be retired by the time he's 45, he's 40 now. Why not go with a company that probably would have signed him I'd imagine it's at least a two threeyear deal. I mean if he's got another fiveyear deal and it's probably it might even be double what he was getting at Hostile then why would he say no? It's an absolute um because it's it's nice to be able to have the company you're representing and working with literally, you know, it's probably like it's probably a couple of hours drive. I don't know, maybe it's like three-hour drive. Better that than having it in a different country because I don't I'm pretty sure that there was a reason why Hostiles products weren't available in Europe or the UK or something or something with the labeling or something. I don't know. I might be wrong on that. But um if you've got a company that's literally on your doorstep um also they got Ryan Terry as well. >> Oh. Um, and who was the other two I saw on there? Two other Was it not VTO? Obviously, not Özy's with ESN. There was another top name as well I saw on the picture. Was it might have been VTO? No, was it V? Well, anyway, like three or four big names because obviously Ryan and Samson, you know, both Olympic champions. I mean, Ryan's like literally a couple of hours drive away from Samson. They obviously get on really well, but most of the British athletes do, you know, you got >> Oh, Summerfield. Yeah, Summer. I thought Summerfield was the year. Anyway, um yeah. So, yeah. So anyway, um yeah, so it's it's a really um it's a it's good and like I said, if they could if Samsung could have got a really good deal that is guaranteed until he retires then um you know and say the thing is like it might be an extra 10 15 it might be an extra 10k 15k a month for the next three to five years say you know so absolutely from a business point of view it's an absolute no-brainer um and um and yeah and it's nice to see as well that there's still um very very good relationships between him and Fuad and because Fouad's a businessman. He would have understand understood like because Yandere Samson is hot property because he is a Mr. Olympia he is you know he's he's top five in the world so he is going to be unfortunately he is going to be wanted by other companies. Now if a company comes and offers him an extra five grand a month then maybe Samson would have gone no I'll stay loyal to hostile but you know if a company comes along and offers him a deal he cannot refuse because financially it just doesn't make sense then Fouad will obviously he would do probably do the same in his own position. So um yeah it's it's it's a it was it was a good um it's a good result for Samson. happy for him and um and yeah, it seems um it probably, you know, that kind of um that kind of security like what Hostile gave him security in 2020 when they signed him to that 5-year deal. It's um it's uh it's peace of mind the end of the day, you know, because there's only so many years he could be earning that much money because if he literally wants to be done by his 45, >> he knows that he can probably still make improvements until he's 45. So maybe maybe he might carry on competing after that. But, you know, if if that is the goal, then um then and you've got like a guaranteed amount of money coming in, you know, that's that's going to take you to literally when you say you're going to finish, then uh absolutely fantastic. You know, it's um you know, he'd be, you know, it's it's like I said, it's a no-brainer. >> So, what do you think about him being 340 lbs with abs? >> I mean, the condition is really good for 340. Oh, yeah. >> I mean, there's no He's not like a bloated mess, is he? I mean, he looks like I mean, if that is that is 340, then I mean, look at the abs. I mean, his abs are sharp. >> Yeah. >> I mean, that's not that's not a lot of body fat there. I mean, it's incredible. I just worry, you know, obviously, you know, because I've got my own heart issues. I mean, at 340 pounds, I do I would I have to naturally worry and concern myself with the the health implications. So, I just hope I hope that he's on top of everything with Maric Health and the blood work and everything. I'm sure they are. >> Um I hope that um I'm hope that that is a healthy 340. Um because he seems to carry it so well. I mean he doesn't look like >> you know there's there the obliques aren't spilling out over his bloody underwear there and you know his face doesn't look like it's about to explode. His eyes aren't all blood. I mean I've seen guys like not even 340 like 280 and they look they look unhealthy you know. So but he looks he looks good. I mean he looks um looks incredible. I mean for you know like I said I don't think there's there's anyone that can carry the weight that he does as well as he does >> right. Yeah. You know as as far as the health and so I think a certain amount a certain amount of risk has to be taken in this sport if you're trying to be Mr. Olympia or get your Mr. Olympia title back and >> Kevin would Kevin De would disagree. No, I I a lot of people will disagree. And in the comments, guys, you're welcome to blast me for saying that, but I mean, if you really want to play it safe in life, you'd be a vegan and you' just do uh >> Pilates and you'd have like 20 grams of protein for the whole day and >> you know, but uh this is this is an extreme sport. He's been the very best in the world and he tumbled down a few places and he wants that back. [\h__\h] if I was Mr. Olympia, I'd want to get that back, too. Ron, everyone has a different approach, but like he doesn't like like I said, I've seen guys at 50 pounds less than that and I'd be like, "Mate, you need to drop some weight or whatever you're doing, lower it." Uh, and and from what I understand, he's always been um quite conservative, you know, with all the with all that as well. So, I hope that's I'm sure he's being sensible about it. He's not stupid. Um, and uh yeah, he looks he looks great. Looks great. I just hope he doesn't I hope he just forgets about the bodyweight thing now because um he went from not concerning on body weight and it hurt him for the Olympia because I think if he'd have seen his body weight was dropping he might have put the brakes on to now it's like a knee-jerk reaction to like oh [\h__\h] I've got to get you know huge and because really he hasn't really spoke about the Olympia he's just kind of brushed it aside and tried to put all the focus on to Prague where in I mean I was there he did an amazing job in two weeks I mean I didn't think what he did in those two weeks to regain the majority of his physique, you know, in two weeks was was incredible. I thought it was absolutely mind-blowing. I was shocked when he came out, you know. I was like, I didn't think he could do that in two weeks. So, hats off hats off to him for that. So, I just hope that um he doesn't um he doesn't get too obsessed with pushing body weight more and more and more. I hope it's more about correcting, you know, basically the mistakes he made for the Olympia because all he has to do is bring what he brought in 24 because what he brought in 24 at the Olympia finals was good enough to win the Olympia. And I think if you'd have brought that same package, he would have won again. So taking gamles, I get it as an athlete, you know, like you're taking risks with your health and all these different elements of being a bodybuilder. But it was a gamble, unfortunately, that he felt he needed to take that didn't pay off. But, you know, sometimes you have to take risks in life because um what's the phrase? What's the phrase? You know, he who dares wins. He who dares wins. >> Yeah. He dares wins. No risk, no reward. But I this just was 24 that he has here as a pinned photo. >> I think this would have won the Olympia 2. >> Yeah, he would have been a two time. He would have been two times. So maybe he just wants to forget about it because he doesn't remind it. But unfortunately, you have to address the elephant in the room. That is well, you know, are you going to do that again? Because that's what basically what sponsors and fans kind of want to know about. You know, that's that's kind of what that's what we're all talking about behind the scenes. You know, it's like is he going to do that again? Is he has he learned from this? Because if he has then, you know, then watch out because Samson, you know, is he's really the least flawed bodybuilder up there really. I mean, Andrew is coming up hot, you know, and he's he's still making improvements whereas Samson is he going to bring as good as 24. I mean, is he or I don't think I don't know whether he can bring better than 24. Maybe he can. So there's a lot of question marks over um over you know and all thing is all Samson has to do is just go back to basically that winning formula that uh that that so he doesn't need to do anything drastic you know and I think that was what obviously the comments obviously really got to him you know and I get it because Pride is an athlete and you know you're scrolling and you're you're spending hours on your phone and all you see is the same old comments like the you know like I get sick of some of the stuff about Derek and stuff and I just think God what if Derek was reading this you just think you know it must really like um like I said last week on the prayer I said I These guys need to have their social media handbook because if I if I was at this level and some of the [\h__\h] I see and some of the hate and some of the the the hateful comments I just think I just think I'd take myself off social media alto together just to sort of purely for for my own mental health. Do you know what I mean? But I mean see that there I mean that's that would have won the Olympia this year. >> So let's say we see you know we all were saying well I want to see him super dry and crispy. So now I'm like forget it forget about that. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's It's a funny old sport, isn't it? Funny old sport. >> So, if he brings this condition, same proportions, same everything, just a little bit bigger and fuller, which if he's at a high highest ever body weight now, an all-time high, I see that as being pretty much a foregone conclusion. >> We see this version a little bit bigger and fuller, I think he beats everybody. >> Well, hang on. This this footage you're showing here is from the prejudging. And the prejudging, I it wasn't obvious to me that he was even first or second. It was not. I mean, I I I didn't even know whether because when I saw this this this because it was really dark. I remember watching it here in the studio. It was like I thought Andrew actually looked better. >> Um, you know, I mean, and then because it was so dark you couldn't see anything. And I wasn't like, "Oh, Samson's like top two here." But at the finals, that's when Samson came out and I was just like, "Holy shit." Now, there's no doubt in my mind that I think he's winning. Not just like top two, I think he's actually winning this now. >> This is the finals here. >> Yeah, it's beautiful. I mean that was and the routine and the just and he came out and he just the fullness and everything. It was like it was the best. It was the best physique up there on stage because you know you you break down all the really the ones with the least amount of flaws um out of all the top guys here at him and Martin. So all him and Martin need to do are nail it and um and they're they're tough to beat because had got flaws now you know let's not let's not um you know get a bloody you know upset Iran but you know at the end of the day his physique is starting to show wear and tear. You've got um Nick you know we we spoke about that early in this episode. you know, Andrew has still has gaps in his physique that he is filling out very very fast. And I think that's why there's there's so much excitement around him because yes, he is uh you know, he's he's he's he's already taking steps to improve though. So, he's the one coming up who's probably likely to show the most improvements. And then and then you've got Derek, you know, who's um who's not going to want to lose that title again. So, um you know, it's going to be it's going to be interesting, you know. So, but I think with Samson, he has the least amount of um he's the most perfect physique up there and um and all he has to do is just bring, you know, bring good enough condition and I think he's um you know, I think he's in the competition because like some people are just writing him off. I mean, obviously because he was fourth Olympia and then he arguably dropped to fifth really because he got beat by Martin who was also improved at the Olympia. >> Yeah. So, like really you could say he's fifth best in the world, but now I think um you know I think um next year well sorry this year um it's uh you can't you can't take him out the conversation for being an absolute front runner off the Olympia. >> No, I think we could finally see again another So Derek was the second man in Olympia history to win the title back because Jake did in 2009. >> It could actually I I could see it become a pattern in coming years where guys lose the Olympian and get it back. >> Yep. Let's say >> Clarita I I could see Clarita winning the Olympia backmate 212. >> Yeah. >> Well, we'll talk. Let's keep it to open just for the sake of argument. Let's say Samson wins it this year. Who's to say Derek or Heidi couldn't win it back in 2027. Wow. We're jumping way ahead in time now. >> Oh no. Andrew's coming, mate. Andrew's coming. I think I've been giving him every day. I'm giving him pep talks. I'm giving him pep talks. I'm literally speaking to Andrew today. He's Yeah, he's he's he's got me as his psychological mind coach now and he's uh he believes it now and he knows that he's going to be he's all his food is going to be well cooked and we're going to look after him when he comes over for his tour. So, because the UK tour has been announced, we've we've got all the bookings now. We got all locked in now. So, okay, >> that's ready to go. And then he goes back to FIBO and he has some appearances with Scitech and then he's coming back and we're doing a world tour and I've got two two countries locked in already and if I can add another two um then I'll that's that's enough for the for the times the time amount we give because otherwise you're just spending too much time traveling and not actual appearances. So um but um yes obviously I'm 100% behind Andrew but I mean I would love to see Samson and Andrew as the the last two standing at the Olympia because that's they're my kind of physiques purely because they're my kind of physiques. are like tall tall wide aesthetic guys and thing is there's more element of surprise with the taller guys. >> Yeah. >> You know because there's so much more that can be done with their physiques you know like Samson and Andrew they could they could make improvements every single year for the next five years and you know and still you could think oh you could do more of this more of that you know so whereas the shorter guys um like we spoke about Hadi's incredible but what he's not going to bring anything new is he? >> In the in the next year in the next year or two or whatever. So, you know, and Derek um Derek actually preferred his physique a couple years ago to be honest. I preferred it in um I heard it when he was like 21, not no sorry, 2022 was that that when he did that front relax and his waist was like that and then when he came back in the Olympia and won it and he won the Olympia in 23, his physique didn't quite have the same appeal for me. Um but um but um yeah, I you know, I know I keep saying I feel bad for Derek, man. Some of the [\h__\h] we've seen online, it's too much, man. It's too much, guys. You got to calm it down, man. It's just it's just too they take the step everyone's stepping over the line all the time and everyone's seeing everybody else doing it and they're all like it's making it okay. And uh I kind of wish Derek I kind of wish Derek might actually he might want to speak out actually maybe do do some sort of video but but then does he make himself more of a target or is he is he feeding the beast more or should he or should he just stick to his family life and his training and his and his kids and his and and his and his and his Bible and you know and his church and his friends and >> brand new gym got a brand new gym in >> brand new gym just and just block out all the noise and say you know what that doesn't make a difference to me but um I just I I purely I I I I wish there was a way that we could somehow stop it. Do you know what I mean? Because without Derek even having to intervene because I just think I think maybe speaking out on stuff like this, I think it's too much, man. I mean, you know, they like and it's just like 99 out of 100 comments are just they're just vicious, you know, and they wouldn't say that if they saw him at an expo or something, they'd be in the queue wanting to get a picture with him or if they bumped into him in a mall, they'd be Gary Lford, can I have a picture, please? >> Right. Right. >> And these are the same little [\h__\h] that are online calling him a water buffalo. and and since and the thing is all these people that know so much about SEO and stuff like that, it's like mate, you've never even you probably don't even take gear or stepped on stage or competed, you don't know what these things are. I mean, I'm I've got a lot of knowledge, but a lot of this stuff I can't tell, you know, on a lot of these bodybuilders what they're taking and and how they're taking it and these people speak with such certainty and and and authority. It's like I know what he's using. It's like, oh, really? Do you? Okay. >> It's like idiots, man. Idiots. As far as them attacking him for supposedly injecting things, whether he does or doesn't, are you going to sit here and tell me looking at the top 10 Mr. Olympia men that there's not a lot of that going on? If it's done well, you just never notice it. >> Exactly. That's appreciate the physique. >> Yeah. >> It's the ones It's the ones that do it badly. That's when you can see it. you know, it's um or they take the wrong stuff and it does swell up or something like that because you know there's I've been uh I've been speaking to some people on the on the inside real inside of the you know coaches and stuff like that and they tell me what these these athletes are doing and stuff like that and I'm like and he said oh so and so does it you know because I got it for him and all this and it's like and I've shown him how to do it and I'm like like I can't tell and he says exactly because it's done right it's exactly like you said the ones that it's the ones that look like you know like you see a body part and it's really improved and you're thinking that is that you know because it could never be the reason that maybe he just improved that body part. You know what I mean? Maybe he just you know went to town on that body part you know like it does happen when athletes focus on a certain body part for a year and they really really or they train it differently or they get a new trainer or they start training with someone different and you know gets a new machine or something and then all of a sudden that body part starts to improve or they you know they change their approach and stuff like that. So, it's >> case in point, Momo Benza beat Dorian Yates at Dorian's pro debut. 1990 night of champions. Dorian put a picture of uh Benaza, I think, in a back latch spread or rear dull bicep on his refrigerator. So, he see every day. And so, for a whole year, he blasted his back. Dorian had a good back when he turned pro, but it wasn't like wow. But he came back and took second to Lee Haney the next year with a back that was arguably as good or better than Lee Haney. So, it can be done without injections. Dorian didn't use Pmama in his freaking back. >> I I've I've got a picture of you on my fridge, Ron. >> Is it the real aspirate? No. >> You with a cake in your >> Yeah, that's that's more likely. That is it, guys. That is our episode for this week. Give us a follow. Giles_tiger and Ron Harrismuscle. And uh we've got more stuff to talk about next week. And Giles is busy plotting and planning all these amazing Olympia Allstar tours coming up this year. And we'll talk about we'll talk about the Andrew Jack tour next time. It's going to have the dates locked in and everything. >> Yeah. Yeah. Literally the next couple of days I'll be I'll be posting the dates because uh >> Yeah. So it's um but the UK part's all locked in. It's all it's all sorted now. So we're just I'm working on the world tour now because these are two tours that we had to split into two because he had he said I' I've got to be here for this and here for this. I said, "Well, why don't we do it either side and make two tours?" And he said, "Well, that works." >> So I said, "Where's more money for you, mate?" I said, "There's more opportunities and more travel." And he said, "Yep, yep. I'm in. I'm in. I'm in." >> Okay. Well, I certainly hope you come to this little place called the United States of America. >> That'd be awesome. But we'll see. You'll let me You'll let me know. All right, guys. Thanks for watching Power Hour with me and of course the one and only Giles Tiger Thomas. We will see you right here