All right, guys. It's over. The New York Pro is all over. Here's how it shook out. Nick Walker, no surprise. William Bonak second. No surprise there either. Had been a solid second all day. Third, Kriso. Michael Krzo. Good job, man. Good job. Got ahead of Rean Grimes. Sassan Herat in fifth place. Let's take a look at the final call out of the evening. Now, this was the confirmation round. And let's see how these guys looked, shall we? All right. Make sure that's up before we start rolling. And yes, it is. Here we go. All right. Here was your top four. Last chance they had with the judges, in front of the judges. Nick is just dominant. Lord, look at him, man. He's I know he's got flaws. Nobody's perfect, but in this lineup, dominating. Dominating. Rean surprised me a little better than he than I thought he would. I'll give him a lot of credit. Uh Bonak still holding on at age 42. and Kriso, you know, despite his poor posing, he needs to work on that. Third place at the New York Pro. Very, very good. Very good. Uh, congrats to him. Congrats to all these guys. Yeah, but Nick just I wouldn't say stole the show. It wasn't like he didn't earn it. He earned this, rightfully so. He is the only man in history of our sport to win the New York Pro a record three times. Great, great job. Where is video? It's right there. I think you I think you said that before I started putting Yo, Jerry, you were one 100%. Easy win for Nick. Yeah. Um, yeah, but you know, I got to hand it to So, these other guys all still need an Olympia qualification somewhere somehow. We have Cali Pro, California Pro coming up in one week. And in two weeks from today, we have Legion Sports. So, two more chances for someone to qualify for the Olympia. And I would venture to say these three guys, aside from Nick, might all be in those one of those or both of those shows. I would not be surprised. So, great great job, Nick. Uh we'll look at some individuals individual routines in a moment. Just want to get through the the judging round here, the final confirmation round where Nick just uh confirmed in the judges and everyone's mind that there was no no question he was the rightful winner. Blew it out of the door. Looked amazing. Yeah, Kriso looks insane from the front. 100%. Kriso improved for finals. He actually looks like he had the tan. I I don't know if the tan actually improved or not, but maybe it was a lighting thing. It looked better. This video here ended before they did awards. Uh, this is not stream. This is somebody's video. So, what are they doing here? Oh, yeah. This is still the confirmation round. But let's go back. Let's go back and see some of the routines. Is this Nick here? Yeah, here's Nick's routine. Let's check Nick out. A lot of people think he looks Thank you for that. Thank you for that, Jason. A lot of people thought uh Nick looked better here than he did in Pittsburgh last week. I'm going to do my best not to make any dumb mistakes like saying Cassan was in Pittsburgh. He was not in Pittsburgh. I've already corrected myself multiple times on it. Is Nick Walker better than any top 90s champs? I mean, that's a good group of guys. I mean, what were we talking about? Flex Wheeler, Vince Taylor, Chris Cormier, Nasel Sati, Dorian. You could throw Ronnie in there. Kevin Levrone. Uh, I don't think he's better than any of them though. But whatever. That's a different era. Nick for the Olympia. I'm waiting for Lopsang, but he might not show up because Lapsang's either in Europe. I'm not sure. Lapsing, I think, is in Australia, right? And that's it's very, very late or early tomorrow. You look the same, just weaker competition. Yeah. I mean, he didn't need to look any better. There was nothing wrong with the way Nick looked a week ago in Pittsburgh. He looked amazing. I I thought uh let's go to the Gilko footage of Nick. Gilko has finally posted a bunch of routines. Uh and I love their footage. They have the best footage. So, let's take a look. Uh not sure if this was judging or finals, but this is Gilko Productions. the gold standard as far as I'm concerned is in terms of video production at bodybuilding events. You know, it's almost as good as being there. Being there is better because it's 3D. Uh let's see. Did I have Kiso over Rean prejudging? I thought his condition was better. I thought he outsized him. So, I have no issues with Kriso beating Rean Grimes here. I know the Rean fans are probably very, very salty about that. Nick's Nick Nick's double back double is better than Derek's. I like Derek's better. You don't have to. Damn, Nick won. Didn't see that. You didn't see that coming. Well, I had I had a bunch of people on the live before. Not a bunch. A couple people saying they had Kriso winning the whole show. I'm like, no, dude. No. Big Steve thought he looked better in Pittsburgh. Well, he's got the eye. He's the the most experienced judge in the game. He's the the head judge at the Mr. Olympia every year. So, I'll I'll agree with him if he says that. Nick needs a smile. Tan his face. His face is tan. It's just not as tan as his body. You like blocky physiques and varicose veins? Is that a question or or a statement? I don't know. I appreciate all types of physiques. Thankfully, well done, Nick. Ah, Australia. Let's see what time is it over there. It is at least in Brisbane where I know what time it is or I think it's Sydney. They are 14 hours ahead. So, it's late tomorrow afternoon over there. Forward to the Olympia. Oh, it's going to be awesome. It's going to be awesome. Monica Delgado de Mexico. Gracia, Graciao. Uh, Roberty Derk won the show without even being there. Derek wasn't in it. Never seen the hype on Leone physique. Yeah. Uh, you're not the only one. Um, who else said that? Uh, Ian Valier a couple years ago caught a lot of heat for saying that. What else we want to look at? No. Congrats to me guys. But I'm I'm Look, right now we're talking. Look, here's Rean on screen. Beautiful shape. I mean, Rean, look at that. He's just got a beautiful physique. It's a classic shape. Needs a little more biceps. Needs a little more chest. Quads could be a little fuller than that for sure. He's got an amazing back. Condition was very, very good for him. Could be a little better. I'd like to see more detail. Yeah, condition is is probably like a eight out of 10 as far as what I'd like to see from him. I I think he could come up with better better conditioning than that. There's only one guy out there. My favorite Rean faded would give him 10 grand. Well, I guess he's got Boss of Outlaw working with him, John. I think Boss of Outlaw knows what he's doing. Take on Nick at the top top five. Second call out. No, Cron's lifter. No, Cron's lifter. Top five. I don't see him doing worse than fourth. Uh I think top three at the Olympia is going to be in no particular order. Samson, Hottie, Derek, uh, and then I see Nick in fourth. But he could surprise us and do even better. Think he compares to hottie. Well, you haven't Nick's voice looks super tight. Strong shot from now. Anyone else win three New York pros? No. No. Never. Nick M. Yeah, he's his he's never going to have a small midsection, Mick. It's just never going to happen. It is what it is. Re looks great. Yeah, you know, he's getting some heat because he he was gone for a year and a half, a little over a year and a half. We didn't see him. He had all that time to improve. And I I see a little bit of improvement, but not a lot. The weak areas are still weak. I see a little bit more overall size. I I'd love to see Regan fuller. Those areas in particular that I that I talked about, the biceps, the chest, little more quad. From the back, he's amazing. That's one of the best rare doubles in the game right there. Will forever be mid tier, says MVP. Oof. Should Nick Walker get leaner for the Mr. Olympia? A little bit. Not much. I mean, I wouldn't want him to get lean leaner to the point he can't get much leaner than that, but to the point where he loses fullness and comes in stringy because that's how he lost the 2023 Arnold Classic to Samson Samson Dada. They went for conditioning. Him and his coach at the time, Matt Jansen, and they brought a more streamlined package. They were trying to bring his waist in and went for condition and it sort of backfired on them. So, that was Rean. Who else? We got the whole top five on Gilo. Kriso. Kriso, my man. I'm a big fan of Kriso. Yeah, I'm I'm critical. I'm critical of everybody. That's that's my job. I'm a critic. You know, we're here not to just say everybody looks perfect. We're here to say this is why so and so won. This is why so and so got second, third, and so on. Here's how they could be better. So, when I see someone like Kriso, and I do see some improvements, his hams are better than they used to be. He still needs more glutes. Back needs to be a little bit thicker. Uh, and the posing, obviously, the posing is something he really needs to work on, but condition is right on. I mean, I I think he's he's he's only getting better and better. You know, give the guy a chance. He's still fairly new. That that pose there is just it's I that might be a shoulder mobility issue right there because look, he cannot hold he can't he can't position both arms uh symmetrically there. He's trying he's trying hard. I mean to give up on the potential. That's it. No, I mean I don't like to give up on people. Eventually I kind of do, but I'm not going to give up on anyone just yet. Think he's just a monster and bring in great shape. Yeah. I mean, it's not pretty. He doesn't have a pretty physique. Let's get that straight right now. But good lord, it's impressive. Just so much muscle, you know. He doesn't have awful shape. He just doesn't have the prettiest shape of small waist. This was a great great uh debut. I thought he could have pulled out fifth. I haven't seen the scores, but I'm when I do, I'm very confident Ken here. Ken will be sixth place because I thought he had a good chance of getting ahead of Cassan, but he did not. So, this is Kennedy on Yan Wu. He was a North American champion 2023. I believe this was his pro debut. Beautiful shape, thick guy. I'd like to see better conditioning. Again, I'm critical. That's what I'm here for. Uh, not awful conditioning or else he wouldn't have been in that first call out and he was, but it could be a little better, a little tighter. I'd like to see a little bit more back thickness. You see those lower lats could be developed more. Upper back is really good. Nice and thick. Lower lats, they they're a work in progress, but he's just starting out. He's got plenty of time to get better and better. This version, Nick would have beaten Derek. I don't think he looked I don't think he looked better, but Steve says Steve's there, obviously. Steve Warrenberger, the promoter. He's uh one of the most experienced judges who's ever sat on a judging panel. So, if he says he looks better, I'll accept that. I'll believe it. Phil Ringground's very lazy. That's my opinion. I I have no comment. I don't know. I got my Nick Walker mutant shirt on. So, I don't know if he's lazy or not. I don't want to I don't want to agree with you because I don't know. Wrong. Camilo Castillo Paraka Brao as usual. So, Camilo Castillo, Camilo Castillo, I don't know how Camilo Castillo, I don't even know what he's talking about. You always come on. Great. Appreciate it. Thank you for watching, JB. I like, you know, I wouldn't wouldn't have a channel. I'm up over 9,000 subs. Appreciate that. I'm still growing the channel. Every view counts, every subscription counts, every like, every share. So, appreciate all those from you guys. Yeah, I feel Reagan can be better. I don't know if it's a laziness thing. Is he not willing to push the push the boundaries, go to extremes with with peeds? I don't know. Maybe that's the case. I'm just throwing that out there because I don't know if it's true or not. But I haven't seen a lot of improvement mass-wise. I thought with a year and a year and a half off from competing, that's a very long offseason. Uh well over a full year of offseason before he had to start prep for this. I thought we were going to see a little more size added to his frame than what we did. Telling you get second if his tan holds. No, he didn't get second. Uh, but he was close. He was close. Yeah, he was fourth. That's not that far up. He's pass. He's supposed to eat a muffin and talk boss out of him. Maybe the difference faded. I don't know why he faded. Some people have a real real problem keeping fullness on stage. If they're out there for more than 10, 15 minutes, they start fading. It's It's just one of those things. It's It's an individual thing. All right, so that's Kennedy. Take a look at ah Bonak, your runner up. Yeah, I know. He's got a thick waist. He gets a lot of [\h__\h] for it, but geez, Conqueror still looks pretty damn great, man. And I know Yeah, that one arm is bigger than the other arm. It's It's a symmetry issue. Still hits a lot of great shots. He's very impressive. Okay. Deserved or. Uh, that's AI don't know what you're saying there. Do I think Nick should snag that 140 paycheck for Dubai? No, Joe. I think he needs to shut it down right now and take a little break, let his body clean out, you know, uh, and start his prep for the Olympia in like a six weeks or so. But yeah, I if if you keep competing over and over again all year, he's going to burn out. Anybody, these are human beings we're talking about, you know, they have to use a good amount of peeds to prepare for these shows. They have to. It's just part of the sport. It's part of the look. And if he you keep doing that over and over, your body just gets beat up. It gets tired. Prep, just being on prep for that long, dieting and being in a caloric deficit and doing all that cardio. It's exhausting mentally, physically, it's a it's a real strain on the body. Monak looked really great there. 700 lb rip. That's a big dude. Chris's obliques makes his build wonky. Yeah. I mean, he doesn't have a a slender waist. Nick's waist is about as tight as it gets for mass monster weight. Yeah. I mean, he's Exactly. That's a good point there. He's a big big dude. He's a big dude. You don't pack that much mass on and keep a small waist. Thank you, JB. Appreciate that very much. JB Frell is in shape a man condition for Nick. I'd have to go back to what you previously said and I can't because these things are going so fast. Bob Chick has nick eighth at the Olympia. I I bet I bet Bob would change his tune right now. I bet he would. So that's Bonak. Who else we got on the good old? Ah, Sasan Herat, our fifth place finisher from UK. Again, I was wrong. He has competed twice this year previously. He was second at Detroit Pro to William Bonak. Second once again at the Fibo Pro in Cologne, Germany to Andrew Jax, who made a surprise appearance. We didn't know he was doing the show until the list came out. Cassan looked very good, but the condition was not at the level he had shown us at those other two shows, Detroit and FIBO. I believe had he been in better condition, he would have pulled ahead of Kriso, he would have pulled ahead of Rean for sure. I I I honestly believe that he's got a more complete, thicker physique, uh, better presentation. So, I I don't I don't know what happened. I don't know why his condition faded a little bit from those two shows, but again, just like I was saying, these guys are not they're not robots. They're human beings. And being being on a diet that long, being on gear that long, all these things take a toll on the body and the mind. So, it's it's not easy. It's not easy at all. All right. Well, that was him. I think that's probably it for the open guys here. I want to I want to show the couple of the other couple of the other winners. So, uh, that was open. Uh, we looked at that one. This is earlier. Ah, that was from nine hours ago. I don't want to show that. Uh, I'm going to go to uh go to a couple routines. Go to a couple routines from uh the full routine. I know the Kriso stuff. Crystal, the Gilo stuff is uh the gold standard, but I like to look at some of the some of the stuff from YouTube. Don't know who that is. Share this instead. Yeah, I'm all over the place. So, here's Bonax routine. I mean, he is the runner up. Had it not been for Nick Walker, he would have won this show, but he's already Olympi qualified. He won Detroit. He's all set. Don't worry about William. He's all set. But, you know, age 42, I believe he's been competing as a pro for 12 years roughly. I'm just making an educated guess there from pulling that out of my ass. Best luck for Williams probably right here in Boston. I'm a little south of Boston, but Boston Pro 2022, which was one week after he had taken a very controversial runner up to Brandon Curry at the Arnold Classic in 2022. Uh, but Bonik looked fantastic. He still looks very good. His waist is a little bit thicker than what I remember back in those days. Um, he does have that issue where one arm and you can see one one side of his lat is a little bit smaller than the other now. Yeah, you can see that left side. I mean, these are things I don't know what it is. It's nerve damage. Could be an injury. Whatever it is, you know, this these people who train for decades and compete in dozens of shows, you know, their bodies take a heavy heavy beating. So, the fact that he can still look this good, he's not as good as he was a few years ago, three years ago at Boston Pro. Again, that was a spectacular version, but he still looks very, very good. Close enough to that to still be taking second place here to Nick. And, you know, second place at Detroit, I'm sorry, winning the Detroit Pro second place. I'm all over the place. That is not Chriso. It's not Oh, there's Kenny. Let's look at Kennedy's routine. Great pro debut for this guy. He's he's put on some very serious size since he turned pro. So, congrats to him. He's only getting going to get better and better. This is his first first time on a pro stage. Condition not exactly where it needs to be, but you know what? He's not that far off. It's a learning curve. He'll get better and better. I have no doubt about that. Bright future here for Kennedy. hate murdering people's names, but Anyanmu is what I'm going to say. I'll leave this up while we get to some more comments from you guys. I do want to get to some of the other divisions. Nick success brings out the worst of his haters. Well, you know what's funny, Raymond, is I think a lot of Nick haters have become Nick fans over these past couple weeks after he took second in uh pit at Pittsburgh to Derek. Uh, a lot of fans I think they jumped on the Nick bandwagon. People had that have been calling him Nick talker and looks like a fridge and you know just talking [\h__\h] about him now seeing that he you know I think the best thing that could have happened for him as far as building more of a fan base was to lose that to lose that Pittsburgh pro to Derek because that brought such a sense of outrage. So many people felt that was a miscarriage of justice and he was robbed. You heard it all over so much so much of social media that weekend and for the following few days was all about Nick was robbed. Nick was robbed. So he turned a lot of haters into fans of that show. But Reigns smashed Nick what Nick Walker's ex-wife. I don't know if that's true. I don't know if that's true. Just cuz you say it. What's up more? What is that emoji? I don't know. Kriso's muscle quality is unmatched. He just needs to bring up his back and posing. It's over. He's getting better and better, guys. Kriso had shoulder surgery a few months ago. It's Yeah. I mean, it was obviously didn't hinder his training because he's as big now as he ever was. Maybe better bigger. So, it didn't it didn't stop him from coming back physique-wise, but maybe he really can't hit he can't does not seem to be able to hit that rear double bicep properly. Good. Oh, boy. Sam cheese. Nick versus Bob. Take it. Bonak second. Yeah. Uh, so when I take your comment away, you can see the uh the results. Nick Bonak, Kriso, Rean Sassan, that was your top five. Nick Walker says, "Bid, why does Rean Lat look so small from the front?" That's a good question. He doesn't have small lats. It's probably because he doesn't open up the pose more and lean back a little, which is what you would do if you want to really show lats from the front. Oh, is that the end already? Jeez. And then we go to like second call out, guys. I'm going to get to some other divisions in a minute, guys. To me, Rean looks kind of the same once he diets down. I I don't see I don't see like much added size from a year and a half ago. Nick Rock's last two weeks have been better than anything Bob. I mean, Bob never competed as an open pro. No, I'm That's so That's so wrong. I'm sorry. He did. He did. He was I think he took second or third at United Champions, but the only show he ever won is what I meant to say was something I think called Masters Pro World or Masters USA or not USA. I think it was called Masters World. world. Ken was huge. Think Chris has smaller obliques. Well, yeah, but what's he going to do about that? It's his waist is a little wide. I don't think it's a muscular muscularity issue like the oblique muscles are overdeveloped. I think that's just the the width of his hipbones. And what are you going to do about that? I don't think any of these guys are lazy to be at the stage. Exactly. Willing to take the next step, whatever that set may be, to hit the next level. Yeah. Let's say it's using more gear. Oh, I don't I don't remember this. See, I I screwed you guys out of this one. So, there was a comparison. between Kriso and Rean at the end there to see who was going to be third and who was going to be fourth. Oh, there were more comparisons. Oh, I'll just leave this up. I I totally glossed over this. Well, you know what? I think this kept going and going. No, it didn't. This video ended during the pose down. This isn't the This isn't the stream. This is a guy a guy's YouTube channel. Some fan Lazy. Mr. O is gonna be exciting. Mr. O is always exciting, but this year is gonna be nuts. This year is going to be insane. Bob never won anything. He did win. He actually did win a pro show. It was a Mast's pro show. He never won an open pro show. Nick, too many steroids. I mean, how do you know he uses more than everybody else? It's an old man. Bonnet gives us all hope. Yeah. I mean, it's funny that 42 years old and would be considered an old man, but yeah, compared to like, you know, someone who's in their 20s still, obviously. And these guys are Rean's only 31. I think Kriso's 31 or 32. He's not very old either. Bonak will steal show if he keeps competing. Uh, well, I mean, he's already won a show this year. He's already qualified for the Olympia. I don't know if he's going to keep going after this just to keep keep trying to get more prize money or what, but he's already got his Olympic qualification. There are two more shows coming right up in the following two weekends. We have uh next weekend. Next weekend is uh Cali Pro in California, obviously. And then Legion Sports, I think it's in Reno, Nevada. Kitten, I think you mean Krzo needs a darker tan and posing coaching. Yeah, we we agree. This girl doesn't need a tan. She looks awesome with that nice milky white skin and those tattoos. Look at her. The early crackdown live streams is YouTube on YouTube. We're getting shut down quickly. Yeah. Third and fourth. Third and fourth. Uh, I got to I'd already lost your comment. Uh, it was right here. Kriso Rean Sasher. The background washes out terribly. Kristo needs to make time to improve on his posing. So much mass display. Yeah, I agree. Blick gets second. Nick will never be eighth. Oh, yeah. He won't be eighth. I don't see him doing worse than fifth. at the very worst this year and I could see him doing fourth or third, maybe better. Bonax legs are amazing his age. Yeah, you don't see too many 42 year old pros with Jason Ganova. Dexter Jackson also gradually regressed with age. Yeah, at the very end Dexter was still winning shows. Uh but he wasn't as good as he had been a few years before that. Very few people every every pro bodybuilder has a prime a peak. It can be anywhere from, you know, maybe just one show they looked awesome at to sometimes they can hold that prime or peak for anywhere from two to five years. That's that's a long long time to hold a prime. Um, but past that, you you can't sustain that peak physique forever. Eventually, father time gets the best of you. You get nerve damage, you get injuries, you know, your body just stops responding to the gear as well. It's it's it could be any number of things. Why do the judges reward? Because he's got a lot of great things going on. That was the final call out there, I guess, between Nick and Bonak. Rean fourth. I keep having to put that. Rean was fourth. Yes. When say when I show when I show your comments, you can't see the banner. You can only see so much on screen at once. He definitely has friends, but good for him. I don't think Bonak has any particular particular political poll or anything like that. I really don't. Ken is also a great guy. He's often on Besidey's podcast. I don't know that. Did the judge forget to judge the back poses? Haha, because they were because Kristo has the worst back presentation. Uh, Steppon, his uh Steppon is actually the village in Ukraine where my grandmother came from. Step, it's about 50 miles northwest of Kiev. Anyway, um, his weirdo bicep is awful. I agree. How tall is Nick Walker? So, he's 5'7 and he's right around 260 on stage. Final placings. Yeah, like I said, when it Oh, god, I missed. Every time I click off, I lose I lose my place in the uh Yeah. So, those are the final placings, but when I show your comments, I lose that banner. So, anytime Chris will come extra hard for finals, Rean Fade, that's what people are saying. It's kind of hard to tell from the stream, but yeah, I think that's what happened. Nick is a Dorian of not great looking body, one of the best back. I'd say Dorian had better shape and structure than Nick. That's why Dorian was six-time Mr. Olympia. Great interview with Dorian on this channel. If you go back a couple videos, by the way, it's doing it's performing well, really well. Not because I'm such a great interviewer uh or anything like that, but because Dorian is just freaking fascinating. He's the man. Anyway, yeah. Uh yeah, Nick. Nick is not Dorian. Good to see you, Ron. Once I was I appreciate you going live. I look forward to this. Sorry, I deal with pronunciation police. Uh, I got I get [\h__\h] on for a lot of things. It's okay, Zion. So, here was the post down. Chris's butt looks bigger. No, I I disagree since we're fixated on butt on his butt. Not too bad. Third place for the worst posing since Paul Dilllet. Talking about Kriso. Yeah, Paul Dlet was an awful poser as well. Awful. You can see on Black Trunks. Uh, this was the finals. It's It's over. It's all over. It's all over. This is uh just so you know this is not my video or this is not from the stream. This is from this guy's YouTube channel. So I am not stealing the stream here. This is not the stream. This is someone else's video. So it's secondhand. Will Nick Mick to deal with that injury? Will anybody? You never know. Train. These guys train very hard, very heavy. Their muscles are way too big for their tendons. So, you just never know. You never know. Uh, I want to go to uh I want to go to some other divisions. Why don't we go to classic? Uh, so classic. I want to go to the final final comparison for classic. Here it is. because we've only been talking about uh open guys and classic's a great I love the classic division as well. So, so let me set it up properly for you guys. Okay, so uh gosh, I'm going to lose I'm going to lose my place there, but I'm going to have to do it. These were the classic results. It was Terrence Ruffin again over Jose Manuel. Oh, it's Manuel. Sorry, I misspelled it. Munoz. So, I'm not gonna You want me to fix it now? I bet I don't want to get in trouble from you guys, so I better fix it. Edit. Edit. It is Manuel, not Manuel. I should know this. I'm uh married to a Spanish Cuban woman. I shouldn't be messing up Spanish names like that. There should be a till day over the end as well. But anyway, uh these were your results. Terrence Ruffin, your winner again, just like in Pittsburgh. Jose Manuel Monosta, 23 year old with that crazy back and crazy condition known as Josema Beast on Instagram. Second place, third place, Richard Naggi. Fourth place, Murak Khan. Fifth place, Don Carter. Uh, I'm assuming Dom's not up there on stage. I think on the left is Morat. On the right, that is Richard Nagi. Yeah, number 78. So left to right we were looking at Richard I'm sorry Murat Khan Jose Manuel Moos Terrence Ruffen and Morat Khan. No. Yeah. Morak Khan. Sorry guys. I'm all all over the place, aren't I? As usual. Okay. I got to get back to your comments. Ah, here we go. Thank you, man. Todd McWol, thank you. Thank you. Kriso is working with Lucas Lidle on his posing while he's in Europe. Yes, so Lucas is over in Czech Republic. Uh Kriso's in Slovakia. Uh, I don't know how far away those are, but they can't be that far. That whole area is, you know, compared to the US. It's probably like the equivalent of driving a couple states apart in the USA. Anyway, he's working. I think he'll continue to get better. Did Rean fade in finals? That's what everyone's saying. I'd have to really just really look at it close to know. Kriso gets hardest to place in swap. I think I think I don't think it even mattered. I think Kriso probably had him all along to be honest with you. Um, I think Kriso had him on size. nice he had on condition. Uh Rean does have better overall shape and structure. That's god-given. It's not like he did anything special for that. Was there a final comparison with these guys? Oh, there's the awards. The awards. There's a pose down. Do they have a pose down? They must have had a pose down. Yeah. Let me leave that up while we're talking. Classic pose down. Yep. Okay. Back to your comments, guys. Back to your comments. Black to salos. Saludos. Jose Osco Moreno. Name of the goth chick on stage. I don't know, but she is smoking. Smoking, as Jim Carrey would say. We all have our types. I like uh jacked, tatted, dark hair. Kind of like my wife. I just described my wife as well. Bonic is the man. Consistent. Always a top contender. Much respect to the older bodybuilders. Yeah. I mean, he's still at it. He's still top of his game. He's still mixing it up with these guys. Obviously, if Nick Walker had won last week in Pittsburgh and Derek had decided he was all done instead of moving on, then Bak would have won this, right? Yeah. Yeah, Neil, that's the only they're not going to do it for the uh I don't know what you mean by honest. So, they do weigh-ins for for classic uh for I think the men's physique guys have to weigh in now, too, because they have a weight cap. Um and 212 obviously they weigh in to make 212 pounds. Feel like Rean looked the same over the past three years. Yeah, I don't see a lot of improvement in Rean. I don't I don't I think Rean was a little better than Kriso. Obviously, they were close because they had that comparison between them where when they do that, that means it's very close. There was a comparison toward the very end of the confirmation round where it was Kriso and Rean alone on stage together, just those two. So, that to me says that the judges had them very, very close and they needed to get another good look at them to to make up their minds. Bonak is Nick and Simpose. Yeah, Bonak's got some crazy shots. His crab most muscular that he does is his side chest, his side try. Those are really good shots for Mike. Milky white skin. Yeah, I'm all I'm all about. I like that look. Nick's back looks phenomenal. Seems to be losing control of the midsection again. Yeah, when he gets tired, it's when he's getting winded, gassed, as they say. The Gu seems like they didn't judge back heavily on this card. It's It's never about It's never about judging one body. It's not like the judges have a cabal like some media. All right, listen up, guys. At this show, we're going to really look at judges. Come on, Ron. Dave would have run 12 commercials by now. That's Dave Palumbo. I don't know. Well, I don't have any supplements to sell, unfortunately. I don't know how much has to do with shoulder injury. Look at his riddle from three years ago. There's no difference for Okay, so I guess Kzo Well, you know what? Maybe three years ago he was because his shoulder's not injured anymore. It was repaired. He had uh I think it was like a torn cuff and a torn lab room. I don't know. He had it all repaired. Everything's fine. Uh so maybe it's just a mobility issue. I've been impressed with boss's coaching. I don't know. See, people turn on coaches so fast. When a coach has people doing very, very well, everyone's on his jock. Everyone says, "This is the greatest coach." Like a month ago, two months ago, everybody was saying, "Boss, boss of Outlaw, Steel, he's the greatest. He's better than Honey. He's better than Aceto. But if a couple of his guys slip at a show, h sucks. He's taking on too many clients." He does have a lot of clients. I don't know if it's too many for him. Nick looks great. What a bodybuilder should look like. Why people [\h__\h] on Nick? I must have strong minds set after all the hate. I agree. All right. So soon as Terrence gets his award here, I'm Yeah, we're gonna I'm gonna take a look over to 212. 212 guys do not get enough love. You think Nick K wing d I think he win. Um I don't think he's going to win this year personally. Maybe I'll be wrong. You know, people have surprised us and won Olympias. Like I remember when the year Shawn Rhoden won, nobody had him picked to win. Nobody. Uh, and there's a few other examples you guys can probably think of, but it would be it would be a long shot for Nick to win because he's up against three previous champions. All three previous the past three winners and we're talking about Samson, Derek, and Hottie. They're all going to be up there. We know Hottie's going to be at his very best. He's had all year to focus just on the Olympia. I don't see Hottie slipping at all. I see Hottie bringing an amazing package. I would not be surprised if Hottie gets his title back. as crazy as flow is a lot to be desired. Terrence definitely needs to put a better shine on his body. Yeah. Final pose for Terrence there. Yeah, Terrence did look a little like a matte finish. Not really shiny, but problem is if with when he's he's got very dark complexion. If if he's too shiny, then you're going to be blinded by the blind the lights reflecting off of it. Coming in nerve dam. So true. More common people to think. I mean, that's what ended Ronnie's career. That's I think that's partly what ended Jay's career. Uh it's it's a very real thing. You know, the nerves are important, man. Uh let's go to I want to go to 212. This is again, this is not the stream. This is this guy's channel, Balder, whatever his name is. But I like to I want to give the uh 212 guys some love here because it is a great division. You know, I'm a good friend of Jose Raymond, who was one of the founding fathers of the division. I'm a friend fle I love Flex Lewis guy Kevin English we had some really Eduardo Korea we had some amazing amazing people in that division and we still do I mean Keon is an Keon and Sean Clarita they're great champions so was this the first call out no this was not the first call out this was just uh when the people when they all come out originally to get assessed this was the first call out So, let's go full screen. Uh, so now I'm going to put up I'm going to I'm going to lose I'm going to lose my place in the comments, but I'm going to leave this up for now. 212 results. So, Francisco Barios Vil, he's sick of the left. Angel Calderon is right next to him in the blue trunks. Uh, Cody Drobot is right there in the green trunks all the way in the left. And on the right that is Luis Eststez. He spells a little bit differently than uh Alio Estz which Charlie Sheen that was that's his real last name just like their dad Martin Sheen. His real name was Estavis. Changed it for Hollywood. Anyway, this was your 212 division. They all looked fantastic. I'm going to leave them up while we're goth chicks in Okay. Who needs to make the most improvements to win the Mr. Olympia top six. Uh, I'd say Krzo. He's never been top six yet. So, uh, I don't know what Nick can really improve on. I mean, he knows how to get in shape. His structure is not going to change. He's always going to have a little bit of a of a wide waist. So, I don't really know what Boss has too many clients. Think he's just getting started for Yeah. Let's not forget, guys. We're talking about a runner up in classic, Jose Manuel. Manuel Monos, who is only 23 years old, same age as Sam Sullik. However, he won a couple shows last year at age 22, competed in his first Mr. Olympia last year. Josema at 22 took sixth place, top six. I remember we had Bumstead first, uh, Summer Mike Summerrfeld in second. So, very, it was a very strong top six. And he took sixth place at his first Olympia. So, that kid is he's going to get better and better. He's got some some work to do, but he's got plenty of time to do it. Time is on his side. Terrence won't make top five at the Olympia. I I disagree, J.R. I think Terrence is going to win the Olympia. Nasser was robbed. Nasser als Terrence looks sharp and a pro. Do you think this version crack top three? He needs to be a little better condition. I would work on the back thickness a little bit, but uh yeah, Terrence will make Let's see. I lost what I was saying. Who knew who the goth chick on stage was? Actually, for research purposes, you know, I'd like to know, too. Just just a follower. I like to follow attractive women. It doesn't mean anything. I'm not messaging them or anything. Just men are visual creatures. We like to look tall guy looks insane. What is her guys are hilarious? You crack me up. We're all the same. We're all horn dogs, man. Oh, that was the end. Okay, I got to go back back to some routines. He said this was the finals, but I don't think it was because I don't see one routine there. I do not, man. I'm gonna end up going back to the open. I'm gonna go back to the open. What the heck? Why not? Eventually go to Instagram. I know people must have footage on the Instagrams of uh of the actual win, Nick Wayne getting his award and all that cuz the video we were looking at did not show that. He it ended right before that. I don't know his channel might have got cut off. Yeah, it's it's when people say, "Who's going to be streaming the show for free?" That I I immediately start to worry because if you're streaming a pay-per-view, all they have to do, anybody connected with the promotion of that event, in this case, New York Pro, they contact YouTube and say, "These people are they're streaming my pay-per-view on YouTube, they're getting ad money, and they're keeping people from paying me $30 per pay-per-view. So, they're losing money because of that person." Uh, and I know people love it. YouTube viewers love it because you get to watch the video for free, the pay-per-view for free, right? But these people are taking a tremendous chance. That's why I will never do it unless the stream is free and I have a link up there the whole time so that you can go to their channel. But, you know, I'm not stealing anything. The stream is free. You can ste still see all their advertisers and sponsors and everything like that. So, but that's why I will I won't do that because it's it's a very easy way to get your channel taken down and I don't want to lose my channel. What's up, Heisenberg? Goth check Instagram. Still nobody knows. Maybe somebody will come up with it. He sucks. Sanchez, you hate everybody. Rean is doing great with boss. He looks as good as he looked like a year and a half ago. I don't see him any better. Monica's with boss and he's been great. Yeah. No, no coach hits a home run every time. No coach is 100% successful with every client at every show. Who won New York Pro men's bodybuilding open? Uh, let's go. Nick Walker won. I thought everybody knew that. Let's go back to the comments. Oh, I lost it. I lost it. Oh, it was way down. Terrence looks sharp. Do you think this version crack? Uh, who won New York Pro? Well, there's your answer. Shukla, Branov, Nick Walker one. There's your top five. Okay. Nick, William Bonak, Michael Kriso, Kazanic, Ruben Grimes, and Susan Herat. Coach Debbie Andrea is the goatus goes. I don't know who that is. Is that Is that who's on was on stage? Uh, [\h__\h] coach. What do you mean? First of all, retard's a bad word. Ali, I don't know if you realize that. Hedi needs to make it here first. Might be difficult. You're talking about Hottie, not Hedi. Uh, Maria Marino, but I know what you're saying. Uh, travel bans, uh, it's hard for people from that country, Iran, to get visas to the United States. However, Hottadi Chupan is an employee of an American company, Eva Nutrition. They are his sponsor and they do employ him. He gets a paycheck from them, I assume, every month or week or whatever. So, he can get here on a different type of visa, a work visa. I'm not saying it's easy, but he's he's made it here every year for the past seven years in a row, eight years in a row now. Thank you, man, Stephen. That's I don't know if that's true, but I appreciate the the comment. Keon switch open would be top three with Derek out. Uh yeah, I mean I think when Keon puts a little more size on, I don't think he needs a lot more size. I was saying 20 pounds. Now I'm thinking maybe more like 10 to 15. He doesn't have enough size right now to to win the Olympia. I believe with a little more size, say 15, let's just call it 15 out of just for the hell of it because you remember look at Derek was 212 champ. He became Mr. Olympia. Hottie was a great 212 competitor. Never won the Olympia. He's uh done very well in the open obviously. Nick already beat Samson and tie with Derek. Uh Nick hasn't beat Samson. Nick has never beat Samson actually yet. Oh wait, that's not true. 2022 Olympia, I think uh Nick was third and Samson was fifth. So that's the last time that Nick beat Samson. Samson has beat Nick many more times than opposite. Keon switch will be top three easy at the Olympia. Oh, he's he's fantastic. I believe it's going to be meet Derek and it's going to be You think Derek and Nick are going to be one and two? It might be. We never know. You never know who has the best shape. Uh, I liked Ben FTO, but Keon definitely has a lot more roundness and fullness to his muscles than Francis did. So, based on that alone, uh, I would give it to Keon. And I was a huge Ben FTO fan. Oh, going to be okay. Same as freaking gray hair. Does he really at age 23? I don't know if that's true or not. Mike Summerfell will look too mighty next to Terrence. He's definitely bigger. He's definitely bigger, but that doesn't necessarily mean he's going to beat him. What do I know about Rean? I don't know who you're who you're talking to. You're asking me over Comcast. How you doing? Oh, is that is that uh Oh, that's uh God. You see, I'm getting tired already. I'm an old I'm an old man. It's 10:38 p.m. here. It's Leo Leo Mayorhoffer. That's his podcast. Leo was in the show. I believe he was top 10. I didn't see the final scores. this top 10 are probably one place. Oh, okay. So, we almost made it. Well, you look great, Leo. You know, you're not as genetically gifted as some of these guys, but you know what? You've you've done amazing things with your genetics and you're doing what most of us can only dream of. Some people do anything people streaming from other country. That's not true, Smalls. No, they can. YouTube doesn't care where you are in the world. YouTube is international. You know, we do have a ton of viewers, YouTube viewers that are Americanbased, and YouTube is an America, a US-based company, but that doesn't mean you could be in Brazil or China or whatever, and get away with murder with YouTube. They they don't care where you are. Great feedback. Work on his lat poses, both front and back, and work on the side tricep, side chest pose, get his back wider, twist forward. Okay, these hands are ripped up. What? You want to invite me? Invite. Oh. Oh, you want to be on the show? I don't even I don't even know how to do that. Hop on your stream. Uh, okay. I could do it. Yeah, I could do that. Let me do that. I do invite. Invite. All right, Leo. I'm going to send it to you on Instagram uh on your overcome podcast. So Leo, I'm sending this link to you in your messages right now. Paste. Send. All right, Leo. The link is in your The link is in your now. Uh, okay. Done. All right. So, Leo might be joining us in a moment here. Nick looks better here than his last show. Who's up on screen now? A lot of guys. Where am I in that video? By the way, that video has about 7 minutes left, so I can leave it going, leave it running. Yeah, Lou, if you're still there, I sent you a link to join this this live stream in your Overcome podcast Instagram messages. Who's competing in Cali? Don't know. The list isn't out yet. We will know usually Monday afternoon, late afternoon, they release it. Nick with the Dynasty 3Ws. Yeah, pretty damn great. I don't know what that means. Mike Serret. Kean zero pounds to win the O. I I don't think Keon as he is right now could win the Olympia. I don't think Keon as the way he looks now looks fantastic. I don't see him beating Derek Hottie or Samson. Certainly not Samson does not have the mass yet. yet being the key word to push those guys to push them for the win. What do you put muscle on Kon? Oh, everywhere. I mean, it's not an individual body part. Uh, Leo, I think he needs just overall mass to be Mr. Olympia. I mean, Derek had to get bigger. When Derek was 212, he wasn't winning. There was no way the two 212 version 212 version of Derek Lensford was winning Mr. Olympia. That's why he took off off seasonason. He put on like another 20 pounds of muscle easily. 20 20 to 25 pounds more mass and he came back and he won the Mr. Olympia. Well, he took second took second place to hot and then he came back next year and he won it. Bar shake things up if he gets a visa. I that's not looking good. I don't know about him getting a visa. Will you compete against Andre Du overcome cast? He was in classic. There he is. Awesome. What's up, Leo? Mayor Hafa, got the professional setup there in New Jersey. Not really. I'm in my hotel room. No, it's I mean, it looks pretty damn good for a hotel room setup. So, uh yeah, I'll ask you about classic, but I want to get your take on the open because, you know, were you there in the audience, I assume, watching the open, guys? Yeah. Um I was like amazed by Regan and uh then his tan came off and it was over. But from the back shots, Rean against Nick, I'm like, "Well, I might give this to Rean actually." I was like, "Whoa." Based on the back based on the back shots, you mean? Yeah. Overall, actually, too, I was like leaning towards Rean. And then his collar came off and it was all gone. Like Chris Aceto texted me that was the first uh the fastest from plays one to fifth drop I've ever seen. So, you're saying you you actually, Leo, thought Rean had a chance of beating Nick today? Yeah. In the beginning, I I did. I'm gonna disagree with you. How dare you? Yeah, but I mean, it's all Aceto Aceto texted me back and said, "Fastest crash in sport history, looked like a winner, then fifth." And he turned out to be fourth then. But that's what Chris said, too. Like in the beginning you were like everyone was like [\h__\h] Jesus the guy looks amazing and then somehow yeah how does attemp you guys are spray tanned it doesn't come off that easily you shouldn't be able to sweat it off he's sweating a lot and he's allergic to the uh glaze they use so he uses some other oil and maybe that's the thing I told him uh uh to try um hairspray so put a hairspray Okay. Like as your least coat, it's very Yeah, it's super sticky and then when it when you sweat it, you it runs over it. So like like Aquinet or something like that is what you're talking about, right? Any hairspray just Wow. I mean it's if it's good enough to to lock your hair into like a shellac, a shell, it should hold the color in, right? Yeah. And that's a good I've never heard of that. Sas sas was I think at his all-time best but just placed fifth. Sas the comp. Yeah, he was a little soft. If you look If you look, he was I'll show. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let me show you. No, no, no, Ron. Ron, then you have a second where he didn't where he didn't flex. When he flexed his glutes, they were like, whoa. Well, they need to keep flexing him. Let's look. Take a look at Sass. Where'd he go? Yeah. Um especially in final at finals he was really good. So this is probably from judging what we're looking at. I'm guessing Herati the front I thought he looked just as good as he did uh in in Detroit and in Germany. But let's see when he goes to the side. Maybe I'm wrong. I've been I've been wrong, you know, only 10 or 20 thousand times before. I mean, we're all wrong all the time because we if we predict predict stuff like we can't predict who's going to be 100%. It's always dude, if anyone says like, "Oh, I got it right." It's like, come on, bro. Like, what are the odds? Like, some guy came in 100% that never is usually always like soft and then the other guy who's always shredded comes in soft. Like, this is not something you can't predict. I think I think when we do our prediction shows and stuff, all of us YouTube experts, whatever the hell we are, I think we're we try to give everyone the benefit of the doubt that they're going to be at their absolute best conditionwise. They'll be full. They'll be shredded. You never see everyone show up the way you want them to. It's just not humanly possible. Things go wrong. But then everyone would always predict Cedric, like back in the day, Cedric McMillan will win. Yeah. But but we predicted him not to win because we knew he most of the time he was like 85. So I I think if it's very consistent being on or off, we always factor that in. So and there were some there were some people here's an example from from 212 Samir Trudy. I've been waiting for this guy waiting and waiting for him to show up for like 10 years. Exactly. And when is it gonna happen? I hate to say I've given up, but if he hasn't shown up the way we want him to look yet, I don't think it's going to happen. And I don't know why, but some people just never get their [\h__\h] together with condition. And it's so weird because he runs around all year in good condition. He doesn't get fat and then has to peel everything off. He's already not far away and then he just doesn't close it up enough. Like I'm like, what? Yeah. Do you see Bonak? Do you see a big difference in his lats? That left side looking a lot significantly smaller. A little bit. I saw some. Yeah, but he posed crooked a few times too. Yeah, like it was a little off. Back poses great, but I don't get why he just won't get his his app and thigh correctly. He always blows out his midsection from the side. He always has a little turtle and and the abs won't come in. I don't get why. I don't know what the I've been showing the wrong D. I haven't even been showing the right tab this whole time. Son of a [\h__\h] All right. Yeah, we were talking about Bonak and everyone. I thought that was all up on screen. I'm a dope. So, yeah, I'm old. I can't stay up late. Yeah, his arm that arm is definitely smaller than the other arm. I mean, what would you say was Bonak's best look from what you recall? I think he always looks pretty comparable and the light's always a little different. It's It's not much different. like his I've seen his glutes like super duper chiseled and now he's like a little softer than that but he's always pretty good in shape. Yeah. Like the shape is always like good but not like boom crazy chiseled like he has been sometimes. Yeah. But I think he's still very very good. He's still probably like 90% of what he was a few years ago. This is not the guy that won two Arnold Classics and was second at the Olympia and won the Boston Pro and he's won a good amount of pro shows. But but but there comparison pictures with 2019 where he looks way smaller in 2019. So I don't know. I would I would want to see him side by side because in those shots it looks like he's bigger now. I can't I can't I don't really recall, but I just saw those shots and I was like shocked. Like his legs from the side in 2019 look like so much smaller. Could have been posing too in this like comparison. I don't know. Yeah, I think this is pro I I honestly think this is his last year competing just like last year. The whole year I felt like Bumpstead was going to retire and he did. I I think this is it for Bonak. That's why he's hitting all these shows because why else would I think Yeah, I think someone said that today. I don't think he's mention that today. Yeah. I mean, it wouldn't surprise me. He's had a hell of a run. But it's crazy. Look, like Nick is like 30 and he's like 45 or something. So, he's 42. Nick is 31 now. Okay. And you look like they them next to each other. Yeah. And Bon's skin and everything looks so clean and fresh. And Nick looks so chiseled, grainy, but old from like especially from the back. Here, you can't see it that much. But if you see them in reality next to each other, Nick has this Nick has is great. Like don't get me wrong. He just has this skin texture, this grainyish look from a Mast's competitor, essentially, especially when you look at the legs here from the side and such. that looks like way older and bonag looks so fresh and clean. So fresh clean. It's it's it's not like leathery skin, but it's it is a skin texture thing. And it does come across in the video, but like you know, like Bob Chick says, you got you had to be there. You know, you know, you know, and I know when you're there in person, especially if you're up really close, you see things that the the cameras just can't pick up. Uh for whatever reason, because you're looking at it in three dimensions, I think is the main reason. Yeah. Yeah. Let's take a look at uh But Nick, I think that overall it's okay. It was was okay results. What is this? This is a guy that everyone's talking about, Kzo. Oh, I tell you something. I posed with him together and Steve because I I I was like posing. I'm like, "Okay, can I pose with you?" I just wanted to see what I look like next to him. It didn't even look that horrible. But dude, Steve, Steve, it took Steve like minutes to get one pose right. Wow. This guy. And Steve was like, "You pose like shit." And Kzo and he was like, "You got to you got to practice every day now. 45 minutes at least." And then he said and Kriso said um to his defense, the stupidest thing ever. Oh, my gym has just uh front mirrors. And see like Steph was like, "Okay, you can buy one for $10, bro. Yeah, buy another one." I mean, anybody who competes, if you if you have any ambition of doing well, you need to get yourself another mirror because I find that especially at the amateur level, you should never see that at the pro level. people not hitting their back double and their rear lat spread completely wonky, messed up because they they didn't they never saw their back while they were posing. So, they're just kind of assuming. Sometimes that can happen because sometimes you warm up and and your back feels weird and it can happen. But, but Kris with Kriso, it just happens every freaking time like in every shot. But he was a bit little bit better. I gota I got to give him that. like he posed better than when I posed with him and Steve, but the back shots are still horrible. Like he's still crunch like honking over like and he should you pick his chest up and and just your elbows to the front, buddy. What are you doing? And outside. Why do you crunch him inside? I bet he he I bet one reason why he also has a little problem with his back with is he can't do pull downs correctly. Huh? I think his pull downs are all romboids and rear delts. Wow. You know these people that pull down like this all the time. Yeah. So like like elbow back instead of elbow forward like this. I bet my life on that Grizzo doesn't put his elbows forward when he pulls down. Wow. No, I believe it. That makes sense. Do you think his inability to hit the rear double anywhere near correctly is something to do with a mobility issue? because he had the injuries repaired surgically. That shouldn't be an issue. Clearly, he was able to train fine because look, he got huge again. It didn't stop him from putting the mask back on. But I think his back poses are worse than they've ever been and they were never great. I don't think so because like he was able to if you just stand next to him and do everything for him. I gota give a shout out to this guy. This is from He's from uh he's in Florida now, but he's a classic pro. I don't know if you know Anthony Ventosa from Stoton, Mass. I remember seeing him when he was in high school working at the grocery store and said, "Kid, you're going to be a you should compete. You could be a pro." He's like, "Really? You think so?" And he is. He's a pro now. Nice. Yeah. What else What else we want to look at? Yeah. I mean, chiropractors and and massage therapists that know what they're doing are always great, you know, to maybe you have something like totally tightened up or in the wrong spot or that's blocked, stuff like that. I'm wondering if anyone's got footage up of the actual win because I haven't seen this. So, you you're you're a YouTuber, so you know this. You can't put uh you can't live stream these shows, these pay-per-views safely. you'll get you'll get your channel. You're you're taking a big chance. And somebody said, "Well, these foreign people, they don't have to worry about it." Like, dude, YouTube doesn't give a [\h__\h] if you're in USA or out out of Sabba. They don't care. If they get a report on your channel, you're done. So, Nick said that he's come like he uh he kind of announced that he's back to win the mutant is back to win the Olympia. Yeah, that's what he said in the end when he won. though. I mean, oh yeah, that's Yeah, that's what it says there, right? See? Yeah. Oh, yeah. But I mean, some people will say he's delusional. Let me ask you, does he have a chance of beating Samson? Derek, he almost beat Derek last week, but what about Hottie? Hottie's had a whole year to just do nothing but train his ass off and focus on this show. Well, he needs he needs them not to be at 100%. But it's not it's not it's not impossible, you know. Oh, Cormier agrees with you about uh Kriso's back training mishaps, midsection needs control. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, Nick Nick's midsection only seems to be an issue once he's getting tired, which, you know, who everyone gets tired after a while. And when you're the top guy, when you're up for the win, you're going to be compared a lot. So, I don't know what he's going to do about that. But it is an issue. It it's it it probably cost him that show last week. Something cost him that show last week. It wasn't politics. It was one judge. One judge who we don't know who they're the one that tipped the scales by one point after and I mean we we know we know um that Tyler and Steve weren't aligned. So yeah, they both said they had him winning. So No, no, no. Steve No. Steve had uh had Derek winning. Oh, Steve had Derek winning. It was Tyler had Nick winning. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, but if if it was politics, Derek would have had a perfect score, judging finals. It would have been a clean sweep and they could have given any number of reasons, uh, excuses or whatever you want to call it, but they didn't. And it was very close and Nick almost had him, but, you know, then Nick's Nick's got a rematch coming up in October. You know, I think if if Nick had beat him, it would have been one one crazy story. Wow. how he beat Derek. Let's see what happens to the Olympia. But even this, tell me if you agree with this, Leo. I think losing to Derek was the best thing that could have happened for Nick's career and his fan base. I think he made a million new fans or more because of that. Agree or disagree? Um, I don't know if I agree because if he would have won that would have been huge. So yeah, it would it was it was definitely not bad because the way he lost was so controversial and people always love the underdog. If Nick would start winning, oh my god, would they hate him. Everyone would hate him. Everyone would Everyone would point out his flaws way more than now. Uh just like look at Phil Heath. Phil Heath had way less flaws than Nick, but he was hated so bad because they just wanted him to lose. They just want the underdog to win. And if you're too long on top, then they find all your flaws and that's all that counts for them and everything else is politics. And you know, nobody nobody loves a winner for very long. No matter Yeah. Yeah. But it was I think it was bad for Derek. I think it was really bad for Derek because Derek now doesn't seem like the top favorite anymore. Derek is now almost back to almost back to before Arnold's when it comes to who's going to win the Olympia. I mean, not that far back, but I think now Samson when you when you would have Vegas odds or something, they would have gone into Samson's favor and more into Hotties and Nick's favor. And I think Derek would have lost some Yeah. Yeah. So, here's a political uh conspiracy theory. Derek is a kiss ass and Nick missed a few appearances, including the NPC promo. I don't He What did he miss? I don't I don't Oh my god. They They spin things together. Oh my god. They They come with all these theories and they state it as if it was factual. That's so funny. And I'm like, "How the hell do you know that? Where did you come up with that? you have zero proof. Like if this was something serious and it was politics or so, you could you could almost like sue someone from for defamation or something. Oh, because like all of these claims that people just make, they're just like spinning these stories. Yeah. It could have been this way and that way, but they're like dead sure that it was that way. Dead sure. It's not even like it could have been like maybe, you know, if you think about it. No, no, that's the way it was. Well, if you're on social media, even like Facebook is is a conspiracy theorist playground. Everyone is dead they're dead sure of whatever they're telling or they're posting about that you can't convince them otherwise and you're wasting your time if you even try. Here's a good one for you. Who beats who wins the back shots? Uh Nick or Hottie? Nick. Okay. Yeah. I mean structurally I think so for sure. I mean I mean hottie that was the the one shot he was like a little soft in you know that's the only shot where he wasn't like peeled peeled peeled his lower lats a little bit and below it was the only thing where like what don't you remember that discussion like how how the are there no more lower backs? Yeah, I think there was a discussion and Hottie's back was one of those. He was peeled everywhere, but the lower back looked like soft for some reason. And you know, in the 90s or so, everyone had his triate lower back and Christmas tree and that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, Stean Artuni first place was $30,000 for open. What was weird is they had no no checks shown on stage for anyone. Uh oh. No, they'll get their money. They'll get their money. Yeah. Yeah. But but I don't like so I don't know how much the women got or how much second place got. I guess it's like 15 and then 7.5 or so. I I found it incredibly difficult at times when I'm trying to find prize payouts. You know they what was first, second, third, fourth. It's like never posted anywhere. You know, for the Olympia sometimes, but but for a lot of the other shows, good luck. And they don't announce it on they used to announce it all the time. It was only a couple years ago they stopped doing it. They'd be like, "Fourth place in a check for $4,500. You knew immediately, but now, good luck." Yeah. Nick was robbed. Why? Why? Why? Yeah, we know. Yeah. You're only the Dan, you were the 10 millionth person to say that Nick was robbed. He promote the HQ before the Pittsburgh Pro. I Okay. Well, I didn't know about that. So, he didn't kiss the ring and that's why he lost in Pittsburgh. Damn it. You missed out, Nick. Now you know. Anthony Pro ring. Oh, yeah. That's uh that ring is probably worth I It's gold and it's got a bunch of diamonds on it. It's got to be worth I don't know 10 20 grand at least. Gota be. But he's not going to sell that. No, no, no. But imagine having got three of them now. He got He could sell two. He can almost fill up a fist with them now. He has almost enough for a whole hand. New York City is 11. Yeah. at the same time. He's he's actually uh uh not New York. It's you're in Tene, New Jersey. That Leo in your room. Yeah. Yeah. I love the way that that show is set up where your rooms are upstairs, the ballrooms down there. You know, it's a 45 second elevator ride to your room. I love the way they do that. That's true. That's actually pretty comfortable, man. Someone's giving me money, so I'm definitely going to address this. I'm so disappointed Rean lost to Kio. I wasn't angry about Derek and Nick. What body part does Crezo beat Rean on? Kiso posing. It's not a body part contest. And Kiso is an awful poser. No. Arms and legs. Arms and quads. He beat. Yeah. I mean, Regan's arms next to Kiso's arms are Ciso. I think the two best arms right now are probably Or at least in terms of biceps. Nick and Nick and Kriso. To me, those are the two best arms in open bodybuilding right now. No, I disagree. You forgot you forgot Andrew Jack. Okay. Yeah. He's got pretty damn good arms, too. And they have detail and peak and all that, too. Yeah. But Rean is not in that league. Regan's arms, they're good. They're they're not great. His back is amazing. He's got a crazy back. Yeah. Back and hamstrings are like way better than Kiso. Chest. Also, also the losing the tan, as you said, that really hurt Regan. You can't do that. It's a It's a rookie. You know, I I know it was probably out of his control in some ways, but you know, you gave him a suggestion. So, let's see if he follows through moving forward with that with the hairspray trick. I mean, he he actually listens to me. Like, he seems to because you know, some people they're like, "Oh, this guy plays not as well as me, so everything he says has no value." Right. Correct. But I I told him, for example, and he did it right away and was way better. Uh he leaned back too much in the front last spread. Yeah. and and uh I told him after and he immediately corrected it. Looked way better in the at finals his front last like so far back. I'm like they like just looked like pew over you. Yeah, it's we talked about earlier on the stream, but the old school guys, they all used to put because you know you you're lucky you have Arnold uh you see Arnold every now and then at the gym. Those guys, they used to take posing so seriously that when the workout was over, there was still like an hour of posing left. They weren't done until they practiced their posing and really worked at it for 30, 60 minutes every freaking day. These guys, it's clear to me that most of these guys barely practiced their posing. Yeah. Anyway, w everyone sucks now. Keep practicing. Do you guys think Derek's body will pe That's a good question. I don't know. I I I said when Derek when Derek announced he was doing all these shows this year, I'm like, "Well, that's great. You're going to do this three Pete thing like a horse u and win all the the biggest three horse races of the year." But it's enough time. It's he does have time. I Well, I guess we won't know until the Olympia. He just won the New York knows gonna be on on my podcast. I interviewed him last night. So Oh, yeah. You got some great You got Steve You got Steve over at his gym, right? Yeah. And tomorrow I have uh Terren. Oh wow. Good job. So guys, check out Overcome Podcast. That's Leo's channel, Overcome Podcast. It's got great great interviews on it. It's amazing. It It went under 800% up in views last month. I had 450,000 views last 28 days. Wow. That's pretty damn great, man. That's pretty crazy. Crazy. Someone's asking who you are. Who are you, Leo? You came out of nowhere. Okay. I am uh pro since 2020. I live in Venice, California. I'm 33 years old. I'm half Austrian, half German. Uh, so I moved over to the States pretty close before COVID. Yeah. Um, this is my 36th show, I think, that I've done in my life. And, uh, yeah, I placed 11th, I think. Pretty sure, uh, today. So, I was second call out at the New York Pro and Classic. And what else? Um, I have a podcast, Overcome Podcast. Yeah. Yeah. Um, that's the hell he is. Yeah, that's that's where I am. I live in Venice, so that's why uh I see Arnold and I know all these guys like Samir and Yeah. And I I commend you for being one of the best English speakers of any uh Well, you're Austrian. Austrian is you're not by birth. You're Austrian, right? No, I'm I was born in Germany. Oh, okay. My dad's Austrian, so I got both citizenships. Okay. I have family is 50/50. 50 here, 50 there. Um, but I might if I get my uh American citizenship in like two years. Yeah. Um, I might keep the Austrian one. Oh, wow. Okay. Can you can do a dual citizenship, right? Yeah. Because Germany is such a crap country that it turned into such a [\h__\h] hole that I don't know. I I'd rather go back to Austria if I ever go back. I'm curious. I I should know this because uh last year my my son-in-law became a US citizen. He's uh born in Sydney. He's he's Australian, but he's been in the US since 201 14 or 15, but he was a dual Australian and Lebanese citizen. I don't know because he's now a US citizen. I don't know if you can be citizen of three places. No, no, you can't. You can't. I think I have to like get rid of one. Yeah. Okay. So, he probably got rid of I don't know if he's going to get rid of Lebanon one because uh to own property in Lebanon, you have to be a Lebanese citizen. You cannot be from anywhere else. Oh, interesting. Okay. They're kind of they're weird like that. And his family uh they they're they're a pretty big deal in that part of uh Lebanon. So, he's got some stuff coming to him eventually. So, I don't know. He probably kept I don't know. I don't want to I don't want to put his personal business out there. But the biggest guy show was Urs. Wow. Was he there? Yeah. Urs is like dude like his fridge. Like you can't like grab around him. He's so big. So he needs to get down to what's his cut off? Probably like 220 or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. So he Yeah. He needs to lose about like 60 pounds or so. Yeah. Is that AI I'm gonna I'm gonna say that's probably not a good idea to go to 280. I have no idea why he gets so like he got so big. I have no idea. Well, we would have to ask Stefan Kinsel, the boss of Outlaw. I think he has also no idea. He probably has no idea. I don't I don't think Stefan is like, "Yes, schools. Keep eating." I think Urs is just like, "Well, Stefan, I got a little heavy. Let's uh start prepar." Is this an in joke among German and Austrian people that we have up there, German, Austrians? So, he argues with himself politely. Um, I don't know. Are we known to be polite? I don't know. Corrupt judges made Nick win. So, it was it was corrupt that Nick won today. Who did he think Who do you think was I saw people saying Kriso was the easy winner? I saw people saying Regan was the easy winner. I saying whatever you're smoking, I'd like some of that, please. That sounds delicious. Do I remember Rocky Malber? Yes, I do. Yes, I do. Yeah, dude. It's like that's that's what I'm saying. Like if if Nick would have won in Pittsburgh because Derek has less lesser like not as many fans, right? Derek like the the outcry would not have been as loud, but it would be the same thing. Oh, it's rigged. They wanted like more excitement for the Olympia. They have like four guys that are in the running now. Well, this rigged. They just wanted to make a good storyline and sell more tickets. What? Meanwhile, the Olympia tickets are probably all sold out already, but okay. Yeah, when when they say it's going to sell more tickets for Olympia, I'm saying the Olympia sells out like three months away from they've only got So, it's at the uh where is it this year again? I Where are they? Resorts World again, right? I don't know. It's probably like 8,000 10,000 max at the most. That place, whatever it is. Every Olympia I've ever been to, every Olympia I know of has been completely sold out for like the past 20, 30 years. They're not selling more tickets. They might sell more pay-per-views. That's about it. Yeah, tickets are a done deal. But like I think people get really attached to these social media superstars like Sull. Sull looks good, but I don't see Sam Sull doing fantastic as a classic pro. I don't see him like top five at the Olympia really ever based on his structure. He can't get much bigger. Uh he's gonna he's going to bust out of the waist weight cap if he does that as a pro. He has like it's gonna it's going to be tough for him to even qualify. I mean as if qualifying for the Olympia was so easy. But and if he doesn't his fans will be in an uproar because he's got I don't know if it's a billion fans but it's a lot of fans put it that way. So you know what I think I think like Sams who like won his pro card fair and square and then all the guys he competed against who kept competing didn't even place like anywhere close to the top. That was just the weakest like show to ever get a pro card ever. Yeah. And he was in it. That was lucky, but he won it. We sound like haters. I know we sound like haters, but I because I I hadn't been to the Arnold amateur in years. And I remember how good it used to be. It was tough. Very tough. Uh and then when I saw the lineup that Sam was competing against, I'm like, "Oh, really? That's it? That's that's the freaking There were two guys that were kind of in shape. Yeah. And then and then at the overall, obvious the winner of the other divisions were also in shape, but they were way undersized. And they also they judge classic for size, too. It's still kind of bodybuilding. If you're like too skinny, you're too skinny. So, and then yeah, he totally won fair and square. And I think he he he uh he looked great and especially for his second show, amazing posing. like pe people that mock him for his posing. Like, have you ever seen someone who did one show before and then pose that? Well, I haven't. No. Hey, you know, he coached himself, which any coach would have taken him free, free of charge. I coach Samic. He probably just asked his buddies. Ers told me that we're they were like talking like every day. So, all right. I'm gonna take I'm gonna take off. You got You have you eaten yet? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you just you just interrupted. You just interrupted. Okay. All right, man. Well, I'm going to let you go. I appreciate you coming on, Leo. This is Le Leo Marhoffer. He's got a great show. Uh great videos. He gets some killer guests as you'll see if you go to his channel, Overcome Podcast. Yep. He get some very high quality people on there. He's got Terrence Ruffin tomorrow. And Jay Cutler, even even Jay, even Jay Cutler goes on. I mean, I get Jay Cutler every now and then, but it ain't easy. He's a busy dude. And Dorian Dorian said he also wants to come. I saw yours with Dorian. That was great. Yeah, that's You did really well. You prepared a lot, huh? For that one. Not really. No, but it was good questions. It were good questions. So, no, I prepared for about five minutes for that. But I mean, I've I've known Dorian for 35 years. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you prepared for 30 years and then you There you go. Yeah. Anyway, so man, thank you, Leo. And guys, check out Leo's channel. Appreciate all you who watched the stream uh and the one earlier I did. There'll be more coming up. Uh Monday we're going to have a great debate on this channel between Giles Thomas and Milo Sarv. It's going to be a bloodbath. It's gonna be rough about what? I am not even sure yet, but I they've been kind of going at each other on social media. They're friends, but you know, Milos is very passionate. He gets heated sometimes. You know this. Ask him about the symmetry round. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I mean, you Milos says no chill. He just goes he goes he goes all in. So, we'll see. It's going to be a good time. I'm bringing my popcorn for that one myself. So, that's it. Thank you, Leo. Thanks everybody who watched the stream today. Appreciate it. Like, subscribe, share, do all that good stuff. We'll see you next time. Peace. Byebye. Thanks for having me, Ron. Bye-bye.