What's up, guys? What's up, guys? Ron Harris here and the New York Pro judging is over. East for men's open. They still got a couple more classes. So, let's take a look. Nick Walker is no surprise far and away in the lead, but there's some really good competition for him. But let's let's start with uh Nick here. Okay, ready? Here we go, guys. So, you know, obviously he just competed a week ago. He was he wasn't going to be off or anything like that. He had plenty of plenty of opportunity to maintain the peak, maybe come in a little fuller. Um, yeah, Nick, he has the show in the bag, says Magos. And I agree. I mean, he almost beat Derek Lensford. A lot of people had him. Most people had him beating Derrick Lensford a week ago at the Pittsburgh Pro. And here we are a week later with uh obviously no Derek in the competition. Bonak is pushing him. We'll take a look at Rean. Rean is really surprising surprising. We're going to look at the the comparisons right after Nick. He was the last guy to do his individual uh I wouldn't call it routine, his his individual presentation before they did the first call out of the judging. But Rean surprised the hell out of me. I give Regan a lot of credit. I didn't know if Rean was going to be in shape because those updates, they were not giving me any confidence that he was going to show up looking the way he needs to look on stage and he really did. A lot of people, most people have him in third place right now. But we'll take a look, guys. We'll take a look. So Nick, obviously we know Nick's strong points, brutal mass, incredible arms, he's a freak. Nick is the favorite to win the O this year. He's he's one of them. And you know, for the people that said Nick's never going to win the Mr. Olympia, well, I don't know about that. What's up, Zionic? You're going have to go live and dissect the show. And just so you know, this is not from this I am not taking this from the stream. This is from a YouTube channel. Uh, I'll show you. Uh, play on TV. How do I minimize that? Uh, I think if I do this escape. Yeah, this is a channel. Balder. This is not This is not the stream. I did not pirate the stream. This is a YouTube video I'm taking this from. All right. So, oh boy, look at her. So, we're going to bring out the first call out. See who made the cut. The first call out is obviously usually your top five, top six in no particular order. So we have uh Kennedy making his pro debut there on the on the left. Kennedy on Yan Wu uh Colossus Kent, North American champ from a couple years ago. William Bonak the Conqueror looking fantastic. Nick Walker and Rean Grimes next to him. And then Krezo all the way on the right. Michael Kaneko. I don't know why there's such a gap in between. They should have moved Nick and Rean closer together. You really don't need I don't want to see a big gap like that. Oh, and uh Sassan Herat's way down there on the right. Let's see if he gets moved at all. So, I mean, obviously Nick just dominating, but Rean, that's a great shot for Rean. His front latch spread. It's not Bonak's best shot. Side chest is a great shot for both Bonak and Nick. It's actually a pretty good shot for Rean. I wish he had a thicker chest. That is an area he needs to bring up. We know his back is fantastic. Rean Grimes probably his bust body part is his back. Look at that. Nice and full and thick. Of course, Nick Walker killing it in the rear double bicep. Back looks like he's off to an angle a little bit. Rear lat spread neck looking great. Rean spreading looking really wide. Crezo really needs help on his posing. Uh he doesn't seem to doesn't seem to be improving at all on that side try. Great shot for Rean. Great shot for Bonak and Nick. Take a look at the ab and thigh. Big brick abs for Nick. Massive quads for him. I know there are people with better legs out there. We after this. Oh, they're already into the most muscular. Yeah, that's right. That's the last shot. Great shot for all three of them. Really surprised at Regan. Regan delivered. So Nick stays where he is and they move everybody around Nick. What does that mean? Well, it means Nick's a winner, guys. Nick's a winner. But I don't think that was ever ever in doubt for one moment. Did you guys reven? Yeah. Uh what did you say? What' you say there? Rean was surprised. Cruz posing was better. His body control. It's It's better. It needs to be a lot better. It needs to still get a lot better. We see it around getting covered. Yeah. So, this is not the stream. I did not pirate the stream. This is a YouTube video that someone else pirated the stream or took a ton of their footage. Not me. Bonak is on his farewell tour. Nick looks awesome. Yeah, I do believe this will probably be the last last season for Bonak and he's had a hell of a run and I see him taking a solid solid second place here, which is nothing to be ashamed of. Not at all. Not at all. I agree. Creo needs to really hire Chris Cormier or something. I I don't think Chris would even charge him to be honest with you. I mean, not that Chris doesn't need money. Everybody needs money. But I bet Chris would volunteer his services to Crezo. You know what? It wouldn't take much. I bet just a couple just two or three sessions would help a lot because there are things that he's doing, especially with his uh his back shots, uh his transitions. This it's just kind of awkward. doesn't look like doesn't look like he's comfortable up there and he's got a hell of physique, but man, Nick Walker, like I said, it this will be a record. No one's ever won this show three times. This will definitely be a record and and I don't see anything happening. Oh, I'm getting some reports on my my WhatsApp. Was that it? That was the first call. That shouldn't happen on pro 10. Not great again. That's what I'm hearing on a group chat that I'm on. So, those guys are off stage. Make my look better. That's a second group. Let me see if I can find uh I want to find Rean. Who's this? That's not Rean. Oh, that's Nick. So, that was the end. That's Sassan. Let's take a look at Sassan because clearly he was off a little bit. Uh or else he would have been moved around. He was not. So, here's Sass. still has a very very impressive physique. You could see right there in the glutes and the ham softened up from just a week ago. I don't know what happened. I don't think he went back to UK or anything. I think he stayed in the US, but he looked a lot better in Pittsburgh just a week ago. And like I said, you know, we we say this all the time, us pundits, us media guys, physiques can change very quickly in a matter of even just a day. But in a week's time, they can get a lot better. They can get a lot worse. And he doesn't look awful. He didn't get much worse, but it was enough to knock him down. He's not He's not beating Nick. Well, he wasn't going to beat Nick anyway. He's not beating Bonak. Um Regan's got him. I think Crezo's got him too today. So, that leaves him fifth or sixth depending on where Ken making his pro de prodebut place. Let's go back up to let me find Rean. That Re Yeah, here we go. A little back. Back a little bit. Yeah, Grimy surprised me, man. I don't know who that is. Sorry. Don't get mad, guys. Don't get mad. I don't know who he is. I don't know who everybody is. All right, here comes Rean. And you know, I did in my previews, I wasn't I wasn't giving uh any glowing reviews. I wasn't confident about Rean because it's been a long time since we've seen him and the updates he was he was posting. I thought he was behind in condition. He pulled it out of the bag. This is the best Rean I think I've ever seen. Uh definitely better than the last last couple times we saw him. I know he's made top 10. He was like eighth or ninth at the Olympia a couple years back. We didn't see him at all in 2024. So, this is the first time we've seen Reian on stage in a year and a half. He's been putting in work. I still want to see more chest. Crazy back on this guy. I love his back. He's got one of the greatest backs in the Pro League right now. Look at that. top to bottom, side to side, thick, detailed. Uh, could he be a little sharper? Maybe a little, of course. But man, this is a great great package for Regan. Very, very happy with what he brought today. I know he doesn't he doesn't need me to uh give him any approval, right? He knows what he's doing. Yeah. So, props to Rean. In my predictions, I had him like fifth, sixth. Obviously, I was wrong. You know, predictions are just based on what we think might happen. There's never any rhyme or reason to it. Who's this? This Bonak or is this is Ken? Yes. No. Is this Ken? No, this is somebody else. That's uh Sorry, Mark Arthur. Let's look at Bonak. Take a look at Bonak's individual. Okay, great shot for Bonak. I know one arm is a little bigger, guys, and one's a little smaller, but so thick, so dense, a master at presenting the physique, knows exactly how to position himself perfectly to showcase his strong points, sort of detract your attention, take your attention away from the weak points. Side shots are always crazy. Side chest, side try. He's so thick, so dense, just stacked with muscle. Looking fantastic today. Yeah, solid solid second. I know they're moving Regan around. I think overall I know the younger guys are going to be biased toward Rean. I'm 55. I'm biased toward William. Um I just I just see more going on. More strong more strong points to the physique than Rean. Rean has a beautiful shape, guys. Don't get me wrong. I mean, the guy did win this as a classic physique competitor in 2018. You don't win a classic show without phenomenal shape. Great, great pose for him. I love his crab. That is one of the best crabs in the game. What else we want to look at? That's not creo. That's another bald white guy. White guys all look the same. I know. Okay, so this was Ken making his debut. Let's back up just a bit. All right, so this is the first pro show for Colossal Ken Kennedy on Yan Wu. Based on that name, I'm gonna guess he's probably from got some Nigerian ancestry in him, which is a great place to be from if you want to be a great bodybuilder. Great X frame, nice flaring quads, great Vtaper, put on a lot of size since he turned pro. I think it was something in the neighborhood of 25 pounds of lean muscle tissue that he's added since he turned pro. Side leg looks great. Ham drop. Thick chest, shoulders, back right there. Uh, you can see the lats insert a little on the high side, but you know what? That that hasn't stopped too many people. If the rest of them, if everything else is good enough, back still needs a little bit of work. I like the thickness and density up in the traps. I want to see more in that lower lat area. It's a work in progress. The back the back needs to be thicker for sure. But this guy is good. He's probably he could be beating Sasan Herati, which if he does Oh, needs to keep that gut in check on the side guy. When you're in those transitions, you got all eyes on you. This is a a whole crowd there, the judges in person, then you have many, many more thousands, hundreds of thousands around the world, maybe millions watching the pay-per-view and looking at the Instagram highlights. So, you got to be on your game. Where was Ko? There he is. Yeah, there's Creiso, right? Nope, it's not CO. I keep doing that, guys. My bad. My bad. Let me try to find Creo for you. Come on, KZO. Where are you? That's Hassan. That's another ball guy. I should have known that guy's too dark to be creo. Yeah. How did I miss Crezo? Where is he? Now I got to look at This is uh Vincent Mach Mason. I have to go look at the list and look at the order and see where he was. Uh, New York Pro, New York Pro, New York Pro. Come on, Ron. You can do it. Okay, here we go. So, KZO was before this guy. Okay. Okay. Gotcha. That's not him, though. There we go. There's Crezo. I knew I'd find him eventually, right? All right. Creo. I want to show all I want to show Kiso's entire entire presentation. So he followed Sassan. So let's let let Sassan finish up. Get off stage. And now we'll take a look at Michael Kzaneko from Slovakia. Big big dude. Tan does look better. It does look better than it did a week ago. Look at that. Shoulders, arms are in. Very impressive. quads, very thick, nice sweep, great front double, great X-frame on on Michael. It's just a what hurts him a little bit is he's got a longer torso in proportion, you know, the bone structure, and you can't do anything about it. Waist is a little bit wide. It's not a big blocky waist. Needs to keep that waist sucked in though on those side shots, but geez, look at that. Now, the back shots, he's gotten some heat over. Let me see if he hits his rear double any better this time. Glutes are in. Glutes are dug out. He's in shape. All right. So, pinch and then spread. No, it's a Look at it. It just looks It's like lopsided. He just looks really awkward there. It's not It's not spread out and even. I know I'm being critical, guys, but you know, when you're you're trying to split hairs with these guys when it comes down to who places where sometimes because we got Nick in some in in the first place. That's that's not a question. But things can get questionable after that, you know, like great shot that crab that crab of his. See if I find the final final call out in open. Yeah, this was it. So this was your top four. Yeah, this was your top four. Wow. Okay, which means Sassan is probably fifth. No, wait a minute. So it's William. Is it top five? William, Nick, Ko, and Rean. Okay. So, yeah, fifth place is is either going to be Kennedy or Sassan, but this is your top four. Now, what's the order going to be? That's what we want to know. That's what we That's the million-dollar question there. I'm way behind. Way behind on your comments. I always Thank you for watching, Raymond. Reagan looks flat. Well, uh, a little on the flat side, but you know what? This is still a great look for him. condition is way better than I anticipated. I got to say I was wrong in thinking he's not going to be in shape. He's in shape. He brought it. Good for you, Rean. You did it. Rean is coach trying to figure out a perfect peak. Uh yeah, he's with Boss like a lot of people. He's from Jersey, but he owns New York. Yeah. Well, the show is in New Jersey if that helps. This is taking place in T- New Jersey where he also uh Steve Weinberg also puts on the Universe every year. I I competed in that in that same venue in that same stage a couple times. Nick Nailed Perfect Peak again. Yeah, Nick Nick's all set. We bantered last stream about politics and newbies judging. What do you think about the comments made by Rob on the Menace podcast? Uh I didn't I didn't watch that. And we're going to take a look at the classic too. Bon act two. Yeah. Can't believe these body girls spend so much time building physicia when it comes to presentation staff. Yeah, Black Patron. You know, in the old days they it was not an afterthought. They put a lot of time and effort. I mean, I I've spoken to many of the old school guys from the 70s and 80s that they would they would spend a full hour after every workout. When the workout was over, it was time to pose. So, the workout wasn't really over because posing is a workout. And they would they would spend the time even though they were they were tired and beat to [\h__\h] They were dieting. They had just trained, but they would take the time and really get that posing nailed. Creo three. Uh, I don't I I think Rean's got third. I could see I could see Kiso, though. I see what you're saying. If you're going on shape and aesthetics and flow, uh, Rean's Regan's got that over Crezo. Us more quad and bicep. Yeah, his biceps aren't great. His back his back's always been great. His legs are too small. God, it's like this is the time when they decide to mow my lawn, but you know what? I don't want to mow it. We're going to get to classic, guys. We're going to get to classic. We're going to get to 212. We're going to take a look at it all. Uh, let's see. Sassan wasn't in Pittsburgh. Okay. Yeah, my bad. Detroit. He was in Detroit. You're right. My bad. My bad. Bonak beats Regan. He's got everything. Conditioning. Oh, yeah. I don't think it's a question. I don't think anyone's got Regan over Bonak. How'd Nick look? Well, we've been looking at it. Mark Boston Pro Bonak may have been his best version. Yeah. And look, I was there luckily. I could happy to say I was there. I pronounced names horribly. Which name am I saying wrong? Probably the probably the Nigerian name because I'm not familiar with a lot of those names. Kennedy on Yanu. Nick Walker. I said that one correct. Sassan Herati. Regan Grimes. William Bonak. Creo. Michael Kzanic. I don't know what kind of pronunciation you're looking for. Creo can't pose. It's not an E. It's an I. You're talking about KZO. Kryzo. I don't know who you're talking about. I don't know what your what your issue is there, dude. Does Nick look better this week? I think he looks the same and that's fine. Terrible posers. Re looks great. Tan could have been better. Top two wouldn't matter. Creo is all arms and shoulders. Shaky shaky left lad has that big Rammy pinch going on. All right, New York pro. Just want to get through these before I switch over. He needs to hire Jason Ganova. Jason was not a very good poser. Bon's kind of small in this lineup. I have Nick fourth. You don't know how shows are judged there, Mark. If you have Nick in fourth, you're Yeah, you're either very new to to the sport or you don't know. Uh I don't even know what to say to that. Rean looking soft in the front like Derek. Yeah, I don't I'm not a fan of like the when he hits the bicep shots. Uh there's not there's really not much detail going on. Nick is light years ahead. Nick is Olympia qualified. Sorry looks every time the same. I think he's a little better than he looked a couple years back in 2023. Back dabble is so bad for CO. Nick's legs look more shredded. So Rean's best showings. What's up? Natural bodybuilding. Nick will not pull out this year. No, he's not gonna pull out this year. I think Bonax's midsection is the worst I've seen. Nick, easy for some context. Bob was prowling away. Let it slip on the scorecard backstage. Well, Simma won the judging me. Let's test this was a case. Then Bob realized he slipped. Tried to segue. Uh, let's go to the Let's go to classic judging. Why don't we do that? So, just need to escape. Go to this guy's channel. Balder. He's got New York Pro open judging. Let's go to classic judging. Where was first call out? Oh, that's far away. I don't like that. That looks very far away. I do not like that. Oh, this is awful. Awful. Let's go to the final four then, I guess, and try to make it bigger. Uh, and you're going to crucify me, guys, because I might not know who everyone is here. So, this is classic. Uh, you see Josema there, second from the left. They put Terrence Ruffin and Josema directly in the middle. Uh, I'm not sure who these other two guys are. My apologies, guys. Wow, this footage is not great. I'm gonna have to go to like Gilo Gilo stuff for them. I'm not loving this. Can I make it any bigger? Nope. Can't make it any bigger. Yeah, that's so small on the screen. I don't know if it's even worth it. I think I'm go to Gilko and see what they have. Gilo always puts up some really nice clips. Gilo. Gilo Productions. We'll take a look. I know they had uh both Josema and Terrence up. Actually, they got the names of these other guys, too. That's good. All right. So, share this tab instead. Okay. So, make sure got the right stream. Yep. Okay. Okay. So, let's take a look first at Osama since we were just talking about him. So, I guess he's winning the judging. Is that what Bob said? I I did not know that he looks amazing. Condition is crazy. I do think he needs a little bit more quad from the front and a little more arms. We're being picky. More triceps in particular. They're a little flat and underdeveloped compared to Look at that back. His back is just so massive, thick all the way down to the almost to the hips. Very rugged, dense back. Look at those glutes. Can't get any leaner than this guy is right here. That is just insanely shredded. This Jose Manuel Monos. I am pronouncing that perfectly for those who uh were talking crap about my pronunciation. So, Jose Mo looked awesome. Let's see. Terrence was next. So, here was Terrence who beat Jose last weekend in Pittsburgh. I do know that's true. I know I screwed up and said Hassan was in Pittsburgh. He was not. We had just seen him in Detroit was last time we saw him compete. Terrence, I love this guy's shape. Uh, you know, arms came up a lot. Arms were not the best body part for him. Uh, the one area I still need still want to see more from is just back thickness. His overall shape structure is just god-given. Perfect. Back is pretty good. It's just I think he's next to Jose. When we're comparing it to Jose Manuel Monos's Munos's back, it's not going to be at that level. But Ruffin looks fantastic. Fantastic. I'm going to leave him up there while I take a few more comments. Easily wins this. Creo. Yeah, I know how to I know how to spell. Creo is how you say it. It's not Kryzo. Is that was that what you're arguing with me about? Well, if you're from Slovakia and you know that's the right way to say it, then good for you. The Tyrus. Nope. Branch, my dog, you can't come out. You can't come out here. I lost the comments. Uh, same Rean. Yeah, I'm showing classic right now. Yes, it's You want me to say Kryo? Kryo. I'm pretty sure it's pronounced Creo. Everyone I've ever heard and I pronounced I did an interview with him uh less than two weeks ago and I said Crezo many times and nobody he didn't correct me and his his friend Patrick didn't correct me. So I'm pretty sure it's Crezo show classic. Yes, same Regan. Easy win for easy win for Kriezo. It is not an easy win for Kiso. No, it is not. Kiso is not winning this guys. Uh who else? There was another guy there I wanted to take a look at. Um, so I guess he'll probably be the third place. Uh, this is what's his name. Murat Khan K Hassanlar. Okay. Had to get the names. Morat. I I know. I've heard of this guy before. Nope, that's the wrong one. My bad. We're gonna look at 212 as well. All right. So, this is Murat. I guess he's probably going to be third place because Gilko usually they they have a good eye. Mitchell Gilbert and his brother, they have really good eyes for physiques and they they have a good sense of who's going to be the top placers. So if they have only three guys in classic, Terrence, Ruffin, Josema, and this guy Murat, then this is probably your third place guy. Very, very balanced, great shape. Probably want to see a little more arms. You know, you got to be nitpicky. You got to be nitpicky because these guys are all fantastic. It's little things that separate first place from second place from third place and so on. These guys, they're all good. Once you get to that the top five, top six in a lineup, everybody's really good or they wouldn't be there. Good for him. Okay. I don't know if there were any comparisons with those two. But while we're while we're on the Gilbert uh the Mitchell Gilbert page, let's look at the 212 guys. So, I guess the front runners, we can look at the judging in a minute, but the front runners for 212 were this gentleman, Angel Calderon Frias, Anel Calderon Frias. I'm pronouncing that correctly, Saka from Spain. He's a He's a little Hercules. He's probably 5'2 on a good day, maybe shorter. And just stacked, thick, dense. Couldn't fit any more muscle on that frame if you wanted to. And he doesn't have a gut. He doesn't have a little dainty waist. know, but look at that. Glutes are in. It's nice and stripey, all striated. Boom. Opens up that lat spread. It's like a cobra. He's got those flat traps on top, kind of like Kai Green had. Other people have the more sloping angular traps, which I prefer that look. To me, it sort of really rounds out the pose, completes it. But geez, look at that. He is Yeah. So that's probably your 212 winner. But oh, this must be someone else that looks really good. I didn't I wasn't aware of this guy. So Luis Estas, don't know where he's from. Looks fantastic wherever wherever he's from. Let's go back to him. So beautiful shape for 212 guy. Very comparable to Angel. Look at that nice clean muscle separation. Beautiful front lat spread. Nice taper there. Shoulder to waist ratio. Wish he'd held that shot a little longer. Really strided there on the side leg. Nice separation there between the biceps, triceps, brachiialis. I like to see that. I like to see a lot of clean, deep, clear muscle separations. Not that blueofy soft look, which you know, most of us would say that's probably from injecting either SEO or just a bunch of your regular gear in that area. So, this guy looks great. Good for him. Wasn't really familiar with him. You know, the 212 division, we haven't really been talking about it a lot lately. As we get closer to Olympia, I'm sure we will be, but it's been kind of quiet because they didn't have a 212 at the Arnold. uh didn't have it last weekend either at Pittsburgh. And here we go. This is probably either first or second depending on what the judges go for. Francisco Bios Vil originally from Argentina. Believe he lives in Brazil now. So he's got a more aesthetic physique. Um not lacking in size, but compared to Angel, you know, Angel's just so thick and dense. He's a big big dude. Francisco, not as massive, but very well put together. Great presentation. I love his confidence. You can see the passion shine through. He loves bodybuilding. You could see it. You could see it in every pose, in every transition. Look at that. I mean, he's just he's having the time of his life up there. And that, you know, that's infectious because I don't like to see people out there who look miserable, look like they'd rather be somewhere else. You know, then then you feel like, why are you here? But this kid, because I believe he's still only 25, 26, he's amazing. You know, he's getting better and better. Condition always on point. Works with Patrick Tour. Yeah, classic. I wish I had had better footage of that. Let's see if the two if the 212 looks any uh any better for the for the call outs. Yeah, I can see they're closer up. I don't know why it was so far away. I'm just going to go to the first call out once I once I find it. So, I'm going to take a look at 212. Okay. All right. So, this was 212 division today. Angels all the way on the left. They're going to move in the middle. Francisco's already being moved. They just come out in numerical order and then the head judge makes the makes the switches. Oh, there's Cody's robot there. Uh to the on the right. Cody's Cody's probably uh if they have him there, that that's a really good sign. Cody hasn't competed in a little in a minute. So, in the middle there, you got Angel in the middle. Probably your winner. Francisco and Cody on either side looking really good. Let's go to some of your comments. Nick wins if he if Oh, Nick's winning. Ollie, don't worry about that. There. There's no way Nick isn't winning. Would you rather have Rean's body or Nick's? Uh, I'm going to go with Regan just because he's taller. I'd rather be like I think Rean's about 5'11 or 6 foot and Nick is even shorter than me and Rean has a more aesthetic physique, a more pleasing physique. You know, if if we're talking about if my goal was to be the best competitive open bodybuilder in the world, I'd rather have Nick's body than Rean's body. But you're talking about walking around every day, I'd rather have Rean's. Think Rean improved, but somehow I just cannot seem to get really crisp cut. Yeah, I still have I I still don't see him like dry and shredded the bone, but his condition is very good today. What creative surgery affects still bicep? Um, I think it's a posing problem because the shoulder was definitely repaired. If it if he had any issues with the shoulders, he wouldn't have been able to train. Is this guy still cutting my leg? Yeah, he's still here. My god. Uh he wouldn't have been able to put all the size back on, which he did. He did. So, I don't think it's a shoulder. I think he just needs to work on his posing. I really think so. Sass sass probably not in the uh top five. What do you think proved to win the Olympia? There's nothing he can really improve on. What's he gonna What's he going to do? What's he going to change between now and then? He's got all the size. He doesn't have any really lagging body parts that he needs to bring up. Maybe a little more chest. He could he could use a little more chest. Um but look, he almost beat Derek and Dererick has beaten Samson. Dererick has beaten Hottie. So that shows he's on that level. I mean, you want to say, well, if everyone's at their best, well, that never happens. That's what we say in our speculations, in our theoreticals, but we never see a situation where everyone's at their best. Someone's either comes in a little flat or they're a little bit off, a little blurry, a little film of water or body fat. No one ever shows up 100% at their best. Why isn't as what? I know what you mean. We think about Josema and Terrence and Classic. Uh Sass is not first. Ali, I'm sorry. He's definitely not first. They didn't have they didn't even move him, so there's no way he's in first. He was off to the side and they never moved him. uh Josema and Terren Classic uh from that judge from that it was so far away I couldn't really I couldn't really tell you took two years off to improve by 1% true I I was expecting more improvement but I am giving him credit because I didn't think based on the way he was looking in his photos his progress photos his updates I didn't think he was going to be in shape for this and he is in shape can't wait to meet Terrence yeah he's doing a tour with Giles Thomas and Giles does the Olympia all-star tours. He's done them with Ronnie Coleman a few times. He had Phil Heath over there years back. He had Andrew Jacked. Uh Giles is doing a bunch of these tours now. And Terrence is the very next one coming. Lee Priest was uh he did one earlier in the year with Lee Priest. Yeah, SAS was off a little bit. Definitely look better in Detroit. Terrence looks light better and lighter. You can see in the lower back. Oh, Terrence is in shape. No. No. Did I hear how Terrence was actually in second place last week? What? No, I didn't hear about that. Where did you hear that? I mean, unless it came from an official person, I'm not going to believe that's true. Oh, Sam. Well, Samson, he's not going to have less back development. What's he going to stop training his back? But I agree. When you have a dominant body part like that, nothing should you shouldn't have, especially in classic, which is supposed to be about proportions, symmetry, proportion, and balance. You shouldn't have any one area that really dominates your physique where people go, "Wow, what a back." Or, "Whoa, look at those legs." No, it should be what a physique. Everything should be evenly developed and e equally impressive pronunciation. People be all people people are I got someone in my comments saying I shouldn't be drinking. You know, standup comedians when they're doing their standup, they stop and take a drink every every few minutes. My throat gets dry, guys. I'm sorry. I'm going to drink when I'm thirsty. After a while, I must wonder how Nick Lost. Sass was also in febo. I know some I'm talking so fast sometimes and I'm not I'm not thinking about these past shows. I'm I'm staying focused on the present. Uh maybe I'll go back to the open. I'll go back to the open judging. Do escape. Go back to this guy's channel. He's got the whole judging on there. Look at him go. while we take some comments. Okay. Ah, I gotta get rid of this ad. Now I look at an ad for Zoom phone. I don't want a Zoom phone. Come over this channel. No, I don't want to join your channel. All right, back to your comments, guys. Back to your comments. What? Are you busy? Yeah, I'm streaming. What do you need to know? Oh, nothing. Nothing. Okay. You can take the Legion pre-workout. Yes. Go ahead. You can see tweaks in his posing from the side chest. My son's going to the gym. KZO has good genetics. He has great genetics. He always seems uncoordinated with horrible posing. Nick wins. Ko wasn't going to beat or someone wants me to say Kryo, but no. Everyone pronounces a KZO, guys. Everyone I've ever heard say his name. It's Crezo, not Kryo. Psycho. Glad to make it. Just hit legs. You flipflop. Yeah, I did that a couple hours ago. See, do Pittsburgh. Okay, guys. I make mistakes while I'm talking. I make mistakes while I'm talking. When I'm when I'm talking fast and I'm focusing on this show. Yeah, sometimes I make little mistakes. My bad. You want your money back? Yes. You got second to Andrew Jack in second to blind a few weeks ago. Thanks for correcting me. I I'm sorry if I'm coming off across like a dick, but guys, does it really matter? How's everything going? Dominating, isn't it? Yeah, Nick's dominating. Because there's a chance maybe. Absolutely. I mean, I've seen guys lose a show one week to a person, then beat the person the next week. I've seen that many, many times. Nick should have won last week. Absolutely. Chris Christ. What do you want me to say? Oh, dude, relax, Mark. Is is Kriso? Kriso. Oh, you don't want me to say Oh, you want me to say is is Kriso is You want me to say Kriso? Not Kriso. Kriso. Okay. Kriso. Are you happy? Kriso. Kriso. Krzo. Dude. God. We're looking at physiques here and you're worried about how we're pronounced. It's pronounced. He says Ko. Marks. I've se I've heard it pronounced both ways and I was saying Ko the whole time in my interview with Ko two weeks ago. They never corrected me. You think he would have said, "Excuse me, excuse me, Kriso. Kriso." He didn't do that. So either either I was saying it correctly or he doesn't care. If he doesn't care, why do you care? Kriso has better shape than Nick Walker. I don't know. He has a longer torso. That that's very debatable. If you think Kriso If you think Kriso is going to win, he's he's nowhere near winning. They would have had him in the middle at some point, guys. He never got moved next to Nick once. That tells you something. The IPB show. Will he in better shape than Nick Walker? No. No, he doesn't. No. Uh, William has a pretty thick waist himself, a wider waist, a short torso. Uh, neither one of them has great shape. Marcus Rule got the title. Yeah. 2002 he did win the I think it was 2002 he won the Night of Champions in New York, which uh three years later became New York Pro. They they discontinued Night of Champions and they began the New York Pro I should say. Of course, just missing the proper accent. Anel. It's either anel or anel. Depends on what Spanish country you're from. Okay, so relax. Chris looks terrible in bodybuild. We give him last place. Last place is terrible to say because there's like 15 guys up there. Uh yeah, we're looking at the second colage. I like Nick's rare double. He has a great rear double. It's one of his best shots now. Chriso pissed in your s Chriso. Chriso Williams arms are starting to suffer, especially his right arm. Yeah, you could see one of his arms is a little smaller. Strong off the symmetry. Plus, his waist is blocky as Nicks. Can you explain why Rean is losing to Nick? I like Rean more. Oh, that's easy. Nick is much much thicker. He's much more conditioned. Uh he's got body parts much better. His his biceps are twice the size of uh Regan that have peaks and they have uh definition to them. They and you know Rean does not have any of that going on. Uh bro, are these comments so freaking negative? Yeah, I mean some people woke up on the wrong side of the bed as we say. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. I think I'm going to go back to some Gilo footage. What do you say, guys? You want to see some some good some nice Gilo footage? They have the best stuff. They really do. Crystal clear 4K. Got to get past him in he do Oh, does he not have any of the open guys up? Oh, I don't think he does. He does not. Wow. Yeah, I'm on the Gilko Productions Instagram page and he's got routines from a lot of the He's got 212 guys, classic guys, wellness, men's physique, women's bodybuilder, which there only three of them. Yeah, three women's bodybuilders. That's That does not bode well for the future women's bodybuilding that they only had three of them show up. No bueno. I wonder if Nick's got it up on his page. I guess how would he how would he already have it? He doesn't. Uh RX Muscle Dave, he has a lot of good stuff there. See what he's got. They do excellent contest coverage. Absolutely they do. Okay, just leave that. Yeah. Okay. Just going to leave that up while we take some more comments. He's beating Calderon. So you mean Francisco is beating Calderon. Mimi he's got it's it's an apples and oranges situation between uh Angel called Frias. I'm not even trying to pronounce that properly. Angel is more of a shorter bulkier Hercules herculan type physique. Uh, Francisco Barios Vic is a more aesthetically pleasing, better vtaper, better flow and shape. So, it depends on what the judges go for. Today, I only watch classic and wellness bikini sometimes. Figure when I do these, I don't even typically go into these other divisions. I mean, I don't get much engagement on it, so can't get into 212. Larry Wills got his pro card today. I saw that. Congratulations, Larry. Kriso needs to train with Dorian and take him next level and take posing lessons. Will he though? Will he go to Spain to train with him? I don't know. 212 is cool, but I'm 5'7, so watch class 7. 212 is about five foot to 5'5. Occasionally, you do get guys who are 5'6, 57, but they're they're the tallest. Heard Larry Wheels didn't make weight. He must have made weight because he got his pro card. He won classic fourth and open. Oh, he did both. Oh, well, Larry looks very big for a classic guy. Absolutely. Calderon looks blocky. He is blocky. I mean, he can't help it. He's very short. He's 5'11 or 5'2. He's got a, you know, a shorter shorter torso. Uh, should we go to Larry Wheels? Everyone loves Larry Wheels. Let's see if he's got any footage up. No. Yeah. Over there in Ireland where it is five hours ahead of us. Does Larry have any footage up on his channel? He's got 5.4 million followers. God bless him. It's a great double buy consider Well, he needs more legs, man. Considering he's got a torn bicep there. Looks pretty damn good. Look at that. He's a big dude. He's a big dude. Oh, Elmpon. This guy This guy is like a clown. I can't stand watching him. Lucky for you you had to stop, sir. You'd be dead, dude. Strong. He barely moves the weight usually. I don't want to talk about I don't want to talk about it. I'm not going to waste my time. Oh, man. Buys and tries. What do they got? That's pretty freaky. It's That's an iPhone picture for sure. Oh, there's a Lar wheels winning his classic class. Congratulations, Larry. Huge following on social media, on YouTube, and I don't think we would even have Andrew Jack as one of the top pros today if Larry Wheels hadn't started featuring him in his videos that he was shooting a few years back in Dubai. We had no idea, no idea who uh Andrew Jack was. He had never competed. Some good shots. This guy will never win Olympia. That's true. That's true. Get some comments. Uh, is what live? My video is live. No, that the footage you were looking at was not live. That was from a a YouTube channel uh who took some footage from the stream. I didn't take it. I took footage from his YouTube channel. So, he's the one that can come after me because the other guys were in open trunks. 212 breeds, open class Olympians. Sometimes it does. Actually, let's see. Uh Derek was 212 champ. He went on to become Mr. Olympia. Uh Heidi Chupan was a very good 212 guy. Never won the Olympia, but obviously he won the Mr. Olympia later when he moved to open few years after that. William Bonck started off in 212. Uh Sean Clarita 212. He's also done some open. Keon is our current 212 Olympia champion. I believe we will see him as Mr. Olympia within two to three years. That's my prediction, right? finally said something half good. Well, great. Great. So, he did both classes. Talk about Larry Wheels. Yeah, both classes. He's doing a pro show as well. Oh, you guys are all talking about Larry. I Chriso Chriso is a terrible poser. He's working on Zab start tanning in advance. He has no base tan and I don't know if he's capable. Some people can't tan. Like I've said this before, but I I used to talk to Dennis Wolf every every month for his column at MD. Plus, we did a lot of training articles and so on. And Dennis told me he had never had a tan in his life. He would always just even a few minutes in the sun with sunblock on. He either had to put on enough sunblock so that nothing happened to his skin, completely protected, or if he went out in the sun, even for a few minutes, he could feel it start burning. He's had sunburns, but he's never had a tan in his life. It's just some people's complexion or lack of melanin or something. Larry's going to compete in Olympic qualifier today, tomorrow, same show. Oh, okay. Good for Larry. Good for him. Is Kuso's posing still bad? Yes. Who's currently tough? Five rope in classic European. Oh boy. I'm not going to go I'm not going to do all that. Did SAS come in off? Yeah, he did. He did. He wasn't Wasn't his best. Wasn't his best. Oh, this dog. Uh, I'm going to show you Nick again while I'm doing the skip. Dog is going crazy. Something's going on out there. It's Vincenz Vincenzo Maton. What's going on? Rean Instagram Bible. Regan has awesome. These guys are all genetically blessed. Every single one of these guys you're looking at today, they're all genetically blessed. Ra forgot his thighs at home just like Derek and Pittsburgh. He's still probably going to be third, which is not bad to lose to Nick Walker and uh William Bonak. Chris was the best pose in the world in one place at the Olympia, nothing more. I mean, yeah, it's it's the physique. He doesn't display his physique to the best, but it's still his physique still needs some work in certain areas. His back, his hamstrings need to come up. So, even if his posing was flawless, he would still need more more. What happened to Muscular Development? He went out of business in November 2023. Uh, I didn't know until 3 days before the company shut down. We all got a phone call and that was the end of that. The owner, Steve Blechman, uh, he was over the age of 70. He'd been working very, very hard for many, many years, decades and decades. He was a workaholic. Ace decided he was going to enjoy the rest of his life and not work 12 15 hours a day, you know, and I wish MD was still around. We had a a great thing going there, but it's gone now. Yeah, I didn't watch I don't watch all the podcasts, guys. I'm I know it's it's I should, right? People hating on Nick don't realize this in classic. It's open. Shape matters, but it's not the most important factor. Exactly. It's one factor. Shape is one factor. Everything is just one factor. Size, structure, muscle shape, conditioning, balance and proportion, symmetry left to right. Balance and proportion is, you know, upper to lower. Is every body part as developed as every other body part? Or are some overdeveloped or undeveloped in comparison to others, which shouldn't be the case. Oh boy, look at you. Ron choice class 64 card fiasco for dude. I don't remember that. It's these things like my when I'm doing these lives, my brain's like scattered all over the place. So, my apologies. Sometimes the things that you the things that you guys think are like super important, like they matter a lot to you. To me, I just sort of brush past them. So, you know, no apologies. It's just I'm trying to look at the big picture of everything going on. And sometimes one of you guys will be focused on one little aspect of like a show from a week ago or a month ago or this competitor. And if I don't know everything about one one competitor, some of you guys get mad because that's your favorite guy and you know everything about them and I don't and you know oh well sorry I I you know I try to keep up on things. That was Samir Trudy in the 212 lineup. Yeah, I've I don't want to say I've given up on him but I I've been waiting for Samir to just pull it out of the bag and show up looking shredded. I've been waiting for years and I still haven't seen it. He's got a fantastic physique. I love Samir Trudy's physique, but he has not brought proper condition. I don't think I've ever seen him in really great condition. So, until you do that, you can have a great physique, but if you show up and you're off, you're not even in the first call out usually. So, my bad. I do know what he looks like. That 212 footage was was pretty far away. Surprising Lee Priest got more people turned up to the Ronnie Coleman seminar. No, I mean Lee's very I don't know if that's true. I don't even know what the numbers were. So, is this still the Kriso thing instead of Crozo? Bob said it himself. Okay. Charizo. Curo. Bra. Honestly, I hate to be a dick, but unless you're like doing a a super chat or a don some kind of donation, I mean, I'm not I don't even always look at all the I don't even read all these. It's not that important. Gonna call it now. Nickel win the O. You heard it from me first. Yes, Mark. Yes, Mark. Bob Juggle influence be able to take Bob has no influence. Bob has zero influence. He gave up the athletes rep position which wasn't much of a position anyway. Um, he's the MC for a bunch of the shows. That's all Bob is. And he's got a podcast just like me, just like Menace, just like Nick Strength to Power. He has zero influence. Bob Chicklo on the judging. Zero. Trust me, anyone who thinks otherwise, he I could I could promise you he has no influence. Judges don't care what what Bob thinks. Jay said it best. Re was locked up in Jay's house. He won the Olympia. Yeah. I mean, I don't know what what Regan is doing or isn't doing. Uh but the improvements are very very slow. And I expected I know he's still a young guy, but every year a year goes by, another season goes by and you don't have unlimited years in the sport. Most guys, if you have a 10-year pro career as a bodybuilder, that's damn good. Most guys, I'd say the average is like three to five years and then they either quit or they get injured or life happens. Uh, you know, they have kids and decide it's uh they don't want to do this anymore or they have a health problem. There's any number of reasons why why open pro bodybuilders retire or just never compete again. Some of them don't. They plan on coming back, but they never do. It ain't that hard, G. No one gives a damn how we pronounce his name. Yeah, there you go. You are 12. Are you 12? He might be. Who cares how I pronounce you? Baby epic troll. Well, he's not as bad as that uh Jack guy, but I think I think I might aband him permanently. The one that was in that was in all caps. Mark's a bomb. Ko has a better body. Kzo has a better body. Kriso has a better body than Nick. You know nothing about the sport guys. Nothing. There is no way in hell. In hell Kriso is beating Nick Walker today or probably ever. Sorry. Use Brave browser to watch YouTube. There are no ads. I don't know. I don't even know what that is. Street spirit. I'm way behind. Chris Rean needs more legs. I agree. I agree. Hope Tyler Mania addresses Bonax ability control his gut. I wonder why he always gets away while having a prego gut and wide waist one that gets a lot of heat for it. Uh, no, Nick, I've heard criticism. Criticism. I want to give Tyler a lot of credit because he does a video every Monday morning usually. Sometimes it's like multiple videos and it's he puts them on his Instagram, on YouTube, and he breaks down the show, how he judged it, why why they made certain decisions. Uh he he goes competitor by competitor for the top few guys uh pose by pose, how they're hitting the poses, right or wrong, what they need to improve on, what's good, what could be better, things like that. He doesn't need to do that. The judges in the past never caution we didn't have social media back then, but even if we did, you know, they the judges never they had no accountability to the to the fans. They never bothered to really come out and say, "This is what I saw, how I saw the show. This is why I scored it the way I did. So, props to Tyler for doing that. Oh god, you really don't like Nick. Uh, Sass's condition is just off. He's not at his best today. He's not anywhere near as good as he was in Fibo or Detroit. And I don't know what happened. I do not know what happened to him. Unless KiOo fixes presentation, he won't be a contender. Well, if you're talking about for the Olympia, no, he's nowhere near in contention. Kriso is in terms of becoming Mr. Olympia. I'm not saying he can't win Mr. Olympia, but he's going to need to make some improvements to the physique and the posing. The presentation is part of it, but he also needs thicker back, more hamstrings. Till he until he gets those, he's not even going to be in the conversation. Uncoordinated. Yeah. How bad Chris Christo's posing is. It's pretty bad. That rear double bicep pose was really wonky. Really wonky. Arms moving all the place. Yeah, I that was I agree. Chris reminds you today's Dennis James is going to the gym doesn't translate on stage. Well, the thing with the Kriso pictures is you post these pictures where they're close up and if you were if you were on stage right next to Kriso, you would see all those crazy detail and fibers and everything. But when you're back, you know, we're looking at this the camera is back like 20 feet. That's what we're seeing. We're seeing a different vantage point. So all those little fine details, they're they're lost in the distance. So Rean Grimes second maybe. No, I don't. There's no way he's being bonk today. I know how these things are judged. I've been to a million of them. Why is William still competing? I think this is his farewell year, his farewell tour. People are saying I think after this year, we won't see him again. Chel's got no ass. He needs more glutes. Yeah, I I didn't want to say it because guys, you start making like homophobic comments, but yeah, he needs better glutes. It's pretty flat and underdeveloped. His hamstrings are underdeveloped. His quads are great. I don't He must be using his quads like 100% in squats, leg press, hack squat, all that because I I don't know too many people that have been able to build huge quads like he has without at least moderate glute development. His is below average. It's not even average. How much time till finals? Uh so the finals is is broken up into two. the finals. Uh because it's into two groups, I should say. So, they're going to do I have the schedule saved on my thing. All right. So, finals there's going to be Oh, they all start at 8. No, I'm sorry. There's a finals A that starts at 5:00 PM. That's going to be women's physique 212 men's bodybuilding. This is in order. So, women's physique 212 wellness uh 212 awards, men's physique, and classic posing in awards. Then there'll be a short break. Come back at 8:00 for women's bodybuilding figure, uh, women's bodybuilding awards, men's bodybuilding confirmation round and routines, bikini, and then men's bodybuilding awards. So, I don't think you're going to see the the open men back on stage until around probably close to 9:00 tonight. I'd say like 8:30 at the very earliest, but you probably they have to get through all of women's bodybuilding. No, let me let me correct that because women's bodybuilding, there's only three of them. Not a good sign for the future women's bodybuilding, by the way. So, there's three women's bodybuilders. That that won't take long. Women's figure uh women's bodybuilding awards. Okay. So, probably looking at 8:30 8:30 p.m. for men's open and then, you know, they wait until the very end to do their awards. How does some of that goes? Yeah, there are a lot of pro because there's a lot of qualifiers and they're not equally competitive. Put it that way. If you win the overall at like the USA or the nationals, you're pretty damn good. You're you're among the elite. North American too. I put that in the same close to the same category. Universe little less. But then you have like amateur Olympias, uh, Arnold amateurs, some of the people that win these card. You have guys and girls, men and women I should say, they're not children, that win their pro cards as masters in various events. And some of these masters proqualifiers are not very competitive at all. Uh if if somebody shows up, maybe they're the only one in shape. Uh maybe they're the only one that shows up in their class. Uh I've seen some masters, and I'm I'm a guy who tried to turn pro as a master, so I'm not putting masters down, but there are a lot of people who turn pro in masters that they get destroyed if they try to do an open show. They there are masters pro shows that they can do and they have a much better chance. They don't look as out of place. But some of these people that turn pro as masters, they look very much out of place in an open stage. Get him out like candy nowadays. Nick is handsome. Okay. Okay. He's a good-look dude. Hundreds of pro. They're not hundreds. Your mom's flip-flop, but there's a lot more. I mean, in the old days, in the beginning, in the very beginning, in the early 80s, uh, we're talking about like the Lee Haney, Rich Kaspari, Mike Christian, Bob Paris era, only one guy turned pro every year, and that was for each, I should say more. The only way to turn pro back then was the World Amateur Championship. So, Lee Haney was the first NPC Nationals champion. He didn't get a pro card from that. He still had to go to the world amateur championships somewhere across continents and win the heavyweight division there, which he did. Same thing with Rich Kaspari. Rich Kaspari won the nationals. Didn't get a pro card from that. Had to go to the world amateurs and everyone who won their weight class there was a pro and there was no supers back then. So it was a heavyweight, light heavy, middle, lightweight, and bantamweight. They all turned pro. So you would get five pros every year and that was it. That's it. And then eventually they started giving out uh pro card for everyone who won their class at the nationals and it became top two in every class. Then they added classes like welterweight and super heavyweight. Uh USA championships only the overall winner used to be used to turn pro. What is this? I think it was over anyway. I think the judging was all over. Yeah, it was all over. I'm actually going to stop sharing that. Stop sharing. I'm going to get going soon. Anyway, Kriso has too many flaws physique. He doesn't appear the top six guy in the IPB. Kriso good shape, uncoordinate, horrible posing. Does Nicholas look better than last week? I think he looks the same. Privacy, you're not judge on posing physique. True. You could I've actually seen shows where they were amateur shows, local shows, where people were just awful. Like they posed like they they probably they had never posed before. It was their first show for a lot of them. I've seen shows where guys were in the judging looking at the guy next to them because the judge would call out the pose and they were looking at the guy next to them like what's that? What's a side chest? Oh, you do that? Okay, I'll do that. And they still won because they were genetic freaks. But they didn't even know how to pose. They never posed before. Nick looks better than he did last week. I I'd have to see a comparison side to side, side by side to really make that determination. Nick Waist looks worse next week. Lar got that janky. He tore that bicep. Lar that first place social media. Yeah, he was the best that day. It wasn't horribly competitive, but he still won it. People said to Sam Jones with Sammy had the best physique that night. Yeah, Sam Sull. Uh, God bless the kid. I love his content. I think he looked fantastic. Will he do very well as a classic pro? You put him next to like a Hosama or a Terrence or Mike Somerfeld or some Logan Franklin? No, dude. No. He's going to make need to make a lot of improvements to uh to get to their level because he's nowhere near them right now. 212 should be completely removed from the sport. Wow. Ke with a couple more pounds of muscle. Well, that would be a terrible thing because a there's a there are a few guys like Keon and Sean Clarita that can do very well in the open, but there's a lot of guys in 212 they would they would not get a look. They would get completely overlooked. They wouldn't get first call out. they wouldn't get second call up because they're 5'1 or 5'2 or 53 and they're they would just look small because they don't take up much space. You put them next to someone who's 5'8 or 511, 240 to to 280 pounds, they look like little peanuts. Uh small legs, good point. What happened to the guy that tore his pec working out with Larry Wheels? I hope he's feeling better. Who's in the top five? Goku. Uh, so we have Nick Walker, William Bonak, Rean Grimes, uh, Michael Kio, and I think the new guy, Ken Kennedy, Anyanu. I think he's ahead of Sassan. Sassan's a little really blurry in the in the glutes and the hams today. Back isn't as crisp as it was. He might still be ahead of Kennedy. He's got he's got a pretty damn good physique, but top four is is a lot. The last call out that they did in judging would would be a strong indication that it's going to be in no particular order Nick Rean, William and Chris. Derek sucks. He doesn't suck. He was Mr. Olympia. He was 212 Mr. Olympia. He's your own class champ. He doesn't suck. What I think about him? Uh yeah, I think he needs more. I I agree with you, Darren. I think uh a nice Nasser in him. I think Kennedy uh this was a very strong debut for him. He's uh he's in the top five. I think five or fifth or sixth. The New York Pro for your pro debut. That's really good. Especially when it's, you know, it's you already have first place was a lock. Rean sucks. Derek sucks. Rean sucks. You think everyone sucks? Who doesn't suck? I guess that should be the better question. I wonder why Rean never got some size on his frame. He just put on weight. We could we could, you know, speculate. Why doesn't Rean, we all remember, some of us remember a few years ago he went to Kuwait to oxygen gym. Uh, you know, because guys used to go over there. It's not as much of a thing anymore, but that used to be the strategy because the owner, Bud, Bad Air Budai, who's the owner of the original oxygen gym, plus several others, he had been bringing bodybuilders over for years, and you could live there. They put you up in a condo across the street, apartment, whatever it was. Uh gear was given to you, food was provided, they delivered your hot meals to you, they had you had a trainer in the gym twice a day. All you had to do is eat, sleep, and train. It was like boot camp, bodybuilding boot camp. And guys would go over there and there were rumors that the doses they were given or were were able to access were tremendous. I mean, I remember Brandon Curry made such a huge leap from 2016 Olympia to uh the spring shows because he put on 20 25 pounds of muscle in between over at Oxen Gym in Kuwait. Anyway, Rean went over there and he was putting on so much size so fast he became concerned for his health and he told him he was going home for Christmas to see his family and his friends and all that. He said he would come back and he never went back. He was afraid. He was afraid for his health because he wasn't willing to take that chance. So, you know, in in a way, I applaud that that this isn't everything. There should be life after bodybuilding. Yeah. Could he be placing better in as a pro bodybuilder if he had more mass and everything, but at what cost? He's got a kid. He's got a got a girl, a wife. I think he's married. Um and um is it worth taking 10 years, 20 years off your life to be Mr. Olympia to be Arnold Classic Champion? I guess you could debate that, but I don't think it is. Oh, this Nick is tough. I mean, Nick was third place in 2022 when he's better now. So, I don't see him any lower than third, fourth, fourth at the worst this year. At the worst, because you could say the top three is going to be Derek, Samson, Hottie, in no particular order. And I think Nick's the next the next guy after that. Rean mid-level bodybuilder. Gez. Uh, these guys didn't put tan on their face. Yeah, they usually don't. They they put like makeup and it it usually doesn't blend. It's usually not the same shade. Dave Thomas, what's up? Do you think the Instagram crisis will ever turn up? Well, the whole thing with the Instagram kriso, the videos and the pictures, they're they're close up. That never what you're seeing in any bodybuilder are very close up. If they're standing right in front of you, if they're two, three, four feet away from you in nice lighting, that never translates to what you see on a stage where you're further back. It's not the same lighting. It's blasting. It's very, very strong lighting because it need everybody needs to see. You got people, you know, 50 40 rows back. You got cameras 20 feet away. You got the judges who are a good 15 feet away. So, it's never ever going to translate like that. 10% ghost, 90% black appearance. Wow. Ghost versus black. I'm impressed with Nick's comeback. I hope he wins the Olympia one day. He deserves it. However, I don't think the powers of B will allow powers of be. They It's not like that anymore. There were days in the past when the powers that be uh the guy that the guys that ran the shows they did say I want this guy to win or you know sometimes it had to do with their contracts is did they have a contract with the sponsor who was paying a lot of money to the promoter for that show. There was a lot of politics very shady things used to go on with the judging. I don't think we're in that we're in that universe anymore. I don't think it's like that at all anymore. Judging is fair and impartial. Even at the Mr. Olympia, we've had seven different Mr. Olympias in the last eight years. In the past, for many years, as long as you were Mr. Olympia and you showed up looking, h okay, and sometimes you could still be off and you still kept you still beat everybody. Dorian was off a couple times. Lee Haney was off two years in a row. They still let him keep the title. Uh Ronnie Coleman was off a couple times. Uh if you go way back, you know, Franco Columbo, second time he won the Olympia, probably should have been like fourth, fifth place, but he was he won. There was a lot of politics back in the old days, and it's not like that anymore. Reagan looks really good. I agree. Your mom's me or Night of Champions or Pro used to have more fame? No, I don't think so. I mean, Night of Champions was a big show because we didn't have as many shows back then, but Night of Champions used to be between 30 and 45 guys on stage every year. There was no there were no other divisions. There was no 212 classic. It was just bodybuilding. And Champions used to be a really good opportunity for newer guys to get seen, especially if they were from overseas, from Europe, Middle East, places like that. Um, they would come over and do that as their debut. That was Dorian Yates's first show in 1990. He lost to the late Momo Benza, but that was our first look at Dorian at the United Champions in 1990. Uh, Marcus Rule won that show in 2022, I believe it was. Uh, I just remember seeing a lot of European talent over there that I had never heard of, but after that show, I knew who they were. Chat, what's time of the finals? It starts at 8. I don't think you're going to see Open men till about 8:45 because they got to get through women's bodybuilding and figure. Uh, as long as he's got that gut and wide waist, he won't. I mean, he needs to control his his gut. As long as Nick can keep his his midsection pulled in tight all the time, you know, Jay Cutler had not a gut, but he had a thick waist. It wasn't a dainty little waist. He kept it flat. He was very professional. Jay, you never saw him breathe out through the gut and it pop out, but he had a waist. He had a thicker waist. Just hold that double back. His double bicep, the way he's been hitting is awful. Champions used to be a top show like the Arlington Prestige. Well, back then they only had like five or six pro shows a year. Now we have I mean open pro shows I think we have like 30 something like that 30 back then there was there was only a few. Yeah. Bonax left lattis smile on the right. Grimes looks good. Watchful for the was it worth it for you going to take two years off. Uh worth it. He had a baby and everything. I think it was worth it. Never used to be a fan of Nick but he looks absolutely incredible. Looks a static in quite a few poses as well. Bob chick sucks. You just popped in to say everyone sucks. A lot of people watch, comment, and vital custo. Oh, Ken, I totally agree. And you know what? I'm glad that there is so much interest in it. But, uh, a lot of the people who comment on these, they've never been to a contest, you know, I wouldn't expect them to have ever judged or anything, but if your entire experience of bodybuilding is through your phone or even a computer screen, it's not the same, guys. You got to get to a show. You got to It's It's completely different experience. You see things in 3D. The atmosphere is there. It's It's something you owe it to yourself to get to a pro show. I know it costs money. This is free. YouTube is free. Instagram is free. So, I get it. But still, get to a show, guys. If you if you want to consider yourself a fan, you need to go to a show. We can show Well, I don't know about the training. I'm not going to comment on that. Is a lazy Well, you said he sucked and now he's a lazy bastard. Lol. They start at 8 o'clock. Audi use some ad blockers wrong like I do. I think I have three or five. Yeah, I don't I'm afraid because then they block some things I'm trying to trying to see sometimes. Yeah, Nick's varicose veins are still not not attractive. Nick Rean needs 10 to 15 pounds fill out. Get that popped front lat jump from coach to coach and never really actualized it potentially. He was with Ko, he's with Boss now. He's been with a couple coaches. H I'm not going to tell you what Larry should focus on. He's going to do what he wants to do. Grimes and Walker. What's live? This is I'm live, but that what I was showing you wasn't live. Kiso doesn't have long lats. So, what you're seeing is that's where his lats insert. They're a little higher. Nick Rod, I said at the Lensfords, I think he's overdeveloped. I like the Lensfords better. Joe James way better than Kriso. I mean, Dennis was third at the Olympia. So far, KZO has not and he was fit top five a couple other times. KZO so far has not gotten to that level. Does KZO have mobility issues? I would say it's possible. Blak 2. Yeah, KZO three. I don't know if he's that high. I think Rean's had him. Jay said in his video, he's nervous. Sets up. Couldn't even watch a video posing on stage. He was so [\h__\h] Poor five. A little off topic. Whatever happened to Prey, Mozilla, Lair, Giles, just keep up with them, but I have heard nothing about these guys. Well, those Giles, I do a show every week with Giles Power Hour on this channel. We just did a preview for this show uh a couple days ago on this channel. Check it out. But yeah, those guys are going to show up at the European shows. There's a ton of shows coming up over in Europe. I think there's like 10 of them over there. You'll see all those guys. Theo Leger, uh, Andrea Prey, Andrea Mozilla, Muzzy, Muzzy. It's not Mozilla. You'll see him over there. He did make great improvements in his beard. Griezo, I think, are wasting Nick. It's about the same. Grimes fired Milos. That's right. He had Milos and Samson fired Milos. Both made major league accomplishments since dumping Milos. Uh I don't I mean Samson has he's become he won the Olympia but what has Rean accomplished since he dumped Milos. He hasn't the show that he won in 23. I believe he was still with Milos. I believe he was Bonak one. No it's not going to happen. He's not beating He's not beating Nick. I'm sorry. Calvin look at Bonn's got horse and they can't control it. Barely a pro card. Only overall winner. Well, at least they have a few more shows. A couple more. It used to be just Canadians. I think now there's the Ben Weider Natural one. And isn't there another one, too? Plus, you guys can go to the North American. You can go to all the amateur Olympias, Arnold amateurs. So Dave, back in 1965 when Larry Scott was the first Mr. Olympia, I think there were five pro bodybuilders or less in the world. There really wasn't anything. I guess the only pro bodybuilding show that that existed at that time was the Naba Mr. universe, the pro universe. I think they had amateur universe and a pro universe. They still do. Naba over in London, UK. And Larry Scott uh was one of the few pro bodybuilders and Joe Weider was I think he had him in his magazines and he decided I'm going to put on this brand new contest for all the universe champions, all the all the guys because after the back then if you won the universe, there was nowhere else to go. I guess you could keep doing the pro universe, try to win that every year, but there was nothing else for them. So Joe sat down and said, "I'm gonna have my own big show for all the champions and we're gonna call it the Mr. Olympia." Because they were drinking a beer with the called Olympia beer and that's where they got the name. True story. And yeah, you there was no qualifications back then. There was there were no pro shows back then. I mean, the Olympia was the first IFBB professional show. There were no others. And for many years, there were no other there were no other pro shows. uh you know years later they started to add other pro shows so these guys could have more than one opportunity a year to win a title and make some money. Paul Dil was super amazing body couldn't post for his life. Paul used to shake his eyes would be blinking. He looked like he was in pain. Oh he was he was hard to watch. He was cringy to watch pose. He used to call Gaspar blocky. Look like Steve dump 212. Woof. Guys are brutal. Aside from Kristo's massive struggles opposing his lack of muscles, glutes, his obliques, his elongated neck. His elongated neck. What's he supposed to do about that long neck? I don't know if you guys I have kids and they used to watch those Land Before Time. They're older now. They used to watch those Land Before Time movies, the animated ones with the dinosaurs and the uh the Brachiosaurs were all called long necks. Long necks. Yeah. Rean needs 10 to 15 pounds to fill out and get that pop. Yeah, Rean could be bigger. I'd like to see him bigger and fuller. with more chest, more quads, more biceps. Chel looks fantastic. Nick finally, I just been there. Nick Williams, finally Reagan, nothing. I just been there. Rean too far from Are you continuing that, Rudy? I don't know. It's different live or see here from TV. It's very different live. That's why I encourage you guys if you're ever within driving distance of a show, a pro show. I know it's money to get there. I know it's money. You have to pay for the tickets and all that, but guys, trust me, you will not regret it. It's It's an amazing experience to be there, especially you have good seats if you're way up front. Seeing these things live is just so much better. Like, I'm so bummed. I have so much FOMO that I missed the Pittsburgh Pro. I wasn't able to see it live because I know live it was a totally different experience just because I've been to shows the Olympia the Arnold the New York Pro many times up front and it's the energy it's electric and seeing the physiques in 3D the muscles moving right in front of you it's very very different from a phone or a tablet or a PC screen. Yeah, I don't think Rean's willing to do that natural bodybuilding and you know he he cares about his longevity and his health and you know what good for him. Glad you just remoted me on Rakway coming to Campbell. Yeah, that was Night of Champions back in the So Night of Champions was I believe it was the first pro show that was ever added to the IFBB. They just had the Olympia for years and years and I think it was 1978 was the first night of champions promoted by Wayne Deilia and they used to have like opening acts like crazy things and one year Muhammad Makawi from Egypt came out on stage in a camel camel took a dump right there on stage in front of everybody. Hi Banu Prattab Singh Rawat as teen and jury predators before going to the US. Well you have fibo you had fibo there in Cologne. You could have gone to that right? I don't I know it's still maybe you're not that close to it, but you could have gone to FIBO. That's your opportunity next year. Your mom's flipflop go to get get your butt to Cologne and go see the pro show in Fibo a little more this year. BM Larry Wills. Yeah, we won. We We talked about it. Who's your favorite Bible of time all time? Flex Wheeler or Ronnie Coleman? They're both awesome. Right now, I don't have a favorite bodybuilder right now. Honest to God, surprise me, too, Matt. Front earlo spread. He does have big earlobes, but you know what? God bless him. All right, guys. I'm going to end the stream. I appreciate you all taking part in the chat. We'll be back in a few hours. I don't think Open's going to go on till about 8:30. I don't think it's going to wrap up till probably closer to 10. 9:30, 10 is my prediction. 9 is a very early. It doesn't The finals for that division don't start till 8. So, we're looking at like 9:30 10. Uh, so thanks for watching. If you're watching the replay, I had all the footage earlier on in it. Uh, we looked at it over and over again. So, yeah, that's it. Don't complain about being German. Don't complain about being Persian. I'm I'm Persian living in Iran. Yeah, no pro shows over there, but you have to you have hottie there. Anyway, guys, so thank you all for watching. Appreciate it very much. I'll be back in a few hours after the open is wrapped up. I do expect Nick Walker to run away with this show. Third pro, New York Pro title. Uh but after that, let's see what happens. Let's see. Bonak I have in solid second, but we'll see. It's It's not that they're not that far apart. Guys like Rean, Kriso, Kennedy, Sassan. We'll see how the rest of the top five shakes out. We'll see who wins 212. We'll see if Terrence Ruffin can defeat uh Sassan in Josema in classic. We'll see whether the judges go with the thicker some little bit blockier look of Angel Calderon Frias who is in great condition or the more aesthetically pleasing younger guy Francisco Barios Milk. We'll see what happens. So, appreciate you guys watching. We'll be back in a few hours and until then, peace.