 iCarCarCar. any of the Arnold amateur coverage last week or even paid any attention to the Instagram pages, you saw a lot of posts about this young man, 21 years old, from Germany, who placed second in the Super Heavyweight Division, but remarkable, remarkable potential for the future at 5'10 and 284 pounds. Please welcome the German mutant, Nicholas Emig. Hello, from Texas Austin. Yes, I thought you were going back to Germany. How are you still here? How'd you end up in Texas? Yeah, my life changed completely overnight. It's like a fever dream for me right now because I did the Arnold Classic show and the promoter of the website, I think, the Beyond Stage TV, posted the video of the 21-year-old, 284 pounds. Then I stepped off stage, went backstage and laid down. And yeah, my phone started like going crazy. And my whole life changed overnight because I met so many nice people on the Arnold Expo that I flew. Then I got invited spontaneously down here to Texas from the Iron Car guys. They are building machines and all that kind of stuff. They want to invite me down here so I can see Texas and test out all the machines. And yeah, living the American dream, I think. Nicholas, is this your first time in the USA? Yeah, it's for me the first time. We landed like one week ago in Columbus. And yeah, now I'm traveling for the next six weeks. So I have like three T-shirts with me and three boxer shows. Jeez. Are you serious? You're not going home for another six weeks? Yeah, because the plan right now is that I'm staying in Texas till the 23rd. Then I'm flying over to UK, to the Arnold Classics UK. I'm flying to Birmingham. I'm staying there till the 30th. And then I'm for like one, I think around one week in London. After that I fly directly to the FIBO in Cologne, the German fitness convention. And then I hope I'm for a few weeks at home. But then I think I will travel back to Texas. Okay, wow. That's exciting. Yeah, like I said, it changed completely overnight. Yeah, this was just, we're talking on a Thursday night and this happened exactly one week ago when your videos and the photos went all over. Went all over the, because that's how we get our news now is everything comes out on Instagram first. Like beyond the stage, who was the best bodybuilder, generation iron arcs. Yeah, I mean, it's crazy. What's it feel like to a week ago, nobody knew your name to now. A lot of people, I'd say millions of people. I think that's a legitimate thing. Millions of people know who you are now. It's crazy. Like I think the word fever dream describes it pretty well. Because like over in Germany, yeah, bodybuilding is a thing, but it's a really, really small bubble. And in the US, it's the completely opposite. You guys love bodybuilding and try to support the sport. And the people have a different angle of view, I think you can say, on the bodybuilding stuff. Yeah. So it's a crazy feeling. I never, I never the thing that someone comes up to me and asks me for like a picture or that I had to sign a lifting belt or that kind of stuff. And I was so overwhelmed because I was like, what do I have to do now? How do I post on a picture with someone? It's either the thumbs up or the point. Yeah. I've got two options for the picture. I want to get your story, but I also want to know, what was it next? Yeah. America, this is your first visit and coming from Germany, what are like the things that really stand out? Like, wow, that's very different from where I'm from. Mostly the grocery stores. Because me and my girlfriend, we love to check out the grocery stores when we are traveling. And the first thing we did when we landed in the US was like, we went to Walmart and went shopping and only bought like two pounds of cereal and like every kind of energy we could find. Yeah. You don't have Walmart in Germany? Nah, we don't have it. We have like the, we have Aldi, you have here too, but only like smaller grocery stores. Not like, we have all the, there's just the super stores around here and our grocery stores are like a third of the size in comparison. It's funny because I remember Giles, my buddy in UK, his girlfriend one year, we were driving through Vegas at the Olympia weekend and she said, everything in here is so big. Yeah, it's crazy. Anyway, speaking of big, yeah, I mean, 284 pounds made quite an impression. So let's, let's find out how this happened. So how did you start lifting weights? How old were you and what was your motivation? In Germany, we had a few years ago, like a law that you only can train like after 16 years old, when you were like 16 years old. So I stepped on my 16th birthday into the gym and I got, for my birthday present was like a two month membership. And this is the way I started lifting and then I wanted to do first like power lifting. But then I thought about it and I was like, yeah, I want to look good and not be strong. And then I started bodybuilding. And this is kind of the way I got in the sport. And then I did like two years of like a bulking phase and then I stepped the first time on stage with like around 18 years old. I don't know if like it was before my 18th birthday or it was after that, but around my 18th birthday. Okay. Because it's just a teenage class. So I guess it would have been either age, but what did you weigh if you know it in pounds for that first competition? I weighed in around 60 kg. It must be around like 130, 40 pounds, I think. Yeah. Because you calculated with 2.2. So 60 times 2.2 is around 130, 140. Yeah, okay. So did you follow the sport of bodybuilding or did you have any bodybuilders that you followed before you started actually thinking about bodybuilding yourself? No, I just wanted to try it. This is the funny thing because I never watched a bodybuilding show in my life. Wow. I think it's so fucking boring to watch if you don't be on stage. So I never watched the show and it was just like I had the genetics. I put on like so much size in such a short amount of time. I just wanted to try it out and then I stepped the first time on stage and then it kicked in. So like the fire started burning for the sport and then after this first competition I started, I competed each year to like, yeah, today. So today, which were not that many years because you're 21 now, right? Yeah. Yeah, 22. I just got 22 like I think one and a half weeks ago. Oh, you're 32? Yeah, yeah. This is the weird part because on my sheet for like the competition it's written on like 22 but everybody said like I'm 21 and I tried to correct it and to try to correct everyone but I just turned 22 like on the 25th of February. So it's like kind of a mixed up thing but yeah, I gave up to correct it because nobody cares. 22 is very young. I mean, my kids are all older than you, 26 and almost 32. So, do you still think bodybuilding is boring now that you've done it yourself? Do you follow it now? Nah, no. Because for me it's to watch a show it's like a bunch of guys who like posing and all that kind of stuff and it's, it's, for me it's boring. When I'm up there, I love it. I love to entertain the people and yeah, pose and all the kind of stuff but for me it's like when I watch it, bodybuilding shows are so, take so much time. so like they, when you wait for your class or the class you, you know someone in you have to wait for such a long amount of time and yeah, I think I'm too, too lazy, lazy for that. for that. Well actually, you're very, you're very correct about that. Those shows are very, very time consuming. Yeah, this is what I want to say. Yeah. Yeah, someone said, you know, because we have all these divisions that you have to, you know, you might just be there for your friend who's in open bodybuilding but then you have to sit through eight, nine other divisions. Yeah, and then you wait like eight hours until you see the person you're waiting on and the person is like five minutes on stage and then the day is over. Yeah, I get you, I get you on that. Someone said, it's like, I'm going to a music festival and sitting through ten bands you don't like to see one band you do like. Yeah, exactly like that. It's not like I don't like when other classes are on stage but for me it's like, yeah, boring describes it really well. Wow. Not to be mean or anything like that. Okay, you're being honest, you know what? Yeah, yeah, yeah. How did you learn how to do everything correctly? The training, the eating, did you have a mentor, a coach? Did you just go online and find information? For the last four years or five, four years I did everything myself so I teach me everything I said because I, in Germany we have like a natural federation for bodybuilding and I competed the first two years in this federation and I was like so into it to all the science stuff because I wanted to look like the enhanced guys without taking anything and I was so deep into it and then I got all the information and this is how I got to that point and then I got a coach for this competition because for me it's like I can do a prep by myself I can be stage ready but I think I can't do the peak week by myself because then I lose the how do you say it the look for myself Yeah I mean it's I think it's very hard at the very end of the prep to look at yourself and see what's actually in the mirror you can either see that you you think you're flat or you think you're still fat or it makes you do weird things because you're not just not seeing reality so that's you're right that's what and I don't want to fuck up like 12 weeks of prep in like 2 days so for that we have like a really loose kind of thing with my coach it's more like I say something what do you think about that and he's like yeah we can do it or this is the better way right on so yeah it's strange that bodybuilding isn't quite as big or as popular in Germany because I always thought it was I mean that's where you have the FIBO you have some really cool gyms you've had a lot of great great bodybuilders come out of Germany in the past 50-60 years yes it's true but the the bubble the bodybuilding bubble itself is really small so everybody knows each other so if you compare it to the US it's like a different kind of size so getting back to your early years what did your parents think about you becoming a bodybuilder yeah this is the the hardest part for me with the sport because when I started bodybuilding when I first stepped on stage my parents weren't the biggest fans of that and this is the reason why I nearly have no contact to them so yeah I think they don't have the best thoughts of the sport I think gotcha I mean well I mean I can get that because it's not a traditional job you know but now I think opportunities are going to come for you if not right now very soon where you can you can make a living there's a lot of ways you can actually even coaching there's so many there's so many ways to make a living as a bible now it didn't even exist years ago so yeah I would love to live from the sport so yeah what do you do now are you work are you a student I have online fitness coaching in Germany okay that brings me the money for the sport I but I always say like I'm a better athlete than a coach because I only coach so I can do the sport sounds a little bit weird but this is the reason behind I'm working oh no it doesn't sound weird to me at all that makes perfect it's it's an expensive sport I mean yeah that's true I mean even if little things like the traveling it's not that little it's a lot of money to travel I'm sure from Germany to the US for even for a week or less I think I spend on that competition around like only on traveling cost and like the RBB and the starting fee I think it's called yeah I think it's around like four to five thousand dollars yeah I mean that's yeah only the flight with my girlfriend over here was like two and a half grand so yeah but you know I mean had you had a poor placing or not met anyone it would have been a waste of money investment it was the best decision when we were back in Germany me and my girlfriend talked and we were both like yeah should we really do that with a lot of money and yeah is it worth it and then yeah that happened I asked about your parents did you meet your girlfriend were you already you know a big big guy like you are now no this is a funny thing because I met my girlfriend when I was like around 90 kg so around 200 pounds yeah I think and yeah then I got bigger yeah and I have a cowboy head right now so I live in Texas did you buy that or somebody give that as a gift to you now we went to Cavendish I think it's called yesterday because the people I met live right now here in the apartment and they are such nice guys and they want to show me around and do all the Texas stuff with me and so like we went to Cavendish and they bought me the cowboy head and now I'm rocking that the whole day that picture there that's definitely Texas or it looks to be anywhere in the southwest but yeah I always say it looks like the wild west down here that was the wild west yeah man yeah so getting back to the weight thing I know you were 284 on stage and I thought you must have been really tall but you corrected us I thought he must be like 6'2 everybody thinks that because on the video I looked so tall but when you compare to my girlfriend I'm not so much taller than her yeah right so what do you weigh in the offseason what's your heaviest body weight the heaviest body weight was around like 141 kg I think that's around 320 pounds wow 10 pounds wow I was fat I mean what's it like to be 320 pounds I know it's I'm not I'm not saying it's not cool in a way but it's got to be uncomfortable too yeah you feel like shit you walk upstairs and be like out of breath and yeah you sweat the whole day and can't we have two dogs at home and we were like when we went for a walk we only could like walk like 10 minutes and then my lower back so sore that I have to sit down and all that kind of stuff it feels like shit but the main reason behind that I felt like shit was like I was way too fat so I think doesn't happen next time but I'm a little bit worried for the offseason right now because I'm waiting on the stage rate was around 284 pounds and when I'm now like going into the offseason the weight goes up real quick because of the rebound and all the water is back in the system and so I think I will be very fast at the 300 pound mark and then I started my offseason so I think we will see the 350 this year but you say 350 yeah I think so yeah I have to tell you something I'm really open about that I don't recommend anything but I'm open about that because I don't have to lie to someone I started PDs two years ago and before I took PDs my body weight was around 70 kg so like 150 yeah and then I doubled in size just under two years so my heaviest offseason weight was 141 kg so I doubled my body weight in under two years wow and I did two competition preps in between jeez you're what we call a hyper responder I think so too 100% you are have you talked on other interviews or podcasts about what you take if you have we'll talk if not let's move on I don't talk about that that's fine that's fine I'm open about the use but I don't want that because a lot of my followers are like younger people yeah and they try to do they try to replicate what I am doing and I'm feeling responsible for them when I do shit like this it's funny because some people will say you're being deceptive or you're not being honest they say these guys are so transparent and they're honest but you're 100% right if you put your cycle out there I promise you a bunch of 15 16 year old kids exactly they will that's how we think when we're 15 I get like five insta dms every day with with children telling me how much stuff they're taking and I'm like what the fuck man why are you doing shit like this you look like a nitty to me so I think if anyone go to his go to nicholas nicholas his instagram page he's got these reels with these hilarious cap I have to ask did you write these captions again do you write these yourself these captions some some I copied from like other influences and some I did myself because if so your English is spectacular thank you thank you I try to think about what I try to say first but like in the interview situation it's like a lot much harder for me because I have to like talk what I thinking about right now and when I like doing a caption or a reel I can think about what I want to write down and can correct things afterwards well I gotta tell you these are hilarious I haven't laughed I usually don't laugh at people's Instagram pages but this is thank you so much what is that 4 what's that in American America it's around 210 220 kg I don't know 20 kg plates right the big ones yeah 200 right the 45 and that's 25 so that's 455 yeah good lord this is not the strongest in my offseason I get really strong really fast the heaviest I benched was around 220 kg I think that's a little bit over 500 I think 240 220 220 kg so like 220 times 2.2 it's around like 510 I can't I'm such a bad I'm so bad at math I have to use it yeah me too you know what's the hardest part for me right now in the US when I go to the gym and have to calculate like the dumbbell how heavy they are and they always calculate the weight of the dumbbell so 220 times 2.2 is 484 okay like you were 284 but that's that's your first strong were you very strong when you were natural too again when you were natural before you started using yeah yeah I get this is why I wanted to do like powerlifting first because I trained for like three months and I already benched 140 kg so around 300 pounds wow yeah it went up really really fast everything this is an old video of last year I think around like October yeah did you did you gain size as quickly as you gain strength I think I gain size even faster wow I have to take a picture afterwards because now comes the crazy part I did my the last competition I did last year was in October and I weighed in with 107 kgs so around you can calculate it really quick I think it's 107 times 2.2 I just kept that opening so 107 yeah 235 235 I weighed at 235 in October on the 18th October 2025 yeah and I weighed in on the Arnold show with 284 and better conditioning and I did like a recovery phase where I only was on TRT in between so I gained like 50 pounds in 3 months that is insane remind me to send you the picture because I put them right next to each other you have to put that in the video it looks hilarious okay so man this is insane I've talked to a lot of people who were genetically gifted and grew fast but I don't know if I've ever heard of that 50 pounds in how many months was that it's around three months because it's four months but I did like six weeks of TRT in between because I didn't plan to do the Arnold show and the competition at the start on the Arnold I decided to do the show like three weeks before yeah I didn't do a prep or a peak week or anything like that for the show I just stepped on stage and yeah that was the result you won that show right which one do you mean this is the William Bonnet classic was this the most week no I got fifth I think really yeah you looked good I thought you would have done better this was a crazy competition we were like 14 guys in the open division only and everyone was so fucking good yeah I believe it so yeah I think there's a picture I think they're on the right one! hang on a second yeah every time I think it's a video it's it's not yeah I think yeah yeah yeah go go even back even further yeah I have I have post online from the show um I think I have to click out of that post and then scroll down I think it's faster uh I think this one I think I don't know where it is yeah but uh so that was I mean that's the video was like oh no oh there yeah that's that's on the the William Bonnock show huh fifth place that's hard to believe yeah I want to speak the guy who got first place this is the funny thing yeah I think yeah this was right before the show um I think the judges want to see something else right now they want to see that tight look they are judging more for aesthetic and not like mass so I have to come in a little bit more shredded up right now really I think so yeah because yeah I'm not having a pro card so I get second I get third I get fourth but yeah we are waiting on the pro card yeah I mean Germany has got a long tradition of mass monsters I'm sure you're familiar with Markus Ruhl I would love to meet him but we never did to the! so maybe in the future you're going to FIBO right yeah yeah I'm sure he's going to be at FIBO yeah he's going to be there but there are so many fans so you can't get up to him and I'm not that guy that runs after celebrities so I'm just like yeah do your stuff and maybe we meet up some day man so you said you were thinking about power lifting at time do what is your training like your weight training and when I started I was doing like only compound movements and in one training I was like doing deadlift squats and bench press right after each other I think you could say and right now I'm training a push pull legs and I'm only doing mission stuff so to prevent injuries and I get a much better feeling because for me it's bodybuilding is like I muscle group and that kind of rate of motion so I'm machines help me with that and I don't see any sense of doing like for me doing like free bubble stuff so I'm training in a low rep range with low volume and high frequency and like a push pull leg nothing special I think push pull legs you do like three days on one day off yeah exactly I mean I have been doing that for years I think it's almost ideal yeah I try to do upper lower spin but I get too strong for that so my joints doesn't recover from that yeah I mean if you take care of your joints now you'll be happy later in life for sure I know how many older bodybuilders you've talked to but they're all jacked up yeah I know this is the second funny part that I don't watch bodybuilding shows but I don't have any connections in bodybuilding so like I'm the lone wolf I could say like in Germany I don't have to do anything with any other bodybuilders I just do my thing step on stage I mean it might be cool to start getting to know other bodybuilders there yeah for sure I would love to but I'm not that extroverted guy I'm a little more introverted I am living my routine and I love to do my routine so it's really hard for me right now with all the things that are happening right now I mean I'm sure it's! overwhelming now but it's yeah that's crazy you're making really good connections right now that's i think any business not just our our business it's all about connections yeah it's meeting people it's about who you know and who who you trust and things like that but it's crazy what kind of people like i might be honest right now and and try to support me and help me to get in the right way it's it's crazy the the founder of gold's gym just hit me up and this is the reason why i fly to birmingham because he wants to support me and maybe uh get the sponsoring contract for me or some kind of that and i fly he flies me out to birmingham and want to change my life that's crazy i don't know what to say because i have the problem that i want to say thank you for all of this but i don't have the words in english for that and i'm just saying like thank you thank you i don't know what to say i don't think you need to be eloquent about it but that's ed connors you're talking about yeah exactly yeah ed's helped i've known ed for like geez 35 years or more he's helped so many guys probably thousands over the years he's such a nice guy it's a total total fan and support supporter of the of this uh bodybuilding industry that we have so yeah good dude good dude so what kind of feedback did you get from like judges and what they'd like to see from you in the future i talked to them and there was like yeah it's hard to explain without getting into too much detail but i um shipped all my supplements supplements over to over to columbus and the package got stolen so i was like netty on stage i didn't have anything in the system and this is why i looked like that so like a little bit spilled over a little bit watery and i talked to the judges afterwards and they were like you were the topic at the judging table but we want to see you a little bit a little bit drier a little bit tighter and this is the feedback i got yeah because i mean i don't see any of that really lagging body parts you pretty got pretty good balance overall yeah my legs are a little bit like my upper body grows so fast and it's hard for me that my legs keep up because i have very long femurs and it's hard for them to i put on size i need a little more quad sweep to like get my illusion of big legs right yeah i mean as a 510 is not too tall but still i've noticed a lot of taller guys they don't get so much as much out of barbell squats yeah you can do like hex squat movements and yeah i had to be in a very narrow stand and this is the only thing what make my quad growth yeah you can't really do that with a barbell squat you'll fall down yeah i tip over uh conditioning your condition was pretty good i thought it was really good it could like almost always be better no matter who you always want to see more and more and more but you're you're hitting the mark pretty well right now so do you have any timeline for when you think you might compete again yeah this is the problem right now we wanted to do the the arnold's uk show but they don't have they don't have a pro qualifier they don't have an amateur show and i put a post on my instagram i think uh you yeah i'm not like where that photo of me uh that we're doing this show but then we research it and there's not an amateur show and before i can do the next pro qualifier this year i have to do a regional show again in germany to to start international and this is the i only could do the classic show because i did my qualifying show last year and there wasn't a regional show before the arnold's in columbus in germany so now i have to think about what's the best plan for me because i have to do the regional show again before i can compete um at the pro qualifier so i have to figure out a way what's what makes sense and for me it's like i was like one year on competition prep like i told you i didn't do a prep for that show but i still was as lean so for me it's right now it's for my head i want to it's not like that i need cheat meals or something like that but i just want to yeah my girlfriend and i feel like we had such a long competition prep and we need some time off and for my head and now i have to figure out makes make doesn't make sense for me to step on stage so early again to do the regional show and then the pro qualifier am i good enough for that right now and so for me it's more like i would love to put on a little bit more size that the next time i step on stage it's clearly that i win my pro card and can do a pro show right afterwards yeah um yeah but right now i'm just not ready for the next show and i have to figure out a way right now where i don't have a decision right now for that but i think 2027 is the next time i step on stage okay that's fair i think it's make it makes the most sense yeah because you know you i'm not the more i look at the video your your upper body is pretty much done i don't think your body needs much more yeah if your legs matched your upper body right now you'd be on a pro stage yeah for sure thank you so much you're a young guy you're gonna your legs will grow in a year of off-season training there's no doubt you're gonna have to do that yeah they they improved so much over the competition prep already but it's not enough right now yeah man i have to ask the the weight that you get were you eating when you put on those 50 pounds did you drastically increase your calories yeah we went we pushed so much condition for the for the show in october then i was around like 2 000 calories no carbs two hours of cardio uh like two different fat burners and so much but the problem was that i didn't get a lot of um didn't lose body fat anymore i just lost size yeah muscle muscle tissue yeah and then i pushed my calories up and i was like eating before the on testing show around 5000 calories so it's not really a competition trap or a diet it was more like an offseason and yeah and this is why i put on so much size but my body was like recovering from all the stress we put on for the show in october and it was it just wanted to grow and this is the point where we're at right now yeah see that's that's what people like dorian yates used to say years ago was the rebound was the perfect time to grow yes your body was just so depleted it was ready to just soak everything up like a sponge all the yeah i wanted to say that too right now um i'm curious does that does germany have a german national championships that's an npc worldwide show that you get can get a pro card we have the dennis james classic i think it's a pro qualifier and the european championship these are the the two pro qualifiers we have in germany but you still have to do the regional show before wow i think that's that's pretty standard even here yeah we qualify for nationals every year yeah we have to do that too over over there okay cool uh last question for you the nickname the german mutant where did that nickname come from this is a funny story because um the cameraman of the owner of the gym where i train in germany um i walked through the door and he was like man you look like nick walker and then we started filming some content and posted and the people in germany started like calling me the german mutant and then after a few months i put in the nickname in the in the caption i think it's called yeah and and yeah that's now it's funny game and i'm very proud that i have that i mean not every bodybuilder has a nickname but there's some great nicknames that we've had in this sport so you've already got that part handled you're you're good i'm very proud of that nickname well then i i know you've been very very busy you've been on the go and and appearances and everything so i appreciate you taking the time nicholas to talk to me i'm sorry that we had to reschedule it so much oh that was my back because i i always forget to ask what time zone i assumed you're back in germany and you know assuming is never a good idea my sleep right now is is so up because i went i traveled to like four different time zones in the last week and i'm sleeping a day a day um and i'm awake at night and next week i have to travel to birmingham which is a different time zone to germany yeah so then it's again like two different times and i think i think i need half a year after that to recover from that yeah i can tell people it is 2 10 a.m in germany right now as we're speaking so your body thinks it's two two in two in the morning right now yeah it's crazy because my girlfriend is already back in germany and when we have to talk we have to do it late at night here or like really early in the morning and then already uh in the evening over in germany so it's a little bit weird well man yeah you're you're dealing with it you're doing great i can see you you're meeting fans and you're making new fans every day it's crazy i love to meet all the people and everybody's so kind to me this is so weird well i'm happy for you kid you're living the dream man it's awesome yeah it's really it's really like that thank you so much so guys uh now you know a little bit more about that huge german kid that was all over instagram last week but by the way when i was your age i hated when people call me a kid and now that i'm 56 oh i wish somebody would call me a kid someday but they won't i i think i'm uh i'm still a kid so it's okay that's it tells me the potential is you know you're we've we've seen like one percent of your potential i think thank you so much we will see but when we're heading into offseason i think uh we bring a good package the next time the next time i step on stage we are definitely over 300 pounds so we'll see something great i'm gonna tag the instagram and all the uh graphics so people give this guy a follow he's definitely someone to watch and i'm very very happy at your success and i wish you nothing but more success and you know i like to see people climb up the ladder work their way up to this business and i think we're catching you at the at the very beginning of that climb right now thank you so much i feel honored that i can give an interview right now this is the first time for me so awesome i feel great first interview man i appreciate that all right everybody that's been the ronline report with nicholas emig thanks for watching and we will see you next