Hey, what's up everybody? Ron Harris here and today I want to take you way down memory lane almost 32 years ago to February 1994 when a young Ron Harris was the associate producer for a show called American Muscle on ESPN and I went with a cameraman to Gold Gym Venice to film Paul Dlet training shoulders three weeks out from the Arnold Classic. Uh just to give you youngsters an idea of how good Paul was here. He was at the 94 Olympia that fall. Paul was one of the greats of the 90s, but unfortunately for him, there were a lot of greats in the 90s. We're talking about guys he had to compete against like Dorian Yates, Flex Wheeler, Shawn Ray, Chris Cormier, Vince Taylor, Nashville Somati, Kevin Levon, Lee Priest, just to name some of the more notable ones. Paul was 6'1, about 285 on stage. Did pretty well. He was uh fourth place at the Olympia, the Mr. Olympia twice, fifth place twice, sixth place once, and seventh place once at his last appearance. Did win some some shows along the way, including the 1999 Night of Champions, which we now know as a New York pro, but back in those days, that was a big show. There would be anywhere from 30 to 45 guys up there. There was no 212 or anything. It was just bodybuilding, men's bodybuilding. So, it was a it was a very very tough era that Paul competed in. One of the first mass monsters with pretty good shape. You can see his waist was not big at all. He never had a gut. He had pretty slim waist. I don't know what it measured, but Paul was known for a lot of things. Shoulders and arms probably being the two most talked about body parts on DeLED. They were just freakish. We called him Frankenstein. I came up with that nickname. It didn't really catch on. I tried. But Paul was fantastic. So to set the stage for this, uh, again, we were at three weeks out from the Arnold Classic in 1994. You guys might know that he did not finish that show, the 94 Classic. He looked phenomenal, but during his posing routine, he froze up on stage exactly like a statue, cramped up, was carried off like a mannequin by three or four different guys. Uh, there's no footage of it. It was filmed for NBC Sports that Arnold Classic that year, but he was completely edited out of the show as if he wasn't even there. Although he was in the judging and I know no, he was he was in the running to do very well. I don't know if he was going to win that year, but he was looking damn damn good. So, here we go without any further ado. So, here was the first exercise we filmed. I'm going to call it reverse grip shoulder press. Typically, typically you don't see too many people at that level starting out with a pressing movement. This is not a standard press. It's a reverse grip. Charles Glass was training him at the time. Charles Glass just a master trainer. He had so many different variations on standard exercises. He would just have the guys adjust the hand position or foot placement or something. Little tiny adjustments that would completely change where they felt the exercise working in the muscle group. Uh, next up [clears throat] was the seated lateral raise. So, these were dumbbells that didn't catch on. I I always kind of hoped they would, but they didn't. They uh you could see they had a pad. They rotated so that you had a foam pad uh up on the shoulders. You could do lateral raises without really gripping. You didn't really have to grip the dumbbell at all. Uh so, these were good only for a couple things. these front raises, side raises. You could do, you know, I guess hammer curls with them and stuff, but they never really caught on. I like them for side raises quite a bit. I can't remember who made them. I want to say Jade, but like I said, you'll still see them in some older gyms like the General Fitness that I go to every once in a great while in Fall River, Massachusetts. Real good old school gym. They have those dumbbells. But Charles had him doing this the laterals there, uh, so he could stay a little stricter with the form. You know, Paul didn't train mega heavy and he didn't need to. He did higher reps, really felt the muscle. He got a lot of crap for that because this was an era where we had guys like Dorian Yates who were all about the heavy heavy weights. All right, so next up, it's a wide grip barbell upright row. Really underrated movement. I I still do these to this day. And just like you'll see Paul doing them here. I find the easy curl bar is the best because I can go all you go all the way out on the edge to the end of the collars there on easy curl bar. And that's exactly where most people want to be. You don't want to go closer. If you're going close, it's going to hit more traps. And you're not pulling straight up. It's more like up and over like an arcing motion. There he goes dropping the weights. [laughter] But you can see those delts, man. They were just so full and round. And I don't think there was any BMMA or even any I don't think he even shot them up other than regular gear maybe. They look fantastic. Okay, so there was that one. [snorts] His next exercise. I'm not even sure what you're going to call this. Um I came up with a name, but like some of these Charles Glass things, the hammer strength behind neck press. I I guess I would call it No, no, I wouldn't call it that. I would call it a an upright row on the shrug machine. That's what I would call it because you're using the hammer shrug machine, but you're pulling up like an upright row. Clearly, the traps are getting some involvement there. There's no way you're going to take the traps completely out of that, but the it's it's also a good movement for the shoulders. I suppose you could do that on either shoulder or back day, honestly. Yeah. Okay. What else did he have? Uh, is this the one? Yeah. Okay. Hammer strength. This is one you guys have in in your gym. I'm pretty sure you all have this. The hammer strength behind neck press. I did see other videos where he would go uh, you know, as heavy as four plates on similar scenes to this. So, Paul was not a weak guy by any means. He just never really pushed himself with mega mega heavy weights and lower reps. And this was right before a show. This was like two two and a half weeks out from that Arnold. So, he wasn't looking to get uh to get any bigger. He was just uh holding the size, using the diet and the cardio to get those last bits of body fat off. And I think I had one more exercise. Was it here? Yeah, I got one more, guys. Sorry if it seems like I'm rushing through this. So, this is just a standard rear delt machine. Paul did work his rear delts. >> [snorts and clears throat] >> rear. His shoulders overall were just some of the best shoulders I've ever seen. They were just so perfectly round and full from every angle. And once he was dyed down, they were That's my hand. They were in pretty damn great condition, uh, strided and all that. So, I don't think he was putting a bunch of crap in there. This is 1994. This is before people started doing all that with the oil, uh, the synthol. That was that was about to start, but it was still a couple years away. Uh, and again, this was filmed three weeks or so before the Arnold Classic, which he did not complete the show. Some people thought he would have won that show, but uh, we'll never know, I guess. And I'm going to wind I'm going to finish this up with a little clip where I appear on camera. It's the only the only time we went to color in the segment. You can hear my higher pitched voice from 1994. I'm 24 years old here. >> Oh, you see that? That great Dave over there. You see him now? He's trying to tell me. Let's get him over here now. Now he's trying to tell me as as uh you trying to tell me I'm not as light as last year. Much darker. I got some color this year. >> Well, you're going to win this year. >> That's right. I can't. >> You guys didn't think a black man, did you? >> Yeah, had a better time. The greatest bodybuilders that ever live right here the greatest bodybuilder in the sport is all the best ever. >> Yeah. So that was a a cameo appearance by Peter Paul, one of the Barbarian brothers. David and Peter, if you guys knew who they were, they were big celebrities. They were in the movie DC Cab. They had their own movie called The Barbarians. Uh they were on like talk shows, game shows. They were all over the place back in the uh in the 80s and into the early 90s. Really cool guys. And David Paul, not the one we just saw, was a fantastic photographer. So that was the workout that Paul Dlet did for the American Muscle TV show back in early 1994. So we're talking almost 30 32 years ago, right? Yeah. 32 years ago. It's been a long time. So I hope you enjoyed it. And uh for those of you who aren't familiar with Paul or weren't familiar, I hope you see just how good he really was in an era of so much excellent talent in the world of pro bodybuilding. So that's it. If you like the video, please like, subscribe, share, do all that good stuff. Appreciate it. And I will see you right here next time.