What's up, guys? Ron Harris here. We are one day out, less than 24 hours out from the Pittsburgh Pro. Thought we'd look at some of the most recent updates from people. Uh I'm going to leave this up on the screen the whole time. This is the live stream info. Uh there are two different live streams. There's one for tomorrow package with all the men's competitors. Judging starts at 9:00. I don't know what time finals are because I'm going to be busy with my son anyway. But all the info for the show, you can find it right there at pittspowerfit.com as well as the live stream info. So the men's live stream is tomorrow. That's $29.99. Sunday is going to be the women's event and the women's live stream. I do know that's $24.99. It's a little cheaper. Um I know a lot of people are very very buttth hurt that the live stream is not free because Fouad had a live a free live stream for the Detroit Pro. Arnold Classic for the past two years has also featured a free live stream which is awesome. You know, we love free. I love free but you know what? Sometimes you just got to dig down and and pay up I guess. Anyway, let's go to some updates, guys. And in the comments, you guys can certainly uh certainly give me some uh other people to check out. Start here with Martin. So, Martin posted this uh today, I believe. Let's go to his video. Uh it says posing practice. It's not like the greatest posing practice, though. I have it up twice, that's why. Okay. So, here we go. All right. So, let's take a look. All right. So, there's Boss in the hotel room. They're in Pittsburgh. I I wish I could tell you there is uh you know, full body stuff, but this is about all we're going to get out of Martin. Hasn't put any tan on yet. You can see still got all the stretch marks and the uh and so forth. The skin blemishes. You won't see that once it's uh Yeah, I'm trying to gauge condition here. I mean, the face that we saw yesterday and I'll go to that picture again. His fa I'm not I'm not loving that to me. That doesn't look uh that doesn't look like somebody who's competing unless competing tomorrow because I think this was taken today. I would just expect to see a little more little more definition, a little more hardness and tightness back there. I don't know. I don't know what boss is saying or boss is thinking there. I know this is not the greatest uh vantage point. We're not really seeing a whole lot. He turns around. Oh, now I got to watch a damn ad. Uh sorry guys. This is what happens when I go on YouTube. Get through that. Skip. Okay. And so much me. I've been through so much for this prep. Yeah. I mean, I'm assuming he's going to look a lot better with the tan on and everything, but that doesn't that condition doesn't scream like uh freaky shredded to me. I know he's going to look a lot better on stage. I'm I'm not I'm not really uh doubting that he's going to bring it. Just if I saw this and this is all I had to go by, I'd be I'd be worried. I was a Martin fan, you know? I guess I really shouldn't be worried, right? So let's see if uh in the gym he looks any gym gives us any more indication. Yeah, I mean you could see he's got his this is three and four days out. So this was taken on Wednesday and Thursday. Tuesday and Tuesday and Wednesday. It's recent. It's just a couple days ago. This was at three and four days out posing practicing grocery run. So he's carving up now. Yeah, you can see striations. You can see that face. He looks exhausted. The face looks sucked up. Eyes are like hollow in their sockets. I think boss is pointing out the crossstrations in his triceps in case we missed them. But that's cool. Not everyone has crossstrations in the in the triceps. Uh remember Rolley had Roly Winkler had some awesome ones. Phil Heath had some awesome Mr. Olympia Samir Bernude actually had some amazing crossstrations in his triceps. So I guess that's all we're going to see. some pull downs. Yeah, he looks he looks like his tank is empty. He is tired, which you know, if you're prepped properly, you should be you shouldn't be feeling fantastic at three and four days out from a big show, doing some pull downs. You can see by those stretch marks, he grew quickly. either that or it's just someone's going to correct me, but typically when you see those stretch marks that are that pronounced like tiger stripes, that's that's somebody who put on the size very very quickly. Okay, so here we go. The myth pose. Oh, that was just we we got one pose. Some better lighting there. I think this is that exercise warehouse, that old gym. That's the one I went to when I uh the day before Masters Nationals in 2013. And I went there with Jose Raymond Guyister Nino and Matt Pulia. Matt and I were both competing. It's got all the old Nautilus stuff. I mean, I think upstairs they have the bicep tricep combo machine. They're like connected. It was the very first Nautilus machine. It's It's like eight feet long. It's huge. It's ridiculous. This is the old Nautilus pullover. The cam and the chain. So yeah, I mean Martin looks pretty good. Can Martin win? I don't know. I don't know. I mean, to to say he can he can't win, I would never say that. You know, for someone who's been fourth place at the Olympia, he's got to get past Derek. He's got to get past Nick. Uh to date, he has never beaten either of those people, but everyone's uh unbeatable till they get beat, right? So, let's give I'm going to give Martin the benefit of the doubt. I know he's a hard hardworking guy. Got a good fan base for for a reason. He's got an excellent physique. He's fourth place in the world right now. Fourth place at the Olympia. He's already qualified for the 2025 Olympia. Doesn't need to worry about qualifying here at Pittsburgh. Nick Walker does. Nick needs to qualify. And if Nick doesn't do it here, he's rolling right into New York Pro. Uh Kiso's already doing New York Pro. Rean's doing New York Pro. I heard he's confirmed. So yeah, Martin looks really, really good. Huh. Yeah. All right, let's move up to someone else. See in the comments who you guys want to look at because welcome, welcome. What's up? What's up, Dill? 12 for what? After you saw Martin exclusive update said Martin can beat Derek. I mean, I don't I would never say he can't beat Derek. The odds are stacked against him, but you know, the odds are stacked against Nick Walker beating Derek as well. Derek Derek has never been beaten by these guys. And if Derek shows up looking like the Arnold, Arnold, he beat Samson Dowy. He beat the reigning Mr. Olympia eight weeks ago, guys, at the Arnold Classic. So, he's going to be very, very tough. And the the the photos and videos we've been seeing of Derek, he looks like he's he's ready to go. He's ready to rock some [\h__\h] Why don't they get a base 10? So many benefits. Yeah, like I that's a good point. Some people don't either they don't want to or they can't. Like I remember talking to Dennis Wolf about that. Uh because, you know, I used to talk I used to talk to Dennis every month for MD. He had a column, Hungry Like the Wolf. Was it called the Wolf's Den? I don't know. Whatever it was called. We wrote it. I called him up every month and we would talk for 30, 45 minutes and go over stuff, questions and answers. And he couldn't see freaking YouTube, man. He couldn't get a tan. Uh, he was unable to actually get a tan. He he had never had a tan in his life. Dennis Wolf, he would just burn every time he went out in the sun, even for a few minutes. He used to say he was like a half a chromosome away from being an albino. So, he couldn't get a base tan. I know Dorian used to not get a base tan either and his color on stage was just fine. I don't think it really makes a difference these days. The tanning products are so good. The spray tan that these guys get, I don't think you really need a base tan. It looks good. You know, you're not pasty white. So, but you know, it doesn't matter what you look like even a day before the show. All that really matters is, you know, are you tan on stage? Did you get your stage stage color right? Your mom's flip-flop could be better. It's hard to say. You know, I don't want to say he's he looks off, he looks behind because I could I could say that now and look like a total [\h__\h] when he looks shredded to the bone tomorrow. But, you know, if we were seeing him in posing trunks um under some good lighting like in a posing room, Martin looks tired. He does. He does. But you know what? Everyone I when I interviewed KZO a few nights ago, he was so exhausted he was like he could barely get the questions out. I mean, if you prep properly, you know, if you've been down on the calories and the carbs and been doing a ton of cardio, you're going to be exhausted. You know, those of you who competed and gotten super super lean, you know that those last couple weeks are they're like murder. It's it's awful. You have trouble sleeping, so you're not even rested or you're tired, but you can't sleep. You you keep waking up at night and you can't fall asleep, especially if you're on, you know, I remember Clen and T3 and stuff like that. I I think those really mess up your sleep. Tremble, which a lot of guys use for prep. Messes up your sleep. Mentioned on the video it was Tuesday. Okay, so this is Tuesday. You know, condition doesn't drastically change in three, four days. Can't wait for the show tomorrow, man. Look, super good lineup. Dill, I think Martin needs to grow slow because he won't stop growing if he wants to stop growing. Yeah, I think he's still got some some growing to do. I don't think he's done. I don't think he's maxed out yet. For what? I dropped Ivan Bodybuilding from hostile because of critical of Martin's look. Well, that's too bad. That's There's no freedom of speech. I guess he wants everyone to uh, you know, be supportive of the hostile athletes. I get that. You know, if I was getting hostile money, and I'm not. But if I was, maybe I would be extra nice in my criticisms of the hostile guys. No, I wouldn't. I got to call it like like I see it. And so does Ivan. I've never met Ivan, but you know, I'm I'm a fan of his. I like his style style of videos. Sean Joseph Chavearella is Cruz new social media, Mr. Olympia. Well, let's I think we'll go to him. I think we're done. I think we've you guys seen enough of Martin. We're not really seeing much different here. We We'll keep looking. We'll let him run till the end of his video. He's almost done. I want to go to Cruz next though because he is he's looking like he might I know structurally he's not not the greatest. Uh what's he doing now? But yeah, let's go to Creo. Let's go to Crezo. Creo. Creo. I have my predictions as fifth. Uh not really going to change that, I don't think. But uh let's look at let's look at Kiso. Kiso is looking pretty freaky right now. Condition because I'm a big conditioning fan. I love to see all that detail. Make sure we're showing it. Yes. Okay. So, this is the muscle Discord. All right. So, this is what he posted uh today. I think it was this morning. And Matt reposted Matt from Look at that. I mean, the the skin is like tiss tissue paper. It's so thin. It's clear separations between the the biceps, triceps. You see the brachiialis. So many splits and striations in the pecs. You could see the uh the seratus there in this shot. Yeah, the waist is a little thick and blocky. I before somebody brings that up, he doesn't have the daintiest waist. He does have massive shoulders and upper back, which is about all you can do to offset that. He's a huge huge guy, KZO. Uh, and then there was also this. This was uh Tyler Manion and Jim Manion, the godfather, his grandfather, posing posing uh for the for the Manions here at their at their place, the NPC Jim. And yeah, I mean this guy from the front he's he's amazing. Now from the back he's not awful. Uh I wonder if they'll show any back shots. From the back you could see he needs more glutes. In the side shots you can tell he needs a little more hams. I guess that's all that they're going to show. Yeah. I don't think he himself has posted much anything recent. No, he hasn't. So that was uh I don't even know where Matt got that. But Kiso, look at all these stories. Geez. He did a Q&A on his Instagram, but it's in Slovak, which unless you speak Slovak, you were a [\h__\h] out of luck, I guess. He looks tired. Look at that face. That is a death face. Look at the cheeks. All the fat has been sucked out of his face. Good morning. I don't I don't I don't know if he meant to say gut morning or good morning like the Germans couldn't good. Good. Uh, yeah. No, no more updates from him. He's just doing Q&As's. Uh, let's go to Derek. Derek's video. Uh, nothing nothing groundbreaking. Uh, he's covered up. He's all covered up. Trying to see if there's any point in the video where he's not covered up. No, he's covered up. He's covered up the whole time. But I'll I'll let it play for a minute anyway while we talk. What the heck? Why not? Oh, there's Zack. My boy Zach. One of the greatest natural bodybuilders. Stop screen. Click present. Screen. All right. So, this is what Derek posted uh at three days out. So, this was shot on Wednesday, I'm assuming. He's got the hoodie on. He never takes the hoodie off. We see uh him training with uh Matt Grego and Ramondino. And I think, do they all have the same trainer? That Fabricio guy. I think Fabricio is in Brazil, so obviously he can't. And there he is getting a haircut. Yeah. I'll try to find the latest update he posted. Uh Giles and I already showed it yesterday. Uh because it's not nothing too recent. I think it was yesterday. No, two or three days ago, we posted his most recent updates. So, let's go to that. Stop screen. Stop sharing. I'll get your comments in a second, guys. One sec. One sec. All right. So, there's Derek. There's Derek. This was posted yesterday. Yeah, I think it had just been posted shortly before Jiles and I went live. Uh, we didn't go live. before we recorded power hour. So, I mean, I expect him to look pretty much the way he looked at uh at the Arnold. But to answer your question about Crezo, is he the new social media Mr. Olympia? Uh in a way, because you know, in the old days, we had Dennis James who used to post these pictures leading up to Olympia in his kitchen uh with a tank top with a string tank top on and shorts and dudes, he looked unbeatable. And especially when Dennis James used to hit that crab most muscular to this day that he had one of the freakiest crab most musculars just so massive, so thick. Uh but on stage, not to say he did badly. I mean, he was top five a couple times. He was third place Jennice James once at the Olympia. But from the pictures, you would have assumed he was just going to blow the Olympia away. Your mom's flip-flop. My opinion Samson is still unbeat if if that's the big word there. Your mom's flip-flop. If he comes in super shredded from me, no one will beat him if he dies hard. I've said that many times. U I've been critical of Samson's condition only because I want to see that detail that we see on Creiso. Can you imagine Samson with Samson's total package that he has which was good enough to become Mr. Olympia structure, size, shape, just it's an incredible physique. I just wish he had that extra level of conditioning detail like we see in Creo. Cruis doesn't have that that same quality of physique. you know, it's there they're there are weaker there are weak points. Samson doesn't really have any weak points anymore. There's not one weak body part you can even point at. So, I just wish I would love to see if not this year, of course I want to see it this year, but Samson Dout, I would love to see that physique with the type of detail and I don't know if it's possible because we don't all have the same skin. Some people have thinner skin and thicker skin. Others have thicker skin, I should say. And I suspect that some guys like Akim Williams and Samson Dada have thicker skin than someone like a Creo. Crezo's skin is it's like cellophane. It's like saran wrap for I dropped Ivan. That's what somebody just said when it starts chat. Oh, we're chatting now, guy. We're chatting now. Uh double triple. Yep. So peak week. Yeah, his video. Yeah, nothing nothing great on his video. So, all we got all we have to go by from Derek of these pictures that he posted very early yesterday. Same Derek. I mean, he doesn't look any better, any worse. Again, like I I would love to see just more sharpness here in detail. He's still got a great physique. It's It was good enough to become 212 Olympia champion and Mr. Olympia and Arnold Classic champion. He's probably going to win this Pittsburgh. But again, just like with Samson, there's certain things I would like to see that would just make him even better. You know, I I would like to see, just like these guys are always chasing perfection, I'm always looking for perfection. And if he had that type of detail here, I mean, this this all this looks really soft. That's just his physique. And I know he's very lean. You can see from his face. You can see from other parts of the physique. He's he's very very lean. He's in contest condition. He just doesn't have as much detail in those areas like I would like to see. What are you gonna do? Uh what else? Fouad Ian Valier Alad Abiad podcast said predict Martin in second or first place after they s exclusive updates. Yeah. Did they show the updates? Probably not. They're exclusive. Former IPBJ when Derrick is on. Simpson can't beat him. Simpson's great at the Arnold. More mass. Yeah. Well, let's see. You're right because I mean uh let's see. 2023 Mr. Olympia, which Derek won, Hottie was second, Samson was third. 2024 Olympia, Derek was a little bit off, and Samson got past him and Hottie. Yeah. I mean, they're all I I still I still think the top three at this Olympia is is in no particular order. It's going to be the same. It's going to be Derek, hottie, Samson, or Samson, hottie, Derek. Right. It's going to be a combin one combination of those three guys. Those are the three best bodybuilders we have right now. They're all Mr. Olympia champions and they're all capable of winning the Mr. Olympia again this year and it's going to be a hell of a show. Uh Samson, I saw CO as a sheet. Yes, he always sweats and tan runs off him and makes a mess. I mean, I hope I hope he gets that sorted out. Absolutely. See the videos? Yeah, we show we just showed the video. Is it on his uh Did he post the full video on his on his channel on his because all I saw on the All I saw on Instagram was like a little 3se secondond clip. All right. So, let me look at the uh I'm going to go to his video. See if we can see what we got there. Stop screen. Let's go to KZO's latest video and present share screen. Should probably shouldn't be saying that out loud every time like I do. Just a bad habit. So, here he is with the Manions. The Godfather himself, Jim Manion. I think Jim's 80 now. 80 years old. He's still going still going strong. Tyler, I must break you. That was my Drago. Uh, does he pose in this video? Does he? No. No. I think that all all we really got to see was that little bit that little bit that that was on Instagram, which was, you know, he hits like one shot. Creo. Yeah. I mean, Crezo is a he's an underdog, man. No one expects him to do any better than fifth here. Fifth place would still be awesome. Don't get me wrong. Uh, but if he could do better than fifth, better than expected, dude, he's he's his stock will rise. Let's haps. Is that a Gen Z way saying what's up? I don't know. Uh, he looked crazy ripped around. Yeah, I mean, Kriezo's got a fantastic physique. Again, I think even the back has gotten better. He still needs glutes. He still needs more hams. Nobody's perfect. You know, they all have something you can pick apart. something either it's a body part or it's like a lack of separation in body parts. It's something everyone's got something you can pick on. Is there going to be any athletes meeting this is like a mini Olympia? Well, they'll there'll be an athlete meeting, but there won't be I think you're talking about a press conference, Muscle Machine. I don't believe there's going to be anything like a press conference. I didn't see it. I honestly I didn't look into the whole schedule for the weekend. Um is this it? Piscar Pro. Yeah. Yeah. So, if you go there to that website, that has all the information, including the schedule. I think their Instagram just put up uh we'll look at that later. Classic is also going to be pretty fun. Oh, yeah. I want to watch I want to I definitely want to look at some classic guys because I'm I'm really excited about some of those guys. His waist is out of control. So, yeah, Kriezo does not have a tiny waist. Absolutely not. He does not. Wasn't that long ago everyone said Samson was unbeatable at the Arnold and Derek won. Zerk is unbeatable here, too. Yeah. I mean, going into that last Classic, which was only eight weeks ago, most people thought Samson had that all wrapped up. He's the reigning Mr. Olympia. He had just beaten Derek, Hottie, everybody that Martin, he beaten everybody. He was the top bodybuilder in the world. So, he was the heavy heavy favorite to win the Arnold Classic. But, he was a little bit off. Wasn't as good as he was the Olympia. And Derek was better than he was the Olympia by by far. In fact, I think he was better there than he was at the Olympia when he won it in 2023. So, that was enough. Griezo's waist got worse. Uh oh. Uh oh. Griezo still hasn't shown the back rear. Well, you can see he's back here. I know it's not a posing shot. I got Borak beating him. And don't be surprised Mal or Leandro beats him, too. Yeah, we'll look at those guys. We'll look at those guys. I I would be surprised if if Kiso gets beat by Muzal or Leandro. I would be just cuz I think Kriezo's on a pretty high level. He's won some pro shows. He's been top 10 at the Olympia. I mean, he's he's pretty damn good. Martin doesn't look conditioned. Yeah. I mean, based on that video, I I I was not feeling confident about him. Cuz still hasn't shown the back rear. That's the same thing he just said. Quick note in case you want to see a slight look at urges some other time. No, we're not talking about we're only talking about people that are competing at the Pittsburgh show. Let's stay on topic, guys. Not a fan of Derek. He's awesome. I just don't like him. You don't like him as a person or you don't like his uh physique? I mean, you don't have to like anything you don't want to like. It's your prerogative. I'm just curious as to if you don't like him as a person, a human being, or if you're not a fan of the Derek Lynch physique. He just wastes like a solid box. Geez, you guys are rough rough rough rough. It's because Derek comes off as a politician. Yeah. I mean, you kind of I don't I don't want to say you have to be. You don't have to be, but you know at that level when you're when you got major sponsorships and stuff and you know you see yourself he's he is still an Olympia champion. He's actually won two different two 122 and open. He's an ambassador so he has to be very careful with what he says and posts and stuff like that. I know why you don't like Derek. The dudes don't like him have one thing in common. What's that? They don't like Christianity. I don't know. Because Derek isn't a he's a he's a devout Christian. He's not uh shy about talking about his faith in Jesus and uh you know thanking God and Jesus for his success and things like that and that some people don't like that. It rubs some people the wrong way whether they whether they practice another religion or they don't believe in any religion at all. Some people get pretty upset about that. Something bothers me about him. Samson also disapproves each country he chose. Yeah, I'd love to see Samson I would love to see Samson just shredded. At least stop making excuses for Samson. Oh, I mean I don't Maybe he doesn't suffer enough. I I don't know. I don't know why Samson has never been in like crazy crazy condition. I'd love to see it though. Less gear, less protein, high carb, one cardio weeks work magic freezo. Skin looks healthy and muscle fibers looks fresh as it gets. Yeah, he said on the on the interview a couple nights ago, Farah has him on less gear, less protein. Those are two things, you know, I've interviewed George probably eight or 10 times and I've spoken to him off the record. You know, we've had dinner together. Sometimes after show it would be me and a few few of the guys like Hector or me. Anyway, I I know he's he's he definitely cuts down the gear of most of the people he works with because he he'll look at what they're doing and he's like, "Just try this." And they like, "What? No, I can't go from 3,000 to 2,000 or what?" I'm just making up numbers. I'm pulling numbers out of my ass, guys. They do it and they end up looking and feeling better. Believe it or not, Ko top three. Imagine that. That would be crazy. Derek has no biceps. He does have some biceps. They're not the best biceps. They're not like Kzo's biceps. They're not like uh uh who else in the show? Veto, had he been there, has got no. He's not one of the big armed guys. Nick Walker. Nick has got some crazy crazy biceps. Just hope Cruz wins the money to get one of those glute ham sheets. They probably have one at his gym. I mean, I'm assuming he's over there in Slovakia. So, possibly can get that right. Most of these guys get 300, get bone shred. Samson's not going to wear. Yeah. Uh, Milos has said that Samson doesn't go to where he needs to go, I guess. And he means you you have to suffer. You have to go very low on the carbs, the calories, do a lot of cardio. And I'm I'm guessing maybe Samson doesn't do that. he suffers to a point and they won't won't suffer anymore. With a lot of guys, they see themselves looking flat and it really it screws with them. It they they say they make a decision, a conscious decision that I can't I can't be flat. I got to stay full and so they'll they'll eat a little bit more or they'll do a little less cardio because they feel overtrained. They feel really flat and they never really hit that super super shredded condition. Kaka supermarket. What the heck? Nick and Cruz are absolutely all eyes on Nick tomorrow. Same with overrated Martin. He's also going to get killed in the back double. Creo and Nick are going to have tower on the Martin. Well, I mean, some people some people have Martin winning the show. Some people think he's going to get his ass handed to him. I mean, this is the great thing about this sport. It's it's subjective. You all are entitled to your opinions. You know, if you want to think what someone way down the line that we're not even talking about, if you want to think that they're going to win, you know, that's your that's your opinion. Yeah. I mean, based on what I saw, I'm concerned about Martin. I'm sure he doesn't care whether I'm worried or not. Martin care less about what I think, but I' I'd be a little worried. Samson still was his best last year. Couldn't could have been more lean. Derek and Hottie were still worse. All of them come at their best. Samson takes it regardless. Uh I mean, if Samson looks the way he did at the Arnold eight weeks ago and Derek looks the way he did at the Arnold, I mean, he just beat him and I don't think there's any question is gonna look crazy at this Olympia. Derek at his best beat Samson. Well, Derek at his best. Can he beat Samson at his best? Like a best we've never seen. That's what I'd like to see. And I want to see everybody at their very best ever because that's going to be an exciting Olympia. That's what's exciting. Not a Samson fan. I give credit where credits do again. I don't think he'll repeat. Just my opinion. Samson was a one and done. Well, we'll see. There have been been a lot of one and done Mr. Olympias. Uh geez, let's think. Uh Dexter won just one Mr. Olympia. Chris Dickerson won one Olympia. Uh Rammy won two so far. Hottie's won one. Dererick's won one, but they're still actively competing. They could they're both more than capable of winning again. But yeah, we've had some. Is there a live stream? Is it free or does it costs? So, uh right there, Darren, there is the website where you can buy. You can purchase the live stream. Pits Power Fit. It's $24.9 I'm sorry, it's $29.99 tomorrow for the men. And if you want to watch the women's pro category Sunday, that's $24.99. Don't cry to me about how we have to pay for it. I understand that Fouad had a free live stream. That was an anomaly. Arnold had a free live stream. Most promoters are not going to have a free live stream. They're going to make you pay for it because if you're a promoter, why would you not why would you just do it for the fans? Give give up I mean, think about that. Let's let's do the math. It's 30 bucks for the for the live stream. Okay, let's say 10,000 people get the live stream tomorrow. That's conservative, right? Let's say 10,000 people around the world at $30 each. Uh 30 plus 10,000 times 10,000. That's four more zeros. One, two, three, four. That's $300,000. They would have given up given away $300,000 they could have made if they did a free live stream. So yeah, so hell with the live stream be all over YouTube and socials. We have the whole show free and clips. Yeah, I mean that's the thing is everyone knows if they just wait for the the show to be over and you wait like 20 minutes Nick Strength and Power and Ivan and you know everyone's going to come out I would have come out with one but I'm going to be at my son's show tomorrow. But yeah, there's clips all over the place and these the people that report on the shows they are allowed to use brief clips. Nobody can show the live stream as it's running. I've seen a couple people try to do that. You can only do that if it's a free live stream. And even then, I think they could they could report you if they really wanted to. But if it's a pay-per-view, if you're if it's a paying paid for live stream event and you have a YouTube channel and you decide, well, I'll just buy it for 30 bucks and I'm going to stream it and do my own commentary on it at the same time and I'll make all my ad my ad revenue from YouTube. They will they will shut you down. I remember vividly at the at the Olympia they have like a couple guys that their whole job was to just monitor the different YouTube channels. If anybody was, you know, they could like do search keywords and all that and people who were streaming the Olympia live stream, they reported them to YouTube and those channels got shut down. I'm not losing my channel. Brazilian Arabic channels probably stream. I suppose they're going to be strict about shutting down illegal streams. Well, th those are illegal. Yeah, I've noticed channels from places like the Middle East and Brazil, they don't seem to give a [\h__\h] They'll just put anything up. They don't care about trademark or copyright. But you know what? They can still get their They're on YouTube. YouTube laws apply to everybody. It doesn't matter what country you're in. YouTube is international. It's worldwide. Can't afford 30 bucks? I suck. Watch free clips. Yeah. I mean, if you if you just want to see Oh, geez. Get get out of that. Showing that the whole time. Uh let's start go to some other stuff. I want I want to show some condition Ruffin. So Terrence Ruffin I want to look at real quick because he's got some updates. He put some posing updates on. Uh so let me present that. Rough Diesel. He's my pick to win, but there are a couple guys who I think are going to give him a real run for the money and it's not going to be an easy an easy win for him. So here's the back the back posing that Terrence put up. uh yesterday. Uh I think it was last night, just 20 hours ago. See, he's dialed in. He looks a little flat to me here. So, I assume he's going to be carving up more today. Uh yeah. So, his coach is hyene hyene Nasser. He's a talk top coach. Definitely got the body fat off and he's bigger. upper body is bigger than it ever was. I mean, he was he was uh he's up about seven to seven or eight pounds, I think, from the last time we saw him on a guy who's, you know, 5 foot five or whatever he is. That that's significant. Here's the front front shots of Rough Diesel. You know, I think another thing that kind of makes him look not as lean as he as he is is is his skin tone. He's got that light sort of the ashy ashy skin tone. If he were a different skin tone, I think he would look leaner because right here, I'm not I'm not like super impressed with the condition, but I've seen Terrence over the years. I've never seen him out of shape. I suspect he was just flat here. And things are going to look very, very different on on stage tomorrow. Yeah. Let's see what else he's got. Let me see if he's got any photos. Cuz this Jose guy, Jose, I'm with a kid who's only 23. Wait till you see the freaking shape. All right, so these are the last This was three days ago. Yeah, this is different lighting. He looks better in this light, right? He definitely looks better in this lighting. I like that. I like the edit there. That's funny. Yeah, the hotel uh the hotel stuff that he just showed that was that was like sunlight or something pouring in directly facing him from the window, I think. So, that's like a flash photography type of lighting situation. Nobody looks super shredded here. He looks a lot better, right? That's just different lighting. So, it's the same physique, different lighting. Yeah. So, Ruffin's still my favorite to win this. I don't see anybody beating him. Uh, but that being said, that being said, a couple other guys I want to look at in classic and I know I'm missing some open guys. We'll get to some more, I'm sure. All right, so this is 23-year-old Jose Emanuel Munos. They call him Jose Beast. Dude, come on. That is conditioning. Jose is 23 years old. He turned 23 about a week after the 2024 Olympia where he got sixth place in his first Olympia. So same age as Sam Solic. Actually Sam was 23 when he turned pro. So Jose was top six in the Olympia and had I think two or three pro wins in classic. I only say that because people talk about Sam like he's no one's ever done anything so significant at that age. And believe me, it's still very very impressive. But this kid, I guess it's he's from Spain. He's not as popular as Sam. I mean, who is, right? But give this kid some credit. That condition is insane. Insane. He's got one more back shot, I think, at the end. So, he'll be going up against Ruffin. Look at that. Look at that. Geez. Jeez Louise. Look at every little fiber. Every little fiber in the back and the glutes. Crazy. Crazy. Crazy. Creo might surprise everyone. I agree. I I think if anyone has a potential, will he beat Fitz? If Martin is off, if Martin is on, if he's looking the way he usually does, Kriezo is not beating him tomorrow. And I'm a lot friendly with Kiso now than I am Martin. I haven't talked to Martin in, you know, I tried to get an interview with him and he sort of ghosted me. Kiso gave me an interview and he doesn't even speak English. But yeah, salty run. Salty run. But I I don't care. I don't care about any of that stuff. I'm only talking about physiques. If Martin is on, if he's looking shredded and full and everything like he's supposed to tomorrow, the guy's fourth place in the world, he he will beat Kzo. Um, but if he's off, if he's off or if Bonak is off, Kzo can get past these guys. Big Ronnie, that's Ronnie Coleman. I'm medium Ronnie, but how good is your fellow host child looking after his heart attack? He's looking great. He's looking great. He's training training hard again. He's uh put some put his size back on. He's doing great. Thank you for asking. I will not pay the manions a dime to sort this [\h__\h] out. I don't care. It's all man. Is it Jim's birthday? I think he already had his birthday a few weeks ago. But yeah, I understand because that stream for Detroit was free. Everyone expects all the streams now to be free. And yeah, that believe me, I'd love that because I think that would actually give me more leeway to do watch parties where we could watch them together because I'm not taking any money away from them. you'd still see their all all their sponsor logos on on my screen and everything. So, I don't think they'd have a problem with that, but when it's a pay-per-view situation, as most of them are, only the Arnold and the Detroit shows have been free. Yeah, you can't do that. But like like like someone else pointed out, um because you have all these all these outlets like myself, like Nick, Strength and Power, Ivan Bodybuilding, uh all these channels that do that do the coverage. You'll see clips shortly after after the judging is over. There'll be a videos blasting out with clips of the first call out, second call out, finals are over. 10 20 minutes later you'll start to see well on Instagram you'll see clips like immediately within like five within like two minutes in YouTube it's just going to take a few more minutes because people still have to make up thumbnails and download clips and things like that doing a heck of a lot better than fifth believe me I love I think he's a very cool guy I would be very very pleased for him I'd be very happy for him if he could do anything better than fifth I mean fifth would still be amazing in a lineup that's got Derek Lensford Mr. Olympia 212 and open Arnold Classic champ. Nick Walker, Arnold Classic champ, twotime New York Pro champ. Martin Fitzwwater. Martin's won a couple pro shows now. Martin has been fourth at the Olympia. Bonak, twotime Arnold Classic Champion. Bonak's been second at the Olympia. He's been third at the Olympia. So, if he beats even if he's behind all those guys, it's still nothing to be ashamed of. But if he beats any of those guys, dude, how great would that be? in arch muscle wrap up crease those small head size probably brought up the advance bigger yeah absolutely if you have a smaller head of course it's going to make you look like you know who also had a smaller head back in the 90s Paul Dlette and he was one of the freakiest guys anyway Paul Dlette was about 66 61 I guess on stage anywhere from 260 to 270 was his usual weight 26 260 to 275 I think he was 280 one time but the point is he had a smaller head for a guy his height and as massive as his body was. His his head was pretty small which just made him look even freakier. Not a fan at all of Mal's physique at all. Super wide waist, not just a look thing. Uh let's look at him because yeah, I haven't I've we've all been focusing on the the only the top few guys. But let me show you one more classic guy before we go go back to the open because I think uh he's going to make he's going to make a big big uh this is his debut I believe as a classic. talk about Kite. Ke dea. Uh, so Kite, I think he's in Florida now. I think he was in Boston for the first couple years of his pro career when he was men's physique. Um, but he's done some growing and he is now going to be a classic physique. I I correct me if I'm wrong, guys. I think this is his classic debut. I could be wrong. I don't I don't follow all the guys as closely as maybe some of you do. But he's got fantastic shape. Uh just very very impressive. I think he's a he's going to be top three. I wouldn't be surprised. Wouldn't be surprised at all to get in the stores. Tabella Alpha. Okay. So, yeah. There he is in his B Airbnb kitchen. I guess that that probably is. Yeah. I mean, he's got he's like Crezo. He's got that super thin skin, incredible muscle separation detail, you know, and you do see more of that in classic in general than you do in open. Oh, where did I go? K Pro. I don't know if he's got anything else. It's fairly recent. Yeah, I think he's going to make a splash. I think he's going to make an impact. Ke, look at those delts. Crazy round strike. Look at that chest striations. Yeah, this is the this is the footage I was showing on uh Power Hour with Giles. Fantastic, man. I think I think he's uh he's going to surprise a lot of people. And he was he was men's physique for a couple years. I think he was top five. Yeah, he's been Was he top three at the Olympia? I think he was top three. He was a very very good men's physique pro. And I think he's going to be one of the top classic physique guys. I don't think it's going to take him long. I think this his rookie season in classic, which I think he's going to rise to the top of the the food chain very quickly. He's very, very good. Now, look at that. That is crazy. Anything else? Yeah. Well, you get the idea. He's got incredible muscle density quality. I love to see all the striations, especially in the shoulders, because so many guys now have their shoulders full of oil and there's just no detail. There's no lines. They're not stripey delts like Jaws like to say. I like to see the stripey dots. It just to me I want to see detail and all. It's muscle quality. It's not just the muscle quantity. Uh look at Justin, man. I haven't seen So yeah, we have I've been focusing only on top top names. You know, the guys who are probably going to be top five, but let's take a look at a couple other guys. Justin Muzal from Germany, who I think I think we found out he's only Yeah, he's 26 years old. He's a young young guy. So, this was him back in Detroit at the Detroit Pro. Crazy quads, really good muscle separation. Yeah, I don't think he's got a chance at top five. I'm just being real. I don't like to [\h__\h] and say this guy could be top five. He's probably not going to be top five, guys. He's He won't be top five, but I don't think he's going to be too far behind. I think he'll be like one of those guys in the second call out who's probably like he'll be like one of the best guys in the second call outs, which gives you 6, seven, eight, somewhere in that range, which is, you know, a show of this caliber. This is going to be it's already establishing itself as as a top show behind the Arnold Olympia, which those are going to be the those are going to be the top two shows. I don't see anything challenging their the status of those two shows. The Arnold Olympia, but 100 grand for first prize here in Pittsburgh. Maybe I should go to something more recent, right? That was Detroit. That was a couple months ago. The pin stuff is always old. That was three days out right there. Obviously, that's some amazing lighting right there. He found the right spot in the gym, which you know, when you're in shape, it's fun to find those lighting spots where you just look crazy. That's what I miss about prep and competing. It's just being that super ultra shred. And I can't psychologically, I can't suffer to get in that condition just for fun. I would have to be competing. So, that was four days out. He's 5'9, 256 here at 4 days out. Justin looks pretty good, man. Looks pretty good. Yeah, that's the old gym. So, I was at that place that pl that is an old school gym, exercise warehouse. They have stuff there that's they have equipment that's like 50 60 years old some of it and they keep it in a great operating condition. Yeah. Leave him out for a second. What do you guys got to say? Oh, you're talking about Derek. You don't like his physique and something about him bugs me. I got Creo sweeping Martin. He'll battle out with Bonak and Martin will be resting at fifth. No, I don't know if Martin's going to get if Martin's off, you know, if anybody's off, they can get they can fall down a few places from where you expect easily. We've seen it. We've seen it many times before. You know, nobody is unbeatable. Nothing is guaranteed. Derek is not Dererick Ler is not guaranteed to win this. If something happens and he comes in, you know, with a big film of water or he's super flat, you know, you never know what's going to happen. This is these are human bodies we're talking about. They can change a lot even in one day. Derek always comes ready except the Mr. O. He came in third. Yeah, I mean he was super flat and tired looking at that show. Creo Most Musking Crab is going to smoke Martins. Yes, I agree. I think Crezo beats almost everybody in the Most Muscular, but it's only one shot. Uh I don't think he's going to beat Nick. Nick looks pretty Nick Walker looks pretty freaky in the most muscular. Nick hasn't posted anything new, but you know, the stuff that he posted was only like a week old, so it's not like he's gonna change a whole lot. I think he just put up stuff that he was watching on TV. Nick, best of luck. That's his crab. Yeah, he hasn't posted anything new at all. Keeps going back to Zach. Zach's a natural body at my gym that people like to [\h__\h] on because he uses insulin. He's a type 1 diabetic and that's a whole I don't even want to get into it. Nick Walker. Boom. Let's leave Nick up while we talk for a bit. Yeah. Okay. Uh Nick Walker biceps. Veto is probably the best open biceps arms. Uh, I don't think Veto Creo's arms and Nick probably the two best arms sets of arms in the in the Pro League right now. Creo and and Nick. Uh, Veto's arms are they're good. They're not like they're not awesome. I know there was that one picture. They, believe me, they're good. They're very good, but Nick's Nick's arms are just another level from everyone. When you put Nick's arms or Kzo's arms next to other people, he makes their arms look small. We're talking about guys that have like 20 21 inch arms. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Kriezo's arms are fantastic. Are you kidding me? Go for Nick Co packing base biceps. Yeah. Uh, yeah, I don't think that works. Guy Ko has 25 inch biceps full. He told me 24 was the biggest they ever were. I got blasted in the comments. Someone said, "Ah, what a stupid gym." Gym bro question asking. People want to know. I'm sure people are curious. How big are those freaking arms? He said they're 24 inches. I think I don't know if he meant uh maybe they're 25 offseason. That's that's insane. But they're they're pretty damn crazy. He was actually live on Yeah, I think he said 24 guys cuz he said 50 cm and my trusty tape measure cuz I tape my son's waist when he sucks it in. It's 25 and 3/4 in. So, uh A-50 inch arm, sorry, A-50 cm arm. That's 20. So, he must have said 60. Anyway, pretty sure he said it was 24, but I I'll give him 25. What the hell? How would you train CO? I wouldn't I think he's doing just great. I would have him do like glutes every other day, though, honestly, because I wouldn't have him do arms more than like once every two weeks. I'm not his trainer. He's got I'm sure he's got a great trainer or coach. Farah is his coach, but I don't know if he has a trainer as well. I would lay off his arms. I wouldn't do much for those at all. Quads are really good. that I would work a lot more on the hamstrings and glutes if I were advising Kriezo. Feels like Nick is going to blow people away regardless how he places. I I don't see him any worse than second. I mean, he's he's a freak. I know you could say his legs are legs aren't great. His legs aren't good. They don't match his upper body, but they're not they're not bad, guys. Especially from the front, they're they're not very as impressive as you would like them to be. But from the side, Nick's legs from the side are insane. They're crazy. They look enormous. Sam's never really been his best. Hottie should have been Well, hottie was second. Oh, you mean he should be on win number two or three? Yeah, I mean, again, it's subjective. It's subjective sport. Nick still become mean skipping any meal here. Crazel looks amazing. I do think he could shock people and be higher than fifth. She improved his back and posing. His back looks better. I don't know about the posing. He he actually I did ask him on um on our live the other night, two nights ago because you know I his posing to me was problematic. He needs he needs to be better poser. He's been working with a guy from Czech Republic named uh Lucas Ladil if you guys remember. Lucas is a very good pro. He won some pro shows and Lucas is a very good poser. So if he's been really working hard on his posing that that can only help. Uh, classic Anton Ratushni. All right, I'll check him out. What the heck? I've heard the name. Anton Ratushni. Anton, he's got 301,000 followers, so he must be good. Oh, okay. Yeah, he looks good, man. He's super young. He's 21 years old. Wow. 21 years old. That's crazy. And again, I like to see that thin skin, the really clear muscle separation. Like to see that. 21 years old. Wow. Imagine that. Imagine look like that at 21. Insane. Final leg day before pro debut. Yeah. Great fresh muscle. I mean, no tear, no muscle tears, no loose skin, not all shot up looking. It's just a really really good look. That's just showing the legs. Look at that. He looks he looks great. Okay. Yeah, you could be a surprise, too. You know, a lot of times there's there's people I'm just not familiar with and they end up being very very good, very surprising. And you know, from that point, especially in classic, classic is the division that that seems to have the most new stars popping up every year. People that just they were not on the radar and now they're they're placing very high. They're winning shows. Yeah, this kid looks great. He looks great. Anton wants us to buy his merch. Okay. I ain't mad at you, kid. Get that merch. Ah, what's wrong, Matt? Is that you're predicting the uh I think you're predicting the live stream buy 2500 people buy it. I mean it's still at 30 bucks. 30 bucks a pop. That's that's a nice chunk of change. I'd take it. [\h__\h] None of these guys have the most creo. It's just facts. Details off chart. Yeah. I mean that's one attribute that Kiso has that most of these guys do not have. Uh, is it gonna be enough to offset things like the block your waist that he has and the the hamstrings that are kind of lagging and the glutes that are definitely lagging? I don't know, man. I mean, it's a physique contest. Crime, but I would charge two. Yeah. I mean, why wouldn't you? Let's let's let's be very conservative. Let's say they could make a hundred grand off days of the web stream, right? And they're paying Gilo, I don't know. I'm just going to make up a number. Just make it up. Let's say they're they're paying Gilo 10,000. Maybe it's 20,000. Let's say it's 20. Let's say, okay, Gilko is getting 20 grand to put the live stream together for them and they got to pay a hosting fee and all that. And if they're going to make a hundred, they're still clearing 80 grand. I mean, why would you throw 80 grand away? I wouldn't. I want that money. Dude's not promoters. They own the FB telling me they can't do a free live. They could, but why would they? They only of course they could. But you know what? If I told you you're making too much money, I don't want you to make any more money. You'd say, "Screw you. I'm going to make all the money I can." Who are we to tell them they can't make as much money as they possibly can? You call it greed, but if it was you, would you really give it up? I mean, I wouldn't. I' I'd get I'd take that money if I could get it. Cruz makes his guys look out of shape. The crazy part is the arm. Yeah, he's got that thin thin skin. The detail. Oh, good luck to your son. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah, my son is competing tomorrow. That's why I'm not really going to be following along with the Pittsburgh the way I probably would be otherwise. Yeah, I realize I left this kid up on screen the whole time, but he's impressive, man. I'm impressed with this kid. Anton, 21 years old, making his uh pro debut. This will be his first pro show. Good for him, man. Good for him. Avat, plus he has no back. Kzo doesn't have no back. It just it could be better. Making a pay-per-view isn't the issue. It's a pricing point at the spot. Uh, that's I mean, is it a lot of money? I mean, I the cheapest stream I can recall was like $19.99 and it was a pretty bad stream from what I remember. I'm not going to say what show was or what year, but I remember one was like 1999. I've never seen one cheaper than that. So, $29.99 for a show of this caliber where you have a bunch of Olympians competing in various divisions like Natalya Qual doing women's physique, Aaron Banks and Vtor Chavez doing men's physique. Uh, KY, all all the divisions are loaded with Olympia level competitors. So, it's a very high quality show. Different package, Bridget. Yeah. Yeah. Well, they they do have different packages. There's a 29.99 tomorrow for the men and there's 30 I'm sorry, $24.99 for the women on Sunday, which I assume the men's going to sell a lot more. You can take screenshots. Yeah, that's what you guys do. That's what Matt does. Matt's Muscle Discord. I go live with Matt and uh Phil Clayhar every Monday night on Muscle Discord. When Matt cover shows, he takes screenshots uh for his watch parties and you know that's legit because it's not you're not stealing the video. You're not infringing on their video copyright. So that is another way to do it. He's always striped should like a damn tiger. I agree. Who's in classic? So Mark, uh I only talked about four people so far that were in classic. Uh Terrence Ruffin, Ruff Diesel, my favorite. Uh Jose Jose Manuel Monos from Spain, the 23 year old. Uh he's very very good. He's probably gonna be pushing him for the win. Kik Dea, former classic physique guy, originally from Brazil, now living in the US. Lived in Boston for a few years. He's going to be up there. I think he's making his debut. And this kid's this kid looks really good, too. I'm very impressed with him. Thank you for video. Appreciate it. Thank you for watching. Nick Creo Derek. Wow, you got Derek in third. Katherine, Derek just got knocked down to third place. Kiso is not being Derek, guys. Unless Derek comes in way off. I'm a big CIO fan. I like Michael a lot. Believe me, when I when I say these things, it's nothing personal. I could think someone's a scumbag and if they have the best physique, I'll I'll put them in first place in a prediction because if that's where I think they're going to place. Here's a post video. The man gym did. Yeah, we saw that. We showed that much earlier. See if your fanboy your boy F drop div Martin a pthead. Oh well Martin does like his weed. Well pthead I mean a lot of guys use cannabis to relax. A lot of bodybuilders they use it to help with their appetites to you know I'd rather I'd rather see someone smoking weed than doing like pain pills or fentinyl or something like that. So Ruff will do some damage this coming Olympia. If he competes he'll compete. Are you kidding me? And I he's I'll say it right here. Rough is doing no worse than second. Terrence Ruffin will be no lower than second place at the Olympia. Uh it'll be summer I believe it's going to be Mike Somerfeld and Ruff Diesel in the final the final call out this year. Classic Zeke Olympia. He poses at the beginning. Yeah, we saw that. I want to know where Kruzo puts his gear. Let's go back to Ko. Huh? Why not? Yeah, that's that's a good point. I mean, if Ko Oh, what happened here? Did I Oh, I showed that already. Yeah, you know, everyone's got to put their gear somewhere, right? You got to inject somewhere in the body. Uh, and Ko definitely, he can't be putting in his shoulders. There'd be lumps. There' be bumps. You wouldn't see all the detail that this guy has. You just wouldn't. That's not the best. That's not the best video. I'm gonna go to the video. It's It's already a couple days. It's already a few days old, but it's it's a great example. of the stripiness of the delts. Look at that. That's crazy. Yeah. I mean, you would see bruise. You might not see bruises, but you would see lumps. You would see a loss of definition from all the oil. He doesn't do it. He doesn't have that. Friezo's got a very clean look to him. He's not clean. I'm not saying he's natural, guys. That's not what I'm saying. But he's definitely not putting his gear in his arms or his shoulders like a lot of these guys seem to be doing. I think Ruffin is on point with stage time. Rough diesel and he definitely need DPF change. It's not gonna be rough. No, that's a great nickname. Rough diesel. I like it. You suck and are retired. Talking about me. Yeah, I suck and I'm retired. That's me. Retired from what? That was I was only an amateur anyway. Showed the glutes. Oh, I skipped past it. So, where was that? Uh where did he have that? Crazo post a video the May and June did a few posts for peak. You look crazy. No, I skip. Oh, I skipped past it. Is that what you're saying? Where was it? Trying to find it right now for you guys. been toward the end of the video, I'm guessing. Shop food shopping. I'm looking at the video now. I'm trying to find a point where he's posing. Was a different video. This was just posted eight hours ago. This is the most recent video. Uh, is there another video? Did they do a more recent video? Let me see. Trying to find it, guys. I'm trying to find it. Back six days ago videos latest. Yeah, that's the latest video. I do not see him posing on that video for the manions. I did see it on that on that Instagram, which where was it? Where is it in the video? It's only a 16minute video. He's training training. I'd show it if I could, guys, because yeah, he doesn't show a lot of back shots. Creo doesn't post a lot of back shots. All the posing stuff is from the front and the side. Yeah, I don't I don't see any posing in that video, guys. I have I have to sort of skim through it, otherwise it's just too long. All right. Sorry about that. I tried to find it, guys. I tried. Rough looks incredible. It's at the beginning. Okay. All right. Well, I'll go to the very beginning. How's that? Okay. Let's take a look. I'll go to I'll just leave the whole video up and maybe at some point he'll pose, right? Green. Okay. All right. Maybe if I keep talking, he'll he'll pose, right? Sure. His glutes look a bit small. His glutes have definitely always been small compared to the rest of his body. Terrence trying to win class. Show me a better chance. No, Terrence is too small for 212. Okay, here we go. Here we go. See if I can do full screen. All right, so here's the posing. Here's the posing from his video. Front. We know he's massive in the front. That was it. What the hell? That was all posing. That was it. He didn't even show his back. You guys teased me. Well, you can see the glutes here from the side. else. They're they're not as developed. Interesting. Yeah, Terrence would need a lot more mass to do any damage as a 212 guy. He's not He doesn't have that kind of mass. Top fix top five picks. I mean, I've I've said several times I haven't I haven't changed my predictions in like the past two weeks. I have Derek, Nick, Martin, Bonak, Ko. That's my top five. It's been my top five for a couple weeks now, but you guys in the comments, if you're watching us on the replay, let me know what you think. Muscle's back for being classic is insane. God of Frog says, "Walker, Derek Creo, Fitzwater, Bonak." That would be a shakeup. I mean, if Nick wins this, that would set up the Olympia to be so exciting because Derek beating Samson at this last Arnold Classic was very, very exciting. And it set us up for a hell of a rematch where Derek might get his title back this year. He might beat Samson again. Who knows? Or Samson could get his keep his title or Hottie could come back and recapture his title. Either way, I mean, if if if Hottie gets his title back or Derek, that would be the only the second time in 60 years that a Mr. Olympia has lost his title and got it regained it gotten it back. Jay Cutler in 2009 so far is the only guy since the Mr. Olympia Contest began 1965. Who has been beaten as Mr. Olympia at the Mr. Olympia contest and has come back and won the title back. Can't wait to be there. No sleep tonight. Oh, come on. Get some get some rest. You need to rest. Hell yeah. Classic kid from Boston, Kite. Oh, is he still in Boston? I'm I'm glad to hear he's in Boston. He's actually he's from Brazil, obviously, but we have a lot of Brazilians in this area. A lot of Brazilians. I his updates. I see him in in Tampa a lot. I I didn't know if he had moved to Tampa. He was in Boston. Maybe he still is. It's great. I like to obviously like when people from Boston went all dead. I'm down with Bonak. Bonak hasn't posted anything recent. Oh, let's see. You know what? I think it's I think it's only fair to show some Bonak. What the heck? Give the guy some respect. I always forget about Bonak and I don't know why. I don't know why. So, stop screen, go to William Bonac because let's give this guy his his his props. He's just definitely worthy of some respect. He's been doing this a very long time. That's old. I think that's Yeah, that's that's old. It's not recent. This is the newest thing he's posted. It was from yesterday. Obviously, he's just doing curls. We see he's got some crazy peak biceps. Yeah. Prime Time Muscle, they say he's still a force to be reckoned with. I agree. There's Linda. Wish they'd fly me out every week to Phoenix and put me on Prime Time Muscle. I would wear a nice suit and everything. That was his win in Detroit couple months ago. Looked awesome. This was last week. Yeah. I mean, William Williams, he's tough. He's going to be in top five no matter what. He's You miss Creiso posing though. Oh, I didn't say his back, his glutes weren't strided, Bridger. I just think they need to be more developed. I'm on his side. I'm not I'm not [\h__\h] on Crezo. I like Crezo. I like Michael a lot. But I always point out things that could make them even better. And if he had more glute development, more hamstring development, he'd be even better than he is now. He'd be beating some of the guys that are beating him right now. Put it that way. Nick Kiso. Wow. Kzo second place. He's going he's doing better all the time. This is amazing. Nick has a great show. Samson doesn't come in crazy condition because he becomes small and he isn't much of a threat. I don't think he would have to lose much. I mean, he was supposedly 305 or 306 when he won the Olympia. He's he's over 300 lb on stage. I think he could drop down about 10 pounds from where he is and have stellar condition. And I think he'd look as big, if not bigger because the detail would make him look that much more impressive. I would love to see that. Paul Dlette with the tiny head. Gigantic. Yeah, his shoulders were enormous. Paul Paul had some of the biggest shoulders I ever saw head reduction. Yeah. I mean, if you got a if you have a big bucket head, it's it's not conducive for bodybuilding. This guy could be bumpstead Regan with the looks. You talking about Rean now? This guy's going to smoke everyone. I'm not sure who you're talking about. 15 guys in the open. Maybe a few surprises. Muscle separation. I don't know who who we were talking about when these comments were up. That's Dan Dylan, the mayor of bodybuilding. Nick Walker, Derek Lops, Lopsang is very very loyal to Nick Walker. Could be wrong. Nick will always be the unsung hero. We all like to root for the underdog. The Rocky Balboa in the first couple Rocky movies. You when someone's the champion, you can still root for them, but it's more exciting to root for someone who the odds are stacked against because they're not supposed to win. And you see them working hard and silence and this and that and you want them you want them to do well because they're not supposed to win. Put it that way. Crazy in body history and they can't compare. They're all great. Best ever. Uh that's a whole No, I can't go back and forth. Best arms ever. Gosh, there's a lot of people. I mean, Phil Heath, Mike Mazo had great arms. Geez. Ronnie had great arms. You could go. There's a lot of bodybuilders over history who've had just fantastic arms. What the heck? Tabitt, Praid, Shroka. So, there's some there's a bold prediction of three guys I've never even heard of. Well, Predell's is from Brazil, I think. I don't know who those other guys are. Let's hope these guys pick me Transform Stage. It's going to be like a mini Olympia show for not pick me easy show. Yeah, I agree. I mean, a lot of people would say, "If you're one of these guys we're not talking about, there were some who would question their their decision to to enter a contest of this magnitude, but you're going to be up in front of the whole world. There's going to be a lot of eyes on this show. Fans, the top the best top judges are all going to be there. Media coverage is going to be very heavy for this show. So, it's a good chance to get yourself seen by the world and by all the top Olympia judges. And even if you don't place that well, just to say I stood on stage with Derek Lunsford and Nick Walker and William Bonak and Martin Fitzwwater, you know that that's that's something to be proud of that you tried. These arms. Oh, dude. Sergio had like 21inch arms back in like the late 60s. Can you imagine what he would look like now with all the gear and the everything we know about food and training now? Griezo's arm looks bigger. Ko will smash these guys in any arm shots. Young blood looks tight. I think that was when the classic guy was up. Your ball looks tight. Almost done. Terren legs look small for classic. Summer Somerfeld has way better legs. Absolutely. No question. But Ruffin's legs are proportionate to his body. I don't think they're small proportion-wise for his body. Martin's only doesn't have the size. H Martin's a Martin's a big kid. He's got he's got good amount of size. The only body with a clean look, super thin skin, super straight, quality looking muscle. Yeah. Unfortunately, structurally, he does have kind of a thick waist. I'm only I'm only pointing out these things because when you see when you see him hit a crab or something in front, you're like, "Oh my god, this guy should be Mr. Olympia." But then if you can really compare him to the other guys and see he is he does have some areas that need to come up. His glutes and his hamstrings in particular, those need to grow and be more developed from what they are right now if he's going to move up and beat these guys. These guys are beating him right now. Bridgetger the class was actually on the way Catholic Mike. Yeah, I mean I don't want to get into the whole argument that Mike Somerfield's not classic and Ruffin is, but to me Ruffin is more of a classic look. He reminds me more of the old school bodybuilders that The Division was created to sort of hearken back to that look. Uh talking like Frank Zayn, Bob Paris, uh geez, uh Rory Little Meer, Francis Benfado, uh guys like that. Guys like that. And to me, Ruffin evokes those type of physiques a lot more than Somerfell does. YouTubing all day. Definitely give free live stream to the fans. Probably the owners would be likely doesn't. Yeah, I I love free stuff, man. I love free stuff, too. Don't get me wrong. That all stands of change. Classic B was more appropriate. Derek winning Martin second. Nick third. Creole Wild fourth place. He's got to get past this guy on screen now. Bonak, which is not going to be easy. Was more classic Detroit. Grego or Viscus in my opinion. I'd go viscerous. I'd go viscerous. Some people feel the lines blur classical. It's insane. Logan Franklin is another perfect example of classic. Yeah, Logan. Logan Franklin definitely a very classic physique. It reminds me of a the old school bodybuilders with the tiny waist and everything, but more updated with a little bit more mass. Look at me. Classic weight. No, we're arguing about classic. Wesley definitely golden air classic. Yes, vintage. Vintage muscle. Isn't that his brand? Max. Yeah, he has weak points. Uh Wesley's quads aren't great. His hamstrings and glutes not good at all. They they need to grow. They need to come up. The lumps on shoulders when they said he was, you know, well, hottie got knocked down a few years ago in the place since the Olympia because his his arm his his shoulders were like square looking. This is crazy. Simpson could bring that kind of size to be in the Romney situation. Bags and crazy arch back. When's the last time we saw Derek's abon lights? Goon Lights. I did that veto in top five. I had him sixth. I had him six, which is still not bad. So did the show. I showed you the whole video. I showed you all the posing that was in the video. It was only that one little one little bit. I'll show it again. What the heck? Hang on, guys. I'll show it to you. I'll show it green. I'm going to end this pretty soon. I've been yapping for a while, man. Okay, we'll leave that up while we take the last few comments. I think Nick could win if Dererick comes on officer person. I think he will. I don't think Derk's going to be off. I don't think he will. Maybe he will, but I don't think so. Kai is definitely from Boston still has the accent. Really? I didn't even know he spoke great. I've never spoken to him. I know he's from here, but he's like from the Northshore. It's I know it's only like an hour north of where I am, but it's you got to go through Boston. You got to go through a lot of traffic to get there. Uh you think the Arnold could overtake the Olympian importance and fame? No, I don't think so. Olympia is always going to be the top title that everybody wants. Bonik's going to take up that Dex Jackson vibe. Yeah, I mean, Bonak is 42 years old. He's still He's still doing it. He's still top 10 at the Olympia. He's still top five at the Arnold. He's still winning. He won a show last year in his comeback after taking a season off. So, Bonak's no joke, man. All right, guys. Geez, I've been doing this for over an hour. It's getting late. Uh, so I'm going to leave that up on the screen for you. That is the info. If you want to get that pay-per-view tomorrow, it's $29.99. No, Jesus, it's not free. It's $29.99 and there's where you order it. Pitts Power Fit. Pitts Power Fit. Uh $29.99. Gilko Productions is doing it. They are amazing. They'll do a fantastic job, I'm sure. So, get that if you want to, or if you want to wait for other people to do clips and stuff. I'm not going to be doing it. You're welcome, Jesus. Uh, I will be out all day with my son competing tomorrow at the NPC natural Massachusetts. So, I will not be doing any coverage, but I'm sure many other channels will. So, Creo is a people's champ. Yeah. Well, got a lot of No, Derek, prejudging is not today. Everything's tomorrow. Go to that. Go to that website. It's got the whole schedule. Pits Power Fit. Pits Power Fit. Let me say it again. Pitch Power Fit. Go to that website. Yeah. Go check the website. All the times are there. all the info. You can find it there. I'm I'm not gonna look it up for you. You can do that. So, let me get out of the screen. All right, guys. That is going to wrap it up. Have an awesome weekend. Enjoy the show tomorrow. Uh Sunday, I'll be on here to talk about it with some clips and all that, but I won't be on YouTube tomorrow. Busy with my son. He's kind of more important to me. So, thank you guys. Everyone who watched, thanks for everyone who was in the chat. Especially appreciate you guys. And that's it. Talk to you'all later.