Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour with me and the man who's going to be the pay-per-view commentary host of the EVLS Prague Pro this weekend. That's what we're going to be talking about, Giles Tiger Thomas. Giles. Wow. This is a big big Prague's always been a pretty good lineup. This time, wow. Uh, Mr. Olympia, former Mr. Olympia Simpson Dada coming back two weeks later looking for redemption. We're going to talk about him first. Keon Pearson making his open debut. It's It's going to be fantastic. I mean, you've been to several of these before. Would you say this is the strongest, most exciting lineup? Uh, well, I've been to I went to the first one 2012 and that was um it was close. It was a literally a flip of a coin between Dennis Wolf and Shawn Rhoden. Um, and then I didn't go again till 2021, but there was a few years where they were getting the prize money was really really big. They got like I think it was 60 70,000 first prize and they had like Kai and Dennis Wolf and Branch Warren. I mean, everyone Shawn Rhoden, Roelly, Dexter, they were all showing up for the big prize money. And I think um I think it was co that knocked it back a little bit, but they're starting to rebuild it now. And I think last year with um the addition of the expo and obviously having the inclusion of like Chris Bumstead, it made the show it really really uh it put more eyes on it because it's always been a good show. I mean, I've been going to the show for years. Um and obviously this year now they're starting to pull in other big names because just word spreads on what a great event it is. And they've moved because they moved the venue last year because I I took Ronnie there last year and obviously did the commentary and uh and they said, "Oh, we've already we've already because we sold every seat. >> Wow. >> Um we've actually got a bigger bigger expo at a different venue. So they move they moved the venue in um in Prague. So um I'm really expecting something special this year and I cannot wait. >> All right. Well, let's start with uh the biggest story about this. Samson Dow, who was the defending Mr. Olympia champion. He won it in 2024, showed up at 280 pounds here in Las Vegas a couple weeks ago, far off the bigger rounder Fuller Samson that won the Olympia the year before and it knocked him down to fourth place and some of us thought he could have been in fifth place. Martin Fitzwwater could have possibly beat him at that show. So, things didn't go as planned. Then we see on his Instagram in just two weeks, less than two weeks, it only took him about eight days to get back to 300 pounds. So, let's take a look at that update. Yeah, let's take a look at that. All right, so this is the most recent one he posted. It's got a big banner. It says 300 lb in the corner. And here he is posing. So, obviously it's different lighting, stage lighting, but give me your initial thoughts when you've been seeing these updates where he's put on 15 and then a full 20 pounds since the Mr. Olympia. >> Um, yeah, he looks better, but I don't think he's regained all the muscle he lost because yes, you always after a show just from taking in, you know, fluid and, you know, no diuretics. I mean, I'm assuming he's he did, but uh just normal, you know, even big amounts of clean food. Yes, he's gonna he's going to fill out at least 10 15 pounds a guy. that size. But um I'm I don't understand how what I heard was that he wasn't using the scale because if they had used the scale, they probably would have realized that he was dropping dropping dropping with no like real sort of noticeable gaining in condition because don't forget I mean he was reported 305 when he won the Olympia and he admitted on his stories the other day that he's now he competed at the Olympia at 280. So I don't understand though like they weren't paying attention to the scale if what if what they say is true. They weren't paying attention to the scale beforehand and now it just seems to be the only thing that matters. I know they're posting updates but um and I'm expecting him to be better and fuller than he was at the Olympia. But um he AI don't think he's regaining 25 pounds of stage weight uh by the time he hits the stage. I mean, I'd be happy if he came in like a sort of fuller, say, like if he came in at 290, that's going to be 10 pounds heavier than he was at um at the at the Olympia, but it seems like they're really doubling down on the it's not lost muscle, it's just we just mistimed it and we lost fullness. But, you know, I mean, what do you think, Ro? Because to me, like the back looks smaller, the legs look smaller than I mean, I'm comparing him to last year's Olympia. Um, and of course, everyone's losing their minds over these updates because he's 300 pounds and um but what about when he cuts water and gets on stage? He's probably five or 10 is probably going to come off that. Um but um do do you think he it seems like they're doubling down on the on the mistimed thing because this was not the same guy that stepped on stage Olympia last year. Look the to be honest the most noticeable poses I thought was the ab and thigh and the front double bicep. you can really and also the most muscular if you really actually have a good memory or even just literally take those pictures and videos and compare them to the Olympia last year like you can't you're not going to be it take it will take probably like a full offseason to get that kind of size back not two weeks so eating a bit of carbs and food or whatever and and taking in some fluid is not going to re I'm sorry but I don't think it's going to regain the 20 25 pounds of muscle that he lost from the 24 Olympia to the 25 Olympia I mean what's your take Well, here's the thing. If he was 305 at the 24 Olympia and 280, >> so that's a 25 pound difference, >> I don't think it's possible, unless with severe diuretic administration >> to drop that much weight that water weight. I don't think I understand the doubling down thing because if you if you admit that you lost muscle tissue, anybody who knows the sport and the human body would say you can't put that much muscle back on in two weeks. It's going to take you, you know, I disagree. I don't think it would take a full off seasonason, but I think it would take a good probably six to eight weeks to regain all that lost muscle. Maybe quicker. Who knows? But still, you're not going to do it in two weeks. Uh but yeah, the back shot, like look at his back last year. Totally different back. That's where I saw him really. >> And he's actually >> Yeah. Go ahead. >> The Latre >> the L. Um, also because I know I was I was trying to be balanced, really balanced and kind of say, okay, then what's the the opposing point of view like Sean Karida, what he did from the Olympia to Prague, that was quite dramatic in terms of how good he looked in Prague compared to how he looked at Olympia because he said to me, he said, "Oh, it was a [\h__\h] show. It was, you know, and obviously everything was going wrong with Matt Jansen." Um, but that's a 180 pound guy. >> Yeah. you know, that's only what was it like eight pounds difference or something from Olympia to Prague. I think he was fuller eight pounds heavier in Prague and he was kind of back to the the Sean Cru we know and love. But um I mean the thing is we all saw them bloody I don't understand what people are commenting on because we saw at the bloody Romania guest posing six weeks out he was losing muscle and yet they just carried on carried on carried on with this approach and at surely at some point maybe four or five weeks out and I don't want to keep going about the Olympia we we need to focus on this one but I don't but at what point were they like okay should we maybe jump on the scale or are we okay this this approach to coming right right down yes the waist is looking smaller but is the Um, are we really are we really gaining any condition for for this approach? You know, maybe we need to back off on the cardio. Maybe we need to back off on the, you know, the sort of low carb and low calories and low food and everything because I heard rumors he was on very very low food pushing cardio, you know, uh, high volume training. Um, and to be honest, that's the perfect recipe to burn muscle tissue. So um and then you know I get it because sometime I mean that lads bread there that's not that's not the Samson that was even at the Arnold Classic because I know he was off a little bit off at the Arnold Classic and it cost him the title uh of the Arnold win to to Derek Lunsford who was peaked really well but um I just I don't I think I think expectations are going to be like oh we're going to see the Samson of um of the Arnold Classic even or or even the Olympia and I just don't I don't see it happening m and I'd love to see it happen. I' I just all I hope all I hope for is that he is better than he was at the Olympia and I fully expect that to happen. Um so but like you look at the legs there that's the Arnold Classic. His legs weren't like that wasn't that's not the those weren't the same legs at the Olympia. I mean his legs looked like he'd lost a lot of size. The back um look at his leg there. I mean it looks it looks a lot smaller, mate. A lot smaller. >> He definitely downsized. Yeah, I I want to emphasize to people, Giles will be the first one to congratulate and say how great he looks, if he looks that way. And if he doesn't, >> call it like I said. So, Giles, you know, you're very objective whether you've had good dealings with people, bad dealings with people. You're talking about physiques on stage. That's why these people bring you in all the time over in Europe to do commentary because they know you have a great eye and you're not biased towards anybody. So now I'm sure you know his wife will probably be sitting behind you. So if she'll hear you if you're if you're giving him uh props, maybe she'll tap you on the shoulder and say, "Good on you, mate." I don't know. >> Anyhoo, >> we can live in hope. But um I mean it's Yeah, I mean I was wrong about hers. I was wrong about hers. I didn't see that one coming. >> True. True. We both were wrong about We're wrong all the time. I'm wrong Harris for God's sake. All right, let's move on to the guy who might have a chance. Might have a chance. the defending Prague Pro Champion, the Martian, Martin Fitzswwater, he looked phenomenal. Uh, two Olympias in a row, he looked in incredible. So much so that uh even though the score sheets didn't indicate, I thought he was very, very close to Samson. I would have had no problem with him beating Samson at the show. And, you know, I don't think he needs to be any better necessarily than he was in Las Vegas. I just wonder if this version of Martin uh can hold off Samson if Samson does manage to come in much fuller and you know my my my fear with Samson is the condition is going to be lesser than what we saw in Vegas because this rebound that's a lot of weight to put on a lot of fluid. I don't think I don't think he gained any body fat but anybody who's seen a rebound you could see he's holding a lot of water right now and I'm sure they'll they'll try to fix that at the end. What do you think Martin's chances are? >> Yeah. Well, I know cuz I when everyone looks great under the gym lights when they've just trained and they're full of food. I mean, you know, you're full to bursting and but you get somebody in trunks under the the stage lights and it's a different story. So, I I'm I'm never fooled by these kind of gym updates because, you know, we'd all love when we're backstage at the show, we've all like craved and dreamt of what it to have like a proper pump, you know, when you're not cutting any any any sort of sodium or food or water or however you manipulate it. But, um, regards to Martin, um, I was there at Prague last year. um he was not as peaked as well at Prague, certainly the first day at the pre-judging on the Saturday night than he was at the Olympia. So, I'm just hoping that he comes in as good as he was at Olympia because I thought I thought this was the best Martin I've ever seen. I feel like there's more going on in his legs, especially from the side. I mean, the lines in his legs are absolutely insane now. So, um I thought he beat Samson fair and square at the Olympia. I don't think I honestly I don't think it was even close like it was when I think we all we I think many of us thought he should have beat Derek Lunsford last year. So, two years running he's been he's been sort of uh done out of a placing here. So, I am I I kind of I mean I'm rooting for everyone but I kind of I kind of would like to see it's not about Samson get redemption. I think this show is more about Martin get redemption because I think he deserves to place ahead of Samson unless Samson does something that you know really pulls it out the bag and looks like the Samson we all know and love. Um I can see if Martin peaks as well as he did the Olympia. I mean, I I can't see him placing sorry, looking any better than he did because I thought he was peaked fantastically at the Olympia. I thought his back is because I've always criticized his rear double bicep and um like I said, his rear lap spread isn't quite as wide and thick, but he's gained a lot more separation and detail, which I think is is a good tradeoff. So, for me, this was the best package I've ever seen from Martin. So, uh for me, he's the favorite. >> Yeah. I mean, I I I kind of feel for him because he's had two two years in a row where he's up against this almost insurmountable force. Bumpstead last year, not to say that Bumstead's physique was unbeatable or anything, but you know, it's it's it's one of the greatest physiques of our generation, regardless of the division and the fan base. And now he's up against Samson. Samson, we haven't even got into Keon yet. My goodness. Uh it's it's tough. This guy doesn't have it easy. But yeah, he's if if he could manage to win this, it's going to elevate his standing so much more because Samson and Keon are they're forces of nature. They're just phenomenal competitors. But look at that. Look at Martin. >> I I think he's I think he's gonna I'll tell you why I think I tell you I think he you know when we talk about Keon as well. I'll tell you why I think he's going to win. I really do. I think I said unless Samson brings something drastically different from he brought from the Olympia which will go against and kind of disprove my my experience from seeing what how how certain competitors can like like um like Clarita did last year in four weeks. I'm going to be really I'm really hoping we see best version of Samsung, but I just don't think we're going to see that in two weeks. I think we're going to see something better, but I think people are thinking we're going to see like a 300 300 pound5 pound Olympia 24 version of Samson. I just don't see it. I I think it's physically possible. I think it's humanly possible. But with Martin, um I he's a defending champion as well. Uh so he's uh I to me I I think he's going to win this, mate. >> Wow. So it was 30,000 last year. Good prize package for a you know smaller show. I heard one of the shows over the weekend, I won't say which one, but I heard it was only a $5,000 first prize. >> Was that the UK show? >> Yeah. No. So, the Tell me this. Do you know this is the minimum is 10,000 still, right? It has to be at least 10,000. >> Correct. >> Okay. So, >> correct. Yeah. for an open show because um I know the sanction because I know the sanction fees for open went up um which meant the uh it was obviously tougher even tougher then for for promoters to put on open shows that's why we have so many classic and men's physique because the sanction fees are lower but I have heard that the minimum prize money was 10 and then with that new tech was it new tech sponsor I heard that all pro shows then would be minimum 15 so if it was five then that's uh that's the all-time lowest I mean back in when Shawn Ray won the pro Iron Man in 1990 it $10,000. >> Yeah. >> So, it's um 5,000 is 5,000 is 5,000 is ridiculous. That's ridiculously low. >> All right. Well, I don't even know if that's true. I I' they had I when I was doing some commentary on the show, that's what people are telling me, but they're not always accurate, but let's move on. >> Okay. Well, >> this this is what everyone is waiting to see. Keon Pearson, I think he announced this months ago that he was going to do open. It's been a couple months anyway. Um, this was the first year that he had to struggle to make weight down to 212. The year before he was only 201. This time he was right on 211.9. Uh, you would you would talk to his coach, Patrick Tor, and said he had been 217 completely ready a few days before, so they still had to drop a few pounds, but apparently he's looking very What did you say? He was looking ready at 220 prior to that. Patrick said to me in the text, he said, "Oh, well, he was ready, I think, for four weeks at 220. Then he the final week he had to get him down to 217. Then then obviously they had to really pull it down so he could make weight. And then they had what, a day, day and a half, I think was it, uh, to fill back out." But sometimes, like I said, um, when I spoke to Dunsford at the 2019 weighin, Olympia, I said, um, he he made weight, but he he by the time he actually I think I messaged him afterwards and he said by the time he actually got to the stage, his weight carried on going down. So, it's not all people always assume when you pull down to make weight that soon as you take in some food or fluid or whatever, your body weight's going to go up and sometimes it doesn't. That's something I've actually learned in the last few years. >> So, but he did say uh somebody asked him at the Olympia seminar, they said, "So then, Keon, what do you think you'll be in Prague?" And he said, "Well, I think I'm going to be exactly what I was yesterday after I won the Olympia." So, he's he's um he's expecting to be the same sort of body weight. Um, so I mean I mean who knows what he'll be. Maybe his body will just um maybe without the the restriction, you don't maybe he might like 215 or 220 and um and look cra. I mean I think that's what we're all hoping for that he you know with no restriction and know those couple of days having to really sort of like cut water and cut food and kind of all starve yourself to get to get the way in and then you have to eat up you know in a bit of a hurry but you try not to spill over or have it you know uh distend the stomach. So, um I mean I'm just hoping we just see I think we're all hoping for a slightly better version than than Olympia because he doesn't have the restriction. I think that's what we all hope for. So, um but I I reckon he'll be 216 217 I reckon by the time he hits the stage and I think he'll be bursting full and um and yeah, so I think but I for me I think he's um I think he's going to be a solid third. People I know people think they I was just chatting to someone there. says, "All the guys in my gym think that Keon's going to walk this show and he's going to beat Samson and he's going to beat Martin." But if you look last weekend, Clarita just got beat by Rean, >> right? >> Do do you see what I'm getting at? He just got beat by Rean was 14th in the Olympia. And I had to be honest, I didn't I didn't see that happening with Rean beating Clarita last weekend. And I thought Clarita took prejudging at the Olympia last week. Sorry, two weeks ago. So, you know, if you look at it in terms of where they are, you know, Rean just beat Clarita and Karita nearly beat Keon at the the Olympia. Um, so I don't think he's I think he's going to look good up there, but also when he I think when you stick him next to like a Martin uh Samson, depending on how on even Kriso, I think you're going to get a bit of um I wouldn't say rude awaiting, but I think you're going to and there is a difference. And the reason also that why this this category was actually created. >> Yeah. I mean that's by himself obviously he looks incredible. He looks huge but like you said you're going to put he's let's say he's going to be two 215 to 220 somewhere in that range. I think it's safe to say you put that next to Samson. You put it next to Martin. Put next to Kriso. He's not going to look so big and doineering anymore dominant. Um you know he does have better shape structure flow than all of them. I just don't I wonder how that that's what I want to see. I want to see how how he compares to these bigger guys because we both have seen in the past guys like Lee Priest and others. I mean even Derek and Hottie, they're they're shorter and so on, but they compare very well with the bigger guys and they clearly in cases of Hottie and Derek, they've beaten everyone else in the world at some point. So I wonder >> Ron, could he could he beat Samson? Could he beat Samson? Uh, I don't know. I don't I don't personally I don't think so. No. >> Okay. Okay. Because if Sam's like really off and there's no real improvement or or he's just over spilled. I mean, if Samson comes in and he looks 20 pounds over spilled and not that much fuller with the same kind of condition he brought to Olympia, I could I could conceivably see it happening, mate. >> Oh, yeah. I mean, if Samson's if Samson is waterlogged looking, spilled over, I could see him dropping down to fourth to fifth even at this show. And rightfully so, nobody should be being rewarded if they're in that poor if your condition is that bad. You know, let let's hope that's not the case. I don't want to see that. I'd love to see Samson look far better in the Olympia. Like condition, too. I mean, if if he could just look a little bit more conditioned because I wasn't overly impressed with the condition I saw at the Olympia. wasn't, like you said, there was there was uh I noticed zero improvement in condition with those 25 pounds gone. And it's it's inconceivable. You think, wow, he's that much lighter. He must have just gone for condition. But to me, that that's why I keep saying it's it had to be lost muscle. It wasn't less body fat. Maybe a couple pounds, but it was it was just very negligible. All right, let's go to the next big dude. >> So, he just thing is sorry to keep going back to Samson. Sorry to keep go sorry. Sorry, Ron, Ron, Ron. Sorry, sorry to keep going back to Samson, but um I mean, I don't want to keep keep harping on, but it has it's like not a knee-jerk reaction, and he actually pushes harder with things like food like he did with bringing the body weight down before. I hope it's not a knee-jerk reaction and he panics and does they do something that really kind of works the other way, but also works against him like it did with this prep. I just hope that I just hope that they know what they're doing and I hope they really I hope they really sort of um manage to salvage something because the thing is he kind of has to win this really otherwise it's it was it's it's not going to be a nice way to end the year for him. So I just um I'm just hoping and praying because like I've been seeing people call him like a one hit wonder and what else did I see somebody say? Uh I forget what else somebody said but like some of the things I'm saying it's like really heartless. Do you know what I mean? And I mean, part of me obviously didn't really want to see him doing this do this show. I thought he would, but I kind of part of me doesn't want to because I want to see him get his head down now, take his take himself out of the spotlight for a couple of months, really get into some good heavy basic training, show up at the Arnold, and just look looking insane again, you know? That's that kind that's what I'm kind of hoping for. But I kind of feel like this is like a knee-jerk reaction and they're kind of uh it's like a it's almost like a like a pride of athlete. And I say pride not in a negative way, but pride in a you know, he wanted to redeem himself. But I just don't I just don't think you can do it in two weeks, but if I'm wrong, then, you know, I'll be the first to admit it. >> Yeah, this this was taking a chance for sure, him doing this show at all because like you said, he has to win this. If he doesn't win this, it's a bad look to go from moving bumping down from Olympia champion to fourth place and then you couldn't even win a show over in Prague against, you know, uh, a 212 guy and I don't and, you know, Martin was a fifth place guy and he was a fourth place guy last year, but it still wouldn't it wouldn't be a good look. So, you know, for the sake of his legacy, whatever you want to call it, I I really hope that he wins this. Let's move on. KZO. So Kzison just got his Olympia 2026 qualification right in your backyard over there in the UK. You said literally it's probably like a stones throw from your Tiger Towers there. Uh this is actually footage from New York Pro early in the year because the lighting at that UK show. Uh it was a free live stream so I'm not going to complain about the uh money I spent on it. But it was dark lighting and there were camera rigs, tripods and cameras blocking blocking the lower half of the competitors. Uh it looked to me like it was an iPad or an iPhone just on a on a stand or a tripod. There was never any zooming in. There was never any panning. Nothing. And I mean again it was free so you can't complain about the price but that's why I'm not showing Kiso's uh UK British Grand Prix win here. from showing earlier in the year from New York Pro. Um, the one thing I do want to say about Crezo that I I wondered about his waist before, why is it so thick? And now, uh, thanks to Fuzzy Fitness, another great YouTube creator, his obliques, they're very, very overdeveloped. >> I never really paid attention to that before, but look how thick those obliques are. >> Uh, I want to go to his uh, >> they they they jut out now. Somebody sent me that and they said, "Oh, is this a problem?" And I I kind of wasn't paying attention and then I kind of looked at it later and I was like, "Oh, I see." Because it's like it's like he's built muscle on his obliques and it actually comes out like to the side now. I mean, >> for me, >> there look at it there with the white background. It's it's >> not known for having the smallest waist because, you know, most Yeah, I can see like he's actually >> Yeah, they're they're literally hanging over. They're so thick now. There's not an ounce of fat on the guy. So yeah, I mean that's that's why I don't see him >> shredded >> being I don't see him being a threat to to Samson or Martin or Keon in this show really unless one of them is off. But he'll clearly be the hometown favorite. They love He's in Slovakia which is what the next town over the next it's probably like a 45minut drive from this place. So they love him over there. >> It's a shame they couldn't It's a shame they couldn't have the show here because the lighting's better than it wasn't the show. No, I mean, let's I'll give the guys credit. He He gets I I do like the fact that there's such clear muscle separation everywhere and the stripey delts and the arms arms have nice look at all the separation between the biceps, the brachiialis, triceps because we complaining about a lot of these guys with the shot up arms where there's it just looks like a big lump or a potato. He has a he has the best arms in the sport, maybe him and Nick Walker, but his are so finely detailed. I really do appreciate that. >> Isn't Isn't it sad though that we like he's an exception rather than the rule now? You know, because like not very often you see guys with spectacular arms and when you do when they're like physically big then you look closer and you see all the where they've been putting stuff and but with with Kriso he's kind of got like um like a lightweight detail and separation or a classic guy and he's just got these freaking huge arms. So I really applaud him for that and his delts as well. I mean I keep going on about it. Um but um yeah, I I couldn't watch this live stream. It was just it was painful. It was too painful to watch. Plus, there was like there was lights from the back of the stage that were like shining into the face of the audience and as viewing, which I just thought was just horrendous. And you couldn't even see half of them. I mean, you can't see [\h__\h] there. And that's not from the live stream. That's some somebody taking photos there. >> Yeah. >> So, um I mean it was just basically that wasn't the live that was that was basically like an iPad on a tripod that was there was no cameraman. There was nothing being filmed. So, um it's hard to to kind of really gauge, you know, and you're like trying to zoom in and trying to look at it. And obviously I wasn't there. Um I didn't want to pay a£1,000 for a press pass. Um so well it's true. >> Yeah.£1,000 for a press pass. Yeah. And they charge like uh was it 300 or 500 for 600 or something for coaches to go backstage and Yeah. It's just all >> Wow. >> cash. >> Yeah. Well, it's true. It's true. People keep saying why do you not even go and support British shows? It's like would I really pay a thous apart from the fact I don't have a good ratio with the promoter. Why would I pay that much more money to to go to this show? And the thing is the British Grand Prix, I mean the British Grand Prix used to be Ronnie, Kevin None, Dorian at the uh Wembley Conference Center or the uh or Royal Nottingham Center in Lauren actually went she went in the daytime and she said the venue was actually lovely. It was in a church. It's in a church. It's in a church. >> Wow. Okay. >> A big modern church. He said, "Oh, no. The venue is really nice." She said, "It's really lovely." >> Um she didn't go in, but she was she had a few of her sponsored athletes competing in the amateur the amateur British. But um she said, "Yeah, the venue's nice." But um yeah, so she didn't go into the show though. But yeah, Kriso, yeah, he's um yeah, he's sitting pretty now because he's got his qualification and he's finally got it. It was a smart move him doing this show and um you know, so he's the pressure's off really now because I know he has to do Prague because of his um because EVLs are sponsor. So he's kind of he's kind of coming in more relaxed now. The pressure's off because like I say, he's qualified for next year and he doesn't he doesn't you know he's probably going to look as good if not better because plus he's more relaxed. There's less pressure on him. So because sometimes, you know, like um maybe that was another reason why Samson, you know, was uh maybe the pressure of because it was a heavy where's the crown all that. >> Yeah. >> You know, there's more there's more pressure when you're coming in as a as a favorite or as a contender than when you're the actual defending champion. We've seen that happen with Jay Cutler. Remember he turned back came up in 2007. He didn't look as good. Didn't look good in 2008. Got beat by Dexter. And then he took that loss to Dexter to kind of really like Ronny with Gunter in 2002 at the show of strength. it kind of took that loss to kind of really bring the fire out in him. So, Kriso um I think Kriso will be a solid fourth. >> Yeah. >> Um and uh but I'm really curious to see him next to next to Keon, Samson, and Martin obviously, but uh for me the top three, unless one of them really messes up, um I think the top three is pretty much Keon, Samson, and Martin. Um I think Kriso, like I think Kriso could possibly leaprog over one of them if one of them is really off, which I don't see happening. So, um, but I think it'll be a solid fourth place this weekend. >> So, my choice for fifth place would be this guy. A kid. I'm gonna call him a kid. Joan Prael is from Spain. He was third at the UK show and he looked fantastic. He didn't put any footage up from it, but he's very, very thick thick, shapely, conditioned pretty much. This is this is a few days ago. who's clearly done a little bit of a rebound cuz you remember I think he was getting a lot of crap from a couple different podcasters about how how poor his condition looked leading up to the show. Um but on stage I thought he looked pretty damn good. >> He did. >> He doesn't have any stage footage on this from there. >> I I really rate him. I think he's really coming on strong. I think he's one to watch because he's still pretty young. He's put a lot of muscle in a short space of time. >> There you go. Um, I think he looks I mean from what what what I've seen like pictures of this video, I think he's um he's got a really nice shape. That front little bicep is sensational. He's got good quads. Yes, he needs more detail and conditioning from the back. Um, but uh I think he's uh yeah, I think they were a bit harsh on him as well. But then again, you know, we sometimes we we can only comment based upon what we've seen. Um, and we can't really make a proper judgment until we see them on stage, you know, because otherwise we're just making kind of like we're just speculating, which is what basically this show's about, you know. We're speculating and predicting. But, um, I think he's a great I think he looked great and I think, um, I think he could be something very, very special in the next couple of years. I think he's another one like Vetoers, another one of these new generation guys that is in the next couple of years is probably going to be fighting out in the in the absolute top spots and winning multiple pro shows. >> Yeah, I agree. I mean, he's got everything there that the they say the tools are in place. He's got all the tools. He's just a diamond in the rough. He's got the structure. He's already got a really good amount of size. You know, I love the quad sweep. I always want to see crazy quad sweep, which is largely genetic, but still. And conditioning, conditioning can get better, but it was enough to carry him to third here as head judge Ma Ali all the way from New Jersey, USA. >> So, good on him. Good on him. So, >> look good. No, I look good. Look good. He's um he's awesome. >> All right, let's go to next guy probably in the placings, the shed, who uh just changed coaches again. I don't know how many this is. It's quite a few that he's had, but uh I don't know. Here's a a little clip from that. So, condition actually looks pretty good. Uh I don't think he's as big as he was in the past. I seem to remember him a little bit bigger than this. Uh >> little bit >> little bit. >> So I mean I think it's as far as like Yeah, he actually doesn't look bad there, but I've seen him I've seen him better than this. Um >> I've heard that he switches coaches to learn from each coach, but I would like to see him stick with one coach for, you know, at least at least a season or two and see if they could elevate him because I he was top five at both Arnolds, UK and USA a couple years ago, right? >> Yeah. Yep. last year >> and he won this show a few years ago if memory serves. British Grand Prix. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Samson was like sixth that year. >> It was um when he did the um the Luke Sando tribute routine. Was that 2020? I want to say. >> Yeah. I mean he's got a lot of wins. A lot of wins. >> Yeah. >> So I don't know. I don't know where he's going to fall here, but the fact that he was fifth in the UK show, a show that uh I think he should have been in the in the running to win based on the lineup and how well he's done in the past. I wish him the best, but I I don't know if this coach coach hopping strategy is working out for him. >> Yeah. Well, I was just happy that it better than he did in France because in France like everything was kind of like the back was looking downsized, the arms were looking downsized. Um and um he's managed to really he managed to really really claw it back here with his with how he looked because the end of the day yes we all want to place well or we don't want to place badly but also pride as an athlete is really we just want to make sure we look good. So when we look back at the pictures we can say right okay that's that's how good I am. I didn't place too well in this particular show but it doesn't matter. I didn't win this one but at least I look better and redeem myself you know from from the previous show because um France was a bit of a disaster for him. So, so really happy to see him kind of looking big and beastly again, but um yeah, he looked good looking nice and sharp from the back and everything. And uh yeah, he's uh he'll be he'll be up there in Prague. >> Okay, see another guy that I expect to be hopefully first call out was uh Tim Budan. So Tim, this was awful lighting. I'm sorry. This was uh this was a show in Mexico over the weekend and just very dark dim lighting for these for these shows that and again the backdrop is very bright. So it's a bad combination between the two. >> Awful combination is it? You know I've just been arguing with the promoter there online actually. He's uh I mean that's and that's not that's not fault of the live stream. That's the fault of that's not that's the fault that's just literally basically what somebody is filming from the audience. I mean you can see it moving. Yeah, I mean I don't even know if there I assume it was there. I don't even know if there was a live stream at this show, honestly. >> I don't know. Hard to say. But Tim, uh, fifth place there. And he's, you know, he's a he's a workhorse. He's got a great physique. There he is with Somerfeld. He's got some great poses, plenty of plenty of size, plenty of condition. So, we'll see. >> I like Tim. I'm I'm a big fan of Tim, mate. And I think sometimes he gets sometimes like I so I feel so disappointed for him when he gets these he looks you know you see all these amazing pitches in the leadup and he's consistent he's big and thick and he's got freaky legs and he's dense and then he ends up getting like eighth or ninth or 10th or something in pro show. I always feel a bit bad for him because he just keeps on going. He keeps on pushing forward but just never give up and and also he's not afraid to do like five six shows in a row this guy. So, you know, I imagine their sponsors are actually quite quite happy with him because uh sometimes you see guys that win one show and then they shut it down and that's it. You don't see him for a year or until the Olympia the next year or the follow or later that year. So, um yeah, Tim looks good. I like him. I like him. >> See, he's an ESN guy. ESN is a huge huge company, isn't it? >> He must be. >> Yeah. Yeah. A massive company and they give they give out really good contracts as well. >> Nice. Well, good on him then. All right. Last guy I want to talk about in the open just because he's a big dude and I know he's very consistent with the shape is hometown boy Czech Republic's Joseph Kvet. I'm sure I've been screwing up his name for years. Kve all you checks out there, you can correct me in the comments. How do you say KVE? Because I have no idea. Vet vet. Maybe the K >> Leon Von I would just I would probably the K is probably the K is probably silent. >> Yeah, you're probably right. I mean, I should know these things. Uh, got some got some Eastern European heritage. But, uh, look at that condition there. Every little fiber in the lower back. Geez. The glutes are strided. I know he doesn't have the greatest shape and structure compared to some of the guys because he's 6'2 or 6'3. He's a big dude. I remember standing next to a New York pro and being just shocked at how big he is. He's probably like a He's got to be like a 300 pounder on stage. Yeah. All right. Well, good luck to him. But let's talk about uh the classic physique. >> Hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on, Ron, hang on. >> Mattius Hullwick, who was fourth place last year here at Prague. >> Yes, you're right. >> He's really good. He was the ex He was the ex-Classic guy that switched over last year, got first call out right next to Martin, right next to Sebum, and uh he was fourth place last year. So, I expect him to be kind of really up there as well. And it's he's a really nice physique as well. Very beautiful physique. Yeah, I'm glad you I'm glad you brought that up because I had him queued up and then I completely was going to skip over him by accident. So, he was in the show last year and he's one of those guys uh so many of these classic guys moving to open, they still bring obviously like that presentation that most of the open guys don't have the the really graceful transitions, unique poses that are quote unquote more classic than what we typically see. Look at that. So, and he's a little bigger than that now. >> Yeah. I mean, I don't know. This is a This is a little tougher lineup, I think, than last year, but >> yeah, >> probably second solid second call out guy. >> Somewhere somewhere in that fifth to 10th range. I think that's >> Yeah, that's fair. That's fair. That's fair. >> And that's that's nothing to nothing to be ashamed of. All right. Now, we can talk about Ruffin. So, uh Terrence just want to show him Brazil this Saturday. Wow. Um he was third place at the Olympia where we thought I think it could have gone any way any which way of the three for Somerfeld, Ramon and him. I think any any one of them could have could have been selected as a winner. But uh safe to say Ruffin is the heavy favorite for this show. Uh I consider him the greatest poser in the industry the sport today any division. He's to to me nobody nobody can do what he does on stage and the physique just screams classic to me. There's he's the poster boy for classic in my mind. There's there's no other no other division you can look at this man and say 212 open. No, that that is pure 100% classic physique. Rough diesel. >> It was uh it was me that talked him into doing it last week. >> Nice. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz um I messaged him and I said, "Mate, why don't you come and do Prague?" And he says, "Will you be there?" And I said, "Yeah, I'm doing the commentary, mate." And he said, "Uh" and he asked me about the prize money and the details. So, so I got I gave his number to the promoter and I said, "Look, ring ring Terrence because he's definitely interested in doing it. He's doing Mexico, Brazil. I always get the two mixed up." Um, I said, "And he's interesting because he likes to travel. That's why he did the tour with me. He's not, you know, and he's um and he wants to get in some, you know, wants to get in a couple of extra potential wins after the Olympia, you know, which is which is completely understandable." So, um, yeah. So, then he went back and he said, "Yep, I'm doing it. I'm interested. I'm I'm I'm committed." So, yeah. So, he's all doing it. So I said, "Mate, if you I'm going to when I'm not on the mic," I said, "If you need me for anything, just send me a message." I says, "Cuz I'm, you know, I'm at your disposal." >> Yeah. He looked it's it's good to see not only the open guys doing the post Olympia shows, but the classic guys like Somerfeld did um I think he did the Mexico show. >> Did he guest pose? >> Maybe he just guestposed because I think I heard that Natalya won the women's physique in Mexico. >> Do you know what? I think she's I've been really studying her pictures and videos from the Olympia. I think she's actually like Andrea Shaw. I think she's going to prove to be unbeatable now. >> Oh, I mean, love to see it. It couldn't couldn't happen to a nicer nicer person. >> And and also because of the Sarah Viegas nonsense, I mean, her her engagement and all her comments and everything, it's like she's just sat sat back and said nothing. She's kept it zipped and now she's just because of all the the negativity from that Sarah Viega situation. She's just sat and she's just receiving all this love and support now which which is actually what happens when you try and do something like stupid like I think it was stupid what Sarah Viegas did with that post. I think it was really bad and um so I think uh Natalyia did the right thing by saying doing nothing because she's now she's now getting this tidal wave of love and support and I and I'm and I'm here for it. Yeah, absolutely. Uh so Terrence, this was his uh routine in Brazil and he says he has something very special planned for the fans in Prague. So get ready for that guys. Like I said, he's he's one of the only guys if I ever missed his routine and I was at a show, I would be very very upset that I missed it. >> The crowd's going to go nuts, mate, when he does his routine because I said I sent a message to Peter and I said, "Peter," I says, "I'm I am so excited. worth actually coming just to see the crowd response when Terrence comes out and does his routine because uh that was kind of my motivate apart from obviously I want to help the show as much as I can that was actually one of my motivations uh for reaching out to Terrence saying mate come and do Prague it's a great show I said uh you'll probably win that um because I just selfishly I just want to see him do his routine and not no I I want to see it but I also want to see the crowd response because I'm I mean last year we had um the crowd response whenever like Sebum raised his hand and waved, you know. I mean, literally when every second he was like, you know, if you saw like a hair coming past the backstage, you know, the crowd just went completely ballistic. And when he did that twisting shoulder, I mean, the place just erupted. It was brilliant. >> So, I'm kind of um and I kind of think that Terrence Ruffins routine will will get quite a response as well. >> I'll tell you, Jos, you get some good gigs. I mean, last year the whole Bumstead because I honestly think that's the last time we're ever going to see Bumstead on stage. I don't think he's ever coming back. >> But, >> yeah. I mean, why would he at this point? But moving on. So, the only other guy that's uh going to be pushing him at this show is the UK's own, where did I put him? Michael Dul. So, Michael uh he dropped he dropped down a little bit at the Olympia this year. Dropped down to eighth place. >> One place. >> Was he seventh year before? But he's been top five before. >> Yep. >> Uh he still has all the all the things that make his physique a standout. The structure, the condition. Uh I I don't know. Why do why do you think he might be dropping down a little bit? Is just more talent pool coming up in that classic division? >> Well, there's more talent coming through, but for me, he was a little bit off at the Olympia cuz like I said, his condition there looked sensational, but for if you know the kind of condition he has got himself in, I think um I think he was a little bit off his usual form. But like I said, it could still be probably one of the best on stage. But I compare his conditioning to what he brought last because his conditioning level is is so on another level. It's um it's a bit of a it's a bit of a blessing and a curse for him at the same time. >> Yeah, I know what you're saying because that is one of the strong points. Obviously, the structure in terms of mass, he's not going to be as as thick as the shorter guys like a Somerfeld or even Ramon's probably around the same height. So, condition, I think that's one of his calling cards. And if it's not up to uh the standard that we've seen from him before, which I don't think he should necessarily be judged. And see in the leadup, look at how look at how he was looking. >> Yeah. >> But okay. Again, that's in the gym. That's right after a pump. You got all the veins popping and everything. It's it's not something that can translate to the stage. >> No. I I think I've done 14 shows and only once did I actually have anything resembling a gym type pump backstage >> because I took AI took a big steak sandwich in and I had a low of sodium on it and uh and I remember like I actually backstage I'm like, "Oh my god, this is the first time I've ever had anything like a pump backstage." So I walked on stage fully confident. But um yeah, I think uh I think I'd be very shocked if if uh Ruffin and Doul based upon their ranking at the Olympia, I'd be very very shocked if that wasn't the top two. >> Yeah, I mean it's a it's a long list and like I said that's a division where FC it's actually happened to me a couple times in open this year too where I didn't see somebody coming at all. Uh like that Russian that Russian I don't know I never heard of that guy in my life and he almost >> he won that show. Um, >> yeah. >> So, there might be somebody that can challenge these guys, but uh I I think we're pretty it's pretty safe to say Dabul and uh Ruffin and Doulool are probably going to be your top two. And >> I tell you what, though. I tell you what, though. There's some really good classic guys in Europe, mate. I mean, you know, sometimes, you know, when I'm actually at these European shows and because some of them, they don't compete outside their country, let alone Europe. So, and um you know they might get fourth or fifth and you know that you know in these kind of shows is impressive and you know that the standard and the it's not just the the quant quality of the classic guys now it's the quantity and there's such a huge volume of really good highlevel you know guys that wouldn't look out of place on stage at the Olympia do you know what I mean maybe not top five or top 10 because you know that is really hard to get into and hard crack but when you got 50 60 guys qualified you know you realize actually just how many good sort of second second call out type guys there are in the world. And I tell you what, there's there's a very very high amount even just in in bloody Czech Czech Republic and you know, let alone Europe. So I do expect this one to be a very very toughly contested uh category because there's there's a lot of names and you never see you never see rubbish competitors at the Prague show. It's almost like they know what the standard's going to be like and they they don't show up unless they they they think they can be truly competitive. >> So uh I do want to point out that this is a two-day show. Uh, a lot of these European shows, everything happens on Sunday. This one's going to be two days. The amateurs is going to take up most of Saturday, but then uh 8:00 PM Prague, Czech Republic time, they're going to have the judging. So, it's going to be a two-day format similar to the Olympia, similar to the Arnold. >> Last year, they're doing this. >> Oh, the last year they're gonna they're going to do it again. >> Yeah, they give them they've uh because I said to him, I said, "Are you still doing the the prejudging for the Open Med?" That's what they did last year. Um they just brought the opener and then the next day was the whole prejudging and finals. And he said uh he said, "Yes, we are." I said, "But this is the last year we're going to be doing this." >> Okay. So, Sunday is going to be the big wrap-up day. Uh they'll be judging for all the other divisions in the morning. Uh 10:00 a.m. Czech Republic time. So, adjust to your own time zones. 4:30 p.m. starts the finals for everything. They're gonna have wellness, bikini, men's physique, women's figure, men's 212, men's classic, and men's open. So, Tiger's gonna have his hands full. >> Yeah, I've got there's a few of us doing the live stream, so we managed to rotate it and keep it fresh. So, um because I wanted uh I wanted to pull Chris Cormier on again as well, but he's in Dubai. >> Oh, what's he doing? Well, I don't know why. >> Expo the Dubai the Dubai Expo this weekend, the same weekend. Um so, unfortunately, we can't uh can't have Chris because I had Chris. I did classic with Chris the other year and of course it was amazing and then I did a couple of classes with um George Farah as well and he was very good as well. >> So the website there guys I had it on a banner but I'm having issues with my StreamYard. So evls.cz evvls.cz is where you can get the live stream. And you're going both days right? You're you're commentating day and night for two days on this one. >> Yep. >> Wow. But you are going to bring in some special guests I'm sure. Yes, I am. Yes, we're lining them up. >> Okay. Yeah. So, just you'll be surprised, I suppose. >> Yeah. But also this year, like I said, they've um they've moved to venue, another venue again. Um because they the expo is because last year was the first year they'd had like a proper expo. They'd had like a few trade stands before when it was at the Hilton. Um but there was like maybe four, five, well, maybe half six stands say, but just like in the in the lobby bit, you know, just before you go into the event, but now last year they had, you know, they had quite a few. Um, I know I was obviously there with Ronnie and uh, but um, there was a there was it was like a mini expo, but now apparently it's growing and growing, so it's going to be bigger this year. And thing is, you know, the expos what brings the revenue in, mate, which helps pay for the So I I don't know what the prize money is, but I wouldn't be surprised if it's bumped up. >> Yeah. I mean, that's why the Arnold has such crazy money. The they have this enormous expo and uh, the vendors and everything fund all that. that that's why they can afford to pay the winner of next year classic $ three4 million US. >> Yeah. And they're still making profit. >> Yeah. I mean, they're not going to they're business people aren't in business to lose money, guys. That's business. >> I never even went to business school, but I know that much. So, you'd be less proud. >> I wonder if the um I wonder if the Olympian makes profit now. >> I hope so. I mean, hope so because Jake's a really good guy and he's poured so much money into that show. >> I know what he paid for it. Uh, I think they they that wasn't uh a secret. I think that was public knowledge, wasn't it? >> Oh, was it? Okay. Okay. >> Wasn't it like 100 million? >> Slightly less. >> 99.9 million. Okay. >> No, I heard I heard he paid 70 and he also got Flex and Muscle and Fitness because apparently um Pekka didn't want him. He says, "Oh, no, that's separate." And um and then uh because Jake told me and he said no, he hel he he really held off because he knew he knew that um Pekka didn't have any other David Pekka didn't have any other buyers. Um then apparently he said right I'll offer you 70 but I want flex and muscle and fitness thrown in as well because you got all the social media and all the high numbers of even though it's not a magazine anymore because Jake said I know I don't want to be a publisher. I don't want magazines. I don't want to I want to do I want to do it the way he's done it. Um, and apparently David Pekka rang him up and just screamed and shouted down the phone call him a con artist and all this and all this like you you he was like really apparently he was really like going crazy saying you because he knew because Jake knew he had him in a corner and he needed to sell it. So he kind of um in essence he kind of got a bit of a bargain there really for for what he got. But he um he he you know Jake's a businessman and he obviously drives a hard bargain because the end of the day we're talking lots of money here. So >> yeah, >> you know, he probably got he probably got quite a few quite a few million shaved off the price there because he knew he had him. Go on, Jake. >> They're actually showing on their Instagram. The the one from 10 years ago you talked about was Dexter >> Dennis Wolf. >> Some good great lineups. Good stuff. Well, Confer Martin. Yeah. So this is a a great post Olympia show. Are you going to Romania as well? >> No. Yeah. No, they're not doing they're not doing uh any commentary. They're just having proper live stream just by itself. No commentary. So, >> that's what Alina said because I said, "Look, do you need it again this year?" And she says, "Oh, well, we we we decided just to try try it with no commentators this year." So, >> she said to see if it if it affects the numbers because obviously it costs money to bring people in and stuff like that. But, they've got Andrew Jack. So, that's uh that's going to be a good show as well. >> Wouldn't it be crazy if Samson wins this? >> I know. Yeah. Yeah. I know what you're saying. I know. I know. He's done he's done Romania at least once before, right? >> Yeah, he won it in 23. Yeah, >> but that was a week after he came third at the Olympia and I think all the traveling back and for really tired him out because I watched that um I watched that live stream in full. I watched it here on this on this laptop and um he he left himself he left the door open there to beat Bar because his body was really you can see it was tired. He was just tired. And then a couple of weeks later he did Prague and he was he he managed to kind of claw it back because he had a bit of a break you know had time to kind of you know but sometimes doing shows like week after week um can really affect them you know so I'm hoping I'm really fingers crossed fingers crossed um he really manages to kind of rectify the the Olympia kind of um situation because that was not good. Um it was like when I mean really that fifth place that Ramy got in 22 that I mean I know he did the Arnold a few months later and he looked good. who's fourth place, but it really effectively ended his career. So, I want to I want to kind of see this as like a bit of a glitch, not like a kind of a a career ending thing because it's uh he's got it in him to because I said he said he wants to go till 45 and he's what 40 now. So, >> I think he's about to turn 40, I think. >> Yeah. So, we've got Samson for another five years. So, let's um I'm just Do you think he should even do the Arnold Classic or do you think he should just take the whole year off and then just come back at the Olympia and just really go all out and just do what you know Ronnie or Dorian you we used to do and just basically that one show because I know Samson likes to compete but um maybe maybe the approach isn't just to keep going and do Prague and Romania and the Arnold and the ALUK because you know if he does the AL do the ALUK right >> he might do another show as well to try and because feel like because he might be feeling he's got to sort of play catch-up now. He's got to sort of claw it back. So that's why I'm saying this show is actually really really important because he kind of he he has to look better than he did at the Olympia. He has to sort of stay ahead of Martin and certainly I mean certainly ahead of Martin because Martin was right on his heels at the Olympia. So, it's going to be interesting because he he there's a lot there's a lot the pressure he's feeling must be the kind must be still as as much as he felt at the Olympia because now he's revealed you know and he was and the thing is I mean because I said to you I said looks from the Olympia he looks like he's 20 25 pounds down which would have taken him at 280 and then on his stories a few days ago he said I was 280 actually admitted it. Yeah. So, um, yeah. So, I mean, that was that was bas Somebody said it, um, oh, I thought somebody said it looks like Milos took back custody to musly put on him. I thought that was I was just like I did laugh. I did laugh because it was funny. It was very it was very witty. >> Yeah. >> But he said like it looks like he took back custody of the 30 musly put on him from 2021 when they started working together. But um I just hope I really really hope that he he claws it back and at least looks better than he's at the Olympia and if he can stay and and if he can win this then it is going to it's going to be a step back to getting back to where he wants to be and where obviously all his fans and we all want to see him because we don't want to see Samson drop off now and fade away you know because kind of it was kind of sad what happened to Ramy really that ending you know two Olympia and then boom fifth place and then fourth at the Arnold and that was it he was done so I don't I don't want to see that for him. I really don't want to see that for him because I know how much he he loves this. And uh and also he's been wildly successful, you know, in terms of financial, you know, gain in the last couple of years. And you don't want to see someone come to a dead end right now just because of one bad showing because sometimes a one bad showing can and a bad place can sometimes affect them like psychologically, >> you know, and then and also the the sponsors can be like, "Oh, you know, it's uh you know, you're not performing. You know what these remember the publishing contracts and all the supplement contracts? It's written in their contract. you place out of the top three at the Olympia, you do this, do like they'll cut you and it's >> it's it's a brutal industry and it all depends upon how you look and how you do in competitions. And I guess that's how it should be because it's a visual sport. >> Yeah. I mean, in my years with MD, Steve had so many guys under contract and they they came and they went. He would sign people and then if they didn't perform, they were gone. I mean I saw hundreds in my time I saw hundreds of athletes come and go contract with that publishing contract and it's >> and you have to compete so many times like Lee Pri said he said I I don't like competing. He said but I I competed multiple times through the year because my contract stipulated it said look if you want a contract you've got to represent the company and and you got to put yourself in the public eye. You can't just do one or two shows a year. You know I know Dorian didn't even like competing but he did it because he wanted to be Mr. Olympian and that was his goal. But you know there you had guys like Milos who would do every single show because they loved competing and they loved you know they saw it as their job and they had a different perspective like our Dorian Yates. So they would just do show after show after show literally every show. Um and and and it was not an issue for them. Whereas then you have Dorian who competes once a year and then maybe he did the Grand Prix tours every other year 92 94 96 you know the rest of the time he's just chilling at home and just training. >> Yeah. I'm glad that there's so much more money now, but at the same time, someone who probably should take the springtime off, they're going to be tempted by that $750,000. Say, am I really going to pass that up if I could potentially win? You know, for most people, that's life-changing money, $34 million. So, even for Samson, who's already done very well. I mean, he just basically lost 500 60 at the uh at the Olympia where the winner was he was counting on winning 600 again. He walked away with 40. So, I mean, in the back of his head, maybe they're thinking, geez, we could easily make all that money back and then some if we do the Arnold. And I think Derek's already said he's not doing the Arnold again. I think he's made that clear. Look, I mean I'm I'm I have spoke to Andrew about doing a tour after the Arnold UK and he's interested. So, he's doing he is doing the Arnold and the Arnold UK. >> Oh, good, good, good. >> So, but the thing is now that's why it's such a ruthless sport because you can have look what happened when um Nathan was always placing ahead of Samson. You know, it looked like Samson was never going to beat the likes of Sam of Nathan and then Nathan tore his bicep and then Samson went like that. And now that could be what happens with Andrew and Samson. I mean, Samson might it might take him a few shows to get his mojo back and kind of figure it out again. You know, maybe, you know, maybe try a different approach or maybe he might start working with a coach or maybe he just says no coach. You don't know. It might you never know what's going to happen. I mean, like like I said, it looks to me like they're they're doubling down on this um on this we mistimed the fullness of the Olympia, but it's like they won't accept that he's actually lost muscle. I wish they'd actually just come out and say, "We lost muscle and it might take more than a couple of weeks to get it back." That is my point. >> But then people would say, "Well, why are you doing this show then?" Because if you just admitted, you can't get the muscle back. >> Good point. Yeah. Yeah. Good point. Yeah. >> It's it's it's a this is a brutal sport. It really it's tough. >> I mean, I I'll be honest, just I mean, I mean, I'm I honestly think that Andrew could pull a Derek next year. I mean, it's it's it's not inconceivable to think that Andrew could win the Arnold, the Andre K, and the Olympia last this year because I can't believe how many people are saying that Andrew deserved to win the Olympia. I mean, it's it's a good I would say it's a good 40 50% of to win the Olympia. Personally, I thought he was and he's my friend. I thought he was a solid third. I didn't see him I I saw it as being a twoman, you know, show between Derek and Haddie, but there's a lot of people who were there um that that said, "No, Charles, um I think I think Andrew should have should have won." So, that puts him in a very good position mentally and in terms of momentum for for all of all of his shows next year because he's now riding high. He's just got 100k prize money. He's going to win Romania. I don't see anybody beating him. And um so next year is really I mean it could be it could be lined up for him to win everything and do what Derek did this year like Samson did the year before. >> Ah I mean I'd love to see it. He's a nice guy. It's a beautiful physique. You know, as a as a shorter guy, I I still appreciate the towering 6'2. Just it's so much more impressive and imposing when someone that big that >> that tall and that with that type of frame fills it out and really brings you something different. This is there's no one that looks like Andrew Jack in in this world right now. >> I I just hope he stays injuryfree. He stays fresh. He stays um and keeps improving because like somebody said to me, he says, "Six more pound of muscle." This was somebody that was there at the show and whose opinion I respect. I won't say his name. And he said, "Charles, I'm telling you, six to8 pound more muscle," which is nothing on a guy that size. I mean, you could put that on in in an offseason. He says, "I'm telling you," he says, "I don't think anyone will beat him next year." He says, "I don't care what how Samson comes back. I don't care Derek how Derek or Haddie or any of these new guys, you know, the Ruby L's and the all these new guys coming up, the Jordans, the, you know, the Martins. Um, I don't care how they look." He says, "I'm telling you," he says, "That's uh that's an Mr. Olympia waiting to happen. So, it's uh it makes because I think um cuz I remember you remember during the Dorian eras, the Ronny eras, the Jay eras, the Phil eras, you know, once it got to like two or three wins, people were getting bored. People would really turn on the on the on the on the star, you know, and I think um now we're in an era where no one's really dominated. And that's why I think it will like it's changed hands you know how many times since 20 2018 Sean Rhoden Brandon Curry Ramy Hadti Derek Samson and that's it's like when the the Olympia from 79 to 84 we had a different Mr. Olympia every year. >> And personally, I kind of I love the the legacies. I love the long, you know, the dominant champs like Ronnie, Phil, Dorian, and I love that. But, um, it also is kind of exciting in a different way where we do get to where it's wide open where there's literally five or six guys. I think that's why Samson blocked me, you know, >> because I it was the same week he blocked me the same week that I said on multiple Instagram accounts. I said, "There's four men that can win it this year." And a couple of days later, I was blocked. Well, consider it an honor, Giles. I suppose. >> No, I just thing is though, you can't just you you have I mean, like I've been going back and forth. Somebody said, "I'm disloyal and I'm what else is it? I'm disloyal." I even though I've been called a Samson Bullwasher and a so and so and this and you know, you get you can sometimes be called opposing things by different people in the same same literally from the same comments that those be equal size of, you know, of red and it's uh and sometimes I'm just like you just I just say what I say. I say it with good intent. I I I I offer my opinion based upon which at the end of the day is only an opinion and it is a subjective sport. I know there are guidelines and there is a criteria but it is a subjective sport. >> Um and sometimes I just think um you know I uh there's no I've got no horse in this race. It's like I I mean I'll be I'll be fully objective on the weekend and that's the end of the day. That's why that's why MD flew me from UK to America because I I I do I can remain objective and it's it's something I've been doing for 30 years and I take it I'm not like a casual fan that has my favorite or somebody from my country or you know I'm not um I'm not from Iran and I'm not just supporting Hadtie because he's my guy and he's from my country. It's like I'll support what it's a visual sport. I support whoever looks the best on the day and uh and you'll get no nonsense from me. on in the same post I think I've seen you being accused of being very biased towards UK bodybuilders and then they say Giles doesn't care about the UK bodybuilders say make up your mind >> disloyal disloyal mate disloyal disloyal >> either he is or he isn't make up your minds guys >> I'm disloyal for pointing out that somebody has shiny shoulders and stuff and it's like no that's not disloyal that's just a literal fact of obser an observation that is something that because thing is I'm like I said many many times if I'm pointing things out these are things that can be changed that will make that athlete better. Now, if I'm if I'm spotting it, then I'm telling you the judges are going to see it, too. So, don't I'm trying to like alert them to it so they don't use it as an excuse to be marked down or lose a show because it's like if somebody said to Samson like, "Samson, mate, you know, look at the scale now and you're not really getting any harder and you're kind of your body weight's coming down and you know, by the time we've calculated by the time you hit the stage with water drop and carbon up, it's like mate, you might be 280 on stage. Is that really going to be better? Do you think maybe we should put the brakes on? You know, or when he's posing saying, you know, is he looking a bit small in certain poses to you or is it, you know, because I know that because sometimes it is a trade-off like is yes, his waist was smaller, but everything else was smaller as well. So, it's like when they tried that in Ronny with Ronnie in 2002 because the stomach >> which was actually which which Ronnie told me he said was due to the amount sheer amount of food >> that Chad Nichols was making to me. He said it was he said it was horrendous the amount of food he had to take in to fill out. And then um they brought him because he was like ready at 260 270 if you saw the battle for the Olympia. Branch and Johnny was with them in Sweden the other week and they were saying um that we saw Ronnie like a couple of weeks out and he said he was ready. He was ready at like 270 like he normally is and then they pulled another 20 23 24 pounds off him and he still had the stomach because I was at that Olympia. I was backstage >> and I could see Ronnie and I was thinking he looks a lot smaller and he still got the distension and that was a year that nobody else brought their agame. There was no Jay Cutler even though he played second the year before because he was moving to Vegas. remember and uh and he nearly got beat and then a few weeks later he did get beat by Gunter and then that's why he came back the following year went a s I'm just going to play play my game. See, that's why I think sometimes, you know, like I hope Samson just goes back to playing the game that worked for him, you know, like like now he's like, "Right, I'm going to get back up. I've learned my lesson. I'm going to get back up to 300 pounds on stage and two weeks after the Olympia, that's going to happen." And I really hope that for him, but um I'm just a little bit nervous because um you know, in in your experience, in my experience, watching these people to regain 20 25 pounds of something that isn't just fullness, it's actual muscle tissue. In my experience, um I've never seen it regain that quick. >> No. So, we'll see if he can pull it off. If he can, we'll be the first to say, "Awesome job." >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Fantastic. We didn't think it could be done. So, we're not we're not predicting he's going to look bad. We're hoping hoping for the best. It's just you never know. >> There's a human body. There's so many variables involved with the way these guys end up looking on stage on that day. We'll see, but we're hoping for the best. You know, I I wish Samson the best. I still think it's the great best physique in the world right now. Uh when it's >> Yeah. properly >> when he's on. Yeah. When he's on. I mean that that that I mean the look he brought to the Olympia when he won it in 24. That posing routine. I could watch that. I could watch that a hundred times and never get bored because it was like it was like roughing. You're watching like art and you hear you're seeing the emotion and you know like Tony Freeman said he said it was like a a full body erection. He says when the 2000 when year 2000 2008 when he got fourth and he said he was backstage. says, and it was the first time where I ever thought, I've completely nailed it. I'm full. I'm hard, you know. And he said like, you know, you know, you just peaked perfectly. He said it was, he said, I can only because I remember AJ said, he said, hey Tony, remember when you said you said you had a full body orgasm and Tony and Tony started laughing and he went, no, he said it's a full body erection. He says the two are quite different. >> Full body or >> we were laughing so much in the st Oh my god, we were laughing so I think maybe he did that deliberately, but it was very funny at the time. Tony Framan was was laughing for about five minutes about it. Brilliant. But but this look here, I mean, that is if that's what got you the title, then try and stick with it. Do you know what I mean? I mean, that's I suppose it's a learning curve. You can try and you can take gamles. You can try new approaches. And I respect him for trying, but uh the end of the day, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. >> Yeah. I mean, I said this because I'm not [\h__\h] on him and Marlene. I said, you have to take chances in life. We know this. >> Yeah. Yeah, if they if their gamble had paid off, we would be singing their praises and saying they were freaking geniuses because it didn't pay off. We're like, ah, they don't know what they're doing. So, >> that's just the way it goes. That's it's a it's a brutal, unforgiving sport, guys. >> But, but also think about the pressure when you're the defending champion and thing is and then you went to the Arnold fully expecting and we all fully expected him to win and then you get beat by the guy who dropped to third last year. It's like, [\h__\h] now the nerves are starting to kick in. Now, the pressure is starting to come in. this wasn't the this wasn't maybe the easy win or the or the win that we were fully expecting. I get it, you know, and then you're kind of like doubling down and really, you know, because I did it once. I I was pushing for condition and I remember I completely messed up my 12 weeks of prep just by pushing too hard. So, he probably worked harder than he's ever worked for any show for this Olympia. You think about all the because, you know, it's like he's a big guy and you know, and then starving himself and all the cardio and everything. You can imagine he was absolutely, you know, in the the sunken cheeks and I bet he's like, "Right, I'll if they want condition, I'll give them condition." You know, you can imagine that it must be so so much pressure. But uh I hope he's a little bit more um kind of backs off a little bit and just basically the the body kind of relaxes as a result in terms of you know looking better and not worse again because we want to see him better than he was at Olympia because otherwise that's that's the last memory we've got burned into our mind and his stock will fall. >> Yeah. So I hope we've established we're not Samson doubt haters. Uh we wish him the best. I want to I would love to see something close to the 24 Olympia on this stage in Prague. If it's possible or not remains to be seen, but I'd be very very happy and and I'm sure you would be too. So, uh, >> and >> but also as well with, um, with Keon, I know Samsung didn't win the Olympia last year, sorry, this year, but, um, it's kind of like it's as close as we'll ever get to see an Olympia overall if we go on, you know, because I know Keon won this year and Samson won last year, but it's kind of like the closest thing we'll ever get to an overall. That's why I was kind of hoping Mike Somerfield might jump in just to try it as an open just for a bit of fun. >> Ah, actually, >> that would be cool. Get Ryan Ter some trunks up there as well. >> I was going to say there's time, but there's not time. If you're not on the list now, I think you're you're done. >> So, it would be nice. All right, we're going to wrap it up there, guys. So, uh you can go to the >> EVLs Prague. This has a link to their website. You can get the live stream. It is a two-day event. Again, the men's judging is going to be Saturday night Prague time. And then everything's going to finish up on Sunday. Schedule's on there. Giles is going to be a busy busy man for two days. probably about 16 20 hours of commentary all together, I'm guessing. >> Wow. >> No, no, no, no. It won't be that because I'm literally just doing the men's open on the Saturday and then all day on the Sunday. >> Oh, okay. Good. I thought you had to do the amateur stuff, too. Thank goodness. >> Oh, god. >> So, check him out, guys. And uh you'll see some special guests he's going to bring in for the commentary for different divisions. We're going to leave that uh leave that a mystery for now, but you'll see. And that's it. So, uh, please follow us on the Instagram, Giles Tiger Run Harris Muscle. And, uh, we'll be on the Meatthead podcast tomorrow night. I got, uh, Faku Mubarak and Mike Big Mike Cox and possibly one other big name. We're going to be talking about this show and other big big topics going on, big stories in the bodybuilding world this week. So, check that out. That is 7 PM Eastern live every Wednesday night, the Meatthead podcast. So Jal, I wish you a very very uh good well a great live stream commentary. You're a pro at this. You've done a couple dozen of them at this point. So that's it. Thanks. Thanks for everything, Jos. >> All right. >> My pleasure. >> Yeah. All right. So guys, thanks for watching Power Hour with myself and Jos Tiger Thomas. We will see you right here.