What's up, guys? Ron Harris here and Ron Harris Muscle. So, yesterday, Olympia TV did something they do every now and then. They bring out Mr. Olympia champions to train together. Uh, I guess this was historic. They never had three of them together at the same time before. So, let's take a look. Uh this is the first time watching. I I was uh busy as you know a lot of you guys were busy so I didn't watch this. I'm going to watch it with you guys right now. I won't uh bore you with every little detail of it. I'll skim through here and there. So here we have Ter Gundy with Brandon Curry on your left. Simpson Dada all the way from the UK right there in the middle. And then on the right, a massive Derek Lunsford. Uh they're going to do some arm training and then at the very end they're going to hit some poses. Now, nobody's shirt ever comes off. They do go down to tank tops. They are in uh these large tops for quite a while. So, it starts off with arm training. But like I said, they're all covered up. Of course, you want to see these official Nebia Olympia shirts they had made up for this. the battle Nebia, the official clothing sponsor of the Olympia. So, Brandon Curry. Now, obviously, someone is conspicuously missing here, should be there. Uh we're talking about Chupan who's over in Iran. Uh there was a little bit of a controversy, controversial news story in our little bodybuilding world because uh Trump, President Trump announced that certain countries, their nationals would not be allowed to enter the United States at all. One of those countries was, you guessed it, Iran. Uh there is a clause in that uh proclamation for people competing in highlevel athletic events. And I I think the Olympia would certainly qualify as a high level athletic event. So I don't think Han's going to have a problem. You know, they can train with people they're competing with. Actually, never saw people do this. Well, you know what? Your mom's flip-flop. I think in in years past, some of the greatest training partners were guys who were rivals. Arnold and Franco, prime examples, they were, you know, training partners for years. Had awesome workouts. They fed off each other's energy. That rivalry in the gym. Franco was actually always stronger than Arnold, even though he was significantly shorter and lighter, but he was a powerlifter. Franco was very strong. Another couple guys who trained together uh before he turned pro, Rich Gaspari lived out in Los Angeles with Lee Haney for a year and they trained together. Uh they would later become very fierce rivals on the Olympia stage. Yeah. Typically you don't see guys who are currently competing against each other these days training. This was all staged. It was for you know the Olympia. They flew these guys out from So Brandon's from Tennessee. Samson he came had to come all the way from UK and Derek is in Tampa Florida area not showing much skin there obviously battle Olympic videos were iconic yeah so K what Kion's talking about is the actual battle for the Olympia these were videos that were made uh gez for about 20 years first Mitsurro Kabi made most of them he would go all around the country and and sometimes overseas and film the Olympia competitors at anywhere from two to two to four weeks out. So, they were always in pretty good shape. Usually had them doing a body a different body part. So, you'd see like Ronnie doing legs, uh Jay doing chest or something. And these Battle for the Olympia tapes were, you know, if you have any of those, you know how good they are. I think most of them are on Battle for the Olympia is a YouTube channel where the current owner, Bruce, he's uploaded almost all those anyway. So, you can check those up for you. Hope they'll let him come to the US. Yeah, I don't think Hottie is going to have a problem getting to the US because he is an employee of Eva Nutrition, which is a US US-based company. So, even if he wasn't coming here as an athlete, he could come here on some sort of work visa. You know, they they got here they got Heidi here uh initially years ago when Trump was president, too. So, I don't think it's going to be a problem. I really don't. Imagine meeting your training partner, your rival and push you as hard. No, that's not true. I I don't I don't believe that. Your mom's flip-flop. If you watch Arnold and Franco training in the movie Pumping Iron, training together, there's there's not much footage of them training together. But, uh, they were excellent. They were they were such good training partners that when Joe Weider brought Arnold Schwarzer here in, I think it was 1969, Arnold had just come over from Munich, Germany, where he had been for the past, I think, year or two before that, and he'd been training with Franco there. He convinced Joe Weider to bring out Franco, you know, pay for Franco to come out and live there because he said he needed Franco to push him to be his best. So some of these guys, they you would think that. Yeah. But if you're training, if you're training, even if you're training with your rival, if you're trying to win the Olympia or keep your Olympia title, you're going to train as hard as you can anyway. You're not going to hold back for anybody else. So I don't I wouldn't worry about that. Muscle Machine when Simp did a double bicep. The ends bicep feet look terrible. Flat line in the middle. Too much ejecting. Let's I'll jump I'll jump right into that. Marcus rule over here says here says a lot. Says it a lot. What does he say? He says they wouldn't if that's how Marcus felt. So Marcus wouldn't uh train with anybody else. Yeah, I can flip all over the place on this video. So let me go to that. No, I don't want to do that settings. So where were they posing? I'll jump right ahead to the posing and then I'll sort of backtrack. But the posing was at the very very end because I Chris Cormier. Okay, so here's at the end. The workout was over. Samson looking huge. Derek looking huge. Brandon look pretty big, too. Obviously Brandon isn't as massive. He's a big dude, don't get me wrong, but he's not as massive as Samson or Derek. You know, pound-for-pound, I think Derek looks the biggest out of everybody. He's competed most recently. There's Jake Wood. They gave them They came up with trophies just for this event. So, how cool was that? Yeah. Very nice. I mean, Jake Wood spares no expense. He's all about the bodybuilders. So, they all got a special trophy just for just for coming out, I guess. Yeah. We'll look at we'll look at the posing once they get to that. Marcus R says it often. He always talks about the training part thing for you. His number one wife was the original training partner. Yeah, if you watch the video DV, it's a DVD made in Germany. It's probably on uh YouTube with Marcus Rule and his I didn't know they were married. I thought that was just his girlfriend at time. We're talking about the big bodybuilder. I can't remember her name. He trained with a female bodybuilder that was his I thought they were just girl Simone, I think, was her name was Simone. I didn't know they were married, but regardless, yeah, they were they were great training partners. So, they each got a gift bag giving them all the all the swag for showing up because, you know, they they're all starting. They shouldn't be in prep yet. We got 18 weeks to the Olympia. So, couple weeks before they have to really get into prep. Derek doesn't really have to do a whole lot. He's still in pretty decent shape. Where's Nick? Well, this is for the Olympia champions. Goku and as of now, he is not Olympia champion. Oh, okay. So, I went past the posing. My bad. Let me go back. Oh, here was the posing. Okay, so let's look at the posing for a second. They only had Timmer Timmer only had them TK, I'm sorry, his brother's Tammer. Terrick only had them hit a few shots. And obviously, it's not full body. They've got tank tops and shorts on. But of course, we all love to see these guys pose down against each other. We like to see the rivalry start. The show is so far away. It's four full months away from right now. 18. It's more than more than four months away. But still, we like to speculate. We like to sort of size these guys up and see who who falls into what we believe is an advantage at this point or a disadvantage. So, well, make some room. Make some room. Samson is so wide. Yeah, I see what you're saying. I mean, Derek doesn't have the greatest biceps either as far as shape. Brandon actually has the best the best arms. It's kind of hard to see here because he's not remotely in shape either, but in terms of the muscle shape and the separation in the different uh muscle groups in the upper arm, Brandon Curry actually has the best arms out of these three guys. I'm sure if you throw a tape measure around, Samson has got the biggest arms. And Brandon would look you you'd understand a lot more what I was talking about if Brandon was leaner, but I don't think he's doing the masters. Am I right? I think he I think he's already backed out of doing the Masters Olympia, so we're not going to see him again until the Olympia. Remember, he is a Mr. Olympia champion, so he doesn't need to qualify. None of these guys need to qualify. Mr. Olympia champions are qualified for life. I think they added a clause that if it's been more than five years, they have to ask special permission or something. Something they threw in like that. But look at that. Derek is looking huge. Samson is just getting back into uh gear. He was he was in a health phase. That's what everyone's the phrase that's used now when people take some time off gear. So Samson was in a health phase. It looks like he's just getting back on. I'm just speculating. I don't know. Um but you know, he'll be he'll be looking more and more impressive as the weeks go by, as they all will, of course. But uh let's back up. Let's get some comments, guys. Where's Nick? All right, so this was uh Lo. This was a gym in Scottsdale, Arizona. I missed the name of the gym. Uh the Olympia is basically that's where they do all their TV production. Scottsdale, I believe, is a suburb of Phoenix. Jake Wood lives out there. Uh so that's his base of operations for all the video and television production that they do for the YouTube videos and everything. So when they want to do something big on YouTube, they bring the guys out there so that they can all I mean that's where they do prime time muscle every week uh the on Olympia TV. They have a they have a studio that they built that looks very similar to Sports Center on ESPN. You know they spared no expense. So that's where the that's what this is. It was a live they did this live on their YouTube channel yesterday. I'm actually surprised at the views. And I say that because Olympia TV has something like 421,000 subscribers and this got 7,000 and change in terms of views. I would have thought, geez, I would have thought at least 20, 30, 40,000. But, you know, what do I know? Look at me. Who Who am I to talk? Derek's width. Yeah, Derek's that's what a lot of people were commenting on in social media uh about this video is Derek. He's obviously uh the shortest. Brandon is not much taller. Samson is significantly taller. Samson's either 5'11 or six foot. That seems to be the object of debate. I'll have people on here swear they're 100% certain that Samson is 5'11 and another another group of people will swear up and down he's six foot. I don't know. It's all the same to me. Who made the biggest visual statement training session? Yeah, they're they're not even in prep yet. I don't know why he's talking to these people. They're nowhere near being in prep yet. Derek obviously is still in decent shape from uh the Arnold Classic, the Pittsburgh shows. Pittsburgh was just about a month ago at this point. So, he hasn't gotten out of shape. He's not going to get out of shape. Why would he? Because he's going to have to start prep up for the Olympia within a few weeks, two to two to four weeks. I don't know if he'll take the whole 16 weeks, probably. And uh Chris Cormier supervising to make sure he's doing the curls properly, I guess. Man, I I need to get in on this uh gravy train. Samson's huge. Yeah, I think they I think someone said he was 340 pounds. He gets very very heavy. I mean, on stage he was uh at the Arnold where he took second to Derek. I heard he was 305 306. Jay Cutler was sed by his ex-wife Carrie Cutler. Yeah. Yeah. You know, and I remember talking to Jay about that and saying, you know, if your wife can't spot you, if you need a big strong guy to spot you, that tells me you're probably relying on the spotter a lot of times to help you or use lift part of the weight for you. you know, you shouldn't really need another big freaky guy to to spot you unless we're talking about, you know, you're you're bench pressing 500 pounds and you need someone who's going to be able to pull that off you if it ever if you ever got stuck or you if you're squatting without uh pins in a power rack or something like that. But, you know, if you're using dumbbells, if you use mo most exercise, you should not need anyone but you know, your wife or your girlfriend to spot you or else it's too much weight. If you're relying on somebody to help you get an extra few reps, that means it's too much weight. You weren't you're not capable of doing that weight on your own anyway. Brandon, everything is balanced. Yeah, Brandon's got a hell of physique. I know people like to slam his quads, saying, "Oh, his legs aren't that great." No, he never had freakish legs, but geez, the the the overall symmetry, shape, structure on Brandon Curry was phenomenal. You know, he was Mr. Olympia for a reason. He was Arnold Classic champ twice for a reason. Does Brandon have a chance to win the title back? Uh, I would say no. I'm just being very, very real. I don't see Brandon ever recapturing his Mr. Olympia title. But if he can stay in the top five, top six for another couple years, he's over 40. He's 42 years old now. Not that Samson's much younger, but Brandon's been competing a lot longer than Samson has. Uh, and Derek as well. Derek's Derek's only been competing as a pro since 2017, which, you know, it's still a few years. That's that's a good It's already a pretty decent stretch for pro career. You can see Samson doing what Phil Heath used to do. Phil would do a bunch of reps for one arm and then a bunch of reps for the other arm instead of alternating left, right, left, right. They said Sam's arms are 24. I believe it. I mean, look how big the dude is. He's got a massive frame. He needs 24 inch arms to to balance out that that physique. It's a huge he's a massive human being. Would bet who would looked the best came in 100% money on Sam because she was just not on point. Well, you know, I think I think Samson taking second to Derek at the Arnold Classic back in early March and the backlash the the that he got for that for not being absolutely shredded where Derek was. I think that what's this who's this kid? I don't know whose kid that is that they threw in there to Derek's uh I don't know. It's kind of young to be lifting weights. What's he look like? He's about eight or nine years old. Whatever. Anyway, um yeah, I think Samson losing was probably the best thing that could happen in terms of guaranteeing he'll be in great shape for the Olympia because had he not done the Arnold, had he showed up in subpar condition at the Olympia, and we hadn't seen him since last year's Olympia, he'd be at a great risk of losing his title to Hottie. Because remember, Hottie was beating him at the judging last year. It wasn't a blowout. He didn't he didn't blow Hottie Chupan off the stage. He had a huge margin over Derek because Dererick came in looking very flat. His legs were very undersized. Uh which we saw similar situation that but not as to that extent at the Pittsburgh Pro where Nick Walker damn near beat him. And in a lot the minds of many of the fans he did beat him. But I think Samson's going to be ultra motivated to come in shredded to the bone dry looking freaky freaky ripped this this October with the Olympia like we've never seen before. If he's not in if he's not in that shape at this Olympia this year, I don't think we're ever gonna see it because he has to be so motivated. He knows the only reason he lost at Arnold to Derek was condition. If Samson's in condition, who beats him? He's got the height, the width, that structure, that shape. He's got the best physique. Really, he does. He just doesn't have the condition that some of these guys have. You know, overall, he still was able to win the show last year, but there are no guarantees. The Olympia title, the Mr. Olympia title has changed hands so often. We have had seven different guys in the last eight years. So think about that. 2017 was Phil Phil Heath. 2018 was uh 2018 was Seawn Rhoden. 2019 was Brandon Curry. 20 and 21 were Big Ramy. 22 was Hottie. 23 was Derek. 24 was Samson. So it's not like the old days where Mr. Olympia champion could come in eh looking okay. Eh, and they'd still let him win. They'd say you have to knock out the champ. Yeah, he was a little bit off, but he's Mr. Olympia, so you got to knock him out. You can't just beat him by a small margin. It's not like that anymore. It's it's judged completely on whoever's looking good that day. Whoever looks the best that day is going to win, bottom line. And that's that's a great thing. Oh, the gym name. Thank you. The gym's name is Independence Gym. Independence Gym in Scottsdale, Arizona. If id really paid attention, I probably would have noticed a sign up on the wall that with the logo and everything, but in Independence Gym in Scottsdale. Yeah, I have no interest in going to Arizona in these summer months. It's like 120 degrees every day. RG says, "Derek got to work on his chest a whole lot for his arms. Shot the machine more free weights." I don't think it would matter, honestly. I don't think the free weights He does plenty of free weights for his arms. I I just I don't think it matters. His arms are huge. They just don't have especially the biceps. There's just very little detail in separation. You know, Brand, like I like I said, Brandon Curry when they're when they're all in shape, Brandon has the best arms terms of shape. Now, I'm sure Samson's arms measure a couple inches more than Brandon Curry's. I have no doubt about that. But Brandon has really good separation between the individual muscle groups. The different two heads of the biceps, the brachiialis, the triceps, got striations in there. He's got detail where both Samson and Derek the arms just kind of big lumps. There's not there's not much detail going on. Energy of this train was nowhere near the same as Nick was in. Yeah. Well, I you know I find the guys that are trying to win the Mr. Olympia, they tend to just be hungrier than the guys who already have been Mr. Olympia because Nick's still trying to climb that mountain. He's still trying to get to Mr. Olympia. I'm not saying these guys are lazy or or you know being they're content and uh not trying hard. Of course they are. But somebody like Nick who's still striving to win his first Mr. Olympia title and he's trying to prove to all the haters and the doubters because there there's a lot of people out there who've said Nick Walker will never win Mr. Olympia. And you know Nick takes that as fuel. He doesn't let it discourage him or get him down. Nick Walker when he hears that Nick Walker can never win the Olympia, he's like, "Oh yeah, f you. I'll show you. I'll show you." So, usually Samson takes eight weeks off blasting. This time he was off 10 weeks, so he actually time up. That's good because I don't think it's good for anybody, especially at this level, to be blasting gear all damn year long. You know, they're they're super humanin a way, but they're still human beings. So, at some point, the body's just going to burn out and stop responding. So, taking time off of the gear. And I had Lee Haney on uh a couple days ago that's up on this channel still. And he was talking about I know you guys are all most of you will say he was lying about the doses the guys used, but I do believe he was very accurate in what he said about taking time off because the guys back then did take months and months out of the year off. They weren't on. They didn't blast and cruise back then. They would just they would go 100% off. They would go on HCG after the gear cycle was over. They would do that for a couple weeks and then they would stay completely off everything for I don't know usually 8 to 10 12 weeks and then they would go back on. Uh they wouldn't bridge the cycle. They didn't do TRT doses in between back then. It was just different era. Totally different era. Imagine training at this gym on Friday afternoon there too. Yeah. Big T. Well, this they've used this gym. This seems to be their base of operations when they do these type of videos. I think it's always at this gym, Independence Gym in Scottsdale. So, the members there are probably used to seeing, you know, just like the members at Bevon Steve's Powerhouse or uh Gold's Venice, especially more so back in the day, they're used to seeing uh top competitors all the time, especially where, like I said, this is this is Olympia TV's base of operations, the Phoenix area, Scottsdale, Arizona area. So, they're probably not too shocked, but yeah, imagine walking in your gym and oh my gosh, three Mr. Olympias. I'd be like I'd be I'd be freaking out. Two people that are real problem for this Oh, are hottie and Nick to me. Yeah. I mean, like I said, we all know Hottie damn near beat Derek. A lot of us, a lot of people had Nick winning Nick Walker winning that Pittsburgh Pro. So, granted, uh, Lunsford came in a little bit flat, especially in the legs, but who's to say what he's going to look like in October? That that's a big what if. Is Derek going to be able to recapture that look that he had at the Arnold Classic and that he had when he won the Olympia back in 2023? Uh, or is he going to suffer again with the same issue with the legs being flattened downsized? If that's the case, he's not going to win. He's not going to get his title back. Samson needs to show up in crazy condition because I don't think there's the only way Samson isn't gonna isn't gonna be a d very dangerous threat is if somehow for you know god forbid he can't get into the USA. I think Heidi's going to be he's going to have a full year off. He's only been focusing on this one show where Samson did the Arnold, Derek did the Arnold and the Pittsburgh show. So I I think that puts him at a slight slight disadvantage. I don't think it's good for these guys to prep prep all year long like that. Stay on in prep mode uh and be on gear and all that stuff for for most of the year. Here's Derek. Coach Coach Derek again. I don't know who this kid is. Couple years ago, I was streaming on a random Wednesday afternoon. Destination Dallas and Keon Martin and Hunter are doing leg. Yaoza. Imagine that. Jeez, Martin's legs are crazy. Keon's got some pretty damn good legs, too. Yeah, Destination Dallas is where Gasp does all their video content. Guy that used to work with uh MD Nick Del Toro Toro Toro still their chief videographer. So they shoot a lot of content in there. Hell yeah, dude. Who would you say is the best people you've seen in person or interview? Oh boy. Uh geez. Roly Winkler. Triceps and biceps. I don't know about the whole the complete arm. Maybe Ronnie. If you talk triceps, I'd be like, geez, Phil Heath, Roly Winkler had some of the greatest tricep triceps I've ever seen in my life. Biceps. Geez. Ronnie had some crazy biceps. Vince Taylor had some incredible biceps. It's tough. There's a lot of There's a lot of guys I've seen over the years. Mike Modazzo had some crazy arms. Crazy biceps. Especially the late Mike Mazzo. He had the best calves. No doubt. Regular day at destination. Yeah. Second doses get the views in your interviews, Ron. Yeah, it's you know what, Ally, you got a good point there. I'm probably like too too nice of a guy. Sometimes it's like I don't want to go there. I don't want to ask them about cycles because I remember before I used to start every interview for MD, I would ask the guys, "Anything you want to make sure we talk about? Anything you want to make sure we don't talk about?" And a lot of them would say, "Uh, we're not going to talk. I don't want to talk about gear." And I'm like, "All right, that's cool." And I wasn't going to ask about that anyway, but now I see there are certain podcasts where they get very in-depth. I'd say, you know, and some of them are far bigger channel. Transparent, not trans, but transparent podcast. Uh Nag, what's his name? Nile. He asks everybody that's on there detailed questions about their cycles, uh to rate this or that drug. You like this one? Why do you like about it? What don't you like? He gets very ind depth on the drugs. I feel so awkward doing that. and maybe I need to get over that and you know if the guys are comfortable talking with it and I clear that I'm not going to ambush them or blindside out of nowhere say all right let's talk about your cycle but if ahead of time if they agree to that I'll go there with them it's it's crazy how it's it's becoming such a more talked about thing whereas in in days past guys never talked about their cycles never talked about they wouldn't even admit to taking gear because it was in a lot of their contracts whether it was a supplement endorsement contract sometimes even the magazine contracts that they could not talk about being on illegal drugs and steroids are were considered still are considered illegal drugs. So, it was a clause in the contract that they could lose their contract, which a lot of these guys back in the day when contracts were king, they don't make they don't do contracts these days like they used to. In the 90s, say let's say 2000s was probably 95 to 2010 was probably the the heyday, the highlight of when contracts were paying out the most. two to $500,000 a year contracts for a lot of these guys. 100 to 200,000 was like average. And then you had a few guys like Jay who was being paid probably like a half a million dollars. I think Heath was getting a half a million dollars from Muscle Techch as well at one time. U but it was in their contract that they could not talk about steroids publicly. If they did, they could they were subject to termination and there goes all that free money. Easy money for an amateur wer decent bicep size. Well, how tall are you, Zionic? If you're 5'2, I'd say like a a 15 16inch arm with good shape and separation would look pretty damn big. If you're six foot, a a 15, 16 inch arm is not going to cut it. Now, you need to have probably 19 or 20 inch arm to look impressive. So, it really depends on how big of a guy you are, how short, how tall you are. But again, shape and and detail go a long way, too. Because you'll see guys uh you know, carrying body fat and their arms just look like big blobs. You throw a tape measure around them, it might say 21 inches. I'd rather have a 19 an 18 or a 19inch arm that's shredded with a crazy jagged bicep peak, triceps with a clear horseshoe and striations in it, beautiful shape, rather than a 21inch arm with just looks like a big fat blob. I mean, if you guys watch pro football, I'm sure a lot of you do. Those linemen that you see, those guys who are, you know, they're all in the 300 to 400 lb range, they're all big mother efforts. They're big dudes. They all have arms that are 20 to 24 in. But a lot of it's just a big shapeless blob. It doesn't It's not like, wow, I don't think too many of you are watching those, looking at the football games and watching these guys on the sidelines going, "Wow, I wish I had arms like that." No. Samson has never been in condition. Never will be. Woo fuks. Woo fuks. I hope that's not true. Yeah, it depends on the weight. I said um if you go back in history, like Franco Columbo was a two-time Mr. Olympia. I seriously doubt his arms are more than 18 inches, but they look freaking great. You know, he was 5'4. Uh Arnold was supposedly 6'2. I think his arms were built at 21 inches. I don't know what they really were, but his arms look great, too. But he had to have much bigger arms because he was a much taller guy. So, the height is definitely gonna is definitely gonna play into it. Samson not wearing the Olympia shirt and Derek showing love to the kid. Small things, but politics matter. Yeah, I mean Samson's obviously showing loyal more loyalty here to his sponsor uh hos hostile nutrition. You know, they're paying him a very good amount, I'm sure. Uh but yeah, I would imagine that uh the Olympia TV people weren't overjoyed that he chose to keep that on. Uh he did he did go down the tank top toward the end, right? But uh yeah, he he repped he repped his sponsor rather than the Olympia clothing sponsor, Nebia. But I think they're all down. Yeah, they're all in the same tank tops now. But yeah, let me see. I just want to check that. We go back. That was Dan. Yeah, you're right. Samson. Samson did not wear those nice jerseys that Nebia made up special just for these videos. Come on, Samson. Why you got to do that? All right, let's go back to uh back some training. I think I think I just missed the set. They're all looking They're all looking large. Oh, that was S. That's Derek and the kid. Derk and the boy. Sims Derk got the same sausage arms. Yeah, Black Patron. That's what I'm saying. Shape and detail, they go a long way. Measurements, I always say, you know, like height and weight don't matter really. You can have two guys. Uh, let's say let's let's make them identical. 5'9, 225, 5% body fat. Just throwing that out there. You can have two guys with those exact exact same measurements, proportions. One of them has super wide shoulders, narrow hips, uh very round cap delts, flaring thighs. The other one at 5'9, 225 ripped, narrow shoulders, wide hips, no bicep peak, no quad sweep, I guarantee you the guy who's got all those more favorable genetic attributes in terms of structure and muscle shape, he's going to appear to be a lot bigger, even though technically they're the exact same size. They carry the exact amount of muscle mass uh pound-for-pound for their height, but you know, size and shape go a long way. I don't want to say Jake Wood looking buff. I mean, yeah, he's got to look the part. He's a tall tall guy. I've stood next to him many times. He's got to be 6'6 or 6'7. It's first time I interviewed Lee. He ain't talked about anything related to steroids, little naming compounds. Yeah. I was like, I've interviewed Lee probably 20 times over the years. And this was the first time I ever asked him about gear. And it's because if he's going to come out and say these guys now are using way too much, I said we have to quantify that. We have to say what's too much. What are we comparing it to? What did guys back in your era use? I'm I I didn't I said specifically, Lee, I'm not asking you. I don't want you to tell me your exact cycle, though. I think what he was when he was rattling off the compounds and that's at 22 minutes into the video, the Lee Haney interview. I do feel he was probably referring to his own use because, you know, even though I I I I worded it in such a way as to to give him out, say, what do you think the other guys of your era were using? Um, I don't think they talked about their gear used to I don't think they talked about it much back in those days. It wasn't it was they weren't so fascinated with the drugs back then the way we are now. When I know people get mad drugs, steroids, steroids are everything. Whereas with the guys from his era say steroids are the finishing touch. I get a lot it triggers so many of the younger guys and they go what finishing touch? They never would have looked that like that without steroids. Clearly that's true. They did need the steroids to achieve that look. They didn't rely on them anywhere near to the degree I think that the current guys do. These current guys, they the doses are higher. They stay on for longer periods and they they don't take a lot of time off. Whereas back in the day, I do believe they did for the industry and legends less doesn't go their gear. Yeah. And I I didn't I didn't blindside him. I you know, if if if he didn't want to talk about it, if he if I saw that he was uncomfortable, I was just going to change the subject. Complete arms. Danny Padilla. Giant killer. The original giant giant killer had great arms. You're right. Men folks, I think Kiso has the best arms. Ah, yeah, Cruzo has some pretty awesome arms. I'm not going to argue that point. They're pretty they're pretty amazing. Me personally, my train Dorian was the best Derek. I wish something like that was around today. Well, he was a one of a kind. We're never going to see another of any Lee Haney, Dorian, Ronnie, Phil, you know, we'll never see another Derek, another Simpson. These guys are individuals. So when we say who's going to be the next Dorian, the next Flex Wheeler, the next Ronnie, there's never going to be a next of any of those. Those they were they were oneoff unique. Ter pulls him aside, told him put on a shirt, but he refused. Oh well, I'm not saying they're going to score him down the Olympia for that, but he wanted to make his sponsor happy. Seems like he does not want to be there. What a surprise. Why do you think Bible say they don't have the muscle quality? Is it insulin? Are they just growing too fast? I think it's a it could be a few things. I don't know the definitive answer. insulin could probably be a big factor. They do put the muscle on very quickly. U they do a lot of sight injecting. They inject a lot into there. I'm not saying it's necessarily sight enhancement oil, but I think they're putting a lot of their regular gear into their shoulders and their arms. It's taking away a lot of the detail and separation. If you look at un, you know, unfortunately the videos and the pictures, the resolution from the old days isn't as good because the technology wasn't there for photography and videography. But you can see back in the old days, those guys had incredible muscle separation and detail. Talking about like the 80s, even into the 90s, but the 80s especially, because I think the 90s is when insulin really started creeping in and and the the SEO started creeping in. But in the 80s, the guys were smaller. But dude, I I've seen pictures of Samir Bonu where there were, you know, like a hundred crossstrations down his tricep when he hit a side tricep pose. The quads of everybody were feathered on every every head of the quad. Compound Sean race tuck find sweet spot for Z. See there? Maybe I'll get him to talk about it. We'll see. Leave alone. J so obsessed questions were irritating. Yeah, you know, rest in peace. He's not here with us anymore, so I'm not going to speak ill of him. Some of these people, that's all they want to talk about is gear, gear, gear. And I understand the fascination with it. And yes, it does play a big role in bodybuilding, but I it I I don't even have the patience. I don't want to talk about gear all the time. It bores me. I don't know. That's why I always say I I know a little bit about gear. I know, you know, more than maybe the average schmuck in the gym, but I'm not a gear expert. I never claimed to be, and I don't want to be. It doesn't interest me that much. It really doesn't. Even when I was blasting gear, I would ask questions here and there, people that I knew were far more knowledgeable than me, but and I would I would look in online and find out what I could, but I was never I just had no attention span for it. Muscle time had some quality photos up. Yeah. Oh, you're talking about from this thing. I don't know where which photos of what Black Patrol from the old days. Yeah. Yeah. There's a bunch of channels. Oh, they're checking out. what they're measuring. Oh, is this where it gets to be 24? Samson has a pumped arm of I guess it's going to come out to 24, right? I do like the fact that there's no uh no fudging with the tape measure there. Imagine those muscle ties and Gilo quality. Oh yeah, that's why like I was at a lot of the Olympias back in the 90s and 2000s. My first one was 91. Uh some Arnolds too in there. I was lucky enough to be in the front row or second row, whatever, many times. And to see those guys up close, you can't appreciate the detail and stuff in in the photos and videos because we we just didn't have the technology. Sometimes I wish people wouldn't be so honest about gear as they are. Yeah. I mean, it's a double-edged sword. I mean, in the old days, the guys denied it. They they said, "No, I'm natural." And that was That was deceptive and was not being honest, not being transparent. But now we have the total opposite where guys are saying okay I'm on this that I'm on a gram of this. They detail everything and of course some 16 17 year old kid or hundreds thousands of them are going to go all right okay Mr. Olympia is on this and that I'm going to do the same exact cycle. They're not thinking well I'm not at that level yet. They're thinking if I want to look like that I have to take what he's taking now and that's what they'll do. These dudes have real arm separation for make Yeah. Phil had, you know, Phil Heath, one of the qualities he had was not, he had size, he had a real round muscle bellies, condition was great, but he had that detail and separation between the muscles. That's what really set him apart from a lot of his rivals. I trained in Austria at the gym of foreign best friend, Von Ma. For many stories about him, his most separation of match took a lot of oral steroids. Think that help. No, I think it's mostly a genetic thing. I really do. And obviously he he was probably wasn't messing too much with insulin or stuff like that, but I I don't I think muscle separation because I've seen teenagers at times have better muscle separation and muscle detail on quality than guys who have been training for 20 30 years. So separation. Mike Ashley was post child natur. Chad Yorton was get the likes please. Thank you Jerry. Appreciate that. Yeah, like share do all that good crap. Appreciate it guys. I'm going to be leaving soon, not to walk branch, but to eat then walk branch. It's actually raining, so I don't know if he's going to want to go out. Pit bulls are not fans of the rain. Not at all. So, all right. Well, I think you get I think you get the idea what these guys look like. It's too early. It's 18 weeks out. We really can't make any Oh, now they're doing calves. We really can't make any predictions or they're all going to their physiques are going to change drastically over the next four months. uh they're going to get back on the cycle, back on the cutting agents, all that good stuff. They're all going to be looking much much better and more stage ready as the weeks and months drag on toward the Olympia. We're just in early June. Olympia is not till October 11th, so plenty of time for that. Yeah. Anyway, all right. I'll go one more time to the posing. I think we're almost there anyway. That'll be the last thing I'll show and then we'll we'll take off again. All right. So, here's TK making them pose down. Didn't even make them pull up the shorts. And again, Derek being an advantage because he has competed the most recently. He certainly bulked up a little bit since Pittsburgh. Samson the biggest one by far. I mean, he he's bang he's whacking into everybody. Andreas Monza was double dipping with European made dangerous fat burners, diuretics. Do you name your dog after Branch Warren? Yeah, it's funny because we were we're couldn't make up our minds at the last minute between we chose Branch, but it was between Branch and Dexter and Dexter wasn't for Dexter Jackson. It was Dexter Morgan from the Showtime series that my wife and I we love that show. We watched that religiously when it was on. Great, great show. But yeah, Branch Branch Warren, they hit the rare double. You can't get any Nobody's in really great shape. Derek's in decent condition there. Looking wide. Derek is looking wider than all of them, even though he's 5'5 on a good day. 5'6 maybe. I think he's 5'5. Side note, shoulder injury. Oh, sorry to hear that. I don't have an injury. I have arthritis. It's not an injury. It's nothing that can be healed. I'm getting a new joint on June 25th. They're going to dig out some They're going to chop off part of the bone. They're going to pop in uh titanium on one side, plastic on the other side, the the ball in the socket, and I'm going to have a new shoulder joint, and I can't wait. Cannot wait. No, man. My dog my dog doesn't do any of that stuff. So, all right, guys. I'm going to take off. So, appreciate you all watching. Hope you're having a great weekend. Oh, what do I think could be the dark horse Olympia? Nick Walker. Nick Walker. Uh, don't even care about the recovery because I'll be out of pain. The pain I'm in now, I'll be out of that pain. The pain that I have in recovery from the shoulder replacement is nothing. This wakes me up. I'm up in the morning by like 5 and I just lie there because the pain is so bad. I can't fall back asleep. Uh, I try. Eventually, I fall back asleep, but I don't care how long it takes to recover. I don't care about the sling. None of that. It doesn't matter. Derek's white as a barn. Totally agree. He looks phenomenal. So, I'm going to stop sharing that. All right, guys. Gonna take off. So, thank you all for watching. Appreciate it very much. Enjoy the rest of your weekend. I'll probably do a little coverage on Toronto tomorrow. So, keep your notifications on. Ring that bell. And again, have an awesome weekend, guys. Appreciate you watching.