What's up guys? Ron Harris here and judging just wrapped up in Toronto, Canada for the Toronto Pro Super Show, Open Men, which was the Final Division. Want to take a look at it with you. This is the first time I'm watching it. I like to wait until I'm watching it live with you guys to react to it, even though this ended a few minutes ago. So, let me show you where I'm getting this from. This is not the stream. This is uh our good friend Artha Artha Lab. Artha Loose in um Brazil. She does commentary in Portuguese for all these divisions. So, here was the initial group walking out. Got Erin Gowi from Canada. Big dude there. Next up, the heavy heavy favorite Rean Grimes, Sassan Herati. Next to him is Eric Jen Nikki, social media phenom now. Legit IPB pro making his pro debut. And Hussein Khale from Canada. Very, very thick guy. Iranian man there on the right. Shorter guy. Gives me some hottie chupine vibes. First impression. I know this isn't the highest resolution footage. This isn't Gilko footage, but immediately your eyes are drawn to Rean and to Sassan. The most complete physiques up there. Janicky, I want to say he's holding his own. Some of these guys who have the massive massive social media followings like Larry Wheels and Sam Silic, I don't think they're quite ready to jump into a pro show. They're both in classic and make much of an impact. But, uh, Eric, he's right there right away. I don't believe this is actually first call out. This is just the first group and it just so happened that there's a a lot of top top men in that first group. They're just going by numerical order here. This is not the first call out. Make sure I'm showing the right screen. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Great work again, Ron. Why is Rean coming to do so many shows? Uh so why did Rean do this show? He's originally from He lives in Vegas, but he still maintains I believe he still has a home in uh Toronto area. He's from Canada. He's from the Toronto area. Uh a lot of fans would be very upset if he didn't do this show. And you know, why wouldn't he want to do a show where he could have literally a busload of fans, friends, relatives, supporters cheering him on. So, I totally get why he did this show. Just like people were kind of giving Tony Burton crap. Why did he do the the Legion Sports Fest? Why didn't he pick a harder show? Well, he actually lives in Reno. He lives He told me it was a 20-minute drive from where he lives to get to the venue to compete. Why wouldn't you do that? So, this is just the initial groups. So, that was we're looking now at the rest of the guys. Adam Millage, Andrea Mozy from Italy, Felix Norman, and Skyler Schum there on the right making his pro debut. It's a small group. This is only one, two, three, four. Nine men in the open pro in the open class. They did not get a huge turnout. There's Artha on the right. Beautiful young woman. Uh just so you know, because I'm not I'm not taking this from the stream. And if you're wondering why it's in a box like this, I'm not capturing the stream. That would not be uh that would not be legal, actually technically. So, I didn't do that. So, that's where the judges get their initial look at everybody. They just come out and do some quarter turns. Couple hit a couple shots. Now they're all going to come out one at a time and we can critique them individually. This is Canada's Aaron Galy. Big big dude. He's about 270 or so. 275 something like that. Reg's tan is much too light. I don't know if Fukus if he's ever going to get this tan right. It's starting to it's starting to make me wonder. Is he ever going to show up with a nice rich brown hue or is he always going to be kind of yellowish orange tint? Don't know. Your mom's flip-flop. Best healthwise stay lean week. Well, your mom's flip-flop. It's not like he he competed six weeks ago and he's doing it all over again. Like some of the guys who did the Arnold and then he did um Pittsburgh, the Pittsburgh and the New York Pro. That was a long time to be on prep and on all the gear and everything. But Rean just won this other show. Uh Cali Pro was two weeks ago, right? Am I getting these mixed up? I have to look at my calendar because I'm I'm getting mixed up. So, which show was first? Yeah, last weekend was Legion Antonio. So, two weeks ago, Rean competed. So, he's only been on prepping on the gear for two two more. It's only two additional weeks. I'm sure he'll take a little health phase after this. I I assume he's going to Olympia. So, he'll take his his health phase, take some time off the gear, and then, you know, start back on his prep. So, next up here, we have Grimy Regan Grimes. I don't know if I can make this any bigger on the screen. Let me see if I can. No, I cannot. I cannot zoom in any more than that. So, it will get closer as we get to the call outs. I I assume Artha's doing this. She did that, so she's not showing it full screen, which would be a big red flag and YouTube would shut her down. But Rean looks really good. From what I could see, he held his condition. Of course, until I see the high resolution footage. Uh, you know, I I don't make any real statements on the condition because everybody looks kind of the same, kind of washed out in this high-res on this lower resolution stream. Goldfishes, they have to commit to doing the show a few months before the show. They decide not to show, you know, the goldfish. I don't think that's the case anymore. That was the case for many, many years. In fact, in the old days back in the day, at the very beginning of the season in January, they were required the athletes to sign contracts for any competitions that they intended on competing in that calendar year. And they had to honor that commitment or else, as you say, there would be they were suspended. Sometimes they were fined thousands of dollars, financial penalties, uh, if they did not show up, unless they had a valid medical excuse for the doctor signing off on it. These days you see guys jumping into shows at the very last minute. Uh they have actually up until Tuesday of that week. Sassan Herati up there now. So Sassan has had quite a season. This is his fifth show of the season. He's taken second place runner up at three of those four outings so far. First show we saw Sassan was Detroit Pro where he took second to Bonak. Then he went on to uh let's see, I'm I might get the order wrong. Fibo, I believe, was next where he took second. Andrew Jacked, New York Pro, he was fifth. That was a tougher show. He took second at the Cali Pro to Rean. Did I miss any? That's three. Yeah. So, he took three runner reps in a fifth place so far. Now, normally it the their point system when it was in place not that long ago would have pretty much guaranteed Sassan his sik to Olympia especially if he nabed second place today which is very very likely. I did skim ahead and I saw the final call out was just Rean and Sass which tells me it's probably between those two once again and I'm guessing because Rean edged him out even with inferior condition to his and much much worse stage color Reagan Rean still beat him. So, I believe Rean's gonna still be today. But point is back in the day with the point system. Uh there is some better footage of this. I'll show you later. It's a little closer up taken not from the stream. It was on Instagram. This is Eric Janiki who has millions of followers on Instagram, on YouTube, probably on TikTok. I wouldn't know. Just turned pro in a at a show in Mexico. There was a proqualifier there and Eric got his pro card legit. You know, there's there's a lot of ways to turn pro now. It's not like the old days where there were very few opportunities, but uh he he looks like he belongs up there. He's got the mass. He's got a pretty complete physique. We'll look at some better footage of him uh after this, but he's holding his own. He doesn't look out of place up there. We'll see. We'll see. Yeah, classic. Uh I'll look at classic a little bit later. I want to start with open reginol. Two coats protein, two gone black. Still not dark enough. Yeah, I guess it depends on what shade of of black you are. Obviously, very lighter skinned black guys should tan and use stage color. Someone who's got a darker complexion like a Samson, like a William Bonak, I don't think they necessarily need any extra color. I think they're good. I think nature nature took care of them with enough melanin, plenty of melanin. So, that was Arc Janicki. Next up is a local Canadian guy. I'm not sure if he's based in the Montreal area or Toronto area. I know it's one of those two, but I've seen him before at this show. I I've seen him compete before. I was I've been to this show, I believe, three times. I went to the Toronto Super Show. So, this is Hussein Kalate. Uh there's there's a sizable Persian population up in uh Canada up in Montreal and Toronto, and they've put out some good bodybuilders. Fouad Abiad is probably one of the more notable Persian bodybuilders out of there, but we've seen quite a few quite a few. Um, he looks thick, man. He's a short I want to say he was a 212 before. I believe that's where I remember him best was as a 212. I could be wrong on that. I'm wrong all the time. You guys love to remind me. Uh, let's see. Kion says, "Remember Kevin Leon didn't renew his contract for Mr. Olympia but ended up competing and finishing third. Didn't renew his contract." I don't know what you mean by renew. Didn't sign his contract for Mr. Olympia. I don't know what you mean by renew, Kalian. So that is Hussein. Uh I believe he was in the first call out when I jumped ahead. Again, there's only nine guys in the show. One, two, three, four, five. Are there 10? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Yeah, nine guys. So if there's five guys in a first call out, you know, that's more than half the lineup already made the first call out. He's not Persian. I believe he is Persian, though. I mean, he's he's probably American. He's probably born in not America, Canadian. It's a whole other country, Canada. I'm aware of that. We do not claim him. Yeah, I can understand. He's Some people love him, some people hate him. If you don't I'm sure you you claim hottie. Of course, he would be the the greatest. He's Arab. What does Arab mean? I thought that was just sort of like a a catchall. Oh, is he Lebanese? Is that true? Okay. So is my son-in-law, Musa. Okay. Nothing wrong with that. That's some great George Farah, many other guys. Samir Bonut, 1983, Mr. Olympia, the lion of Lebanon. I always thought, for some reason, I thought Fouad was a Persian, but clearly by saying that I triggered some Persians out there. So, any Lebanese people, do you claim him? I'm just curious. All right, this is Andrea. Did I Did I miss Andre Muzzy? No, this is him. This is Andrea Muzzi from Italy. So, I think we actually did I miss Adam Millage? And this would be Felix Norman. I think they're going in the order that was on the competitive sheet, but I feel like this is Adam Millage right here. I think Andrea was uh I think the order was slightly different on the competitor list that's up on ifbbro.com. So again, they're going to do their individual presentations. There's only a couple more guys and then they're going to go into the first call out and we can watch that together and see how that went. Who made first call out? I know Rean made it of course. Sassan. I'm not 100% sure who else made it, but it's a small small show. The open. We will look briefly at 212 and classic. Uh Artha did have all those on there. Now you got to watch her commercial there on the side. Yeah. So the screen is tiny until that's over. Luckily, it's not during a critical part of the video like we're trying to watch the judge the first call out. Is it over? Yeah, it's over. Yeah. Okay. So that was Felix Norman. I think uh I want to say this is Skyler Schum guy making his pro debut. I heard some people uh yeah I really triggered some people out there with uh mistakenly referring to Fouad Abiad as Persian. He's Lebanese just like Mia Khalifa. Yeah. My son and my daughter actually uh ran into Mia at a at a lunch lunch lunch place down in Miami last weekend. They didn't say hi to her. They didn't uh approach her. But my son wasn't sure it was her, but he looked on her Instagram and matched up the tattoos to the woman he was looking at. It was Mia Khalifa. But uh yeah, I don't think she likes to be bothered out in public. Adult film star Mia Khalifa. Everybody that trigger brother appreciates the content. Thank you. Well, I can understand, you know, because it it's very easy. A lot of us non Arabic people sort of lump all the Arabic people into one giant group, which is awful because it's a lot of different countries, cultures. It's not even all the same language. You know, uh in Iran that they don't even speak Arabic, they speak Farsy and there are different dialects in all those countries for uh various places. Oh, Giles just said on the group chat he thinks Sassan has Toronto today over Rean. I'll tell you that would be an upset. Boy, would that be an upset. All right, so let's look at the first call out, guys. Let's take a look together. That would be awesome. Imagine if Sassan finally got his Olympia qualification after three runner-ups because I I don't want to see him get a fourth runner up today. That would be awful because runner-up means you're so close. You're one spot away from winning. And back in the point system days, it still would have gotten him to the Olympia, all these runner-ups, but now you got to win. So, okay, we got Rean Grimes, no surprise, Sassan, Hussein, Kalata, and who was that on the right. Who was that on the right they gave a call out to? I'm not even sure. Surprising though. Surprising. I thought uh Andre Muzy would be up there in that first call. He's not. Is that uh Adam Millage on the right? But you can see Sassan and Rean are the ones right next to each other. So I'm just going to focus on them because I could see the title is between the two. Sassan has a better chest. The side leg is pretty equal. The back shots is usually where Rean beats just about everybody. He's got an incredible back. Sasson, he's not as wide and there's nothing he can do about that. That's purely a bone structure issue, but looks like he brought the condition. And if you follow Sasson, you know that he was not detained, but he was stuck stuck at JFK airport New York for 20 hours a couple days ago in his flight from UK to to uh Toronto. I guess he had to change planes uh connect in New York and he got stuck there for 20 hours without his luggage, without his food. And uh that that's amazing. It's amazing to me that he still looks this good after enduring that. You don't want to be going through crap like that, you know, two days before your show, which he was. So yeah, again, the condition is probably better on Sassan. The tan is certainly better on Sassan. Sassan's got better quads. Now, it might look like Rean does just because he takes up so much space and he is a taller significantly taller guy. He's got a he's got a good three or four inches in height over S on. But when you see them close up or when you see the pictures later, the high resolution images, and I'll try to find some of those when this is over, you can see that Sas does have one legs. Rean is a wider guy. He's bigger up top. Um, Sassan, he's just not as massive a guy. It's not all about size. So, they took them out of the lineup. That's a good sign. They left Hassan and is that Adam? Who is that up there? Uh, let's see. Very hard choice to read and s on screen. I agree. I want to see Iran is not an Arab country like far is a country semantic language spoken consider Arab countries. Thank you. It's great to see Sassan. Yeah, he's hi from Croatia. I believe my my daughter and her husband are going to Croatia. Is it Croatia or were they going to I think they're going to Croatia. Yeah, for for a vacation pretty soon. All right. So now you have uh up there Eric Janicki, Hussein Kalleta. I'm not sure who these guys are on the right. I want to say that's Adam Milage and Skyler Shum. Yeah, I'm not I'm not totally familiar with some of these guys. There's a Felix Norman in there somewhere, too, I believe. I know. I should know everybody. I know. Or is that Aaron [\h__\h] on the right with the blunt here? I think that's Aaron [\h__\h] Yeah. I can see his face so blurry. I agree. How' the new guy look? Uh Eric looks really good actually. Team Angel White Ma is representing. Did Andrea get last call? Well, there's only really I guess you could say this isn't last call out because they took two guys out and put two guys in their place. They took Rean and Sass on. So, there's only two more guys who haven't been looked at at this point. Sass looking better from a conditioning point of view. My money's on SAS. Sun has recognition today. Screen video quality. I agree. The video quality is not great. Rean looks soft compared to last week. Felix Norman on the end. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. That's Felix Norman there in the blue trunks, the turquoise trunks. So, shuffling guys around. Yeah, Eric Janeki is on the left on your screen. Now, I tell you what, I'm gonna go to some Instagram stuff. uh to get some to get a better idea because I know I saw some stuff that was uh the footage was just a little the pictures were a little bit better. Let me see if Beyond Stage TV has something good. Yeah. Yeah, they have a little closer up stuff. So, all right. I'm gonna pause this and I'm going to share Instagram. So, this is from the Instagram page Beyond the Stage TV. And we can look at this was the final call out. Okay, here we go. Yeah, I know this is just somebody's iPhone footage, but at least it's closer. It's a lot closer up. Oh man, it's tough. But you know what? If it's that close and Sassan does have a little better condition for sure, better rounder arms in that shot. I I probably just give it to Sassan, man. I would. The lighting from last year's Cali Pro. Yeah. Which wasn't the greatest. Not the greatest. What else do they have on there? It can be only one. Okay. Hussein. That chest. Great chest on him. Rean Sass. Did he tell you who it is? No. Interesting though. Interesting. again. Man, I it's it's tough for SAS to beat him because Rean is so wide. He's got a lot more mass up top. It's so close. I mean, if Sass does beat him, it's it's going to be by a point or two. It's not going to be unanimous first place votes the way Rean's been winning lately. The way Regan won that show. Interesting. Interesting. What else I got there? That was sass as individual. Look at those. Yeah. For a guy that went 20 hours waiting around the airport with probably just a backpack and had to live off. They don't even have food available 24 hours in the airport. The restaurants usually shut down around like 10 or 11 and you got like vending machines. You I don't know. Maybe he had someone in New York that could come and bring him food at the airport. I don't know what he did. I'd like to get an interview with SAS when this is all said and done. He's had a heck of a season, man. Talk about perseverance. You got to hand it to this guy. He will not give up. He is He is dead set on getting to the Mr. Olympia. He's not going to quit. He will keep doing show after show until he gets that Olympia qualification. So, this was Eric Janicki, social media star. Big, big guy, enormous guy. and you know, not lacking not lacking for much. Maybe the shape and structure not as pretty as some guys, but goodness, he's he's stacked enormous delts, arms, legs. Of course, we're only seeing that couple shots here, but I think you get the idea. Yeah. Okay. What else they got? There's Rean. Good footage of Rean here. Yeah. Again, the the tan, he looks orange. He just cannot seem to get that color that that we like to see, the the brown color. He's sort of like got a reddish orange tint to him. Maybe a little bit of yellow in there. I don't know. Will it be enough? The legs to me, I know this isn't the greatest footage. It's someone's iPhone from like the fifth or eighth row. I don't know. He doesn't look as sharp here as he did when he won the Cali Pro two weeks ago. And I don't think that's intentional. I don't think he tried to come in less conditioned. It's just maybe he's been in prep for so long it's hard for him to hold. I don't know. I don't want I don't want to make too many too many speculations and guesses. SAS. Okay. I did see some other stuff on body borders had some some different footage as well. That was first call out pictures and they're telling you who it is. That was Rean. Okay, that was Felix Norman on the right. So, it's uh Hussein, Rean, Sassan, and Felix there. Good shot. You seeing all this? Yeah, it's front double. Yeah, this is this is a worse shot. It's a bad shot for Sas because he does have looks like he's torn torn that bicep at some point. It's retracted there a little ways from the elbow. And of course, it's a shot that showcases Regan's structure, his width across the shoulders, that narrow waist. And even though his thighs aren't awesome, it's enough to really complete that X- frame. But I take nothing away from SAS. He is more a narrower guy, but he's he's bringing the condition. This is a beautiful shot for Sassan. Very complete shot. That front lat spread. It's a good shot for Rean, too. Don't get me wrong. I I don't know why Rean has his legs so far apart. That seems to be like the norm a lot of times. Now, look at the legs on Hassane there on the left. Massive. Yeah, I don't know why Regan doesn't bring his I I know why guys do it. They're trying to create the illusion of bigger thighs, but to me, it sort of draws attention to the fact that your thighs probably aren't that big. There's a great shot. Side chest, Rean. Even though I'd love to see a thicker chest on Rean, this is still a great shot for Rean. Great shot for Sass as well. This chest is thicker here. They both have amazing hamstring drop. Great, great quads and hams from the side. Really good shots. The back, like I said, that's tough. It's tough for anybody to beat Rean on back shots. He is very well known for his back development and he displays it well. It's thick from top to bottom, side to side. Uh Sasan has a really good back as well. Not quite as wide, but that's just because his clavicles aren't as wide across the lat spread. That's a really good shot for both of them. Again, I think they both look fantastic. Again, you can see how Rean's lats, you can see there how they sort of jut out at almost a 90 degree angle. That makes that makes for a very impressive lat lat spread. Uh Sasan doesn't quite have that much pop and width uh to the sides on his lats, but they're still very very good. Very impressive. Side try. I think they're both about equal in that shot. I don't know who I'd give that shot to. Maybe Rean. Probably Rean. Abdominal and thigh. Yeah, I mean overall shape and everything I give that to Regan, but Sassan looks pretty damn good there, too. Is that the last shot? That's a second call out. And the most muscular again. Sus looks fantastic. I just don't know if it's going to be the same thing all over again with Rean's Regan's got more size and more width. He just takes up so much more space. I don't know if that's going to be make the deciding factor. I don't know. Uh, I'll go to SAS today. Better condition, better for the O. You know what? If they're if if it was a tie here, and I'm just, this is just me. I'm not a judge and I'm not even pretending to speak for the judges for one second. So, don't anybody get that twisted, but if it's so close that it could be a tie the way it was with Derek and Nick at Pittsburgh, remember, regardless of what you guys think, it was a dead heat. It was a perfect tie score between Derek and Nick. If it ends up being the same thing here, I would just give it I would give it to Sassan because Regan's already got his Olympic qualification. He's already got his win. I know it doesn't work. It's not supposed to work that way. They're supposed to really dig deep into their conscience and their uh all their beliefs about ideals, what physique is supposed to ideal physique should represent. Look at every little factor and see if we're weighing out every single variable. Structure, muscle shape, symmetry, proportion and balance, condition, presentation. Put all that together and you really have to dig deep to figure out which one of these two men deserves to win today. That's what's probably going to come out to Cassan looks improved from last time. If he is uh better than last time, that's that's not only surprising to me, but that's that's commendable. That's he should be really praised for that, Sassan, because he had to fly over again from the UK and he did. Like I said, he got stuck in an airport for 20 hours. I've been in that situation before. Not for a whole 20 hours, but it was close one time. I think I was in an airport for seven. It's a long time to be stuck somewhere without your food, without your luggage. Uh you know, probably wondering flight. I don't know if a flight was canceled. I'm not sure what happened, but it's awful. Candace should join the US. S for the win. He looks bigger but not better condition. Yeah, I I don't think he has he didn't have the condition on him two weeks ago either in Cal. He still beat him though. Weird chest and left guy. That's Hassan. It almost looks like he has two tears there. Great condition. He looks amazing. Wonder if there's any other footage. Uh that was second call out where Eric Janicki joined Hussein and they also brought out uh Felix Norman and Rean. Oh, I thought he was going to I thought they were going to tell me who placed where there or who who was in the call out. This was a second second call out group of guys. Might have been third call out. Yeah, but it's definitely it's a two-man battle right now. It's going to come down to Sassan and Rean. Oh, Sus wants this. We saw that footage already. Sasan nailed it. There's a better There's a much better photo. It's the best photo we've seen so far that really illustrates the condition Sassan was in. There's Janicki. Uh, and Aaron go. Yeah, Aaron looks good, too, man. Aaron brought Erin's condition looks freaking damn great, doesn't it? You know, he's not gonna he's not going to beat the other guys, but he looks damn good. Damn good. Open first impressions. That was just the first first call out. I'll go back to I'll go back to the footage while we're talking. Not a rain fan, but his build is well balanced. He took up another notch of conditioning. He could win the Olympia. Uh hm. No, not yet. I'll tell you why. To win the Olympia, he's got to get past Samson Doda, Hottie Chupon, Derek Lungsford, Nick Walker, Andrew Jacked, uh few other few other really good guys. And I'm not saying he couldn't be top six, top eight, but none of those people that I mentioned he's beating. He's not going to beat them yet. He needs bigger quads. He needs more of a chest. and condition definitely needs to be better, but he's not ready to win the Olympia yet. I'm not ruling it out for the future. I'm not saying Regan Grimes isn't capable of winning the Olympia in the coming years once he brings up those areas. But we got three guys competing still. I mean, Brandon Curry even still competing. He's a Mr. Olympia champion. Is he beating Is he beating him? I don't I don't know. He's never he hasn't beaten him yet. Ven Fuks even with top condition in Canada for top fourth Olymp. Yeah. Uh it's not the overall muscle mass that he lacks. It's just certain areas he probably would need to be a little bit bigger to be beating guys like Samson and Hottie and Lunsford, Nick Walker. I mean Nick Walker's massive. Um but yeah, that's So what we got up there now? Muzzy. That's Golly in the middle. I'm not sure who that is on the left. Imagine Kriso. That song got nowhere shake you with the posing. Too many muffins spoiled Rian's condition. Well, that's a Chris Aceto uh trademark is the muffins he loves. But I don't know saying I don't think Aceto would have intentionally have his clients consume anything that would compromise their conditioning. But he is known for the workout pre-workout muffins. Uh, I remember when Jose was being coached by him and I would meet Jose to train. He always had a couple a couple muffins literally about 20 minutes 30 minutes before we trained. Eric Janicki reminds me of the late Mike Marazzo. Yeah. Yeah. Nobody had C. No. Very. There have been some guys with awesome calves. Uh, but Mazzo was the the greatest calves I ever seen. I don't know about the tanning arena, too. That'll No, it's not the lighting because look at the other guys. I know the lighting is not awesome. This isn't the best stream. And obviously I'm looking at a stream of a stream. So we're two generations down. Uh I'm thinking SAS has this one. I hope so. Lensford looks like he's riding a horse. Talking about how he has his legs apart when he's staying there. Is that James Hung? No, James is not competing today. Cannonballs. That's Andrea Muzzy from Italy on the right right now. I don't know when who was on screen when you made that post though. Advantage SAS the tiebreaker. That was the round that they needed to come up with. They had to come up with something to uh to give a win in Pittsburgh cuz they were completely tied. Oh, hey Randy. Can I show down? Slow down a little bit. All right, this was the final call out, guys. It was Sass and Regan. And it's close. It's close. Whenever they do two men, it's a call out that's only two men. That tells you it's very, very close. Judges are not having an easy time with this. I based on conditioning and color, SAS has him dead to rights. It's it's not even close. Um it's not like Rean's out of shape, but he's faded a little bit from two weeks ago. And Sassan is actually as sharp as he was two weeks ago. Considering all the traveling he's doing, that's that's amazing. The back shots, I know it's not a it's not a who wins more poses thing, guys. I mean, I know a lot of you guys like to say, "Well, he wins four poses, he wins three poses." So, you think it's like a scorecard. It's not really arbitrary. Trying to see my comparisons. What's up, Mike? Say hi to Mike Cox. Rean will probably win 8th 12th Olympia. Yeah, he I don't know. I hope I don't want to say I hope he doesn't win today. I don't want to sound like I'm a Rean hater. I have nothing against Rean and I'm not like a Sassan fanboy. It's just I feel so I feel so bad for Sasan that he's already taken second place three times. It's not even summer yet. Three shows he took second to Bonak, to Andrew Jack, and to Rean. It would be just really cool to see him turn the tables on Rean and get the win today and get his ticket to Olympia. Don't know if it's going to happen. It's close enough so that I don't think that many people would be upset. That being said, the show is in Toronto. It's Rean's hometown. I know he has he lives in Vegas most of the year, but a lot of people would probably scream and boo and I don't think they'd throw things at the stage, but you'd have a lot of upset people if Regan did not win this win. But the judges, they don't. That's I'm only saying that as a as a side sidebar. It doesn't really matter. The judges don't care. The judges aren't trying to keep the fans happy. Now we got to watch a a commercial for BJ's Gas on the corner. Rean needs 10 more pounds to be contended for top six. I agree. He He needs 10 more pounds and he needs more chest and more quads. You can't really have any glaring weak points when you're trying to be the best bodybuilder in the world. Yeah, I don't think I don't think he's I don't know if he's beating Bonak either. Canadian guy looks like a bronze trophy. Which Canadian guy was it? Oh, Aaron. Probably when Aaron was on the screen. Oh yeah, I need to No, I think it's it's if I'm going too slow, that's why I'm No, muffin is uh the muffin reference is that uh Christo is known to have his athletes eat muffins right before their workout. I don't know 100% for certain, but most people would say that's because they're taking it with insulin and it react it it works very well with insulin, a fast acting carbohydrate source, and they get awesome pumps for the workout. So, they're winding it down up there. Sass and Rean, abdominal and thigh. Rean does a great job of making his thighs look bigger than they really are. Now, I'm not saying if you throw a tape measure around them that they're small. They're not. The only reason I say they're smaller is if you look at how massive his shoulders are, how wide he is up top. And see, the judges, look at that. They they flip them around. It's It's not easy. They're not sure what they want to do here. SAS comes across being real J. Yeah, I mean I I like Sass. I like Regan. I've I've interviewed him. I I watched some of his content. He's a cool guy. I a kid. He's only 31. Is he 31? 30 32. He's young. Just put it that way. And uh you know, sincere, humble guy, even though he's got a huge social media following. Big big time sponsors. Celsius energy drink. That's a massive sponsor for a a bodybuilder to have. rear lat rear dull bicep shot. Yeah, this is this is gonna go down to the wire, guys. Yeah, we might see a tiebreaker around in a few hours. Now, they're supposed to be starting the finals. Finals were supposed to start at 3:00 Eastern, which it's 3:21 now. Now, they had a lot of divisions to get through. They started judging at 9 in the morning and they didn't get to open men until oh boy it was like 1 at least 1:00 1:30. So it's going to be a while before the finals gets around to the men before we have a winner declared. But I will uh I'll be anxiously awaiting to see how this goes. This was muffin pre-workout at Chad Zappy filling as famous as In-N-Out Burger is delicious. If you ever have a chance to get some In-N-Out Burger, they make a great burger. I like it better than five guys. Most muscular. And that was it. That was judging. That was judging, guys. Sass looks a little bit better. Is enough to win? I hope so. I, you know, I root for the underdog. I think that's human nature. We like to root for the underdog, the guy who's got the odds stacked against him. The fact that Sassan lost just two weeks ago to Rean, it would be very, very unusual. Uh let's look at class 212. 212 first call out. So 212 first call out was interesting because or was that the last call out? Uh if you remember Courage Courage Opara very good classic physique pro. He was top five in the Arnold. I think he was top six in Olympia. I saw him win Texas Pro a couple years ago when I was out there. Uh okay. So that was not the first call out. He seems to be in the lead for for this show. So let's look at the let's look at the first call out. Okay. So let's go back five seconds and hit play. This was 212 division, guys. It was Fran Barios Silk. Got to wait till we get up a little closer. Uh Franario Silk who just won New York Pro. Then you got Courage Opara. Got Cody Drobot and was this guy name is Mike Cromwell or something? I gotta get it right. Let me take a look, guys. Right. Uhhuh. So, I'm going to get the name because I don't like not being not having people's names. All right. Classic was That's Janicki. Okay. 212 first call out. Cody Drobot. Oh, that's Mike Condell. Mike Condell on the right. I'm not really familiar with, but yeah, Courage looking really really good there. I mean, you don't see too many classic guys move up to 212 or open. It's It's obviously he probably grew out of the classic weight limit is my guess. And that makes sense to me because my only knock, my only real critique on Courage as a classic guy was I didn't see the mass that I wanted to see. The the shape was beautiful, structure, all those things. Presentation was fantastic. Still is. Look at him. But needed some more mass. And he was gone for a couple years. Haven't even heard the name in a couple years. And now he comes back. I'm guessing he's got at least 10 or 15 pounds more muscle tissue than he did the last time we saw him. And by all indications, from all the posts I was seeing, he is he is in the lead for this. He's in the lead. Yeah. Let me see. Let me go back to go to some other footage for that. Yeah, this is actually better footage. This is actually much better. So, I'm going to share this instead. Okay. So, here we go. That's Barios Fran Bario Silk Vic. Sorry. Uh, Cora Japara, Cody Dro, Mike Condell. Mike Condell. I'm not familiar with them, but this guy looks thick. Thick as hell. Look at those delts. They said his back shots were were the best. So, I want to wait until he turns around. Take a look at that back. This is going to be on a loop, I'm sure. This is from body borders, I think. And I want to look at classic, too, real quickly. Yeah. encouragement. So that's he was able to add the mass to move up to 212 and still keep that nice small waist. Honestly, it was a little I think it was a little bit smaller as a classic guy, but considering how much mass he's added since then, I I don't see it as an issue. It's not like he built a bubble gut. Barios, uh, I guess he slipped. His condition slipped a little bit. And New York Pro was three weeks ago, four weeks ago. Geez, not much. His condition, look at the glutes are still in. Huh. I wonder why he's not in contention. I think Courage is just that good. This is good for Cody because I think Cody got beat at that show by by Barios. Interesting. Interesting. Been here since 2K. Oh, subs. Thank you, Jason. Yeah, I mean I'm Do I have 10K yet? No, I think I'm like 50. I'm less than hundred away, I think, from. So, if you're not subscribed, doesn't cost you anything. Hit that subscribe, hit the like, share, do all that good stuff. SAS is sharper. I think Rean has this last one. H Yeah, I I hope I hope not. And again, it's only because I I I'm really rooting for Sass. Three second places in a row. I would hate to see him get four second places. Well, not in a row. He took fifth at New York, but this season he got he got four of those. hometown will help like trying to beat Beirus in Dubai. Is Beirus living does he live in Dubai or does he live in Iran? I thought he lived in Iran. S looks much better, sharp and better tan. Yeah, but Dean, that was also the case two weeks ago at the Cali Pro and Regan still beat him. So, I don't know what's going to happen. We're looking at 212 right now where it looks to be Courage Opara and Cody Dro battling. Surprisingly, New York Pro Champ Fran Barios Vic is not being looked at for the win here. Very surprising because he's damn good. Rean faded. Hela Mandy is SAS doing Dubai. Um I'm not sure, but I don't think he'd be beating uh Nathan Dasha and Beirus are two of the headliners for that. Who else is doing Dubai? You got Nexzilla, Rubio Moscara. I I I don't think he's going to win Dubai, so I don't know if that would be a really good idea for him. One Diesel Morel prep me. It was Pop-Tart post-workout. I mean, Pop-Tarts, anything with that sugar, the quick sugar, you just don't want fat. That was where I made a mistake was the one I I used insulin for one offseason winter. So, it was about three months and I was eating cookies, which you know, they weren't fat-ree sass way better than most subscribed channels. Well, I'm not looking for 100,000 subs, although I would love that. But, uh, you know, just getting the subs and the views up to respectable level. Uh, a few thousand more subs, I'd be very, very happy with that, of course. All right. So, that was this is the first call out of the top four in 212 is what we're looking at up on stage right now. And I'm going to I'm going to go ahead and I think say I I I think I I'd have Courage for the win. I just like his shape. I like his shape. Courage. Courage. He was a classic top classic guy for a reason. They got one more pose. Couple more poses. Abdomen thigh and then I'll jump into the classic. I like to give all the all the not all the divisions. I'm not showing all the women's divisions, but you know, they all deserve a little bit of recognition. And when I say all, to me, the three divisions that I follow the most closely are open bodybuilding, 212 bodybuilding, and classic physique. I respect all divisions, but these are the three that I am the most interested in. Uh they were probably the only three divisions I could judge. If I was a judge, I could sit on the judging panels for those divisions and say with confidence I would make fair fair decisions and get it right and I would be in alignment with what the other judges are doing. Other divisions like Bikini and stuff I'd be I'd be all did I see Lee Haney's podcast get rid of well more characters. I did a podcast with Lee Haney the same. We released it within 10 minutes of each other not even knowing me and Matt from Muscle Discord. Neither one of us knew that the other one had interviewed Lee and we put up our videos so close to each other it was frightening. Uh I think I was posting mine. He had just posted his and I was like you got to be kidding me. He did his with uh Real Deal Chris Cormier also. He does a podcast with Real Deal Cormier every week. Uh, and I was doing mine just as a a dedicated Ron Line Report interview with Lee Haney. Um, please check it out. I got Lee to open up about drug use in the 80s. You know, what what he thinks was fairly standard among his peers and I think he was sort of in indirectly saying what he would do back in the day. So, that was enlightening because no one's ever asked Lee. No one's ever and I never had the guts to ask him, but when he he was being blasted by a lot of the younger pe younger guys for some commentary he made on another podcast uh that was not like a bodybuilding podcast. It was more of a mainstream podcast where um he said these guys today abuse they abuse gear. They use too much. I said, I've never asked Lee Haney about gear before. But if he's going to say the guys now use so much more, I think it's only fair to ask, well, Lee, what was what was a gear protocol like back then? You don't have to tell me exactly what you did, but I'd like to hear generally speaking, what what were the amounts, the dosages? And he he laid it out for me. It said at 22 minutes into the interview with Lee Haney. If you want to check that, it's on this channel, of course. Uh, Sass should take this one. His polish seem to overpower Rean shape. So, still the 212 guys up there. Classic was before that, I believe. Was this classic? Yeah, classic was interesting. Uh, I didn't watch it yet. I haven't watched it yet, I should say. And I honestly don't even know all the top names in this, but I just want to see the first call out in classic. Don't know who all these guys are. Yeah, I should probably stay away from classic because I don't know who they are and I'm going to look like a [\h__\h] I think that's Dura Mammud Dura there on the end who was a two a very good 212 competitor. What's happening classic? Yeah, he's the only one I mentioned. Yeah, I think I'm gonna go back to uh open open. What the heck? Open first. Call out. Yep. While we're talking, the Lab, that's who is showing this. If you guys know of any uh social media pages that have really good footage up there right now, I'd be I'd be all about that. Toronto Pro. I still showing classic. Huh? What am I showing right now? Oh, that's Instagram. Okay, stop sharing. Let's see. Turn on Pro Super Show. Sorry, guys. I I left mistakenly got off the uh I clicked out of the uh the video. My bad. Present. share screen. All right, there we go. I wish I could make this a little bit bigger, but I can't. Don't know how. Too dopey in it to understand how to do that. So, you got to watch it a little smaller on the screen. There's two fanatic. How do you open category? Hail open category. Yeah. I mean, there's a reason the open bodybuilders make so much more money for prize money than everybody else. It's the main draw. It's it's the reason people people buy the the tickets to the shows. It's the reason they they pay for the pay-per-views. It just is. Um, classic is not too far behind, but open open is always, you know, I when I do live streams of a whole event where I'm showing different divisions, it's easy for me to see who's watching because up in the corner right now, I can see there are 138 people watching. So, say I had the Arnold Classic on and men's physique was on. I'm just throwing it out there. or let's say women's bikini, which I wouldn't even be covering because I don't I'm not a good critic of it there. It would it would jump up to from like 200 watching to a thousand watching when open came on. So, I know right there the interest is in Open and that's why they make much more so much more money. Is Prey in the show? No, it's it's Muzzy. Yeah, I it took Dave it took me a while to to differentiate between Muzzy and Prey, but they are two very different guys. Muzzi's in this Prey. I have not seen Prey yet this season. Mr. Haney reminds me of dignitary dignified military venom with an ocean of knowledge. It's funny because he retired at the age of 31 with Mr. Olympia titles. We're never going to see that happen again. But the point being is I was 21 years old back then. He's 10 years older than me. Yeah. He was born in 59. I was born in 69. I met him 91 earlier in the year. He came out to California to do a video that my company was producing. It was a workout video that was going to go along with it's a twin lab mass mass fuel uh like a it was a whole kit. You got pro you got a weight gain a big bucket of weight gain powder. You got protein big mass gain weight gain bars. Anyway, it came with a workout video that we produced. Anyway, that was in the spring of 91 before he won his his eighth and final Olympia. And he seemed to me like just such a mature wise man. He was only 31 years old. And I, you know, when I was 31 years old, I wouldn't mature and wise are not two two adjectives I would use to describe myself. Put it that way. I was still still figuring a lot of stuff out. Posing off stage fat and always remember that. Now see who's always shredded. Uh offseason. Oh well that's you know we don't really have guest posers as much anymore. Olly, but back in the day it was very common to see guest posers on stage that were way out of shape. Deep deep offseason. Ronnie guest posed a few times at like 330 pounds when he was, you know, competing. He had a lot of different stage weights, but let's just say he was he was carrying a lot of fat and water. And it was it was very common place back then. You'd see you you'd go to these contests and there'd be a guest poser build on the poster for the the flyers and the poster for the contest and you'd be all excited about seeing this guy and then they show up looking you can't see a single cut or striation anywhere. It was kind of a letdown honestly. Damn, he got lead open up about his drug use. Yeah. Yeah, Dave, he didn't say this is what I used. So, I sort of used that uh that trick that they they got uh Ted Bundy. This I'm not comparing Lee to a horrible serial killer. I'm just saying a technique that interviewers have used in the past is to get someone to speak about uh activities or such in the third person. So, it wasn't them doing it. They're saying, "Well, what might the killer have done, Ted?" He says, "Well, the killer might have broken in through the second story window because of a fire escape." And he laid out exactly what he had done, but he wasn't admitting to it, per se. So, when Lee said, uh, I would use like a 1 ml of test, uh, a half of ml of deca, uh, some anavar, I'm pretty sure he was referring to what he was using, but he wasn't saying I used. He wasn't speaking in the first person, but I believe he was being fairly honest and forthright about what he was using. And you know, I don't know what the other guys were using. And I don't think guys back then talk so much about what they used with each other. Now they they go on podcasts and that's like the main talking point is what was your cycle? How many gram milligrams of this? 100 milligrams of that. It was a little more secretive back in the day. And I don't think it was so much of a case that they were trying to get an edge on someone else by revealing their secret drug stack. It was just it just wasn't talked about. It was more of a private matter. Who would you rather smoosh with? Ron? That's a good question. I'll answer it. Open female biolog. 40 pounds overweight. Oh man. 40 pounds is a lot and considering unless we're talking woman who's like six foot, right? I I'd go with the bodybuilder. I'd go with the bodybuilder 100%. You know, I like muscles. I've always liked muscles, muscular women. My wife muscular. I've always had a thing for for buff women. So, yeah, it that's an easy one. Good question. Lean was always a wise man. He always had an evolved demeanor. Uh Dan Dylan, what's up? He won eight sandals return. Hey, what does he know? Well, a lot of the uh young guys would say he doesn't know anything because he wasn't he's not as big as as Samson or Big Ramy, so he doesn't know anything. But, you know, again, no one no one else won eight Olympias and retired on top. The only other guy to win eight Olympias was Ronnie. And Ronnie kept going for a couple more years trying to win again and wasn't able to get the title back. His his physique had started to go downhill due to nerve damage and things like that. um spinal damage. He was never able to recapture his look. But uh Lee went out on top. He had no injuries, no health problems. He was just done with he had accomplished everything he wanted to accomplish and he walked away as the champion. Four pounds is a lot. You said glad my wife is 40 pounds. I mean, we're thinking about women are shorter, right? Generally speaking, average American woman is 5'4. My wife's only 5'2. Yeah. 40 pounds overweight. And when you say overweight for a regular woman, we're not talking like 40 pounds over what we call contest condition, shredded. No, we're talking about a healthy weight. So 54, I think the healthy weight for them according to like the doctors would be, I don't know, 120, 130 pounds. So if you add 40 pounds on that, you're starting to get pretty fluffy. 54 55. Yeah. If size equates to wisdom. Greg Kovac for Prime Minister Canada. Rest in peace. Rest in peace, Greg. Yeah, he didn't he didn't live a very long healthy life. The contracts, the magazines. Yeah, William, it was also part of the supplement contracts. You the supplement contracts also had clauses and for good reason because, you know, we knew the people who were if you had if you were aware of what was going on, you knew these guys were on steroids. wasn't like a secret, but a lot of the young naive kids, the teenagers picking up the magazines and flipping through the ads and seeing all these ads with the bodybuilders holding a holding up a a can of Muscle Tech or Twin Lab or Metrics or whatever, and the guys saying, "Metrics gave me this body or Twin Lab, whatever." They were like, "Oh, wow. Awesome." Okay. And they fell for it and they went and bought it. But yeah, is Martin doing Dubai? Rumors out there. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what Martin's doing. He's already The thing with Martin is he's already qualified. He qualified after the Olympia last year by virtue of winning the Prague, the EVLS Prague show, beating Bumpstead. He did these other shows, you know, not unnecessarily. there was good money and good exposure in doing the Arnold Classic and the Pittsburgh Pro. But for him to keep going, to stay on prep throughout the year and do Dubai, which is still two weeks away from today, that would probably put his body in a rough spot to be in prep all that time to try to look his absolute best at the Olympia in October, which I'm sure he wants to because he was fourth place last year. He would love to move up from fourth, Martin. Who wouldn't? You know, they're all in it to win. They're not they're not there to place. So, his best chance of looking looking his absolute best and placing his best is probably I imagine he took a little health phase after uh Pittsburgh show and he'll be back at it. When they do retire, Bob was a lost memory. They all suddenly were natty for years and he was one primo. No, they don't all say that. Some of them, some of them do downplay what they use, but not all of them. postJ color competitor by the call lackluster engineer by the way past the hey days uh I don't want to [\h__\h] on the the current generation we have some amazing competitors good old liver pills I used to take I took liver pills for years liver aminos because I was uh I wrote for John Pillo's Pillo press from 1993 up until he got rid of it two years ago three years ago so for almost 30 years I would get uh he didn't pay me. He gave me a box. I would order whatever supplements I wanted. I got, you know, a couple hundred bucks worth of supplements every month for free, you know, in in exchange for writing that column. And liver aminos were a staple with Pillo. I used to take anywhere between four and eight of those with every meal. So, do yeah, do the math. That's a lot. A lot of uh B vitamins, a lot of iron. Uh each one had some protein in it. Nick Walker, although not appealing, is undeniable dangerous. Yes, the only way Nick can compete with shape monster is with raw size. As for Derek, his physique never looked good to me. I've been yapping. Is this Is this that last call out again? Sassin Rean. I should be able to tell from the back. That looks like Sassin Rean. Yeah. So, again, we're looking at the uh final call out of Dubai. I didn't even know he was in. This was the final call out. I'm going to go to Instagram and see if there's anything better. Sometimes these Instagram pages have some closer footage. Put it that way. Uh, what was that? Five days ago. No, I don't want to see five days ago. Yeah. Is that only three poses? Yeah. So, this is going to come down to the wire, guys. Sass has him on condition. She's got the better legs. structurally and overall mass. Rean Rean has him. He beats him. It's going to be interesting to see how this shakes out. I'd be very, very happy for Sassan to win. Very happy. And it's nothing against Rean. I like Regan, too. I I have nothing but respect and admiration for both of these men. This sport is very, very difficult. Uh the pay compared to other professional sports is crap. Um, so they do it for the love of the game. You know, Rean makes a good living, but it's nothing compared to some of these like baseball players that have six700 million dollar multi-year contracts to to play their to to participate in their sport. Yeah, very interesting to see what happens there. Good old Liverpools. Sure. The eight Sandos deserve like Ryan. Yeah, back in the day, you know, Lee Lee Haney was off his game at a couple of those wins. Ronnie was off his game. Dorian was off his game at a couple of his wins. Back in the day, you had to knock out Mr. Olympia. You couldn't just barely beat him. Now, you just barely beat him. You beat him. You win. It's It's not about knocking out the champ. It's about being the best physique on that day. Now, so excited Weer came out with the anabolic mega packs. The Weer supplements. Yeah, Joe had us all under his spell for many, many years. Uncle Joe, Joe Weider. Uh, his magazines, his magazines were really sort of uh marketing material, promotional material to sell his supplements, his his training equipment, but mainly his supplements. Who do I have winning? I think it's a tie again, Goku, but I would I want to maybe I'm just being an a-hole because I want to see SAS get it. So, I would give it to Sass just because get this guy to the Olympia. You know, I don't think the judges are going to look at it that way, like, well, guys, you know, it's close and Sassan really needs to win. I don't think it's going to be that. They're they're going to do their best to try to determine the rightful winner. Two shoes before he had his [\h__\h] together. Yeah. I mean, 2023 he looked pretty good, but it's been a while. Trying something new with leg training. Okay. We're talking about training now. Uh I I don't want to talk too much about training because we're we're talking about this contest right now. Um what were you doing? Multiple sets. Squats. Yeah, a lot of people do squats last just so they don't have to go as heavy and put that load on their spine. That's all I'm going to say about that. Multiple times show people want to show up on stage 100% peaked. Uh that's not true. I would say well they weren't peaked every time. I think that's what you're saying. I mean for Haney I think his last win was probably his best 91 he looked his best. He was biggest. He was 254. He was peeled. Dorian's best win to me was probably his second win 93. Uh Ronnie's first two wins spectacular. Uh he looked in 2002 and three. Am I getting the years right? No. What am I saying? No. What? No. 98 and 99. Gotta really ask, man, which is worse, smoking sig, drinking all your life, or juicing 20 years max. Uh, they both they're both horrible for you. They're both horrible. I don't know which one's worse. You would have to ask a doctor that question. I mean, cigarettes is going to destroy your lungs. Um, gear doesn't affect your lungs. Uh, drinking, you can have you can destroy your liver, but you can do that with you can destroy your liver and your kidneys and your heart with steroids. Good job. natural non-competitor normal competing life. I forgot what your question was. Knocking out the champs was BS. I agree. Hate V squats. What did D place? Well, it's not over yet. Um he's he's in the running for classic. I'd have to wait and see the awards. We'll tell Yeah, that's that's I I figured that's what you meant. That that's very true. They didn't they didn't do that. So, let me see if there's any any other footage. Great footage before I leave you guys because the stream was not awesome as you saw. Wasn't great. Uh, what was this footage that we already saw that? Okay, so that was Beyond the Stage. Let me look at Body Without Borders and see what they have. They're doing all the same kind of everyone's kind of using the same pictures and videos. So, I don't think we're going to see anything different. So, yeah. H tough call, guys. Tough call. I mean, the good news is I think the final on. Is it on yet? No, they're getting they're late. They're supposed to start finals at three. It's almost 4 and they haven't come back yet. Huh. Interesting. So, we'll see. We'll see what happens. What happens? Calves disappear and calf turn looked amputated. I don't know if that was a nerve damage issue or what happened there. Who you got winning? I'm going to go with Sassan just because it's it's honestly because I think they're they're tied. They're equal. And I want Sassan to get to the Olympia. That's it. I said it. Eating me 100 pounds over too hard on the body. I mean st being a bodybuilder a an enhanced bodybuilder and carrying all that mass taking the drugs is a toll but just being that big is also placing a big toll on your physique on your body. SAS might take it this time sass tro cool guy. Yep. Ryan 98. Oh these are his best looks. Ron 98. Dorian 95. I like Dorian better in 93. Arnold 74. Hey 911. J 2009. Phil 2013. Okay. Yeah, I'm not really going to argue too much with those. Um, I've never seen a show come down to calves. All these years, I've never seen two guys who are completely equal, but one had better calves, and that's why he won. It's not to say that couldn't happen. You'd probably, you'd almost need to see like twins or something. Well, the twins would have the same calves, so that's a that wouldn't work. I' I've never seen it come down to calves. I mean, and think about the guys who had the greatest calves. Mike Modazzo never won a pro show. Um, what's the guy that's with Universal Nutrition? Um, Eric. Well, Ben Picowski had great calves. I mean, he he never won a pro show. Eric, what the hell's Tell his name? He's from Pennsylvania. Eric, he had massive calves. He didn't he didn't uh he didn't compete that often. Well, Muscle Insight just tagged me. So, well, Rean has his whole family there, which is nice being in London, Ontario, skip away from Toronto. Yeah. Uh, Frankauser, thank you. Frank, it's Frank, not Frank, not Frankenstein. Frank Fankhauser, he had great calves. Uh, what was the other question? Sing sass is winning. He's better for the O. It's exact judgment we're trying to get away from. Rean is a better bio condition if he's now large to be honest. So yeah, I mean if if he deserves it, Rean should absolutely win. Uh calves. I I've seen men's physique shows where the top five guys, not one of them had calves. They all had very very poor calf development. Very poor. Uh, I want to go to Muscle Insight because they just tagged me on something on a story and I think it was better footage of Rean. Muscle Insight is a newer channel, but they're doing great work. Oh, yeah. Here's a good This is good. This is some really a good look at Regan right here. Yeah, his condition looks a lot better here. than what we're seeing in that stream, right? Yeah. Looking at that, I don't really have a problem with him winning on Dex. No cavs. Sure. How tall is SAS? I think he's about five 5'7 or 5'8. He's not that short. Yeah, I agree. No, I don't want to cover up his quad there. Rean has a small hole in his inner right chest. Huh. Flex Lewis, some of the freakiest calves. Yeah. Yeah. And we've had some guys with good calves. Absolutely. Flex Lewis's calves were insane. Especially in the offseason, they were even bigger, if that's possible. So, they look pretty freaky. Yeah, Regan looks Regan looks pretty damn great here. I don't know. I I wish I had footage of this quality. This is I don't think this was the uh stream, was it? Maybe this was, but they're zooming in on it better than I was able to. Rean looks pretty damn good, man. Ah, see, I don't know. Maybe I would just have to give it to Regan then. I wish I was there because you you really see the difference in conditioning when you're there. You don't see it as much. Oh, that was Nikki Rizzles. Does Nikki Rizzles have footage up? He's only got Rean. I think he's got Rean up because Is he Rean's uh videographer? Not sure. That's just a shot. Yeah. Good stuff, though. Okay. Yeah, guys. I'm gonna I think I'm just going to wrap it up. I'm gonna wrap it up. I'll go back to Rean because I'm going to come back for finals at some point when the finals wrap up. But, uh, let me know in the comments if you're watching this on a replay who you got. I know it's tough because we don't have the greatest images to go by. Um, by the time we get to the finals, I'm sure there's going to be some good high-res images posted on a few of these Instagram uh, not channels, pages. So, that'll give us a better indication of how these two stack up. But I'm talking about Rean Rean Grimes and Sashan Herat who are definitely the the top two in this show, the Toronto Super Show. Which way is it going to go? Don't know. Can't say right now. It's very, very close. Very, very close. How big Dorian's calves were? Yeah. The funny thing about Dorian is he trained his calves once a week and he did one set. He did a couple warm-ups and then one set. His calf raise machine at his gym had a stack of 900 lb. Anth Bales now has that at his gym. Jaws was showing me, but that's it, guys. I'm gonna go away. All right. Well, that is going to do it. That was my uh recap of the judging for the Toronto Pro Super Show. Right now, it is definitely between Regan Grimes and Sassan Herat for the win. Rean's already got his Olympia qualification by virtue of Cali Pro win two weeks ago. Sassan has missed it three times already. second place to William Bonak, uh, Andrew Jacked, and then Rean. So, I'm just the guy that roots for the underdog. I'd love to see Sas on take it. So, let's see what happens. I'll be back in a couple hours. Leave your notifications on and you'll know when we are on. Thank you all so much for watching. Go get something to eat, guys. I know I'm going to. Peace out. Bye-bye.