recording. Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour. Today's show, we're going to do a quick recap of the Legion Sportsfest, a preview of the Toronto Pro show coming up this coming weekend, and a recap of the uh Olympia Allstar Tour with Terrence Ruff Diesel Ruffin that Giles Tiger Thomas just did all over the UK. So, please welcome now from across the pond in the UK, the man who just turned 49 years old, the last year of his 40s, and I hope he's going to enjoy it. Giles Tiger Thomas Giles. Yeah. So, uh, Charles, did you watch any of Legion at all? Uh, well, I saw all the highlights and the clips and everything. I was obviously I was away on Newcastle for a birthday weekend, so but I was catching up with everything and I saw it pretty much everything that went down. Yeah. Yeah. It wasn't, you know, it wasn't the strongest lineup, but uh, Tonio looked fantastic. Uh, here he is right here. Yeah. Um, do you think because he it had been a while, he hadn't competed since last spring. Do you see improvements? You know, I've talked to guys who thought he looked worse. I think he looks as good if not better now than he did a year ago. Um I I the only last the last sort of idea I've got in my head is where he did the Olympia where he was was eighth or ninth in 23. I think he was seventh. Seventh. Okay. Yeah. Um he looks he looks as good. Um I've not seen any dramatic improvements, but I mean he he's as good as he as he's ever been. Um looks good. Yeah. Um I like I said maybe maybe if he's had a bit of time off you maybe do expect you know kind of improvements but um yeah I think he looks as good as he's ever looked at. Yeah. So he's got his Olympia qualification. Uh I don't think he's going to do anything else until the Olympia. Yeah. He kind of got I saw people commenting a couple trolls saying well he picked an easy show. He actually lives in Reno. He said he's 20 minutes from the venue. So why wouldn't he do this show? Silly people. Absolutely. Absolutely. I do you know what though? Like with Keon, I'd still like to see a bit more chest on him. Yeah, a little bit. But gez, he's he's very You're right. There's always something, but he's very very complete. That back is phenomenal. Uh condition, you know, I'm sure for the Olympia, they're going to push a little harder on the condition. Yeah, I've seen him. I've seen him slightly crisper from the back, but um I mean, his back shots, his wable bicep, his very lat spread. He's kind of not the same guy from the front or the side. He's kind of very very dominant from the back. Yeah. But um I mean obviously there's still room for improvements, but um yeah, he looked absolutely fantastic and I I mean I had him as the winner going in. I know you did the preview with Chris um but um sorry Mike. So but yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I had him. So that this was one of the other talking points because Patrick Moore had just done the Cali Pro and I think he had been like 10th place or something. He was the usual disappointing Patrick, not in shape. He's coaching himself now. I don't know if you realize that. So supposedly what he did between in that one week span was 36 cardio sessions in one week and he dropped 15 pounds to tighten up and in a week in one week. 15 pounds. Wow. So Ron, I've heard of I've heard of guys that are dropping I'm trying to think the most I've ever heard. I remember um Jay Cutler when he got eighth at the 2000 Olympia. He then went to the British Grand Prix and I don't I think that might have been I think that was at least two weeks after and that was the first time you really saw Jay versus Ronnie because Jay dropped 14 pounds because I remember Kerry Kay telling me because Kerry was chatting to him backstage and everyone couldn't get over how good Jay looked and Jay said, "Yeah, I've dropped 14 pounds or what probably kilos whatever at the time in in conversion." Yeah. And he say dropped 14 pound for Olympia and he looks so much better. But um Patrick doing this, I mean that was a big shock because you know it's funny like I said on the um on the group chat and I said uh I said you know people write these guys off like they have with blessing in this show and they say you should quit and he sucks and all that and everyone's just relentless with the comments like with the Nick talker comments you know and all it takes is one good showing and they all flip completely 180. It's just it's just the way it is. It's it's true. I mean literally two days before the show you were still hearing Patrick Moore sucks. He should hang it up. He should retire. And now he's great. He's back. But I don't know if if I I'd love to see him climb his way back into the Olympia. He still would need to win a show and I don't know where he's going to plan on doing that. But it's good to see people I you know, we both like to be proven wrong when we say this guy's, you know, hasn't been in shape in years. I love seeing people that I had sort of mentally written off come back and shock everybody and and prove me wrong. It actually makes me happy because it's it gives us hall. Well, same here. Same here, mate. Yeah, exactly. Like last year, like this year and last year, I thought Akim, Brandon, Curry, and Bonak were three guys that I honestly thought were going to be starting to be on the slide, but look what they did. They kind of clawed their way back up. Um, but I mean, for Patrick to do that in one week to go from what is he near the bottom the the Cali and don't forget, he was second from last. He was what 10th out of 11 at the Arnold Classic. Justin Rodriguez was 11th, right? You know, she was pretty much at the bottom of the pack there. So, for him to do that in a week, that is that is bloody impressive. And I'm really really happy for him because it just shows, you know, in a week a lot can happen. You can really bounce back. So, I think that really speaks to these guys mental fortitude. Absolutely. So, let's take a look at third place was uh Bruno Santos from Brazil. Very, very dense guy. uh looks like he's on the shorter side if I'm going to guess, but I don't know that to be true. I'm just bet I usually look at the size of the head in proportion of the body. But uh brought brought really good condition. He's very thick. He's he needs a couple things. I'd want to see more more legs. I'd want to see, you know, more width, but that's mostly a structural issue. But still very very solid third place here. Uh and I was, you know, he's he's a consistent guy. He's been top five in a few shows now. Bruno. Yeah, he looked good. Um, I'm still not completely I'm still not that familiar with his physique. I've not really studied his physique that much. Like I know the all the rest of the guys in the top six. I know their physique's better. Maybe I should because he's done Olympia now. He's won pro shows and um and he seems to be doing pretty well. I mean to make top three and stuff. So he's uh so he's consistently a top three, top five guy. And like I said, he's done the Olympia. Yeah. I don't know why the Florian Porson footage is gone because it was up on this page before. I don't know. I'm going to go to Gilo because I want to show you. Well, here's a guy that was fifth place. I just interviewed him. He's uh he had made his pro debut in at the New York Pro with uh fifth place. It's Kennedy on Yan Woo and he was I'm sorry. He was sixth in New York Pro. He was fifth here. And I think he's got a very bright future. Look at that. Look at that shot. His front is lights up. Yeah, Colossus Ken. Colossus Ken. Yeah, I think I think he delivered. I mean, obviously got um was it fourth or fifth in New York Pro? Um and he got a good placing here. He beat Blessing, who's obviously a Pro Show winner and being an Olympic competitor, but um yeah, I think he's probably one of the brightest young kind of rookies of 2025. He's the one that's probably going to stick in my mind for being for someone that's kind of got real future potential. Um I like his shots. I like thing is if you remember when he turned pro, I mean it's it's like a completely different guy. And how long was that? Was that a year and a half ago? Uh it was uh August or September of 2023. So he took all last year off and he put on he put on a solid 25 pounds of muscle. He was 217 when he It looks it as well. And it's Go ahead. Yeah. Yeah. Well, here's a good Yeah. I mean, when he turned pro, I wasn't Go ahead. Go ahead. Sorry. Yeah. when he turned pro, I wasn't absolutely blown away by him, but um in all the updates, like I said, I didn't when I saw the updates, I didn't realize that was him. Um so, he's really really got to got to work as soon as he got that pro card, he's really really got to work. He's made some huge gains and um I think he's Yeah, I think um I think it's going to be interesting following this guy's career over the last couple of years. I saw a little clip of the interview you did with him as well and he seems like quite a quite a level-headed um sort of sensible guy which obviously seems like a quite a calm demeanor, quite an intelligent sort of thoughtful person. So um I think yeah, this is a guy to keep an eye out for the next year or two, mate. Absolutely. Yeah, Florian got fourth. He didn't even have the footage up on there. So I'm just going to skip skip through it because uh he did look good, but I don't have any footage. But I want to let's go to his page. Maybe he's got something. Yeah. So he was a very solid fourth place flurry. I know he's been classic physique before. Correct. Yeah, he was open. Remember he turned pro I think it was 2018 or 2019 at the Portugal show. He turned he won the amateur show. I think it was an was it an amateur Olympia and then the next day he went and got fourth and I'm sure he beat Samson in that show as well. Wow. Um and he was and then I thought he was fantastic. I thought okay this guy's amazing. was we started working with Patrick Tur and then he decided to go classic and I was like no this because I thought this guy had serious like open pro potential. Um he did classic and I imagine he must have really really struggled to get classic because I mean just the weight alone in those legs must be um must be crazy. So uh when he when I heard he was coming back to open I was really really happy and um yeah I think he I think he looked absolutely fantastic. I love his condition. I love the thickness of his shoulders, the stripiness. I mean, the legs are just probably they're probably in the top five best legs in the pro league and certainly in the open right now. Um, he's his lower half reminds me a bit of Dennis Wolf, but we're better calves. Yeah, it's it's it's funny that uh yeah, he's uh I I looking at him now, I don't know how he made classic. He must have dropped a lot of muscle to do it. Well, well, I spoke to um I spoke to Patrick and he said, "Oh, he's just he's at that age where he doesn't want to be like, you know, do what it needs to what he has to do to kind of get up to the offseason weights." He said he doesn't feel it's healthy. He doesn't feel like it's something he wants to put his body through. Um but then obviously I think he must have put his body through a lot trying to make it down to classic. So maybe he's weighed it up. He's seen that his body wants to grow and just thought s I'm going to have to go back to open. Like when Dennis Derek Lungsford went from 212 to open, he tried to hold his body weight back, but his body just wanted to grow and in the end they just kind of went, "Oh well." They just kind of uh they just kind of give in and say, "Okay, I'll just let my body do what it wants to do." But um I I would like to see more back on him. But I'm sure he's aware of that. But um when he really balances everything out, I think he's I mean, look at that. I mean, he's he's really good and he's only he's only a young guy, you know. I think he's I think you look at he's got a Boston Red Sox hat on. 10 extra points. That's a That's a baseball team out of Austin if you don't know that. Okay. Yes, I'm aware. I'm aware. Well, you never know. I I don't want I don't want to assume anything. So, uh the only other big talking point was Blessing. And unfortunately, it's he's getting he's getting it piled onto him right now. People are just being merciless. Uh he had almost two years away. The last time we saw Blessing on stage was uh the Flex Pro weekend. You were there. I think this is when was this? I'm not even sure. This was Was he in the Olympia one year? I guess he was. I forgot he was in the Olympia. Yeah. So, this was Do you remember when he had a go? Remember remember I remember I interviewed him at the 2022 Olympia and I did the interview and he had a go at me and he said, "Giles, you're a Brit. I'm a Brit. Why didn't you have me in your top 10?" And I just kind of just I just laughed. I just kind of laughed and I was just like really awkward. He put his arm around me and he was you could I know he's trying to play the persona, but you could see he was trying to be like a bit about intimidating, like pissed off with me and stuff and he was like he was looking in the eye. You could see he was quite annoyed by it and I was just like well you know well tough luck mate you know it's is what I said and he he ended up he didn't end up making top 15 but I I think he was just playing the persona but he has done the Olympia in 22 I'm not sure if he's done Olympia after that I might have um but to be honest mate when I saw the when I saw the leadup pitches in the videos I didn't see any changes you know those big when he was really big and heavy and it was saying do you think that blessings made any improvements and I personally I personally didn't see any improvements the thing is he had body fat as well so it's more hard. It's more difficult to try and see if there are any areas that he's improved. But um yeah, I feel disappointed for him. Um but look what Patrick Moore did. I mean that's that's the thing we have to go back to. I'd like because I mean that's that's the indie pro. That's when he kind of looked his best. Yeah. That's when he beat Charles Griffin. That was in Hang on a minute. That was in when I was in my hospital bed. 22. Yeah. 22. Yeah. I remember I remember remember following the show from my uh from my my hospital bed on my phone. Um, so that's kind of what Blessing is capable of. Um, and thing is, I mean, he had he had George Farah as a coach. Now he's got Boss of Outlaw. Now, Boss of Outlaw is not someone who's known for slipping with his athletes. So, what I think will happen, I can see him maybe doing one, two, maybe even three more shows. And I think he'll just get better with each one. That's what I predict will happen. Yeah. I, you know, people are throwing Boss under the bus saying, "What? He's got too many clients. He's a bad coach now." No, he had like half the Olympian, half the Arnold Classic lineup uh at clients. So, I think what happened is exactly what you said. He got too heavy. He carried that body fat for a long time. It was a very long offseason and they just couldn't get it off fast enough. It was he was he was behind. So, you know, Dubai is three weeks away. He could look Yeah, he could look way better there. There's more there's a show like every weekend for the rest of the year leading into up to the Olympia. I think I think um it's better for him to do all he has to do I'll be honest I don't he's not going to qualify for the Olympia I mean that's just that's not going to happen he's not going to win Dubai he's not going to beat the likes of Rubiel and um and Beerus and guys like that so all he has to do is have one really really good appearance it doesn't matter about the placing because like I said qual qual if you put qualification aside now all he has to do is look a lot better than he did um in at this show which I I think is probably quite easy to happen. So if he comes in at least then he can like um what Wesley did at Detroit after the Arnold Classic. You know he kind of he didn't look as good at the Arnold Classic. He had that poor appearance at the Olympia where he didn't kind of you know we kind of expect him to make top three but then and even if he didn't even when Wesley didn't even win Detroit he still looked really really good. And I think that sometimes is um as important if not more important than getting a win. Yeah. You know what's weird is there were photos up and they're all gone of of him on stage. Really? Yes. I don't know if I don't know who took them down or why. On his on his you mean on No, not just on his like on the Gilko page. Oh, really? Yeah. That's weird. I mean, that's that What does that tell you? Uh I mean because you saw the you saw those posts where people were slamming them and you saw the high resolution images that people were using. Yeah. Those weren't iPhone shots from from the fourth row. Those were those were legit. So, I'll check one more time. It should be on uh Legion Sports. Yeah. No, if he goes and does Dubai, he just has to look better. Even if he gets fifth or sixth, it doesn't matter as long as he doesn't look like kind of how he did at Legion. Correct. Yeah, I agree. You know, people have short memories. It just takes one good showing. I know. And everyone otherwise it's going to be a disastrous kind of comeback year for him. Really? I I mean, he can't stop now. If he stops now, I think that's a very bad idea because that's what people are going to remember. This guy was gone. He came back, he looked awful. That's all they're going to remember. But he needs to he needs to fix it before people get that in their head. And I know he's a personality, but I know he's got decent contract with Muscle Tech. And um but don't forget what happened with Redcon. They'll just drop you. Yes. Yeah. Absolutely. Nothing. They're ruthless. These companies are ruthless. You know what it's like. We've worked for publishing companies and and and supplement companies and you know you know you know the sort of what these companies can be like and the thing is it'll be written into their contract. You have to do this to maintain your contract otherwise we can't we have the res we reserve the right to release you. It's literally written in their contracts. So these guys and plus he's got a baby as well you know he's got partner. Sometimes that actually helps some bodybuilders and sometimes it can actually impede them a little bit, you know, but um you know like guys like Rean and Sean Kar, I think it actually helps them because I think it gives them more purpose and focus, but um for some guys some people it can be it can um it can be detrimental to their to their careers, but more often than not it's actually beneficial. I what I found anyway. Yeah. And I you know he's he's got that personality and he's very popular on YouTube and Instagram. So, he's a whether he competes or not, he does well and I think he's still very beneficial for a supplement company for exposure and he's got a huge fan base. But yeah, I I'd still I personally being greedy here. I want to see him I want to see him come back. I'm trying to get an interview with him. He said he would do. We'll see if it comes up this week. I want to see him come back and just look really good. That's all I want to see. So, it' be four weeks between Legion and Dubai. Yes. Yeah. Okay. Well, that is that as you know uh from how he looked at Legion, four weeks should be enough to really really turn things around because look what Patrick Moore did in one week. So if if blessing thing is if he blows it in Dubai like I said regardless of the place and if he comes in not looking good in Dubai then it's going to be disastrous. But all I hope for is that he turns up looking good uh and that's it. Forget the placing. Yeah. So uh the winner at the Cali Pro a couple weeks ago was Rean Grimes defeating Sassan. We'll get into that. But, uh, he's going to keep going. He's doing We're starting Toronto Pro section of the, uh, show now, guys. So, this is Rean. Uh, I thought his condition was pretty good. His tan, he does not seem to be able to maintain a good stage 10 because at New York, uh, he came out and it was fine. Then it sort of melted off of him. It dripped. It did not stick to his skin. So, for Cali, he had his wife do some different type of tanning product. He still didn't look he still looked uh muddy. You know, it was a worst hand. That's why I thought SAS was going to get him at Cali, but he uh it didn't happen. But uh here he is. This is a a recent update from last night. Uh he's doing Toronto because obviously he's a he's a Toronto area native. Doesn't need to do it. He's got his Olympic qualification. Doesn't need the money, but here he is. But we like to see that, Giles. We like to see these guys keep going. Huh. Um I think he'll win Toronto. Um, to be honest, uh, Rean's actually been probably the biggest surprise of 2025 so far for me. I thought he looked really, really good in New York because it was very close between him and Kruzo for third place. I know Kruzo beat him, but I mean, many of us had uh, okay, [\h__\h] is Rean going to get 30th? So, to be battling it out with guys like that, honestly, because I thought that in my head um, I I thought Rean wouldn't come close to someone like a Kriso, but he did. He really really did. And I think he looked absolutely fantastic at Cali. Um because thing is we we didn't see many updates but what I did see I was like okay I think he's trying to hide his condition here. I think he's in trouble. I just and I didn't hear any any gossip or buzz or anything. No one was really mentioning him of like have you seen how Regan's looking. So for me like I said on Power a few weeks ago I honestly thought he was going to be a disappointment but he proved me wrong. So I'm really really happy. In fact I saw this update today um and he looked absolutely phenomenal. I mean his back shots I think this is probably the best reg we've ever seen. I mean certainly from I mean the back shots are just flawless. The radial bicep rear lat spread that front lat spread looks sensational. Um obviously he still needs like more chest and legs or whatever but I mean in terms of what he's done with his physique. I didn't expect him to look this good and I'm really really happy for him and um and also thanks to him for sticking up with him and Jay sticking up for me on their podcast recently. Thanks Regan. Good dude. Good dude. Yeah, I want to I want to go to the posing because, you know, people are kind of giving him crap for they don't think they didn't think he made much improvement because he had been gone for quite a while. It was he hadn't competed since the end of 23. I've got um remember we did the Italy show and he beat um beat Nathan. I'm trying to think that's in my head is the was it the Flex Pro? I think that was kind of the the best I've seen him, but I'd have to go and directly compare them. But um I think this was as this was possibly was possibly the best Regan we've seen. I don't remember him ever looking much better than this, but um the thing is the fact is aside from you know the tan's not too bad in that picture because obviously the lights very bright there. I think he looks great. I think he's um I mean I I don't I I'm not he's not he's not someone I would consider as a Mr. Olympia in the next couple of years. I know Jay Jay Cutler thinks he could be, but um I think he looks fantastic and um yeah and I think he's probably quite smart doing Toronto. who can pick up an extra win. And uh it was always nice to go into the Olympia as as a as a two pro show winner because I don't think there's anyone really to challenge him in Toronto. Sorry about that, guys. Um but um yeah, I mean he's being a top 10 Olympia guy. That obviously sets you apart from all the others. Um could he make top 10 again this Olympia this year, do you think? I mean, I could see him I could see him Yeah, I could see him possibly in the top 10, but then we'd have to really look at the names who are doing it for that to happen. Mate, I found the Florian footage. I just want to give this guy some good good credit because he looked he did look really good. Look at those quads. Not Blitz. Sorry. My cat's got a mouse. A big mouse. Oh my god. Blitzy, don't bring it in here, please. Oh, it's dead. Admire Floren while Charles deals with his rodent problem. Yeah. God, Flory looks good here, man. Yeah. I just want to give him props. He He's not doing Toronto. I don't know why he didn't do Toronto. I wonder what he's doing next then because um maybe he's doing one of the European shows or is he shutting it down? Um look at his shoulders as well. He's got really I think he's got some of the best shoulders and legs in the pro league right now. I mean, look at the look at the density. If he gets that density in his chest and back like he's got and also in his arms that he's got in his shoulders and his legs, I mean, this guy's uh this guy's really going to move up. Yeah, I really my only knock on him is the back. Think I think everything else is almost exactly where it needs to be. So now we go to Sassan. The UK's the UK's Sassan Herati. Uh I hope he doesn't set a record for most second place finishes in one season. Although we go back in history, I bet there's guys in the Grand Prix tours who had there were probably guys who did a dozen second places in one year. But Sas has Detroit. He took second to William Bonak. uh Fibo show, second to Andrew Jack, and now in Cali Pro, he was second again to Rean Grimes. And now he's going up against Rean again in Toronto on Sunday. So, uh, condition-wise, I thought he was in better condition than Rean. His stage color, the tan was far superior. Uh, but still, Rean bas basically won on structure and and on the back shots. Yeah. What do you think SAS could possibly do to edge him out in the next I think I don't I'm not sure he can get any better than Cali because I thought he peaked really, really beautifully for Cali. I thought he looked really, really, really good. Um because he was better than he was at Fibo and Detroit. He kind of just got better with each show. So, I'm just wondering if he can get better again because I didn't think he could get better than the um the the Fibo show, but then he kind of got better again for Cali. So, I'm just wondering if he can do that again. I just I'm not sure. I think maybe and thing is you know you know you could once you reach your peak you know the only way is down after that. So if he so if that is the best he can be in in in in uh sorry uh Cali. Yeah. Is it is he going to be as is he not going to be as good? Is his body going to be burnt out or is he going to be better? So I'm really really curious to see but um I can see him I can I can't I don't know. I think Rean's on a roll right now and I think Rean's going to look better than he did at um at Cali as well. So, I don't I I very very shocked if Sassan beat Regan here, but um obviously I'm rooting for him because he's he's a cool guy and it's nice to see him back, but um I mean Rean didn't blow him off the stage. No, but um like you said, the structure of Rean and those back shots are just so dominant. Yeah, because you could see here the condition on SAS was superior. Yeah, Regan looks like yellow here. This this tan, I don't know what he's going to do to fix it. It looks like it looks like 23 Hadtaddi tan. Remember I criticized Haddie for his tan at the 23 Olympia when Derek took the title off him. Like he come on he's like a yellow color and I hate that yellow color because if there's there's so many professional tanners backstage and like when you're at the top top level I mean actually had he when had he did that he was Mr. Olympia until Derek was announced Mr. Olympia and people say oh it shouldn't matter. The posing shouldn't matter. The um you know this shouldn't matter. It's like, yeah, but these small details add up. And if it is close, you know, and you you've literally got, like I say, you got like a tie situation like with Derek and Nick, you know, at um from the show the other week, then these Pittsburgh, then yeah, these things can play. They they can, you know, like you said, if it's if it's if it's half a percent or 1% and they're neck and neck, then it's um these these small details become quite major details because it's a difference between first and second. 100%. I mean, just the scorecards didn't indicate how close these two were because I believe Rean got a perfect score. Yeah, I think so. I think I saw that. I saw that. I was actually surprised Sassan didn't get at least a couple votes really. Maybe maybe the high and well, they dropped the high and the low score, so maybe that's where he would have gotten one of the second. I mean, I mean, the difference obviously in the legs, but um you know, each physique has their own, you know, attributes and sort of weaknesses if you want to say. Um but um like I said, I wouldn't have been, you know, shocked if they given it to to St. I would have been disgusted by it, but um I did think Rean was going to win that one just based upon the the pre-judging photos. Yeah. So we do have some people coming over from Europe. Uh let's find where I put him. Talk about uh Mosilla. Andrea Andrea Mosi because there's two Andreas from Italy. There's Prey and there's Muzzi Muzzi. So, uh, Muzzy's heading over to Toronto. Look at the Look at the graininess on the legs. I love seeing that. That's awesome. Look at that. Good job. That's quality muscle right there. Yeah. I'm I'm happy to see him back actually because he's been going well I can remember him in 2020 up against James Holland Head and he always he always he's always like second to fifth you know and I know sometimes when he does like four or five shows in a row like maybe on the last one he dips down and then sometimes he drops out of the top five or the top six but um when he's on I mean he's a really really big guy but when he when he's absolutely bang on he's he's pretty impressive um so I think he's um obviously be a first call out you know, looking at this lineup. Um, but um, yeah, it be interesting to see if he's made any improvement because sometimes it's with him it's all how he looks from the back because he's got a huge back, but sometimes the the detail and the conditioning isn't consistent as it is from the front or the side and you always like a little bit of chest, but his legs, his back are huge. You know, he's got a big he's a big guy. I mean, he takes up a lot of room on stage. So, I'm I really I'm really really hoping that he's made improvements because it was only a small couple of tweaks he needed to make to his physique, you know, and then there's a guy that's um you know, competitive. I mean, for a for for a win in any contest he does. Yeah. I mean, look at the lat spread. You could see the structure, the mass. Yeah, he's huge. It's funny. It took me a couple months to distinguish between the Andreas, Prei and Mosie, but I got to tell they they're actually two very different people. They're not clones or anything like that. Yeah. One's got big legs and the other one lacks legs. Yeah, that's right. Prey needs more legs. You're right. Uh, another big dude headed there is Erin Erin. Erin Gyll. God, I'm I'm Oh, golly. Yeah. Yeah. He's like 300 pounds on stage. Mutilating names left and right lately. But, uh, yeah, look at that. This was Cali Pro, Cal State Cal State Championships, which confuses me because it sounds like it's a state level show. It's not. Have you ever Have you ever seen him in in in the flesh? I've not, but I've interviewed him and I remember just when he came on the screen, I can remember just shoulders and traps. I mean, he's and I think he is something like is he something like 300 pounds on stage? I mean, he's an absolute I mean, look at the size of his head. I know he stood forward of like Patrick, but look at the physical size of that guy. Like his hands, everything, his joints, you know. Um I mean, he's he's an absolute monster. And I think he's pretty well put together as well. I think I saw him one of those years. Uh I was covering the Toronto Pro for MD. They have a a Proqualifier the day before and almost every time the winner will go on to the the the Pro Show the next day and I think that's where I saw him. I think and I think he was I think he made like top five at the Toronto Pro that year. I'm not sure. But he's good. He's really good. I mean he gets good condition as well. So he's big. He's conditioned and you know he's he's a proper open guy there. is a proper monster. All right, so they have a pretty decent uh 212 lineup and uh top of the list for me as far as who I think has the best chance of winning. Francisco, Francisco, I got to get this right. Is it Vic or VLK? It looks like a V. Vulk. I think he told me once in an interview and I said, "What is that VLK?" And he says, "Vog." Well, where's the Shouldn't there be a vowel in there somewhere? I mean, I don't know. I don't know. I just He did tell me. I completely forgot what he said now. Yeah. Uh but we knew him as Francisco Barios. This Vilk is a is a more recent addition to the name. But look at that. There he was. Because he had uh his toughest competition was Angel Calderon Frius, who that's a tough guy to beat as a 212, you know, he's been that is a major scalp to take that. I mean, imagine taking out a guy who's consistently top three. I mean, really I mean really the top three at the Olympia until they until one of them gets bored is going to be Keon Sean Kar and Angel Cderon. But now you've got guys like Francisco at a big show like the New York Pro beating an Angel Calderon. That makes it a little bit more interesting and that makes him kind of probably coming into the Olympia very very confident because now he's thinking [\h__\h] I've beaten a guy who's been second in the Olympia here and a very consistent bodybuilder that wasn't he wasn't off in New York. So for him to to to beat to beat a a caliber of a a bodybuilder like Angel Calderon that is huge. I mean I think that actually is more impressive than the win itself. Yeah, because like you said, if he beat Angel here, who's to say he's not going to beat the Olympia, too? Yeah, exactly. Exactly. I mean, I I mean, really, he must be thinking in his head, right, [\h__\h] Okay, if I because he's always consistent. I've never seen him off condition. Um, he's probably thinking, "Shit, I'm I'm a shoe in for top five here, maybe even top three because imagine if he could imagine if he could stay ahead of someone like Calderon and and and snag third because I'll be honest, in the 212, um, apart from that knee hat, um, you know, the 22-y old Turkish kid, apart from him, I'm not seeing any major new talent coming into 212 in the last couple of years." So, for me, I think it's um but Franchesco is one of those guys that could probably probably gate crash the certainly the top five, maybe even the top three if he can stay ahead ahead of Angel. Yeah, it's you he's been uh we've we've been watching this this young guy for years get better and better. All he really needed was the size condition. He's had the same coach for the whole career, the whole pro career, which I think is a is is a bonus because Patrick Tour obviously knows this guy's body inside out. I saw him turn pro in Spain. I was doing the live stream. I was watching the amateur. What was that? 2021, I think. Yeah, 2021. Yeah, I got 21 in my head. Um Yeah. And he he was where he um because he there was him and Rob Cannon. They both got their pro cards. Was it 21 or 23? 22. I can't It's one of those years anyway. But I've got I've got the videos still on my phone. Yes. It's It's hard for me to believe you didn't get that because you know the years like I know. Is it 20 22 I was obviously indisposed. I think it was I think it was um 2021. I think it was the NPC European in 21. Okay. Possibly. Possibly. Maybe 23. I don't blame you because there's so many of those shows and they have like similar names and so many of them are in Spain that you know I I I get confused and I can imagine you would because Yeah, it was 20. It was I'm sure it was August or June 21. Okay, cool. Another guy I think is going to be a top top guy. A first call out. Cody Drooot. Not a robot, it's a Drobot. It's That's the coolest name. So, here he was at New York. Oh, no. That was AI get confused. I think it's posing footage, but they're just showing a like a montage. But Cody's uh Cody's another guy that's very complete. Gets conditioned. Uh, I don't think he's probably gonna be beating Francisco, but he'll be giving him a good run for the money. This was a week ago. I like his physique. I really rate him, actually. I think he's got a really good shape. Um, nice to see him doing more shows as well. Prepped by Neil Hill. Um, very very consistent. Always in condition. Um, good shape. Um, yeah, I think he's um he's solid. I'd like I think there's a guy that I'd like to see maybe keep going because I'd like to see him in the Olympia because I think he could be a top 10 guy. No, I'm I'm sure he has every intention. You know, I I thought the point system was tedious. I didn't like it because it involved mathematics, but now I'm thinking maybe they should bring it back because somebody like what if Sassan gets second again here in Toronto? That's four second places. That definitely would have given him enough points to go to the Olympia, I'm sure. Yeah. Oh, exactly. Yeah. there's a situation where there's an athlete that um but then again if you're not beaten if you're getting beat by all these different guys then again they are top guys he's not being beat by you know he's been beaten by Andrew Jack William Bonak um you know Rean these are these are all top 10 top six Olympia ice so it's who's to say he couldn't get in the top 10 um personally I think he's like 11th or 15th guy but thing is you've still got to get to the Olympia in the first place I mean look at look what remember what I said about Kriso and I said remember I said to I think I said to you might be on here or off offline. I said, um, Chris needs to choose better shows because he's not going to win Pittsburgh. He's not going to win New York. And then look what happened. And he doesn't like traveling. So, there's three reasons why I thought he might not get to the Olympia because there he's gone. He's he's he burnt out now. And he's come off he's not burnt out, but he's he wants to come off prep and and now we're not likely to see him at the Olympia. We're going to see him in um in Prague now. So, bit disappointing really. Well, you'll be in Prague anyway, so you'll see him. Yeah. Yeah. No. Yeah. have just been announced as the they just literally messaged me yesterday. So, um but um yeah, but things that's what I'm saying guys, you need to choose your shows carefully. Choose shows that you know you can win, especially if you're a you know, if you like see Chris Kris being seventh Olympia now, get that go do a show that you can get a qualification, you know, and look at look at who's doing it rather than doing these big shows because your sponsors are pressing you to do so. But um so so Cody now I mean um unlikely he's gonna beat Francisco but um I I hope he does another one because like I said I would definitely like to see him at the Olympic. You know there's there's not a lot of 212 shows but like there I'm sure there's a show out there that he would win. It's just you got to be strategic and then then they get called out for oh you're picking the easy shows. You know what? Why would you intentionally, if only the winner of the show is going to go to the Olympia, why would you intentionally compete in a show where like a top three Olympian is going to be there? Look, look, I mean, people give Andrew Jack [\h__\h] for jumping into FIBO and saying it's an easy qualifying, coming in like not at his best. It's like, but yeah, but now he's he's like weeks ago now he can go straight into an offseason um you know, try and make some improvements and then get the Olympia prep. Why keep competing competing competing trying to get a qualification? You know, it's it goes back to the whole veto thing of after he won Arnold Brazil, it's what was the benefit to doing more and more shows when you should really be shutting it down and trying to get ready and make an impact at the Olympia. That was my point, right? Yeah, you did have a point there. It took I don't want to revisit that. Don't start. Don't start. But here's a guy that we haven't seen for a little while, but we both uh rate him highly. Courage Courage. Yeah. I've seen him a few times. I saw him winning the Texas Pro one time when I was out there for that. He looks This is uh this is recent. This is a week ago and much bigger version because you know we saw him take I think fourth at the Arnold year a few years back. That was was that 2018 I've got 2018 in my head at the Arnold Classic. I remember being sat at the front. I remember thinking god I really like this guy's physique. Um but um like Melman, there's another guy went from classic to 212 who's kind of looks like he's going to do really well. And also it's and also for me it's not just about you know they want to grow and they can't make the weight cap. It's what what what weight does their physique look best at you know what c sorry what category um and as a 212 I'm interested to see if his physique looks so much better. you know, because sometimes you see like 212 or classic move up to open or classics move to 212 and they put all this size on and they don't quite look as good and other guys like Derek Lunford when he went from 212 to open. I mean, that was a that was an experiment that paid off because he ended up winning the open Olympia. And another thing to consider is you classic is getting a lot more exposure than 212. It's a more publicized, hyped up division. So for him to move to 212 when he was doing very well in classic just tells you his body like you said he's a young guy too. His body just probably wanted to grow and the classic weight cap was was just not working for him anymore. I mean some guys can make a weight cap easily and they've got you know seven eight pound to spare and look amazing and do well. other guys, they have to like really like torture themselves and really suffer to get down. And imagine doing that and then thinking in the offseason, I got to be careful I don't put any muscle on because otherwise I just gonna have to I have to diet it all off the next time. So maybe he was just at that stage where he just thought, you know what, I don't want to keep holding back because as a bodybuilder, you want to bodybuild. You want to progress. You want to put on muscle. And sometimes the body just wants to grow. I remember we spoke to Derek Lunford's wife at the um the the the Olympia uh the seminar and she said, "Charles, he was eating kale salads and his body weight was still going up." She said he just like his body was screaming, "Let it grow. Let feed me, feed me. I want to grow. I want to grow. There's no way you're going to make 212 again." And you know, sometimes it pays off. And sometimes some bodybuilders it doesn't. You know, we see bodybuilders going from classic to open, back to classic again. Yeah. You know, we see this all the time. Joe Sema, I thought Joe Se was going to make a great open pro. He got fourth in his first open show and then he switched to classic and I was like, "No, this is a really bad idea." Well, look how wrong I was there. Oh, I mean, yeah, I would have I would have assumed the same thing. I always assume if somebody downsides it's going to be a a bad idea, but Joe, not always. Not always. Everybody, every bodybuilder's different. The way they progress, the way their physique, the way they like to train. Um, and uh and thing is now he can't he can because I imagine he's probably I don't know is he like probably under the 212 limit quite under comfortably without him to stress. So, he's probably enjoying his training more. He's he's probably excited to see what he can unveil as a 212 because, you know, it doesn't even look like the same guy that we saw as a as a as a classic guy just a few years ago. Yeah. If it weren't for the hair in the glasses, I don't think I'd know it was him. No, I wouldn't I would honestly I would, if you would have shown me that video, maybe the front actually, maybe the front bicep, I might have spotted it. I would have thought, "Oh, that looks familiar." But I might not have been able to pinpoint it. Yeah. So, uh, we have another guy who was a 212 who is moving down to classic. I don't mean down like it's a step down, but it's a down. Across. We don't say down or up. We say across. Okay. Thank you. I I need the right terminology here. So, this is Mmud Aldura. Most people just know him as Dura. Uh, I think he's in the Mont. He's in Canada. I'm not sure if it's Montreal or Toronto, but he has moved down or moving across to Classic. He did very well. I I remember at the uh I know he's won shows, but I was at Toronto one year when it came down to him and Zayn Watson. I think it was a like a one or two point decision, and I think it could have gone either way. Oh, wow. But I'm very curious to see what he looks like as a classic. So, this is Yeah, this is a physique update. He's not as thick as he was. I see he's Yeah, he's definitely definitely lost some size, but he had to because he was he was I believe he was right at the 212 limit. And didn't didn't he say he had health issues? I know he talks about gear a lot and he was telling me he was he was on a he's on AI remember watching a clip of him and he was talking about the kind of dosages and how he didn't want to compete again. He didn't want to have to take that much gear and it was it sounded a lot actually. It sounded like he was pushing pushing the envelope a little bit and um was it was I hearing right that he had some health issues or he just didn't want to or he was worried about health issues or because I was I was really happy to see that he was coming jumping into classic actually because I thought he was all done. I thought he was retired. Yeah, that s I I don't want to confirm or deny it, but it sounds very familiar. And I do know that uh he is one of the most successful online coaches of all the pros out there. Yeah. The car he drives, he speaks he speaks Arabic and he's got a ton of people in the Middle East uh as clients that, you know, lifestyle clients are the way to go. We had we had some DMs one time talking about working with regular people versus bodybuilders. I think most online coaches would say regular people are are the way to go. People that just want to look better, feel better because bodybuilders, they will dump a coach in a heartbeat. They'll blame you. Needy as well. I couldn't I mean I I people asked me because obviously I got myself in really good condition and I know I have a lot of knowledge. But I I've been asked a few times over the years, would we have a coach? And I just say absolutely not. It's not something I'm even remotely interested in. I wouldn't want the stress. And to be honest, I'm too hardline anyway. I'd be I'd probably piss them off or make them cry every day. So, there's some shots from a few days ago, four days ago. He's got that diet face. Cool. Did you see the the post where people I don't know. It was one of those beyond, you know, there's all these Instagram pages. Why are we seeing so many puffy faces now? Well, that's it's been like that for probably 10, 15 years, isn't it? You and I you and I know why that is as well. Yeah. Well, we we this guy does not have a puffy face. So, I like the I like the I I used to wait at the hotel when back in the 90s at the British Grand Prix. I used to wait at the the hotel because I knew what time they used come in about 11 o'clock um from the previous day and I'd literally walk watch them all walking in. Kevin, Charles Clement, Paul Dlet, Chris Cormier, Vince Taylor and I'd watch them all walking in and I'd be like he's in condition. He's not. He is. He's not. And I was always right. By the time I saw him on stage a few hours later, I was always bang on purely because remember Kevinone walked in one take because he used to get the really good skull face and then one time I walked in watched him walk in and he looked big in his clothes because he you know and uh his face wasn't full and that was the year well he still got third I mean but he you could tell he wasn't he wasn't in the same sort of condition or in the same sort of uh well same condition. Well, put it this way nobody is going to have a death face. Sorry, we don't want to call it that. A skull face. Come on. Yeah. I think after we lost all those people the couple year, but anyway, no one's going to have a face that's so drawn and emaciated looking like that without corresponding spectacular condition all over the physique. Yeah. So, like I said, I I've done the same thing. If I walk around, I see people before a show, I look at the faces, I go, "Oh, wow. He's he's definitely in shape." And another way is to see if um they look big in their clothes. Because if they look the guys look big in their clothes, that usually tells me that they they haven't sucked it down enough. I remember I remember being with Kamal backstage at a show in Greece years ago and he walked in with his tracksuit and he had the the the the sort of sucked in face and no one was paying attention to him and you know what even when he stripped off and he was tanning just walking around not posing no one was paying attention to him and then soon as he got on stage and he hit a pose everyone was just like holy [\h__\h] who is that and it's funny because he he was practically invisible backstage I was there with him crazy it's crazy it's like I can imagine like LeBrada when he just stood there relaxed backstage I bet you know you can imagine just sort pumping up whatever, but no one paid attention to him and then when they get on stage, holy [\h__\h] Well, but the talking about Kamal, I'll never forget the time he won the Arnold, but the night before he won the 212 at the Arnold. It was his I think that was his first show as an IFBB 2018 Arnold Classic. It was the first 212 because Jim Manning gave him got him his pro card and they said he said go and do and so he basically Kamal decided to do the first 212 show of the year and that was the animal classic and then he went and won it and remember Charles Dixon was second and Samir Trudy third but I mean at the remember at the meet and greet you're like let's interview this guy I'm like h I looked at him like Charles why are we I thought you were just doing the guy a favor like uh he's a friend of his he just wants to give him an interview. No, he's good. He's good. Check it out. And then he was chatting to me. He said, "Jars, I've never looked like this. I'm working with Chris Aceito." He said, "Jars, I've never looked like this." And he says, he looked around because there was no one, there was no queue at his booth. And he didn't have any photos or anything with him. And he pulled his baggie down slightly and he just flexed his leg and I went, "Oh." And he said, "Look at that, Charles. I've never looked like this." He said, "I've never been this big and full before." And I says, "Oh, well, good luck tomorrow. I think you'll do well. I think you'll shock them." And I said to you and Stephen, I said, "This guy will probably be top three." I said, "You watch." And you were right as usual. So I I forgot to mention this guy in the open. He's making his debut. He just turned pro over in Mexico. Uh he was he's known as a as I guess influencer would be the right word. 1.7 million followers on Instagram. I think he's huge on YouTube as well. And uh he did what most of these influencers don't do. He put it on the line and competed. You know, obviously he could have been harder from the back, but uh hang on. That's why he was getting so much hate on the comments. So it's because he's an influencer. Because I was looking and I was thinking, why are people being so negative about this guy? And it's because he's influenced because um uh what's his name? Larry Wheels did the other week and I was I started comments. I was reading all these comments. I'm thinking okay this is the best he's ever looked and you're just everyone has just been like all these just like [\h__\h] boys just ripping the [\h__\h] out of him and I was just like whoa guys what are you talking about? This is the best Larry wheels I've ever seen. Looks really good. The condition's good. He's improved his physique from when he did the nationals a few years ago. And then it's I' I've cotened on to it now because I saw this morning somebody said he's an influencer and it makes perfect sense now because it's always it's always those little trolls online that watch stuff on YouTube and they want to pick holes and they want to like someone said, "Oh, he's not even in good condition. Look, he hasn't even got ripped glutes." And it's like, "Mate, the guy's an absolute monster. He's just turned pro and he's got a physique that only you and your wetest dreams could dream of." Yeah. You know, pathetic. It's pathetic. I agree. So, you know, structurally I could see I could see some some issues with him. But again, he's he's a big big guy there. I mean, he's with Honey there. What's Honey doing with what the heck is that? I mean, Hani doesn't waste his time on on schmucks, put it that way. And it's nice to see an influencer with a really really [\h__\h] good physique as well because he's got I mean, he's an absolute monster, you know? I mean, like any physique, you can you can sort of critique it and, you know, say, "Well, this should be better, that could be better, that can be improved on." But, you know, he's just turned pro, so he's kind of at the he's at the he's back to the bottom now. He's in the he's in a new arena. So, he's obviously got improvements he can make, and he's not going to look out of place on on that pro stage this weekend. No way. Yeah. And again, you know, I I give credit to any of these influencers who are making a very good living through social media. There's absolutely no need for them to put themselves out on out there on the line for public scrutiny. Exactly. Where they know they're going to get slammed just because they're successful and people are going to hate them just for that. I mean I mean Sam Sulick I mean went hugely up and I never really followed him anyway but you know I just used to see his stuff and think oh it's cool kid's doing well he's young he's making loads of money he's doing really well he seems to be doing what he loves and then when he competed I was like god good on him and then he went to the Arnold Classic I thought you know what that takes real balls to do that and the fact that he went and won those two shows and um yeah that's um yeah kind of then you kind of appeal to the sort of the old school crowds like us like that you know the ones that think you know that uh I kind of judge the the bodybuilders that compete a little more higher than we do of the, you know, the influencers who just basically look amazing in the gym, but they don't actually, you know, they never actually step foot on stage, you know. So, um, I mean, I know I got a lot more credit when I started competing, even though I was quite a big guy, you know, would for years, you know, I got I definitely gained a lot of credibility when I competed. So, um, and look decent, you know. Yep. So, I got one last person I want to mention because uh I don't know if you know I I did some of those posing clinics out at a gym in Worcester called Uncaged Fitness. Cool. And I handled all the male competitors for the most part. There were actually a couple guys helping, but uh this woman Robin is 59 years old. 59 years old. Women's physique pro. She Wow. She didn't even start training, I think, until she was in her 40s. Wow. Looks fantastic. Yeah. You would never She's a coach. You would never know up close there's not one wrinkle on her face cuz what do I say Giles? Black don't crack. That's true. I do say that. But I'm honestly like at 59 usually you can see they got like a wrinkle around the knees or they got loose skin but like her skin looks really really tight. That tells me she stays in good condition all year round because you know and even before she started training I bet she wasn't like overweight you know. She looks um look at that fat. Look at that face. She's not she's not fat though is she's not like like 300 lb. No, she was like morbidly obese. Look at the skin. The skin looks really really skin looks like that of a 25-year-old. Yeah. So amazing. Yeah. I wish her the best of luck. She'll be doing open m This show has open masters for everyone. Nice. So, okay. Stop sh playing on those chins there. My god. She was like like she was like she was bloody on a on a bloody bungee. Correct. Uh so everybody the show is actually on Sunday. It's not a Saturday show. All the information is on this website, torontoroshow.com, for the schedule, the live stream, all that good stuff. Now, let's turn our attention to Are you keeping track of how many All-Star Olympia tours you've done, Giles? Uh, no. I think it's about 12 now. Yeah, you might want to like just take a little piece of paper and write it down just out of curiosity. I did I did six last year, two two this year, eight, and then I did Ashley, Phil, Heath. Oh, no. It's probably something like 1213 something like that. Oh, before we get into the tour, this was uh this is uh oh god, what's his name? It's right there. Ants Bales's gym where he has you said he has all the equipment from the original Temple gym there. A lot of the the because there's a franchise there about 10 of them now, the Ultralexes. The first one was in Leeds where where I used to train at school called Flex Gym and then a guy called Charlie who I've known is a good bodybuilder in the area uh quite welloff guy, successful guy financially. He's a financial adviser. he decided to um take buy this gym and call it Ultraflex. And then he's they're all popping up all over the country now. 1,000 pound leg calf raise. Yeah. And um he bought all the gym equipment off Dorian and then he distributed certain pieces to different Ultra Flexers that wanted them. So An got the the carrays, the hack squat, the um the squat rack, which I squatted on a few weeks ago, which was amazing. The p the the original pullover machine, you know, the famous one there. Yeah. Um that hack squat. There you go. That was the one that Chris Call me was throwing up on. I used I mean I used all these on that day. You did? Yeah, you did. Yeah. So, you've used all this equipment. Um Oh, that was the first weekend I ever met. You remember? That's right. Yeah. And also the um also I think some of the the dumbbells as well as some of the weights, but he's obviously they've caged it off. Um they are my birthday card from Lee Lee Priest and Chris. Happy birthday, you [\h__\h] Yep. Yep. They are lots of love for it. Happy birthday. Enjoy your day. Custard tarts with Kungfield. Oh my god. Yeah. No, because when we're on the tour, when we go to Nando, I eat these custard custard tart things called the Portuguese custard dessert, like pastry with custard in them. So, obviously Lee would give me a lot of [\h__\h] for eating them. Um, so whenever whenever we're at Nando, I always take pictures of them, put it on the group chat, and um we make sort of abusive comments to each other. That's my old uh that's my old apartment, the penthouse one. I got kicked out after six months for partying too much. That's the one that Lee Priest was cleaning. That was on the Keyside in Newcastle. That was the one with the Millennium Bridge view. I was only living there six months. They booted me out. Too many parties. Wild party. I mean, the the one weekend I was there in Birmingham with you. I had rented an apartment and we had a party and I I'm actually surprised we didn't get kicked out, honestly. Yeah. See them all. Had to be like 30 people in there. So, this is Newcastle. Yeah. Yeah. My old stomping grounds. It was nice. Yeah. We um the there was a gymn I took Lee priest to called Viking gym in Heban up in West Cast Gates said Newcastle and they were moving premises. They moved to a bigger premises. So um Chris says oh you're going to go to the I was like well it's my birthday weekend. He said well I'll drive down from Glasgow. Um me and my girlfriend Claire he says you know if you and Lauren want to go. So I got a nice hotel on the key side and um yeah just it was only a couple of days after we'd finished the the Terrence Ruffin tour. So this was um this was one of the I think this yeah this was the final day at Cuba Keeland's the IB pro his gym he's got an Ultraflex as well in Rotherham and um and you know his wife Megan Sylvester she won Tampa last year. Oh yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So she was there. So those two they approached me and I've already announced the dates and they said um um you know we do an annual thing for all our MK coaching clients. He says, "We did one last year with Ryan Terry, Jamie Johal, you know, Jamie the Giant. I forget there was a couple other names." And he says, "We had like 150 people there." He said, "Literally just my clients and all my the coaches that teach that coach underneath me, like kind of, you know, part of my coaching team." So he said, "Um, we could actually coincide the the date. um we booked this beautiful venue called the Magna Magna is it not um arena or something in um Sheffield and he said um I'd like to book um uh Terrence for it. So I said yeah it was brilliant. So it was ab it was absolutely fantastic. This was the one in um this was the one down in Fro. You know Dean White the 212 Pro. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was Yeah. He was he's got a gym down in Frone just right down south down in Somerset past Bristol and um because he he he wanted to start doing these kind because he's seen what I've been doing with the tours and he's like I wouldn't mind you know I see that what you're doing I think they're really really good for the gym and I think we'd like to start because his girlfriend's a pro as well she was wellness but she switched to natural bikini so tilda she's with hostile and um yeah they both messaged me and they said look we'd really we'd really like to have Terrence and uh we did it and it went really well. It's funny because everyone in the audience there there was guys like in sweatshirts there was like probably 40 50 guys there and they were all there and I was listening to the questions and I was thinking these aren't just bodybuilding fans these are like Terrence Ruffing fans and anyway at the end of the seminar everyone kind of queued up and just they one by one they were like just stripping off and they all looked like they were all classic competitors like pretty much every single one of them were all classic guys that had traveled from all over to literally have one-on-one posing with Terrence. Wow. So they were like and I was like holy [\h__\h] these I didn't like I didn't spot them like see these guys there they they just look like normal bodybuilders. Sure. They were all like competing in one week and two weeks and and then Terrence did his full routine. It was crazy. So it was a really it was a really good day and then we went back to Bath which is a beautiful city and um we went to the steakhouse and I was like I said to Chris I said you go for a couple of drinks mate. Come on. There's a couple of nice bars over there. And Terrence says guys he said I'm just going to go for a walk. He says I'll I'll see you in the morning. So I said all right. And so he put on chat chat GPT. It's a very historic town all the Roman baths and everything. Yeah. Um he just want he said give me a guided tour of Bath. So he went he said for a couple of hours that night he went and did he was doing all his cardio by walking around. He literally go into the building to building and it was giving him like all this info. So it was um yeah it was really really good. That was the that was the um the MK coaching one that was in the the Magna Arena thing. So that was really really good as well. Um it was brilliant. And did you see Oh my god. Did you see Mark Hector? Uh, I think that was earlier. Was it go on to the next video and have a look at Mark Hector because Mark Hector's now being prepped by Kuba. And they are Look, look at look what Remember Mark Hector used to have weak legs. Look at his legs now. Wow. Big change. He was absolutely I honestly when soon as he was walking onto the stage I was like that's not the same Mark Hector because he's had that shoulder injury and he's um he's like he's you know he's had shoulder surgeries and everything and I couldn't believe it. He looks he looks like he's gone up a level now. He looked absolutely phenomenal. I mean look at the legs. He ne because I remember when he turned pro in the amateur Olympia I think it was 2018 in UK and he had those beautiful wide shoulders the kind of the narrow kind of column Dexter Jackson waist but he always lacked like in the legs the hamstrings the calves the sweep and I thought okay you know if he and I remember thinking even like a couple of years ago I was thinking here's a guy that could be nipping on Samson's heels and obviously because of his shoulder injuring for whatever happened he he didn't quite he's not really quite he's not he's been second and third and fourth in pro shows But he I thought, okay, here's a guy who really needs to kind of is he ever going to go to that next level? So when he stepped on stage here, um I just couldn't believe I mean literally seeing that up close was absolutely mind-blowing because plus and also you see the difference between the open and classic. Sure. I mean gez looks like A-50 pound difference right there. Yeah. I mean look how good he looks. I mean it just you know and and Terrence was a good sport. He's like yeah come on get him up. Let's do it. You know so Terrence didn't say no to anything that they they wanted him to do. It was really he was really accommodating, really professional. Um, and to be honest, I knew he'd be good to work with, but he was a real a real professional and a real pleasure to work with. Yeah, because I'm I'm just You've had, you know, no one's ever you've had success with every single person you brought over there. You've had Lee, you've had Lee Priest, Ronnie Coleman, Andrew Jack, Wesley. Keep going. Who? Wesley. Wesley Vissers, Ashley Cotwer, Brandon Curry, Phil Heath. Phil Heath was the Phil was the first one, right? Phil was, yeah, that was 2019. That was the Globe Muscle Pro Tours. And then Dan Salomon came to me, he says, "Hey, look, I I spoke to Phil. He loves what you're doing. You know, why don't we kind of collaborate and we'll back you up with some social media stuff and, you know, and um and media and promotion and, you know, you you look after the athletes well and make sure they're taken care of and um we'll we'll sort of have a mutually beneficial sort of agreement." So, I had that meeting with him uh with Dan and Jake at the 2019 Arnold and um and then we just all shook hands and said, "Okay, then you know, let's see how it goes." And um six years later, here we are. Wow. So, usually when you finish up one, you're already starting to think about another one. Oh, tell me about it. Well, I've got two I'm literally working on as we speak. I mean, there's one I've got to finalize probably by tomorrow and then I need to really quickly pull the other one together as well. So, I've got a lot on my plate right now, Ron. Yeah. So these UK fans of Bodybuilding Classic and all that, they're very fortunate because this is these seminars are the these tours, the seminars that you put on, we haven't had anything like that in the US probably since the 1980s because I remember I remember hearing about like Tom Plattz coming around and doing seminars and people it would be packed Lee Haney, but we haven't we we haven't done those in years over here. But Terrence said to me, he said, Charles, we don't get the turnout in America. He said, "There's no there's no real appreciation for it like there is when I come to places like Europe because we took him to an expo the weekend before." And obviously he was like the biggest name there. It wasn't a big expo. It was a but they wanted and they were willing to pay his flight. So I thought, "Okay, well we'll work together and we can and I can build a tour around it, which is what I did." Yeah. And um like I do with Matthew at the Euro Muscle Show, you know, with with Ronnie and everything like last year. And uh you know, they we sort of work together and obviously I make it really worth the athletes while or the legends while to sort of Okay. if you don't you're not just coming with the expo, you're coming for x amount of appearances. Um so that's how we that's how I sort of team up with these um you know the these expose and it kind of works really really well because everyone wins. So this is these guys did they did Terrence know he was going to end up uh with the whole stage full of guys in Yeah. They just they just got the stage and he said hey Terrence and Cuba said Terrence we're just going to get all the all my my kind of coaching athletes on stage and Terrence like yeah bring them on. Let's do it. their bodybuilders classic and then he obviously had Mark who just kind of came walking onto the stage. I mean the stage creaked when he got on it. My god. So it was good. It was good. He was he was kind of up for anything. He was he was really really with all these guys and thing is that's a huge honor for them as well. But the atmosphere was brilliant. Everyone everyone was going nuts. I mean everyone loved it. Um they look there's Mark Hector on the right there. Look see sat there. That's his training partner. That guy. He had a really good physique as well. So fantastic legs on him. So these guys can all say they shared a stage with Terrence Ruffin now. Exactly. True story. Good stuff. It was brilliant. It was really, really good. It was a fantastic time. I had a great time. And um yeah, I was only knackered for about a day afterwards as well because sometimes these tours absolutely wipe me out. But um you had a cool weekend in Newcastle, my birthday. And uh yeah, I'm just ready working on the next ones now, mate. Yeah. Look at the size of his legs now. Creek creek. I mean, he's like his calves, everything hamstrings. It's kind of everything's popping now. So, um, because I said to him, I said, you know, look at that. I mean, look, from that angle, you can really see the density of his legs. They're more like 3 4D now. You know, they they've got proper depth to them. And look at it. Like the adductors, his calves. I mean, he's got I don't ever remember him having decent calves, but like his calves look really really good now. Like they're really like they're world class. I would never suspect this guy had bad calves looking at this right there. I know. I know. It's crazy. So whatever he's done when since he's been working with Cuba, it's absolutely working that the the magic is definitely happening. So I think he said he's doing said Milan September 7th. Yeah, he said he's doing um Yeah, he's doing Italy. So that's till September. He's in fantastic condition for someone. That's his offseason condition, mate. Wow. No, he honestly he strays with he say he he stays with it. If you look at his Instagram, these aren't old videos he's posting when he's training and posing. These are like offseason. He keeps it really, really, really tight. Um, so I mean, imagine if he could grow even more on this prep because whatever he's doing, he looks he looks absolutely sensational. I think honestly I think he's going to I think he's going to shock he's he's kind of doing I think he's going to do what I've he's going to do what I've wanted to see him doing for the last few years because he was kind of not it was frustrating to see him because I thought he'd be like a Samson that would just keep going up and up and up and up and up and keep getting better and better and better and then he kind of just didn't wasn't really the career wasn't really on fire, you know. But I think um I think he's he's done what he needed to do and I think he's going to go up a level and I think that's what I predict and I think he's he's going to shock a few people and may rub out rub out quite few quite big names in September. Right on. Yeah, look at that. Yeah, that was his last show. He was second here at the Big Man weekend. Was it second or third? Was it third? He was up there somewhere. That was last time. Hang on. What was it? Yeah, when he did the Big Man, he was like, was he third or fourth or something? But he was um but yeah, it was four. I'm sure it was fourth, but he was he was coming off like that really bad shoulder injury because like he really struggles to get into like the rearable bicep and if you noticed that the um because before we did the we got on stage with with the with Terrence he walked over and he said to Cuban he whispered something and I thought oh he doesn't want to do it he doesn't want to get up because he going come on Mark get up and he was just in the audience and I just thought oh he's not but what it was I think he was telling Cuba that he can't hit certain poses like so he's just going to like if you notice when he's um Terrence is doing like the most muscular ever He just does like a a front lat spread because he struggles to get into certain poses. Yeah. I mean, people like I'm getting my shoulder replaced three weeks from today. And not that I'm anybody needs to worry about me competing ever again, but I can't do a front double bicep, a front lat spread. Wow. I can't do a hands overhead over abdominal thigh because that arm doesn't even go up. I can't put my left arm overhead at all. So, yeah. When you have a shoulder injury, a bad Well, mine's not injury. It's it's it needs to be replaced. It really affects so much. Not just the training, but there it's bad enough you there are certain poses you can't even hit at all. Wow. Well, eight months last year, I couldn't when I had the my torn shoulder, I couldn't um I couldn't train chest or shoulders for eight months. I just had to do back arms and legs over and over again. It really really sucked. So, there's Lewis Breed there. Look, he made um because I said to him, I said, "Louis, hang on a minute. You're from further down south." He said, "Yeah, I've driven three hours to be here." Wow. And it's not like one, it's not motorways, all those horrible little windy roads and roundabouts and stuff. So he came I said to him, "I really appreciate you coming up, mate." He says, "No, Charles." He says, "You brought Lee Priest down here." He says, "You brought Terrence Bruffin." He says that there's Dean White there. Um he says, "I really appreciate the fact that he said we've never had that caliber of bodybuilders brought into our area." So if you're and he says my and I appreciate the fact that you let me train with Lee Priest when I when I brought him down to Muscle Machine Gym in um near Nuki um back in January. He says so he says it's for me to drive up. He said it's um he said I like I want to support what you do and he says in the end of the day he said I find it really motivating as well. No it's cool that you're bring you know obviously most of these guys only see each other at contest maybe expose. So these tours you're really bringing them uh especially to their home gyms and everything. It's it's it's really refreshing to see this. Yeah. And honestly the everyone in the audience because I was listening to questions and I was thinking these aren't just bodybuild fans. These are like proper Terrence Ruffin fans. They had real knowledge. I was so impressed. I was so impressed. But it was such a good tour. It was um and it's nice because I've added a couple of new places and new couple of clients onto the to the to the database as well. So kind of makes the tours easier to put together on the next one and the next one, you know. So um yeah, it was it was really good. 10 out of 10. Good stuff. All right. Jesus. More and more. Yeah. Yeah. See what I mean? They were just all getting up and hitting poses and and Terrence was just like he's so professional. I mean, he didn't miss a beat and he was a also managed to get him in the studio as well, do a podcast with Olympia channel. That was really good as well. Yeah. Um because um you know, I kind of missed doing the actual interviews and stuff sometimes. Um but um yeah, it was it was afterwards I was like, yeah. I said to Lauren, I said, "Yeah, I'm really missing missing doing these interviews actually." I said, "Once I'm doing it, I kind of I really get into it and I really enjoy it." Well, you built a whole studio there, you know. Yeah. Yeah, good stuff. That was at Strength Asylum Gym. Wow. That's where I took I took Phil Heath there. I took Ronnie there. I took Andrew Jack there. Wesley, Ashley Kwasa. They always support us. This is a really This is a fantastic gym in the Northwest. So, it's only about an hour and a half from my house as well. So, how many how many locations in all was it? Uh, we did like four plus the expo. Right on. Okay. It wasn't a huge tour, but it was um it was it was perfect. It was perfect. Very very it was it was just yeah it was it was just a really really good one. Everything was brilliant. Everything went according to plan. Congratulations on another successful Olympia All-Star tour. John, next time we talk, I want you to have a number for me. I want to know if you've done 10 12 because I I I think it's at least 10 at this point. Well, do you count the one I did in 2006 with Lee Priest? Sure. Why? Well, okay. 2006 2019 uh Phil Heath 2020 Brandon Curry 2021 Ashley 20 didn't didn't do any 22 or 23 so that's five plus six plus two that's what 13 hang on five and then I did six last year so that's 11 and then I did Leap Priest in January and then I did this one so that's 13 tours I've done there right wow you need to do one more because we don't want to end on 13 well a few weeks you'll see this is the famous. You always get a good shot of you walking up uh through the gates of the Tiger Towers or somebody. You got to put the You got to put the music on, mate. Oh, let's see. I hope I don't Well, you can't you can't because of copyright, can you? No, that's what I'm saying. I better not. Yeah. Yeah, that was um Yeah, because I Yeah, they are. Andrew Jack Phil 2019. Okay. Samson. Samson. Yeah, Samson. That was in um 22. Just I think just before after he done Yeah. after just after he took fourth at the Arnold. Yeah. So, he came up and trained at my local and then we took um Terrence to my local gym. Um I've started to like that sign there because the gym used to be called Legends and then they changed it to Queensbury Barber and they put that that really um I thought it looked a bit Blue Oyster Bar to me. So, I was like because you can see it from the street out on the on the front road as Lauren and u yeah. So, um yeah, so it was but I start I like that. Plus my local gym that's only four minutes drive from my house. Wow. Yeah. You made it sound like a dungeon. That doesn't look like a dungeon to me, Charles. Oh, it's beautiful. No, they they it was it was good before the the Adam and Gareth took it over, these two X army guys, and they just basically they just bought two containers worth of equipment and just every day you'd see all these new pieces coming in. Um Lauren's been teaching um yoga and pilates out there. Actually, she's quite enjoying it. That's where she is right now actually unless she's come home. But um yeah, it's my local gym. I love it. I'm going I'm going in two hours. Thrills. All right. Well, I gotta got to make sure you get your meals in. Well, that's it. That wraps it up, guys. So, the Toronto Pro is happening Sunday. I'll do some sort of uh coverage for that, I'm sure. So, put your notifications on. Uh we've wrapped up everything. And that's it, man. Giles, thank you so much. It's another episode of Power Hour. I want to thank Eurom Muscle and uh Matthew PCEL again for sponsoring the channel and the show. Uh it's been fantastic working with him all these past couple months and I'm only regretting that I can't go because uh I chose to get my shoulder replaced instead. If I didn't if I waited till after uh Amsterdam the next available appointment with this particular surgeon was November, you know. So this get it done. Get it done. Oh dude, it's done. People ask me what's how long is it going to take to I said the rehab? I don't care. Trust me. Nothing. I've spoken to so many people. My brother had this surgery done four weeks ago. Same surgery. Did he did he? That's interesting. He doesn't train. Does he train or No, he worked construction for years. So, his shoulder got messed up, but still said whatever pain, you know, from the surgery, it's nothing compared to what you're going through now. So, look, look at Chriso. Look at Kriso. I mean, he got through it and he's looking better than ever now. And I think um like is that one of the reasons I I cancelled mine is because the pain went away a few couple of weeks before and um and I just thought well I'm never going to compete again and I might not be able to super press super heavy dumbbells over my head for shoulders but I just thought I don't I don't want to plus it I would have had to have kind of canceled the Leap Priest tour in January and I'm really glad I didn't didn't do that now because it was amazing. You healed with peptides. Peptides. Yeah, peptides intermittent fasting. Zero carbs zero sugar to reduce inflammation. Cardio to get the blood moving around the body. get the healing going and um and I did those BPC and TB-500 did that 11 weeks. It's funny when I did when I finished the last vial because I'd used the injectable soon as I finished the last vial very like couple of days later the pain went you know because sometimes we waking up at the night with so much pain I'd be going take painkillers and to kind of get back to sleep because it was just agony but I just it's um it's gone from like a nine out of 10 to like a zero one out of 10. get a little twinge sometimes, but um I'm pretty much I'm glad I didn't have the surgery, but I think by the sounds of it, you need to get that surgery. Oh, there's no You know, I I I appreciate the people because I know they they mean well, they'll tell me, you know, use BPCs. I said, you don't understand. It's like if you have if I cut your arm off, BPC is not 157 is not going to make a new arm grow. If you have stage four pancreatic cancer, it's not it's not a cure all for everything. Yeah, if you have arthritis for years and years where the bones been grinding away on bone and the bones just completely degraded away, you can't regrow that tissue. It's we don't regrow bones as human beings. So, can you imagine can you imagine how you'd feel in like 10 15 years the like in the winters like the the pain it would would cause you the discomfort and all that be a nightmare. Get it done. It's so bad now. It wakes me up every every hour to hour and a half while I'm asleep. I wake up. Does it? Oh yeah. Yeah. It's Oh [\h__\h] I didn't realize it was that bad. There's like no comfortable position like being your wife. I bet your wife's does her eding with all your winging. Oh, I try not to complain. I try not to complain too much. I try not. But anyway, that will wrap it up, guys. Uh we appreciate you watching Power Hour. Giles, I always always love talking to you. It's one of It's the highlight of my week probably be honest. Oh, I'm I'm nearly back on three plate squat as well. Nearly. Dude, you're ahead of me. Nearly. I want to because I my target is I want to get to three plates like proper deep reps. No, no [\h__\h] knee reps or you know whatever. I want to get to like six to eight good deep proper not half reps proper deep reps and then I'm going to hold it at that weight for as long as I can because I feel like that's my target and I'm nearly there now. So um and for you know so Jake Jake Wood actually messaged me and he said he says I'm I mean I need to I've been meaning to ask you about your leg routine or something. I was like you cheeky bastard. I got to get going to get to work on the squat rack now. It's funny you know I trained legs at that Viking on the weekend and I didn't squat and I trained really hard with all the other exercises and the next day even when I walked out of the gym I honestly didn't feel I felt like I hadn't even done a proper leg workout because I didn't barbell squat. I know what you mean. So I just honestly just and even my quads were sore the next day and I was like it's not a proper it's not that same deep kind of like stimulation or soreness. It's like I just I felt like I cheated myself. Almost like I've almost feel like I haven't trained legs for two weeks but I have. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. No, I know what you mean. If it's like a It's a sense of guilt. If you don't squat, you really feel you didn't train legs properly. You just didn't. Yeah. Because you can do chest without doing bench press or you can, you know, you can do without arms without doing barbell curls or line extensions. You can still have a good workout. But the one thing is when you train, it's like if you do, if I don't do underhand barbell rows or back, I don't really feel like I've had a proper back workout. So, I think you've always got to center around the um you know, surround it. Yeah. Around the basics. Yeah. I just don't think you can escape it. And all these new machines like pendulum squats and all. And also I do, you know what really troubles me, Ron? I saw a guy doing uh the booty blaster the glute doing the hip thrust and I just like literally like they're th air, you know, thrusting the air with the gating and I just saw, oh my god. And this guy didn't look he looked quite masculine, let's say. So I was like and every no one was looking and I was looking around going that guy's on the goo on the booty blaster. What's he doing? But apparently it's like a lot of guys are doing this now. And I just think get onto the squat rack. But these pendulum squats, all these fancy like hack squats and all these different machines. I just squats, leg press, leg extensions, you know, adductors maybe machines if you got any energy at the end. But um I don't think you can escape the basics, mate. I think it worked for Dory, worked for Ronnie, you know, worked for Arnold. And I just think that's good enough for them. It's certainly good enough for me. Absolutely. All right, we'll end it on that note, guys. The leg training advice from Tiger. Leg training advice from That sounds like an Is that an oxymoron? No, not at all. Not at all. Yeah, we'll do it then. So, thanks everybody for watching Power with myself and the one and only Giles Tiger Thomas, who is now 49 years old, enjoying the last year of his 40s. Please catch us next time and we'll see you then. Bye-bye now.