What's up everybody? Happy Sunday. Hey, Ron Harris here in the California Pro was yesterday. Uh, watching the stream, the condition is never really apparent. So, what I wanted to do real quick is take a look at the high resolution images that have been posted. There's not a ton of them. Uh, NPC online also has the unedited photos of everybody, but Rean is the one in particular because I was a little critical of his condition yesterday. I want to give him the benefit of the doubt and take a look. And then after that, I want to look at the scorecards because the score scorecards are they're pretty interesting. They're not what I not what I was expecting. So, let's start with the images. So, this is from the promoter's website, muscle contest. That's obviously not the greatest shot right there. It's but it's Rean winning. So, here we go with some comparison shots. This was the confirmation round. As you can see, we got Bruno Santos, Sassan Herat, Regan Grimes, and Leandro Perez there. Um, these are sharpened images. You know, I don't like to say cooked or they're not photoshopped or anything like that, but when I say sharpened, uh, you guys all have Instagram and, you know, you can you can make your pictures look a little crisper, you can make your condition look a little bit better. Uh, these guys were in great shape, so it's not like they weren't. Um, but there's you I can tell looking at these these are a little bit a little bit sharpened up. Saw son's condition. You can tell just from that one picture here. Much much better than Rean's. Rean wasn't off. He wasn't smooth. Um, but we'll see what was his condition like compared to these other guys. Uh, I think the tan really hurt him, but I'm still seeing actually he doesn't look that different conditionwise from Leandro next to him, does he? Yeah. Go. Next one's front double florian porone on the right. I really want to go to the individual shots of Rean. So there you can see Sass and Rean. Got to really bring that in the center there. I know the glutes. It's not a glute show, but you can see unless Rean wasn't flexing his glutes, and I think he was. You could see conditionwise Rean from the back. Although he has a much better back, it's far more developed than pretty much anyone else on that stage. a dog. Look at the guy on the left there, Victor Bruno. His back's pretty dog on thick, too. Um, but the glutes are not they're not as dug out as uh as Sassans are, for sure. So, Sissan had the better condition. I don't think anyone's disputing that. Rear latch spread. You can see the same thing going on. See Sassan's glutes and Sassan really tightened up cuz his glutes and hams were not that crisp and clear uh the week before in New York. There's a shot there. Uh Rean really big and full looking here. Even though, you know, some people say he flattened out, he's a big dude. He's got he's got a lot of size. He's got those monstrous delts. He's a wide guy. Um but still, I'm I'm maintaining my opinion that I had yesterday. I'm not backtracking, that I think his condition could have been better. I've I've yet to see Regan in what I consider great great contest condition. I've seen him look pretty damn good. I've never seen them look amazing. Amazing. So, here are some good. These are good. These are the uh side by side. Just Sassan and Rean next to each other. Uh let's get to a couple of your comments before I continue too long. What's up, Jerry? What's up, Jonas? Zionic. Yeah, buddy. Yo, Ron, what's up? You're gonna top 10 Mr. Row. Well, he's he's been top 10 before. He'd have a It's a tough It's gonna be a tough Mr. Olympia this year, though. I'll tell you that. So, there's a good comparison. Their front double. This is going to be going through all the poses in high-res. Look at the quads. Rean's uh he has good separation there, no doubt. Uh but I don't see much going on in the actual inside the the heads of the quads themselves. Whereas, if you look at Sassan, look at all those notches, those cross striations that he has. Look how deep how deep that that separation is there between where the insertion of the uh vasis mediialis the teardrop. Look at that. You could lose your car keys in there. That's that's very impressive. Structurally, you can see in this shot how Rean is so much wider. He's a bigger guy. Um you know, I'm critical of his biceps sometimes, but Sassan doesn't have great biceps either. front lat spread. Again, I give Cassan the condition for sure, but Rean, you could see structurally, look at how wide he is. He's wide like a freaking fighter jet in this shot. When he opens up, he's leaning back a little bit to really show those lats a little bit more from the front. Um, Sassan is more straight up and down. Just there's no right or wrong way to hit the pose. Uh, and you know, even if you lean back, Sassan wouldn't look any wider. Regan just structurally has these very very wide clavicles. But you know I know even with the tan being what it was I think it's clear that the condition condition of Rean and Sassan were at two different levels. Sassan was much more conditioned side chest similar things going on. We see more separation uh there with Sassan side leg there. You do see some striations in the side of the glute there with Rean. I'm not [\h__\h] on Rean guys. I'm not a Rean hater. I like the guy. I think he's got a very very good physique. I don't have a problem with him winning the back shots. See, he's actually doing it right. He's actually he's he's not opening up. He looks like he's crunching it together here, but still so much wider. What Sassan is doing, he's crunching everything together. You could see. And that bunching up all the upper back, the the tra the trapezius here, the lats, crunching them together like that makes him seem more narrow. and he's already kind of narrow as it is in comparison to Rean. I want to point out how impressive this hamstring detail on Rean is. You can see every every head of the hamstring clearly delineated from the other heads there. Great shot for him. Sassan, too. Great hams. Rear double again. Am I going in circles here? The rear lat. Ironically, it looks like Sassan has more thickness in the midback than Rean does. Rean has much wider lats and he's got crazy good back shots. We We all know Regan's back shots are a killer. Um, but I see a lot more thickness in the midback with Sassan. Side try. I don't have a problem giving this to Rean either. From the side, his legs are actually pretty damn good. It's from the front. I would want to see more quad, but the quads from the side here and the hand drop looks really good. It's right there with Sassons. It's maybe better. I mean, the he's got better quad sweep this way. That's not really sweep, but you can see the curve of the quad. He doesn't have that outer sweep from the front that I wish he did. Ab and thigh. That's a great shot for Rean. Anyone that's got really excellent shape and a smaller waist, this is going to be a money shot for them. Rean looking good there. Uh the quads again, they're not as detailed. Uh they're there. There's some separation here for sure, but look at look at that quad of Rean next to the quads of Sassan. Not even a question. It's night and day difference. Sassan Sassan had him all day and night on condition, but it's not a condition contest. Um, same thing here condition-wise again and the color. I love Sassan. That's a great shot for Sass. Looks very, very thick and dense. Uh, but Rean just looks really big here. Look at Look at how big and full he looks when we get to the NPC solo shots of him. He looks even bigger. That's a duplicate duplicate shot there. Okay, let me see what you guys have to say before I move on to any more picks. I want to make that bigger. What we got, guys? Met Rean yesterday after cut. The coolest guy I've ever met. Yeah, I've I've I've interviewed him a few times. Always had uh always had a great experience. He's a he's a good dude. I like Rean. Light heavyweight and amateur. Congratulations, Stefon. Good job. Good job. Rean moving in the right direction. You think he match up well against Andrew Jack? I don't think he's at Andrew's level. No, I don't. No, I mean Andrew is 6'2, something around somewhere around 280 on stage, tiny waist, super super wide. Just it's like an exaggeration his proportions because he's got such a wide upper back and shoulders and his waist is so narrow and he's got some nice flaring quads. I don't see Rean beating Andrew at this time at this point in time. Uh could he stand next to him? He's not gonna get he's not gonna look like he doesn't belong up there, but Andrew right now is at a higher level. And I I Andrew would beat in the similar condition because remember Andrew beat Sassan and Fibo. And Andrew was far from 100% condition. Uh I think I think even at 85 90% condition, Andrew Jack would beat Rean. Just he's got superior size and structure. Sup, Braun. Rean won. Yes, Regan won. Who do you think should have won? Yeah, Sass was very good and I wouldn't have had an issue with him winning, but I can totally see why Rean, if you're going on shape and structure and his upper body is a lot more massive, the legs compare very well. Um, Sassan actually has better legs, but upper body, the whole upper body from the front and the back. Rean has them. Rean, I think, is in the mix with Breno. Yes, top 10. Yeah, I'd say that's fair. He's up there. He's very very comparable to Rafael Bundal. They're at they're at the same level. They're both like eighth, ninth, tenth Olympia guys, you know. None of them are really threatening anybody for the Olympic title yet. That was a good That's what we just saw. These are group shots of the uh second call out, guys. So, we're not really focusing on that. Uh okay. Yeah. Uh go to Rean. I don't think I don't think Rean has too many other pictures. There aren't a whole lot of great pictures up. These are from Pro Fitness. This is the same photographer, Chris Nickel, that shoots for the MPC News. So, we're looking at more shots of that. Uh, anything I want to go to the scorecards assassin in the top 12. Wish Be Ru can make Olympia. Every a lot of people wish that. I really wish I wish I'd love to see that guy compete. Super impressed with Bay Ruse. Really could put 10 pounds on his whole body if his back is bigger. He hasn't really put any mass on for the past couple years. And I don't know why. I don't know if he's not trying to put on more mass. If he's not willing to eat all the food, take more gear. I don't know. But I don't see him really getting any bigger over the past couple years. Dill trouble. What's good? Okay. Well done with your post show me. They talk to each other. Reading did okay. Well, he won cooking and no cheeseburger fries. Not too crazy. Uh I want to show the scorecard now. Let's go to that because I was surprised. Uh, present. Oh, I have to stop this screen. My bad. And let's go to ipbbpro.com. All right. So, this only came out uh like two hours ago. I was waiting and waiting. It came out while I was eating, which is why I didn't get to this sooner. So, all right. I want to make sure the whole thing is on screen for you. Okay, you can see it now. So Rean first place, we knew that he had a perfect score. Uh so they usually there's usually seven judges and they drop the high and the low and that's what you're left with is the remainder the whoever voted highest for him, whoever voted lowest. Sassan had a perfect No, sorry. Rean Grimes had a perfect score. Uh Sassan had a perfect second place score. So it looks like he did not get any first place votes. The judges were uni uniformly in agreement that Rean was beating sauce on all day long. Uh Leandro and Bruno, interestingly enough, kind of swap places. So in the judging, these are the two Brazilian gentlemen, very good, very good competitors who were fourth and fifth place. Is that right? What do I got there? Yeah, they were fourth and fifth. Who's third? God, getting all mixed up. I have to put this up again. So Rean, it was Rean, Sasan, and Leandro Bruno. Yeah, third and fourth. I'm sorry. Third and fourth. Okay. So, yeah. Uh, in the daytime, in the judging daytime, it was only a couple hours difference. Leandro was in third place and Bruno was in fourth place. Uh, at night, he had a point. It was a two-point advantage. In the finals, they were tied. Judges had them in a dead heat. And in the final tally, Leandro had 37 and Bruno had 39. So, he beat him by two points. Uh, Florian, he was a solid fifth place all the whole time, it looks like. Did anybody else really change much? Uh, looks like Justin did a lot better in the finals. He had 40 points in the judging and 34 in the finals. Uh, John Padilla went down. Patrick Moore stayed about the same. Irons Aaron stayed the same. Yeah, the scores really didn't change that much, but so it's very interesting. I I didn't realize I I was predicting that Sassan would have some first place votes and that the overall score between Rean and Sasson would only be uh a point, two maybe three points difference, but it was a perfect score, meaning a 10-point difference. Uh he got a total tally of 10 Rean and Sassan had 20 points. So, it was clear clear-cut clear-cut victory there. Not even close. Back to your comments. Stephan's talking about what he ate. He had a cookie and no cheeseburgers. Love burgers and fries. We look the same as two. Yeah, Regan and Sassan were very I thought they were very comfortable. I wouldn't have had a huge problem with Sasan winning, but I agree with the judges. I agree. Structure and shape go a long way. Size goes a long way. And he's he's a big guy. Rean backstage. We have 4K camera. Yeah, we can beat a can beat a Drew, bro. I don't know what that means. Oh, Andrew. I Well, I don't think so, but we're all entitled to our opinions until they stand next to each other. We don't know. Yeah, the 4K footage. I imagine that's uh Gilko. Was Gilko there? The Gilko videos when those come out, those are that's crystal clear. That's pretty much as good as being in front row. If Rean had Creo's chest, arm, shoulder, be right up there right now. doesn't have enough muscle. Uh, he needs more quads, too. I I really It's only I do want to see him with more upper chest. I think his shoulders are fine. I'd like to see more detail in his shoulders, but I have no problems with his with his should with his uh shoulders. Let's go back to Instagram while we're talking for a second so we can take a look at Rean while we're talking. Okay. Yeah, there we go. There's our guy. There's our winner. We can see has a tendency to come in off. I've never seen him totally totally shredded. Put it that way. Speaking of Andrew Jax, does he have a chance at the Olympian? If not, why? What's he missing? So, Andrew is not missing a lot. He needs more hamstrings. Those still need to come up. Um, I think he's got plenty of size. He's got massive arms, shoulders, chest, quads are really good. Um, from the side, in his side shots, the hamstrings are lacking. I know that sounds like a minor point, but you're trying to be Mr. Olympia. You got to get past some some very very He's got to get past Samson, Hottie, Derek, Nick Walker. Easy win. Yeah, it was fairly It was an easy win. Easy perfect score. Going through something now. Oh, sorry to hear that, Stefan, but I'm happy that uh I'm able to help in my small way. Last Olympia was the best Andrew wasn't beating Martin. Uh Martin. Martin last year at the Olympia looked Olympia looked fantastic. That's the best Martin we've ever seen. That was better than the Martin we saw in Prague a couple weeks later. And I I still believe it was better than the Martin we saw in Pittsburgh and uh New York. Back more tent and he's quit. Well, he seemed pretty upbeat in this last post that he made a couple hours ago. So, I don't think he's going to quit. Thoughts on Leandro Perez? Look quite impressive. Oh, I was very very impressed with Leandro. Very very impressed with Leandro. Uh let's take a look at him. Leandro. I wonder if he's got any good pictures up. Yeah. So, he was a solid third. Uh yeah, I wouldn't have argued I wouldn't have argued if he had been higher than that. Look at that. He had it all. Look at condition, size, shape. This guy is deadly. Leand Leandro Perez from Brazil. He's fantastic. I'm surprised they had Bruno uh in a tie with him at the night show because structurally he beats Bruno. He's got wider shoulders. Bruno's a little narrower across the shoulders. That's just a bone structure thing. You can't do anything about that. Uh okay. So, here I I would want to see more triceps. So, we're seeing his upper his upper arms in this shot, the front double look like they're 2/3 bicep and one/3 tricep. It's supposed to be the other way around. The biceps are supposed to take up one third of the upper arm and then you should have a nice dropping full tricep. I'm being nitpicky, guys. I'm trying to figure out why did this guy not win the show. Side chest looks really, really good on Leandro. He can hit a vacuum. A big guy like this can hit a vacuum. That's pretty astonishing. Dry condition. Abs looking good. Yeah, this this guy's no joke. No joke. Is this video? No, that's not video. I was hoping for some video. Oh, here we go. All right. So, here's Leandro yesterday. Yeah, he's he's he's someone to watch. He'll be winning shows. It won't take long. I mean, there are shows that don't have very strong lineups. Let's be real. And they're all every single show that features Open Men is an Olympia qualifier. So, you can win any show. Doesn't matter who else shows up. And you are the you got your ticket to Olympia. See how the back looks. Glutes are in. Hamstrings dug out. Good. Okay. I would want to see more lower lower latickness. Upper back and midback. Really good. Would like to see just a little more in the lower lats. That's a great rear lat spread though for sure. Great shot for him. I don't think the background was too distracting here. shaking his head. He can't believe how great his triceps are. That's a great shot. And does he hit the variation? Yep. Yeah. Look at that. Not many guys can look really good in that variation. Andrew Jack hits it that way. That's a great shot for Andrew as well. Yep. There he goes pulling a vacuum showing you. I don't know what he weighs. I'm guessing this is like a 240 250 pound guy, though. He looks pretty damn big. All right, stop sharing. Okay, we're back. Rean should get with hypertrophy coach and Terence Ruffin. Maybe uh hot take Patrick Moore to Misfits Boxing. He he was a professional boxer. He can he can definitely box. Sass is great. What people in the that place top 15 and top 11 win. I don't believe there is any any money in the Olympia after top 10. I don't think after top 10. I could be wrong, but I'm pretty sure there's no money after. And I don't think get his posterior chin up. Yeah, he would need I think Andrew would really need like a full offseason to make the improvements that would be needed for him to become Mr. Olympia. People tell them to quit online massive haters. Yeah, I I I I brush right past the things saying so and so should quit. I mean, who who's anyone out there to tell these guys they should quit? This is their this is their life. It's their body. It's their it's their passion. if this is what motivates them and it's it's their uh you know not I don't want to say reason for living but it's it's something that they take great joy in and they love the challenge of getting in shape and competing even if they're getting 10th place as pro show that's better than you and I are doing would you say would you say you wouldn't want to be doing that if you could not feel he's like a robot I don't know what you're talking about place actually been that bad for his first prop season still a German open freak yeah right now we don't have any great uh German open guys placing but that could change. People always use the word hater wrong. Yeah, hater gets used a lot. So, let's take a look at the NPC news shots of Rean. Okay, there we go. All right, so there's like 40 shots before he even gets into the first pose. But here's a good one. You could see I got to move. Can I move that? I can't even move that. Oh, here we go. All right. So, look how big and full he looks there. That is just a spectacular shot for him. That's a great shot. Trying to get this to where I can uh to make it a little smaller if I want to do this because I want to be able to I don't want to have to click out every time I'll go to a new picture. Get that where I need it. Uh, let me move that over there. Okay. Can you see that? So, Rean H. I lost it. I lost it. It's all the way on the left. Anyway, there's really not that many awesome shots. Maybe I'll just find one. Uh, I'll just find one cuz Can you even see this? It's way over on the left, so probably not. But anyway, you could see uh if you can see these shots very well right now. Reg's condition was pretty good. It wasn't great, but look at the thickness and the fullness of his upper body. These were in these were taken during judging. I'm guessing you can see some good striations in the pecs there. Little striations in the delts. Arms look really nice and full. His arms look a lot better like that than they do in most of the poses. Can you see that? Yeah. Interesting. So, yeah, there's a million shots. Yeah, I want to go to a back shot. Let's go to a back shot real quick. Okay. Uh, yeah. See, Chris Chris Nichols, all the guys, they take a million photos. They just keep rolling and rolling. So, you can see them getting into the pose, holding the pose for a while, transitioning into the next pose, so on, so on. You know, props to Rean. I I think he did he did deserve the win. I don't have an issue with it. I know a lot of Sassan fans are upset, and I can totally understand why. He had much better color. He was in much better condition. Uh he's got that old man muscle. See, here's where I look at Rean's thighs and I want to see just more because look at how big and full he is across the upper body. More thicker thighs, more quad sweep would really help his overall his overall look. He's getting into his front lat. Yeah, looks like he's a little lopsided there. Maybe a little shoulder issue. There you go. He's in the shot now. He's fully into the shot. Yeah, looks looks damn good, man. Looks damn good. So, condition this is these are unedited photos. There has been no sharpening. I know because these guys don't have time to edit them when they're shooting for NPC News online. Uh like this. That's where this is from. NPC News Online. They shoot up and they they fill shoot up. They fill up a whole memory card and then they have a runner that comes every, you know, 10 minutes, takes that memory card and goes and uploads it to the website and they start another memory card. So there's no time for them to sit there and tag the photos and do any kind of editing or anything like that. So these are raw, unfiltered images taken with a very good camera, very good digital camera. So yeah, could he be sharper? Yes. Uh, for him to really do well at the Olympia, this condition would not cut it. And you know, I'm I'm sure he's aware of that. I'm sure him and his coach, Bos of Outlaw, they know this condition would not fly at the Olympia. You're not going to be in the first call out. There's no way. You might not even be in the second call out with this condition. It's not bad condition. That's not what I'm saying. It's it's you're going up against guys like Chupan. I bet he's going to be just looking freaky shredded and dry and grainy. I think Samson might surprise us and finally show up with that crisper, cleaner look, a little lighter and just shredded like we've never seen before. Uh Derek is going to be conditioned. That's not an issue. Nick Walker is going to be in great condition. Uh Andrew Jack, I'm confident that Aita will bring him in nice and nice and tight for the Olympia as well. So yeah, you can't mess around with the Olympia level. You just can't. Uh stop sharing. I think I'm gonna get out of that. Stop sharing. Get out of that. Okay. And back to Streamyard. All right, we're back. See? Got to get going. It's pretty late over there. Well, thanks for dropping by. I won't be on much longer. So, from the same camera should be the same distance from the stage. You can use that to compare athletes. We can't see. Oh, I didn't have the NPC up the whole time. Damn it. Yeah, my bad, guys. Well, those the NPC news, it comes up in a window like way on the left of the screen anyway, so it's not really conducive to sharing on uh Streamyard. This is the thing I'm using. So, sorry about that, guys. My My bad. My bad. I'll go back to uh the muscle contest shots. Those are fine. Nothing wrong with those. Okay, so let me show those. Leave those up while we're talking. Instagram. Yeah, I keep messing that up, guys, don't I? All right, so there we go. Check the chat. Sometimes I wait too long. Leandro imperson is amazing. Seems more back in my opinion. Yeah, Stean, that that's I was saying a little more lower lats. His upper back is great. Rookie move. Yeah, I make something. No, you didn't miss anything. That was me. Definitely impressive. Do you know? No, I don't no idea who that is. Sorry. Medi Jabi. He's probably very good, though, I imagine. So, one last look at these high-res images. Rean versus Sassan. And as I said earlier, if you missed it, we we were looking at the score sheets, and Rean won with a perfect score. He got straight first place votes across the board from the judges. Sassan got straight second place. It was never It was never close. I thought it was close. I was wrong. I'm wrong all the time. I'm wrong, Harris. But I thought uh at least a couple of judges would have seen Cassan as the winner just based on the color, you know, the the crappy color on Rean. That's that's inexcusable at this level, especially where he'd had bad color the week before in New York. Should have been able to figure it out. Should have been able to do a test run with something um in the week in between to see if there was a color that would stick. I don't know what happened. His wife did his tan this time and it still came out looking just not dark enough. Nowhere near dark enough. But as I said, um I agree with the decision because Rean does have bigger, fuller upper body than Sassan. He's got a prettier structure. He's got wider shoulders. He beats him in the back shots. You know, I know that's only two shots, but he's a wider guy. And width really goes a long way in bodybuilding, especially if you got if you got a good vtaper. If you got really wide shoulders and back and a narrow waist right there, your vtaper is going to be visually something that grabs the judge's attention, the audience's attention, everyone's attention right away. And yeah, two very, very good athletes. And I do feel very bad for Sassan taking second place three shows in a row. Geez, that's got to suck. I'm sorry to hear it. Uh, Legion is Saturday if he does that. We have I know already Tonio Burton is doing that. He's looking so good right now. Uh, Blessing of Woody Buu is making his comeback. He's been away from the shows for a while. Not sure who else is doing it. I'm guessing a few of the people from this show will be there, but uh I just wanted to do a quick one today just to go over these images to see what kind of condition the pictures would show because the live stream, unless you're looking at that Gilo 4K footage, it's very hard to to judge condition that the resolution is just never that good. The pictures always tell more of a story. The high-res images of these uh photographers in the front, not this is not somebody with an iPhone. This is an actual That's got to be a real quality digital camera right there. So anyway guys, that is all. Appreciate you all watching. Just a little one. Also did uh a show a couple a few hours ago, Ask Dr. testosterone. Please check that out if you haven't already. Some good questions and answers this week. Appreciate y'all watching. And if you're in the USA, it's still Memorial Day weekend. Enjoy the rest of your weekend. We'll talk to you later. Peace out.