Hey everybody, welcome to Ask Dr. Testosterone starring Dr. George Tulios and brought to you by his book, The Bible of Bodybuilding 2. Over 700 pages filled with everything you need to know about training, nutrition, supplementation, of course, peed use. You can get that on Amazon.com. While you're on Amazon.com, you can pick up my book, Real Bodybuilding. And now, all the way from Athens, Greece, please welcome Dr. George and Tuliatoss. How are you, George? >> Hello. Good morning, Vlog. Good morning. So, uh, we haven't done a show in a couple weeks and since then we've had a very, very serious health condition with eighttime Mr. Olympia Ronnie Coleman. So, >> for first question, uh, I want to get your professional medical opinion on Ronnie's current health issues with sepsis and also undergoing minor heart surgery. How how concerning is this? How do you think it happened? So I think sepsis means blood inflammation but actually it's microbes into the bloodstream but something that requires very critical IV of several different antibiotics. Now sepsis practically means that the introduction of bacteria but either perhaps from an injection he's weekly TRT I guess. uh and then he he had almost 13 uh surgeries and in those surgeries there we know there are several exogenous materials that have been um introduced into his body for life >> to his uh vertebra column to his um both his hips and I'm not sure about the knees but we know that several titanium perhaps metals are are introduced and those in the long run if there's no uh if there's any contamination they could be infected and we have a noneptic inflammation uh because the fact he's also injured and he has systemic inflammation could make things worse. Now, sepsis includes most of the organs uh plus the the kidneys and is very critical and u is not a young guy anymore. He's almost 60. Um >> 61. >> Yeah, he's over 60. And what I what I noticed is that in that last picture, he lost dramatic a lot of weight. He looks much older drastically. Yeah. rather than I mean Jay Carter released a video a couple of weeks before that and he was really you know fresh and now he looks he looks uh not just older but u somebody that you know he's in a bad shape and uh he's been through a lot. Uh, I guess the fact that he overcome this critical condition proves that Ronny's uh, you know, he's still powerful and strong and he has uh, the the ability to overcome this situation, but definitely his organs have been stressed out through the 20 years of his entire career. >> Yeah. Yeah. You know, I I did not know much about sepsis, so I looked in a little bit. I didn't realize how dangerous it is. It's it's the third leading cause of death in the United States after heart disease and cancer. And I found out worldwide, one in five deaths the whole year in the world is sepsis. So if you die 20%, one in five chances you're going to die of sepsis. So this is something that's very very serious. And uh if Ronnie gets through this, okay, which we we pray he does, um that that'd be amazing. That would show his resilience and his strength. Another thing um doctor I was concerned about was it says he underwent a minor heart procedure. I'm not sure about this but I want to say not just about the weekly TRT injection but mind that Ronnie did repeated stem cells therapies or PRP and this is also introduction of his uh blood cultivated with growth factors into the bloodstream and something could mess up in this way to contamination and then get the uh the septic uh condition. >> H wow. So, it also said, let me see if I could bring this up. Um, >> a minor heart procedure. >> Yeah, I'm trying to I had a list of uh of heart procedures. Hang on a second. So, stop screen. Yeah. So, valve replacement is the most common one. I guess that's a minor where they don't do an open heart surgery where they're it's very invasive. It said it was a minimally invasive procedure. So, it had to be one of these. It had to be either a valve repair or replacement. >> But also we know now when we go to the dentist we he gives us strong antibiotics because you may have endocarditis from the oral cavity >> down to the heart. You know there's a direct link so it could be affected. Um but just speculation is not my field. >> Yeah. I mean, even, you know, I just had surgery and I they kept me overnight on on an IV antibiotic drip because sepsis is a major major concern. And I was also told, don't get any dental work done for at least three months, preferably six months, because like you said, the gums, you can get these infections. They're no joke, and there's a lot of a lot of different ways to get them. So, >> yeah, Ron had something. >> Go ahead. >> They're all cavities. highly infectious environment, >> you know, and even from oral sex, you can get several microbes. >> Yeah. Um I don't, you know, I know you're not a cardiologist, but he had one of these procedures done. The family did not say which procedure, but while he was in the hospital being treated for this sepsis, they noticed an issue with his heart that they decided to take care of while he was there. >> It's an evolved thing. nothing else you can do apart from a stent or a valve. >> Yeah. So, that's probably what he got. He either got a valve repair or a stent, something like that. But they'll they'll let us know, I guess, if it's time. Okay. So, uh >> Ronnie promised that he would walk 2026. And now this comes and takes everything. You know, >> they say that when we make plans, God laughs. >> Yeah, that's true. I just saw that in a movie last night. Uh men men make plans and God laughs. But you know, Ronnie uh he has no regrets. So uh other guys in his situation would complain and cry and say, "Boohoo, poor me." But he never feels sorry for himself. >> Yeah. But I remember what Shay used to say. I mean, Ronnie repeatedly uh pushed himself to the limit right after century. Yeah. >> And as a as a result of this, he screwed up all the uh the how you call them? Well, I mean, you'd think he has, you said he's had something like a dozen spine surgeries. This poor this guy was supposedly I mean, allegedly this was the result of his gorous training right after surgery, you know, he didn't back off. He did the same style because he was addicted to that and that he screwed up what the doctors fixed. >> Yeah. Yeah. you would see him like less than a week later under a leg press or something with heavy weights, you know, for a guy in that situation. And, you know, I I hope that that's not the case that he's brought more damage upon himself. But sometimes doing the thing we love, we can love it too much and it becomes it becomes a danger to us or a negative effect on us. So, we wish Ronnie the best. He's a wonderful, wonderful guy and um yeah, we just hope he makes a very full recovery very soon. So let's go on to some questions. This is why we have Ask Dr. Testosterone. So number one question, are there any benefits of taking Tadalaphil trade name Pialis 2 and a half milligrams every night before sleep for four months? >> Yeah, as a matter of fact, three times a week because it has a half-life of 36 hours is helpful not just for urination but for being fully erected. So take sis Monday, Wednesday, Friday all year round. >> Okay? >> You know, this is much better urination, you know, while peeing and um you're gonna have um an erection just like that. You know, you don't need to take it live by before sex, but you could take it steadily. It works for a weekend period. >> Yeah. No. So, it improves blood flow. We know that. I've heard that it improves circulation. It's actually good for your heart for protection pressure because those will make for pulmonary hypertension. But when the uh the prostatic portion of the urethra has a stenosis meaning it's narrowed then by increasing the blood flow then you have a much better urination through this portion urethra. >> Yeah. >> Okay. So it relieves the symptoms of uh this urination. So this is particularly important for guys. I don't know what age about 40 to 50 men start the prostate just starts to grow usually. >> Yeah. 50. >> Yeah. And you know there's nothing worse than sitting there trying to pee and you really have a full bladder and it's coming out in a trickle. I I don't have that problem but I've had it occasionally. It's it's awful. So yes, there are benefits. Um you didn't mention the pumps in the gym, but you'll be you'll get great pumps in the gym, too. >> Yeah, >> sure. Also, they take it in stage. >> Yeah. All right, next one is about Anavar. Is it safe to do 20 milligrams of Oxandrolone? Trade name Anavar doing two six week cycles a year. This would be added to my TRT of 175 milligrams a week. >> Well, before stepping into the 17, check out the liver enzymes in the lipids. So, ALT to be below 50 and the HDL over 40, the LDL below 100, the total cholesterol below 100. in order to be safe to be use um uh oxandum. >> Okay. >> Okay. But I'm AI'm a fan of playing the you know not just put it like cycle because that's why doctors freak out when you mix steroids with the testosterone do those. >> Yeah. And I mean some people as you say they are much much more sensitive to the liver damaging properties because like my liver enzymes don't go up that much even when I was on orals but like my wife many years ago when she would do Anavar even for a couple weeks she got blood work done and her liver enzymes were already starting to go crazy. So yeah like you said get get your blood work done guys. All right, next one is, "Will I have problems with my testosterone and DHT if I use topical minoxidil foam on my scalp? The trade name in the US is war improves the blood flow." Okay. Uh even shampoo that cuts the DHT. I don't think you're going to have a problem with the problem comes out of the orals finasteride. >> Okay. Those will those crash your testosterone? No, the question absolutely finasteride and increase testosterone, but we don't care about that. We care about the reduction DHT that brings the libido. Okay. >> Okay. Gotcha. Gotcha. All right. Our final question. If someone takes supplements like de aspartic acid or others like this that promote luteinizing hormone all the time, could it increase the risk of cancer? >> I don't think so. I mean, that's what serves also do. They increase the elates that then kicks the testosterone, pushes the testosterone. So they work in paper daspartic acid, ma tribles, fenugreek or or tongali but uh they do it up to a point you have a better decent sexual they cannot add you muscle pure muscle you know um so but I don't think yeah they can increase the age up to 12 14 15 I've seen that but just for a period of time that you do it now um use it all year around. >> Okay. Um yeah, that is all that is all we have for this week. So, uh again, we want to close out with a best wishes to Ronnie Coleman. Make your full recovery. Uh we love you, Ronnie. We're we're all behind you and we all want to see you get better. >> Da guing in the Netherlands. >> Yeah, he looked I thought he looked great >> for three months out. He was pretty lean. >> Yeah. I mean, I've seen people say, "Oh, he's not going to be in. He'll be he's 13 weeks away. You can make major changes in 13 weeks." He was very lean. The point is that he is this strided glutes look and his conditioning reminds me of Brandon Kerry. He's not that the deep conditioning, but he has this crazy curves and this vapor, which is the best structure. >> I think I can find that footage for you. I mean, if Samson comes in shredded this time, nobody's got a chance. I'm sorry. >> I mean, he was very close last year and also was very close at the Arnold. >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, and I think losing the Arnold was probably the best thing that could have happened to him, honestly, because it it's going to force him to show up in a condition we've never seen before, you know. What would you say he's been at all these wins like 90%. Well, I would say at the best it was last year 90%. I mean, he needed a little bit more, >> but he was definitely his best, but not pills to the glutes. Okay. >> Yeah. >> Um, now, of course, Nick is very hungry and angry. Okay. And I guess will be really fresh. >> Yeah. >> And Derek, no major changes apart from conditioning. I don't think Derek can make changes to the to the to the size because he's been already in three shows this year. >> Yeah, it's gonna be a hell of an Olympia. You're I saw you on the >> Yeah, one to four is really uh very tight and nobody can uh crack this. I mean, Andrew Jack guess would be five but speculation. >> Yeah, let's try and see. Oh, yeah. I want to put this I want to show this. Uh, you are going to be on back at the Olympia and let's see what this is. So there it used to be called Olympia University. >> it's still called Olympia University. So you're going to be there. You're going to be there this year October 10th through 11th. >> Nice. Because uh they didn't do it last year, right? >> Yeah. I mean it's the four consecutive time and I'm gonna be on the TR panel number two. >> Yep. So there you are. Friday. So guys, if you're going to the Olympia, >> pencil it in Friday, 1 through 2 pm, the physicians, Dr. Tullados is going to be there with Dr. Eric Serrano, Dr. Eric Feat, Dr. Elizabeth, Mike Coxis is the moderator, and also Rick Collins. >> famous lawyer. So, it's going to be a gonna be a very interesting discussion. >> You guys check that out. All right. Awesome. Cool. All right. Well, good to see that's back. You know, education's important, you know. So, uh, that's it. That's the show, guys. If you have questions for the doctor for the next episode, please leave them below. Or if you have any comments at all, love your feedback. Subscribe, like, share, do all that stuff. Of course, support the show, support the doc, get this book. It is a treasure trove of information. The Bible of bodybuilding 2 on Amazon.com. And that's it. Thank you for everything you do here every week, doctor. And we will see you guys next week right here on Ask