Hey everybody, welcome to the Ron Line Report. Today's guest, one of my favorite people in this entire industry, eight time Mr. Olympia, the GOAT, Ronnie Coleman. Yes. What's up, Ronnie? What's going on, Ron? I uh I appreciate you doing this because you have been without power. Uh you had a thunder and lightning knocked out the power there in the Dallas area and uh you've been without power all day. Correct. All day. 12 hours now. Wow. That's no no way to live. But hope hope they get that reser resolved quickly for you. Exactly. Me, too. Because I'm tired of it. I can't walk. I can't do nothing at home. Nothing. Yeah. Well, you have to sit in your car. Yeah. That's why I'm in the car right now. So, I'm contacting you because uh we have two Mr. Olympia champions right now who are both going to be competing at the Olympia again this year. And um I'm going to start with Samson Douta, our current reigning Mr. Olympia. He did something that you were the only person previously ever did since the Arnold Classic began in 1989. You were the only current reigning Mr. Olympia to enter the Arnold Classic and you won it in 2001 and uh Samson did it this year. He became the second Mr. Olympia champ to do it. Unfortunately, he didn't fare as well as me. He got second place. Um so I guess my first question I'm looking for, you know, Ronnie's advice to Samson Derek. So, first of all, if you had been Samson's advisor, if he had come to you asking, Rudy, should I do the AR classic, what would you have folded? Of course, I'm going to say no because uh tell you what happened to me, Ron. I I almost died at the Olympia that that year because I was totally exhausted. I mean, like totally exhausted in a major way. Yeah. And uh I wouldn't wish death on nobody, but uh if he' asked me, "Did I have told him not to do it because I found that the body only peaks once a year, and you got to find out what show you want it to peak in. Now, I I'm not going to say you can't be at your peak and not win, but uh it's not that easy to do with some of these guys, you know. So, you gota you gota you got to pick your poison pretty much. Well, as you saw, uh Samson didn't didn't win that Arnold Classic because uh he wasn't in his peak condition, but I think had he been there, he would have uh he would have I think he probably would have won it, you know, like he did the Olympia. Yeah. I mean, he just beaten everybody in the world a few months before that. Exactly. So when you won the Arnold, I know you did it to get the free Hummer, but what was the cash prize back then when you won? It was like 100 120 100. Yeah. So it's $500,000 now. Um crazy. Can you understand why they're getting they're getting like M guys who would normally back in the old days they would just wait until the Olympia if especially if they were a Mr. Olympia champion. But man, this money is getting crazy. It's I imagine it's just too tempting for too tempting for Samson to pass up a half a million dollars. Yeah, you're right. You're right, Ron. Uh it's real tempting, but if if I I still wouldn't do it, you know, knowing what I know now cuz uh like I said, you got to pick your poison and decide you want to be Arnold Classic Champion or Mr. Olympia champion. And uh ain't ain't no title in the world higher than Mr. Olympia. It's like Super Bowl of bodybuilding, you know. It's like like saying you want to win in the playoffs and and be division champs or you want to be world champ, right? So I mean world champ. Do you think this uh you know we talk about the issues of peaking? Some some guys do seem to be able to peak very well multiple times a year, but like we saw last year, uh, Potti Chupan did the same thing. He went and won the Arnold Classic. He went into it and won, but then he lost his Olympia title last fall. Exactly. Because Cuz he wasn't in that same shape. So he he really didn't peak twice. He only peaked one time and that was at the Arnold Classic. He he couldn't bring that same body to the Olympia because like I said, you can only bring it one time. You can never, you know, as far as I'm concerned, I hadn't seen nobody do it yet, be peaked, you know, no, in peak condition like you were at one show, right? You know, know what I'm saying? If he would have been as hard as he was at the Arnold in the Olympia, he would have won, right? Easily won. But he was not there cuz he had already peaked at the Arnold. And that's what I'm saying. You got to pick your poison. Which one you do you want to win at? You want to win the Honor Classic or you want to win the Olympia? And there you you just said it. I'm the only guy who won both in one year. I almost died. Winning that Olympia. I was on my way to the hospital that morning, you know, cuz I couldn't get out of bed. I was just too exhausted. And the whole time I was getting ready for the Arnold, I mean the Olympia, I was struggling. My body wasn't it, you know, like when I'm get when I get like three weeks out, I look a certain way. Well, this year, that year that I did the Arnold Classic, three weeks out, I didn't look like I normally look when I'm three weeks out. Yeah. Cuz I had already peaked at the Arnold Classic. I I I want to limp you about the halves of my chinny chin chin because Jay Jay had beat me in the morning show. That's right. That's right. That's because I had to drink a gallon of water to get out of bed to do the Olympia. Thank God for some, you know, magic diuretics or whatever Chad gave me that brought me back around, you know, or else I would have lost. Yeah. So Samson has a few months left obviously the Olympia. It's not till October. We're only speaking in April right now. What would your best advice to Samson be if if he wants to keep that Olympia title for this year 2025? Uh like I always say, you got to pick your poison whether you want to be Arnold Classic champion or Olympia champion. You can win one, but you're not going to win both because I I I said it a million times. The body only peaks once a year. Well, so I mean, he might peak at the Olympia cuz he didn't do it at the Arnold Classic. If he' have done it at the Arnold Classic, he would have won. You know, I I I tell me what you think. I think it might have been a great thing that he lost only because that's lighting another fire because Oh, yeah. People have been talking about his condition and how it needs to be better. And I think this this Arnold Classic showed him. Yeah. You're gonna get beat if you're not in shape because Derek was Derek was 100% conditioned and Samson wasn't. Exactly. And that was 500,000 that Samson it slipped through his fingers. Exactly. Let's move on. It's all about It's all about money now with these guys. I understand. Uh you like I say it's it's very tempting but I heard next year they going to have the Arnold Classic and they going to give away 600,000. This is what I'm hearing. And then they gonna have the Arnold Classic in the UK and they giving away 200,000. So $800,000 somebody gonna have a chance to win $800,000 in like three weeks. Wow. Yeah. So that's what I'm saying. It took me it took me eight years to win $800,000. I mean, you know, the money wasn't as great. The Arnold always had a lower much lower prize package in the Olympia back in those days. Yeah. But Arnold Arnold is stepping up to the pump now because Joe Wheeler is no longer around, right? He's trying to challenge the Olympia. Yeah. It was, you know, like you said, when Joe Weider was alive, Arnold, out of respect for Joe, he kept the prize money lower. Exactly. Now it's forget it. I'll He's just doing whatever he wants now. Exactly. There you go. And if he if he increases this thing next year to 600. Oh man. And the Olympia 600. Olympia's already 650. I think the Olympia I think the Olympia will be a million within a year or two. I I agree with you. Especially if they keep battling like they are now. It's great. God God bless Arnold. Arnold Arnold, you know, great for the still around in the next three or four years, you know. I think Arnold's still got a few good years before he I I think so, too. I think he got quite a few I think I think he got quite a few uh years left in where he's going now cuz he's still doing movies and everything, you know. Yeah. Yeah. He's like 78. He's He's up there. I know. He's up. He's 78 years old. Let's move on to Derek Lunsford because Derek, he lost his Olympia title last October. He took third place. He dropped down to third, but he came roaring back at this Arnold looking amazing and he won it. He picked up 500 grand. Yep. But he think he would shut it down after that, but he's not. U Yep. Three weeks from today, he's going to be in Pittsburgh competing again. Yep. So, you know, we talk about peaking. You can only peak perfectly once a year. I don't know what kind of chance if he pulls this off, it's going to be the greatest greatest year we've ever seen for a pro bodybuilder in history. But if not, we're going to look back and say, why did you do all those shows? You know, when you when you heard he was doing Pittsburgh, which was in May, he'd already competed in early March and the Olympias in October. What were your thoughts? Oh, man. My thoughts was I first I didn't believe it. Then I'm thinking, well, yeah, him and uh Tyler, you know, they they pretty good in Jim. So, I'm like, God bless him because he gonna need it. I mean, you rooting for him every every inch of the way. Yeah. Do I've heard people say, and you might agree or disagree, that the bigger, heavier guys have a much harder time peaking multiple times a year where the shorter guys aren't as light. And he's exactly 56 235 pounds, something like that. Yeah. You think he can pull this off and win all these shows that he wants to win this year and get it even in Olympia? Yeah, I I think he can do it. I don't I don't know. I don't think he can do it in in all three, but I I think he can win that show. Oh, the pitch manion show. Yeah. I don't think anybody's too worried about that. I Yeah. I don't I don't see nobody coming close to him now. But again, if if Derek Lunchford had called you up earlier in the year and said, "Ronnie, I'm thinking about doing the Arnold and then I'm thinking about doing this show in May, the Pittsburgh show. It's a brand new open show. I want to get my Olympia title back in October. Is this a good idea or a bad idea?" Bad idea every time. Man, oh man. Okay. Yeah. I mean, like I said, if he pulls it off, it's everyone's going to be clapping him on the back and saying, "What a what an amazing accomplishment." But hindsight will be 2020. I guess we got to wait and see what happens. Uh, last guy I want to ask you about is Andrew Jack because Andrew is uh someone they talk about as being a Mr. Olympia in in the future. Yeah. He's he's got a physique like I've never seen in my life. None of us have. 62. Yeah, that's true. 290. Uh, what does this guy need to do to get to that next level and become Mr. Olympia? Uh, just keep doing what he's doing. And you know, you can't rush uh maturity and uh that's the only thing he's lacking, maturity and conditioning. Okay. And uh he'll eventually get there. Uh he looks awesome from the front, but turn around from the back. Uh he got to get a little bit harder. And that's that's that's just time. That's time. Yeah. His muscle maturity will kick in within the next two to three years. and he'll be a force to be reckoned with. I mean, you know this, but three years ago, three years and a month ago, he was an amateur. Yeah. Yeah. He he turned pro at the Arnold amateur in March of 2022. So, Exactly. So, he he's still young in the games. It just take time, you know. Uh I I got my pro card in what 911? 91. And and I won my first Olympia in 98. So it took me about six about seven years, you know, to get uh to the point that I needed to get to. So same I'm thinking the same thing with him, you know, you know, like you say, he he and and uh 22 and this is 25. I'm thinking in the next three years, you know, he'll be spot on. Yeah. And you know, it's a good thing you said he's young in the game because he's not a young guy. He's 39 years old or 40. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. which which pretty much it's almost the same thing because the older you get, the better you get. It it's not reversed like it is with a lot of sports. That's why Dexter was able to last so long, you know. Because the older he got, the better he got. And uh it it that's the way the sport is with us, you know. Yeah. Uh, you got some guys that can go like Dex Dexter and Aba Beckers and you got your other guys that, you know, 15 15 to maybe 20 years, you know, you can go you can hang in there real good, but after that, you know, it's time to uh hang them up. Okay, last advice I want is for me. I want you to help me out here. Uh because you've been through, you know, you're 60 years old. You'll be 61 next month. I'll be 56 later in the year. Yeah. I was never I was I don't want anyone to get disqued. I'm not saying I was ever anywhere near your level or anything like that. I wasn't. But I've had injuries. I tore a quad. I'm getting a shoulder replaced. I'm dealing with psychologically struggling with not being as big and strong as I used to be. And I know you've had to deal with that. you're still you still in the gym training and everything, but you know, you look back at the videos, what you used to look like and the weight you used to lift. How have you sort of reconciled it? How have you accepted that those days are just gone? Because uh I had such such a good career. That's true. That's true. Had I not had a good career, you know, I'd have something to probably be, you know, not so happy about. But since I've had uh great best career ever, I have no regrets whatsoever, you know. Everything's always been uh spot on for me, you know. Yeah. I've always had the best career ever and still hanging in there and uh it's getting better. All right, last thing I want to do is let people know because Eurom Muscle is the sponsor of this of this YouTube channel right now. And uh I want to let people know you are going to be at the Eurom Muscle Show July 12th and 13th in Amsterdam. And uh check that out guys at the Eurom Muscle Show Instagram and the other info is on my ticker at the bottom there. And they love you over in Europe, man. Oh yeah, I was there last year and we had a awesome time. So, I can't wait to come back this year. I think it's going to be even better. Yeah. I mean, it's it's most definitely. You're you're popular here, of course, but I've seen those tours with Giles and they go just bananas for you over there. Oh, yeah. Yeah. It is off the chain. When I go overseas, anywhere I go o overseas, it is the best. I mean, some of the best appearances I've ever had in my whole entire life. Yeah. I mean, it's doesn't know better than that. It's it gives me a lot of uh you know, sometimes I think this new generation, they don't know their history. They don't know the stars, but then I see like a theater filled with 500 people that pay to come and feed you and ask questions over in over in UK or something. Sort of restores my restores my faith. Yep. Exactly. All right, Ronnie. Well, uh that's all I have for you. I appreciate you taking the time. I know you had some uh some issues, but you have no electricity today. So, uh really so much thanks for coming through for me and doing this. Yeah, no problem, Ron. You know, I'll never let you down. Known you a very long time. And I when I say when I say you're one of my favorite people in the industry, I mean that from the bottom of my heart. Oh, thank you, Ron. Appreciate that, bro. You know who the other one You know who the other one is? There's only one other guy that I hold in the same esteem as you. It's Lee Haney. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. I just did an appearance with Lee. You know, we are both panata ambassadors. That's right. And uh I had a great talk with him last yesterday and I totally agree with you 1,000%. I'm I'm the same way with him. Coincidence? The two guys with the two guys with the most Olympic titles in the world and the two the two best nicest guys in the whole industry. I think you and me. So yeah. Well, I appreciate that. I I agree with you, but like I said, like a thousand% on Lee because he he he's an amazing guy. I tell him all the time, he's always been my idol and always will be. First magazine I ever bought, he was he was in it. He was on the cover. So, Oh, yeah. Oh, wow. You remember? You remember back that far? I started I started following the sport a long time ago. So, yeah. Yeah. That's it, man. I appreciate it so much, Ronnie. Thank you so much for doing this. And uh that's been uh Ronnie's advice for Samson and Derek and maybe they'll listen to it and uh we wish them both the best of luck as they both uh tries to keep his Olympic title and Derek tries to regain his Mr. Olympic title this year. Yeah, I can't wait to see it. It's going to be off the chain. It's going to be one of the best shows ever, I think. Absolutely. Three Mr. Olympia competing for the Olympia title. That's never ever happened before. I think Brandon will be in it, too. So four before Oh yeah. I think Brandon's going to skip it. He's not done yet. By by far the the best Olympia ever. Absolutely. All right. Well, that's it. Thank you so much, Ronnie. Thanks everybody for watching Ron Lerport with the GOAT, the eighttime Mr. Olympia champion, the one and only Ronnie Coleman. We will see you next