What's up everybody? Ron Harris here and we got some good news from Ronnie Coleman's family. Let's get right to it. Uh, this is the only way we've been getting updates, accurate updates as to what's going on with Ronnie. So, Ronnie Ronnie health update health update on Ronnie Coleman. Ronnie is currently under close medical care. While his condition remains delicate, we're encouraged to share that he is awake, aware, and fully conscious. The medical team continues to work diligently to identify the source of the infection, and Ronnie is undergoing two advanced diagnostic procedures as we write this to help determine the root cause. This is a critical period in his recovery, and more than ever, Ronnie needs our collective strength, positivity, and prayers. He's always been a fighter and with all of us standing beside him, we know he will face this battle with the same courage and determination that has defined his life. We also want to take a moment to thank everyone for the overwhelming love and support being sent Ronnie's way. Your prayers and messages mean the world during this incredibly challenging time. We've heard from sever several of you asking how you can help Ronnie at this time. Ronnie's team is actively working on a meaningful way for fans to get involved. We'll be sharing more details soon. This is great great info. Um, I wanted to take a look and discuss what sepsis is because that's what he has. He has a blood infection. The technical name for that is sepsis. What the heck? So, uh, everything you need to know. Uh, AI overview. I'll go to that. I like the AI overview stuff. Okay. Um, so let's go to that. Okay, stop screen present. Share screen. Okay, so what is sepsis? What is a blood infection? It's a life-threatening condition where the body's response to an infection damages its own tissues and organs. It's a medical emergency requiring prompt treatment. Septis is not contagious, but the underlying infection that causes it can be. Key facts about sepsis. What is it? Sepsis is the body's extreme and often dangerous reaction to an infection. How does it happen? Harmful germs, bacteria, viruses, fungi, or parasites enter the body and trigger an overwhelmingly inflammatory response. Is it serious? Yes, sepsis is a medical emergency that can lead to organ damage, failure, and death if not treated quickly. Who is at risk? Anyone can develop cessus, but certain groups are at higher risk, including older adults over 65, young children under one year, people with weakened immune systems or chronic illnesses such as diabetes, cancers, people with severe burns. So Ronnie doesn't really fit any of those. He's 61. He's now 65. Uh but he must have been experiencing one or more of these symptoms that led him to be hospitalized on the eve of what would have been his trip over to the UK for AI believe it's a 12 city tour he was going to do over there with Giles. Fever or chills, extreme pain or feeling worse than usual, pale or discolored skin, sleepiness, difficulty waking up or confusion, shortness of breath, rapid heart rate and breathing, low blood pressure. Yeah, this is uh this is a potentially fatal fatal condition. People die of sepsis all the time and they have been for many many years. Uh cris antibiotics and intravenous fluids. So uh this is a treatable condition for most people. Uh unless it's caught too late, if it's too severe. Uh but I just want us all to either pray if you believe in a higher power or if you don't send some positive vibes, some healing vibes. Um you can't believe that none of there's nothing of value in any of that. So, please uh let's all get together. Let's all send positive healing energy because Ronnie is one of the gems, the treasures of our sport. He's just a great genuine, sincere, warm person. And uh the world is a better place with Ronnie Coleman in it. Last night I was doing um a preview of the Portugal show coming up and there was a gentleman I had to actually block and have all his comments deleted on the live chat who was wishing he was saying RIP Ronnie and you know wishing death upon Ronnie Coleman and what an awful awful person he is. Um I I I can only imagine what a miserable human being that is and uh yeah I don't really have a lot to say so I'm not going to keep you guys on too long. I just wanted to do a real quick update. what is going on with Ronnie. Uh, and that it is it is encouraging to see. I'll show you one more time. This is on his Instagram. And again, his family is the only one. If you see any other updates anywhere else, I would not pay them any heed. Ronnie Coleman's family is the only one putting out any reliable information at this time. He does have a whole medical team working on him. They're running they're running diagnostics tests to figure out exactly why this infection, this blood infection happened to him. Um, and he is going to be hopefully getting better. Um, and stay tuned to Ronnie's Ronny's Instagram, guys. It's Ronnie Coleman 8. Ronnie Coleman 8. If you don't already follow Ronnie, and I if you're, you know, if you're a fan of Ronnie, I don't know why you wouldn't, but follow Ronnie Coleman 8. Updates are going to be there for anything related to his condition and whether it gets better or worse. Hopefully, it's only going to get better. Uh, yeah. So, we're all praying for Ronnie. And uh that's it. I don't want to keep you guys too long. Um should put the sling cover protocol. Yeah, I'm not going to talk about myself because this is this is Ronniey's thing. Maybe on the weekend if I'm covering the Portugal show and there's a slow minute, I'll talk about some of that stuff. But for now, um I just want to give you that breaking news. If you follow Ronnie Instagram, you probably already know about it. Um he's getting the best treatment possible. Hopefully, he's going to be fine. Not only an eight time Mr. Olympian icon in the sport, but just an incredible, wonderful human being. for any of you who have had the privilege to meet him or even better get to know him a little bit. He's just an amazing person, a wonderful, warm, genuine, sincere man and I wish him the very best. So, thanks for watching and uh prayers for Ronnie everybody. Prayers for Ronnie. Healing vibes, positive energy. Talk to you later. Bye-bye.