What's up, guys? Ron here. Happy Sunday. And I wanted to make a video to give props to Sam Sullik, the social media superstar who is making his pro debut in 20 days or 19 days, I guess, at the Arnold Classic in classic physique going up against guys like Mike Somerfeld, Wesley Vissers, uh, One Punch, Naz, Nile Darwin, and he's not in the show, but guys, I am so impressed. He just dropped uh some photos and videos. Let's look at the the video. This was posted uh at 21 days out. Called it 21 Pump Street, which I thought was kind of clever. And he keeps uh he's done this before. He keeps showing the back detail because lower back is where a lot of guys tend to hold body fat. Obviously, we hold we hold our fat around the middle as males. Women tend to hold it in the lower body. So, when you've got that Christmas tree super detailed and crispy looking like he does, you know, the body fat is just pretty much gone. and we'll show some uh other other things he posted showing the glutes already in. Most of the glutes doesn't show with the classic Z trunks yet. Still very very impressed. Now, I'm still not predicting a very high placing for Sam, but based on condition alone, if he shows up shredded to the bone, and a few guys who were better genetically, just lucked out at birth with better shape and structure, if they're off and they're not very lean, [clears throat] which doesn't happen often in classic physique, but it can happen. I think he's going to be uh a few places up from last because up until up until fairly recently, a couple weeks ago, I was pretty convinced. I was certain Sam Cull would be dead last just based on the structure and shape. Top 10. Well, Goku, I think there's only We'll have to count the guys how many are in the show. I think there's there's no there's never more than 15 in a class at the Arnold in any division. That's one of the beautiful things about the Arnold Classic. They cap off the divisions because it's in invite only. So you're never going to see 50, 60, 70 people up on stage in any one division ever. Uh it's more like 12 to 15. And they've eliminated divisions that they didn't feel were performing anymore, such as women's physique, women's bodybuilding, uh men's 212, which I I'm I'm kind of bummed about that. Uh did they get rid of wellness, too? I think they they're missing like four divisions. But let's take a look at Sam's photos that he just posted. He's been posting some really impressive shots and we'll take a look at the lineup. We'll see how many he's up against. So, this was three days ago. Is this the this newest post? I think it is. Yeah. So, this is the newest post. [snorts] This was posted on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Thursday. So, three weeks out. That's That's impressive. So, look at that, man. I mean, he's he's leaner now than he was when he made his pro debut. I could see that he has improved. He's a little bigger and fuller. He's got a little better muscle separation, you know, as you expect. Now, that's really This is what impresses me right there. Those glutes. Oops. Oops. Come on, Ron. Get Get your [\h__\h] together, Ron. The glutes already in. Look at that side leg. And the side leg is very, very impressive. I remember he got crap about his legs at one point. Uh, and his quads could use a little more sweep, but that's a genetic thing. But look at that side leg. The legs from the side are just so impressive. I mean, that's I would expect to see that in open bodybuilding development like that. So, good on you, Sam. Very, very impressed. Now, he doesn't need me to be impressed. He's got millions and millions of followers around the world, but I just want to give give this kid his props, man. He he's he doesn't he didn't even need to compete in the first place. I've said that before. Uh he's making great money. He's super popular. [snorts] He certainly never needed to get on stage and put himself up for scrutiny, but he did it and he turned pro and people gave him crap because it wasn't the strongest show. But, you know, that wasn't he didn't plan that. That's just who showed up. [snorts] And why didn't he do something like USA Internationals? Because he lives in Columbus and he's got a a really good relationship with the Arnold Classic promoters. So, it really made sense for him to do the Arnold the Arnold amateur last year to try to get his pro card and he did it first try. Not many people turned pro on their first try. That's that's a rarity. There's a great shot. You can see the face is all sucked in. He never really had a big fat moon face anyway, but you could see this this kid is he's on his game. He's definitely going to be in shape. There's cats. Giles gives him extra points for being a cat guy, a cat person. So, yeah. Here are the wheels. And the the quads are up a little bit. I I saw one channel was accusing him of putting oil in his quads to bring up the sweep. And I don't see anything like that at all going on. I don't see any weird lumpy misshapen look to those quads. I think those are 100% legit personally. More comments. What's up, Ron? Definitely can't stay long. Oh yeah, it's it's five hours ahead over there. Sam is looking too lean too early. Keep up his calories. Well, no. I don't think he's looking lean too early cuz if you're looking like this 3 weeks out, yeah, he's pretty much stage ready. He doesn't need to do much. But that means he can eat a little bit more now. He can afford to maybe back off on the cardio at this point because the fat's already gone and eat up a little and fill out. Now, I don't know how close he is to his weight cap right now. Uh if it's going to be a struggle for him to make weight because remember he did get I think it's like a 10 pound increase over what he competed at last year as an amateur. the pros do have a higher weight cap for the same height than amateurs as they should. You know, and again on YouTube he'll talk about how he'll get 5k calories and so on. Yeah, I think you know like I said he's coaching himself which so much credit that is not easy. It's you have to have so much confidence these days to do that because you have all these other people you're competing against. They all have coaches, good coaches, you know, guys like Chris Aceto, Neil Hill, uh on and on and on. top top coaches working with them and he's he's all on his own. What's up, Zionic? Good to see you. He's been very lean for the past three weeks. Yeah, I mean that is that is a concern. That's a danger. It could happen. But [clears throat] I also assume Sam's got people people that he talks to, the people that give him a look, a second set of eyes, if you will, because when you're coaching yourself, the the most difficult aspect of that, the hardest part is the final month or so. Not because peaking is some voodoo science or anything. It's because your mind can really start playing tricks. You get in your head and you look in the mirror and sometimes you'll see yourself looking leaner than you are or flatter than you are or whatever the case may be. And it causes you to do stupid things like if you think you're behind, [snorts] you might jump jump on the tread not treadmill, you might jump on the the stairmaster for two hours a day, cut your calories. Or the opposite happens a lot too where people think I'm losing [snorts] size. Uh I better I better eat more and you know they go over they go into a caloric surplus heading into the show and they don't come in in shape because you you have to you have to be taking in less calories than you're than you're burning to get in great shape. See what else he's got on here on his Insta. [snorts] So this was three weeks ago. Yeah, he doesn't post a lot on Instagram because he is a YouTube superstar. So that was how he looked at. So this was six weeks out. He was very, very lean at six weeks out. You say, "Where can you really go from there?" Yeah. I mean, he doesn't have much fat to lose at all, guys. He's he's just about where he needs to be in terms of body fat because that was six weeks out. That was nine weeks ago. So that was 12 weeks out. Yeah. He's he's got in shape early. And the the the good thing about that, as I said, is that allows a lot of guys, especially if they're if they're not way over their weight cap or they're nowhere near their weight cap. I'm not sure what the case with him is, it does allow you to eat more, eat into the show, eat up and fill out and come in with a much fuller look. So, like I said, structure and shapewise, he's not as gifted as a lot of the guys he's going to be up against. However, uh it could still be enough to to have him beat a few people. Even if he beats, you know, even if he only beats two, three, four guys, that's a win. Anything other than even getting on that stage as a pro is is a is a win in itself. Of course, there's some donuts, but beating anybody because no nothing is expected of him. A lot of people have said, you know, he's not a real bodybuilder. He's a social media guy, but getting on stage and putting on the line and proving it and winning his pro card, that does show he is a real bodybuilder. I call classic classic physique is body it's all bodybuilding to me the divisions where you hit poses to me that's all bodybuilding but I can see that so you know when I when I do criticize the shape and structure I'm not trying to be a jerk I'm just pointing out you know other guys have more of a a vtaper he's got a little wider waist they have more quad sweep than he does you know there's nothing you can do about these things these are all genetics but he is making the most of his genetics and for that I I got to give him respect Fact, I have to. So, we want to take a look at uh who he's going to be up against, shall we? Let's see first if you have any any more comments we need to get to. What's up, Davey? Sam is going to shock everyone plays top four. Yeah, I don't know Davey. And I it's it's not that I have anything against I have nothing against Sam. He's I think I'd get along great with this kid. And he is a kid. He's 24. Uh all my kids are older than him. [laughter] So, uh, could it happen? I don't know. Well, let's take a look at the at the lineup in a second. You tell me. I've seen a full body update. Uh, no. I don't think the lower body is going to be I think he's done a good job. The mouth eats of bringing up his lower body to match. His legs definitely look better than they they did a year ago. No chance to finish top four. It would be a stretch. It'd be a stretch. Top eight would be a huge huge victory. So, all right, let's do this. Let's go to the Arnold Classic. Arnold Sports. Look at the lineup. So, how many guys are in classic? One, two, three, four, five, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. Okay, so there's 12 guys. Nobody's dropped out, right? So, last place would be 12th. Uh, some guys I think would be almost impossible him to beat. I mean, the a couple that just jump right out at me. He's He's not going to beat Wesley Vissus. Wesley's an Arnold Classic champ. Mike Somerfeld is a defending Arnold champ. He's runner up at the Olympia twice, two years in a row. He's not beating those guys. I don't think he's beating Minigate, Piciol. These guys are just genetically superior. Zankanelli, let's take a look. I mean, Wesley, what's Wesley looking like now? So you see the difference in the frontal bicep when I I know I should have been able to do a side by side but you see like Wesley much better natural shape and structure wide across the shoulders really narrow in the waist and the hips and his legs have been mercilessly attacked by people and they're still have a better sweep than than Sam's. I I'm really not trying to put Sam down. I like the kid a lot. I'm just real. When I make predictions, it's based on what I see in terms of potential. And you got to look at all the factors. You got to look at the things that you can control such as condition, fullness. That's those are things that you can control with diet, cardio, size to an extent obviously, but they're limited for how big they can be by that body body weight cap. Structure and muscle shape. Those are two things that are just immutable. You can't means you can't change them. They are what they are. So Wesley, he's not beating Wesley. Wesley looks freaking phenomenal. I don't know if Wesley's beating Mike, but I love Wesley's physique. To me, it's it's it's a real throwback to the golden age of bodybuilding. He would have been right right in fit right in, I should say, in the 70s up on stage with guys like Arnold, Frank Zayn. Yeah. There is with his coach, the boss of Outlaw, Stefan Kinsel. So Wesley. Yeah, that was that was yesterday. Wesley, he's just too tough. He's too tough for Sam. [snorts] Looks like a swole. Will William Defoe Sam took the proper amount of drugs to participate in the [\h__\h] stuff we call modern bodybuilding. Well, I mean, you can say that about everybody, right? [snorts] Davey again. What's up, Dave? If he's allowed to come in at 229, probably be 240 on Sage. Well, I don't think he's going to fill out. It wouldn't even It wouldn't even help that much. It's not going to be a size issue with Sam so much. Again, it's going to come down because you saw Sam's frontal bicep and you're looking at Wesley. They're like two different species. Wesley's just so round and full and he's got that crazy Vtaper. It's just great genetics. Look never beats W's name in the same league. Gage, appreciate your transparency, honestly. Thank you, man. Yeah, I mean, I got to be honest, I don't even know the people, but I I have to call things as I see them or else. All right, so here's Menagate. They call him Matias Minigate Picol. Is he from Italy or uh Italy or Brazil? I can never I can never remember. So, here's him uh back at the Olympia in October. And again, you can see, look at the look at the tiny waist. We call that an X-frame. When someone has real good width up top, the shoulders, the lats, those nice bicep peaks, those flaring quad sweeps. That's an X-frame. That is a really, really great X- frame. Condition-wise, Sam's going to be right there with these guys. That's one thing he will not fall short on. He won't be less conditioned than the guys who beat him. That I'm I'm very confident of saying that. However, he does not have just the genetic blessings that some of these guys got. And I don't give them any extra credit. It's just they picked they picked the right parents, as I like to say, which is silly because you don't pick your parents. It's really just up to fate. Now, Sam's got better genetics than most humans, but these guys just they're on another level. This is Managate. Is this when he turned pro? I think that's when he Oh, is that when he won? Did he win Texas? Texas Pro. Yeah, I guess he did, right? Is that first place? I think he won. Hard work pays off. He Okay, that's that's He's Brazilian. That's Portuguese. Yeah, he did win. He won the Texas uh Texas show last year. Wow, good job. [snorts] More see with the social media following Sam bring a lot of attention to sport. Yeah. Uh yeah, I mean I think his future he'd be better off in in open because with open you can build enough mass to compensate to a point for having things like a wider waist like good example is Koke Michael Kzanic from Slovakia. pretty damn wide waist, but everything else is just phenomenal. He's built up so much width in the shoulders, the upper back, so much overall mass that he gets away. He pulls it off in most poses. Whistle's legs. I'm going to go back to Managate before we move on. Yeah. So, that's Managate. Very impressed with this guy. Very impressed with him. Uh, what' you say? If legs halfway messed up body, it would be too big [\h__\h] for Mike. Yeah, I don't know, man. I don't know if his legs are going to be much better. I hope so. Right. Just give me constructive criticism. Well, a lot of people can't tell the difference. I don't glaze anybody. I mean, if if I'm complimentary of someone, I honestly believe it. It's It's not a personal thing. It's not because I'm a big fanboy or anything like that, but if you say nice things about people, then they say you're a fanboy. Wonder if Mike is going to be 5'8 or psychman. I think uh I think he's going to be 5'8, Davey. I think that's what's going on. I believe he was rehighed and that's why he had to be so much lighter last year at the Olympia. But I did speak with his coach Neil Hill a few days ago. That interview is up on this channel. And they are planning to come in at the lighter body weight, the same weight. And here here we go. Here's Mike right here. Mike Somerfeld, the Mike the Badass. Uh, he's got some new shirts. I think that's what this is all about. Yeah. So, he's a guy that gets usually is ready way ahead of time. All right. So, this was two days ago. This is the latest posing update from Mike Somerfeld from Germany. Mike is in Las Vegas right now. He's training for the Arnold the final 10 weeks or so. I think he I think he's spending 10 weeks leading into the show in Las Vegas training with his coach Neil Hill. Neil is looking at him in person every day and he's right on track, too. Some people were saying, you know, Mike looks behind, his back's watery, but I think he's dialing in. He's been ready. He's been looking leaner at three weeks out before, but [clears throat] Neil Hill is one of the greatest coaches in the history of bodybuilding, and Mike is a is a very hard worker. I have no doubt in my mind they're going to come in. exactly the way he needs to. And he's my favorite. If if you said you need to bet $1,000 on one guy to win classic run, who is it? I'd go with Somerfield. Not a gambling man, but still, I would go with Mike. He is the badass. He is the badass. Managate Brazil. Yeah, I figured it out when I saw the Portuguese uh in his in his uh captions. I'm guessing Mike is sleeping on a medieval stretching vacuum. No, I don't think he's going to try to be uh try to be 5'9 again because I think that was like I believe the difference was something like 212 to 204 I think he had to lose and he ended up losing more just to be safe. It was a very rough rough situation that him and Neil were in right before the last Olympia because it happened they were told they were going to rehy on Saturday before the Olympia. So less than a week, six days before he would go on stage and four days before he would get weighed in. because he got weighed in on a Thursday, so they had very little time. Knee high socks. Maybe they would shrink somehow. [laughter] I don't know what I don't know if those were like uh compression socks. I really don't know why he would wear those big socks all the time. But he looks fantastic, man. I mean, Mike is he's no joke. Mike is the defending champ. In fact, I have uh his routine I have his routine queued up, don't I? Yeah, this so this was a year ago at the Arnold and boy he looked he looked phenomenal. Yeah, he was at a a higher body weight than what he was able to be at the Olympia. I think it was about 10 pound difference, maybe 12 pounds. But if he brings this look again or, you know, obviously it would be a slightly slightly smaller version of this look, I I just don't see anyone beating him. The guy is just so well put together. You know, I was I I've said he's he's he's not so much classic as he's a bodybuilder, but he's a classic bodybuilder. You know, before we had classic physique and before we had 212 and all that, we had guys over over the years who had phenomenal shape and structure as open guys, just beautiful aesthetically pleasing physiques. And he's in that mold of guys like uh Muhammad Macawe, Francis Benfado, Bob Paris, Flex Wheeler, Chris Cormier. It's very very nice. Charles Claremont would be another one. Had beautiful shape. Mike Mike the badass. Mike, I know it's the same video and here I am. Mike will easily win here. Come on. Yeah. I mean, again, Goku, I said if you said, Harris, you got to bet you have to bet $1,000 on somebody or $10,000, I would have gone with Mike. I mean, he's he's Mike the badass. Uh, so let's take a look at how he looked at the Olympia. [snorts] Uh, so he was flat at the Olympia. Condition was fine, but because they dropped 12 pounds in less than a week, it did flatten him out. So the muscles weren't really pushing out against the skin, which as some of you guys probably know that that does make you look less conditioned than when you're full and the skin is nice and tight stretched over the muscles. It is a big difference. >> [snorts] >> And uh it's why he it's basically why he lost. I think if if obviously if his height if that whole height thing hadn't happened and he had been able to come in the way he did the previous year at the Olympia and the way he came in at the Arnold earlier last year, uh I'm I'm fairly confident he would have beaten Ramon. As good as Ramon is, and Ramon is damn good, but I think Mike's just a little bit better. Look at that. Nice and gracious in defeat. They're all hugging him. Good stuff. I don't want to keep talking. I don't want to make this the the Mike Somerfeld video because we're supposed to be talking about Sam, but we're looking at all the guys. We're looking at all the guys that he's going to be up against. So, there are 12 12 guys competing in classic physique. So, there's 11 people that could potentially beat Sam, and let's see if he can beat any of them. So far, I haven't seen one. So, here's Andrea Mamolei from Ital Italy. The Italian gift. Uh, so this was a week ago. I'm not overly impressed by the condition. I don't know if it's the lighting or just the resolution. Uh Sam's in much better condition than this, but again, in terms of structure and shape and how round and full the muscles are and the small joints, Andrea Mamole from Italy here, he's just more gifted. He was born born luckier. Yeah, Andrea Mamole stage. Oh, I think that was Look at that. I mean, that's that's a beautiful physique, man. Real nice sweep to the quads. Great Vtaper there. Another [clears throat] thing that Sam needs to get is a little more triceps to match his biceps cuz Sam's tries don't sweep down like that. This is Andrea Mamolei from Italy. Uh yeah, I don't know that was So that posing video, these pictures were a week ago. So these were four weeks out roughly. I don't know. I don't know if he could beat Andrea. It'd be a stretch. It'll be a stretch. Let's see who else. So far, I haven't seen someone I'll say he'll definitely beat. Let's see. Paul Canu. Can he beat Paul? Don't know. Don't know. That's a wedding. It's not a posing picture. Uh, all right. So, this was yesterday. He looks like he's in condition. You can see the glutes. Glutes are in. Lower back is in. He's a smaller guy. I could see that. But really nice shape. Really nice shape. That's a client of his. He's a coach. Four to six weeks out. Wow. Oh, so this is as he diets. So this is You know what? I'm going to go out on a limb here and say this guy might be natural. Paul Canoe. Uh, and as such, [clears throat] this is gonna sound awful, but that might be one reason why Sam Sam might be able to beat this guy. Might not be able to. This guy's still got better shape, but Sam's got a little more mass. He's He's definitely looking a lot leaner and harder. He's got that hard look to the muscle that naturals often don't get that. Yeah, that was four days ago. Yeah. I mean, this guy has a a better physique than Sam, but I don't know if he's going to be as lean if if he's going to be lean enough to beat Sam. Let's see. What else you guys saying? Mike lost one point to Ramon. He can win this lighterweight. Yeah, I mean, I'm not doubting Summerrfell for a second. Hoping West legs will be better at seeing this. Yeah. I mean, if if Wesley's had all this time to bring his legs up and they haven't really improved, what what's how are they suddenly going to start growing? Honestly, the only thing that I could think of would be if he moved if he took a say like three months to stay in Vegas and train with Milos. Milos Milos Sarv is a a wizard at putting size on people. What's he might play second? Ramon is good for business. Brazil's emerge. Yeah, they don't care. They don't care. Kian about any of that stuff. Politics really doesn't factor into the into the judging the way people seem to think it does. What's up, Xavier? Xavier Willis in Tasmania. I trained with my buddy Chris today, Chris Griffin, who was married to a woman Nikki over in uh Brisbane and he's actually been to Tasmania. He looks more classic than Mike. Yeah, absolutely. All right, so this is that was Paul Cano Canu. I don't know how you say it. Um, yeah, that was five days ago. I I think it's it's possible that that Sam might be able to beat this guy if this guy isn't much more conditioned than this because Sam is looking like granite right now. And condition does matter. It's only one factor. [snorts] If all else is equal and somebody's in better condition, that person wins. But, you know, there's other there's so many size, structure, shape, symmetry, balance, proportion. These things are all important. So that was Paul Cano. We're looking at all the guys competing in classic right now. Hang new Phil new sorry I don't know how to say your name Phil. I'm sorry. I really genuinely uh that was six weeks out. So I don't know know how much that was pinned. So hopefully that's not the last update. That was six weeks out and we're at three. So that's three weeks old. That was four weeks ago. This is Phil new. Can he can can can uh what's his name? Sull beat this. I don't know. Uh structurally he's got a little bit of narrow narrow clavicles. He's not real wide. So, but he [snorts] does have better legs. Look at those legs. Is it racist if I say that most Asian competitors, bodybuilders, classic, whatever, they all seem to have amazing legs? I don't think it's racist when you're giving a compliment, right? And a lot of times their back is kind of lagging. [clears throat] The back thickness here could be better. But Phil potentially Phil is somebody Sam might be able to beat. I'm not saying he's going to beat and that was seven weeks ago. So we're way way those that's way old. So I've seen a couple guys that Phil does have a chance of beating so far. Uh now we go back to Italy. Gabrielle Zankarelli. I don't know if he's beaten Gabrielle. How old is this? Oh, this is 47 minutes old. This is a pretty new update, guys. It's only 47 minutes old. It's a big guy for classic. That's a lot of mass. And again, his coaches are they're pretty uh pretty impressed. [laughter] Impression. Don't tell me he's Brazilian, too, right? I don't know. No, Italy. Italy. Gabrielle. Gabrielle. Yeah. Again, that condition's not knocking my socks off, but he's got three weeks left. This is the full posing. This is take. This is from today. Gabriel's Ankani from Italy. Yeah, he looks damn good. He looks damn good. I'm just not loving the, you know, obviously you you don't have to be stage ready at three weeks out. That's why the only thing that matters is how you look on the day of the show, but I've seen some guys so far that are they're further ahead condition-wise. Doesn't mean he's not going to nail it when the time comes. Yeah, these are all very, very recent. But look at that. Look at the width across the shoulders, the great the back. You can see how great his back development is from the front in that front lat spread. Those lats are peeking through. He's another one. He's dangerous. Check your comments, guys. Make sure there's no more comments. Oh, let's see. I have silicon last second to last place to be top 10 Olympians. Yeah, I think most of these guys, and you guys, please correct me because I'm wrong all the time. I think almost everyone in this on this list has been top 10 at the Olympia before. Mike is more classic than Wesley. Mike has smaller waist and bigger legs. Yeah, but he's more Well, I mean, what's more classic? Classic is it seems to mean something different to everybody. Wesley reminds me of his fellow pitcher Barry Deo. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Kelly. And you know, Barry Demay was uh a great great uh Olympia level competitor for a few years. His his best placing was 1988 Olympia in Los Angeles. He was third place at the Olympia [snorts] and Barry was about the same size as Chris Bumstead like 6'1 and about 235 pounds. They were right around 240 at the most. Beware, Mr. Triang was on assessment. [laughter] Governor, Massachusetts mayor who were Democrats. Oh, they're not just Democrats. They're like uber woke liberal Democrats. H don't get me started on the governor of Massachusetts and the mayor of Boston. They're awful. Zonelli's Brit Brit Brazilian. Not another one. Oh boy. Let's see. Fabricio. Yeah. Okay. So, nobody gets to be Italian anymore. [laughter] You're probably right. I'm just trying. Zanka team, that is Portuguese. That is Portuguese. I think that's Portuguese. I can tell the difference between Portuguese and Spanish in Italian when I see them in writing, but I don't speak any of these languages fluently. All right, so that was him. Who else? So far, I haven't seen anyone that he's definitely beating. All right, this is Ethan Gojhari. I don't know where he's from. Two pro wins, Olympia qualified. That's Arabic, which Oh, the Persian lion. Okay, so he's from Oh, boy. from Iran. Poor guy. I said poor guy because of everything that's happening over in Iran right now. That was 14 weeks ago. What'd he win? Oh, he won the Steve Car Las Vegas Classic. Look at that condition. He's kissing the trophy. He was shredded there. Look at that. First place. Oh, okay. Tells you the tells you the name of the show. And he won 7,500 bucks for that. speaks great English or somebody did. So, this is Ethan Gojhari, the Persian Lion. He's already qualified for the 2026 Olympia because that was a post I if it was post Olympia or was after qualifying. So, yeah, he's already uh he's already qualified for next year's Olympia along with good good cast there. Anton Tushin, don't really know him. Ruffen, of course, Fabio Juno, Ramondino, Andrea Mamolei. Yeah. Okay. So, I think it's safe to say anyone who's won a classic physique show, Sam's probably not going to be beating them. These are all old shots. How's he looking now, though? See if we can get a current update of Ethan. Any full posing? Uh, that was a leg training. That was a leg training at five weeks out. I'm sure he's got great. That's a client. Well, we saw what he looked like on stage. He's he's very very good. Obviously, he's already qualified for next year's Olympia, so I don't know about him beating him. Who else we got? We're almost done there. Just a couple more. Jorge Era. He's been the Olympia top 12 twice. Tijuana Medical. Okay. I think Jorge is from Mexico. Six days out. Okay, here we go. These are some recent updates from Jorge. George Herrera. Sometimes he called himself George, sometimes Jorge. Definitely in shape. Great side shots there. Great side leg just like Sam. Look at that. Okay, [laughter] now we're talking. George Herrera shredded. To do well in class physique, you need leg development, match your upper body. Oh yeah. I mean the standards have changed. I mean you didn't even need the back development on the guys back in the 70s was nothing like it is today. Legs and back were not really priorities back in the old days. Uh back I'd say back became more of a a body part that people started focusing more on once Lee Haney was Olympia Mr. Olympia which started in 1984. I should say Samir in ' 83. Franco always had a good back but legs really didn't become a a huge factor. I mean, guys didn't want huge legs until plats came along and set a whole new standard. Oh, Ethan lives in Australia. Okay, so he's Persian, but he lives in Australia. Thank you. Appreciate that. Donald Pump, those dinos for Rondino. Sides love the rest. We should stand lunick liberals. Yeah, that's a whole other video. Ramon Classic, Terren Clark, Summerrfeld 212, Silicopheld will never go 212. In that interview I did with Neil Hill, his coach, you know, they said he's too tall, which he's been listed as 5'9 and more recently, I think he was he was heighted at 5'8, which is still that's too tall to be a great 212 guy. You're up against Clarita's 5 foot, so eight inches shorter. Uh Keon is probably like 5'4, 5'5. They're just so much thicker. And if you put Somerfeld next to them, you would see a major difference. But this guy, George Herrera, just shredded. Look at that. Very impressive. Good on him. All right. Well, who else can he beat? Can he beat anybody? Come on. We got to find someone that he can definitely beat. Vahid Badi. Uh, Iranian. Another Iranian. Wow, these Iranians are kicking ass. So, this was the last Olympia. Oh, no. 30 weeks ago. No, this must have been the Olympia before that 2024. Not a huge guy. Not a huge guy, but look at that condition. Geez. Dug out. Those are some deep striations in the glutes and the hams. Very deep, clear striations. Like I've seen some guys uh at the highest pro levels who don't have much going on in the hamstrings at all. And it's it's disappointing. This guy's really, really got a impressive shape to him. Look at that. Vahed. Okay, we got some posing from Vahed. I don't know if this was a 25 Olympia. Looks like the 25 Olympia backdrop. Can I see in the back? If he'd move his If he moved a little bit out of the way, I could see the year. But I think this was last year's Olympia. That's some Gilo footage right there. That's crystal clear. So Vahid is an Iranian living I don't know where. Persians are all over the world. Hopefully he's not in Iran. I say that because I wouldn't wish that on anybody trying to get ready for one of the biggest bodybuilding competitions in the world. It's really only second biggest to the Olympia in terms of scope. Prize money. It does have more prize money for uh first place for open than any other show in history ever has. Yeah, Vahid looks really good. Really good. Impressed with him. [snorts] I think we got one more guy. One more guy to look at. Yeah, Kim Angel. Hakee. Kim Angel. Four pro wins twice twice at the Olympia twice on the Olympia stage so far. This update was posted earlier today or 12 hours ago, whatever. He's in some Spanish country. I I do speak some half-ass Spanish. And yeah, he's he's looking rough, too. Rough in a good way. Not looking rough bad. Looking looking tough, I should say. Yeah. I wonder how many guys regret the back the [clears throat] back tattoos. It's like one area I would never never get tattooed if I was a competitor. I would put nothing on the back like the big back piece that uh what's his name has? Raphael Brando. Huffa Huffa Brando. I think that distracts from the overall flow of the physique from the back. I wouldn't have done that, but it's his body. My body, my choice, as the as the ladies like to say. So, this guy's looking all dried out and shredded and strided. Looking awesome. So, so far I haven't seen anyone that I'll say Solic is definitely beating, which you know, if you don't want him to place last, you got to find somebody they can beat theoretically on paper. Oh, nice girl. Yeah. I mean, this guy this guy looks They all look good, man. I mean, [laughter] I haven't seen anyone that would say, "What the hell did Why did they invite this guy?" I haven't seen anyone like that yet. Yeah, he looks good, man. He looks good. That's Kim Angel. Sometimes I try to Sometimes I try to figure out where they are. I look and see if there's a location. Oh, UK. He's in the UK. Or was he just there for something? I don't know. Yeah, he might have just been there for a seminars. They I know they had a big seminar there. So, where is this? Don't know. Valencia. Is that Spain? I think Valencia is in Spain, right? They probably have one in Italy, too. I don't know. That was three weeks ago. So, that was six weeks out. He was already shredded. Yeah. I don't know, man. So, it's going to be tough. It's going to be tough. Classic physique is no joke. Uh [snorts] the the Arnold Classic lineup isn't as strong as the Olympia, but it's still a very very strong lineup. Uh, I again I give Sam Silk so much credit for getting in great shape. Off topic, insulin. Uh, I used insulin for about three months during a winter bulk and I got heavier than ever before. I was almost 250 at 5'8. I was like 248 at my highest, but I was fat. I was eating [snorts] I was eating things like uh cookies after my workout with the insulin, which you know, Milos will tell you straight up, you're an idiot. [snorts] You're not supposed to have any fat with the insulin. It's supposed to be pure sugar and I screwed that up. But I don't know. I I didn't do it correctly and I don't I'm not interested in ever doing it again. Obviously, a lot of people swear by it and use it. I just don't want to more precisely the open guys. Oh, yeah. I mean, in the videos in the next couple weeks, we're going to be talking a lot about the open class. Today I just really wanted to give a little focus to Celic. Who is Sam most likely to beat? The only guy Xavier that I saw that he might have a a good chance of beating is a guy named Paul Canu. And I only say that because Paul looks natural to me. And the condition, he's smaller guy, great shape, beautiful shape. Uh but he's not huge. Sam's bigger than he is. And Sam's definitely much more conditioned. This guy has better shape and structure. But if you pressed me as to who he might be able to beat, I'm not saying he's going to beat him. I don't know if Sam's going to beat anybody. Uh, but that's one guy just just based on what I'm seeing. And again, it's nothing personal against anybody. It never is. I'm just talking about physiques. [snorts] It's just going to show how tough competition. Oh, it's the Arnold Classic, man. It's It's the second biggest show in the world. 100%. Donald Pump. Oh, you're agreeing with Donald Pump. Oh, yeah. It's classic physique is it's a very tough division because it has so much more participation at the amateur level than bodybuilding does that we're getting a much greater gene pool representation. The talent level in classic physique is getting better and better. We of course we still have some very good open bodybuilders and we're getting new ones every year but classic pumps out a lot more new talent to the usual route. You know, I mean, he's not he's not having a using a coach. I mean, I don't know what a coach could do for him. Condition-wise, Sam couldn't be any better than he is. He's in ex He's in amazing condition. And I don't think that would be, you know, what's a coach really going to do? They're they're not going to change the things that need to be changed, which is his shape and symmetry. You know, there's there's nothing a coach can do. So, you know, I want to go back to it. I'm trying to show where is so where's his front door? Okay. So, I mean, this is a coach can't change that. He can be bigger, he can be leaner, he can focus more on body parts. Like again, I said, he needs more tricep. He definitely needs more lat width. His lats aren't very wide. He doesn't have much of a taper. It's kind of more of a square torso. There's a little bit of a taper. Of course, there is. And he's got nice nice tight abdominals and everything, but he doesn't have that real flare to the lats going into a small waist, which it looks like everybody he's competing against does have that. So, it's tough. Yeah, he's jumping in. Hey, again, I give him credit for another thing. Of course, he's going to do the Arnold because I said the Arnold has treated him very well. He's got a great relationship with the promoters. He lives in Ohio and you know why not make why not make your pro debut at at a huge show like that. Jump right in. But it would have been a lot easier for him to find a much more obscure pro show somewhere like in Nebraska or who knows a small small pro show where he might had a he would have had a better chance. Definitely would have had a better chance of making top five. Sebum could have Oh, see that's how Charles got in trouble by saying that. [laughter] Yeah, I think uh Sebum with like a one just a year to focus on putting on a little more size. [snorts] He did pretty well in open with only three weeks to put on more size to fill out a little more if he took a full offseason to grow. I think Sebum Chris Bumpstead could have been a great open pro. Who knows? He might come back. He's only 30. He just turned 31. He's so young still. Sam make peace to last place. [laughter] That's rough. But it's it's you know I I think you're being real. Sand looks how small the pros we could begin with height and weight. Uh so yeah, maybe I should look that up first. Huh. I believe he's about 510 or 5'11. I don't I don't know what he can come in. It doesn't even matter. It's it's visual. If you look like you're bigger than someone else, it really doesn't matter if you weigh more or not because even at the same height and weight, depending on your the size of your joints and how full and round your muscle bellies are, two people with the same exact height and weight and even the same body fat. So, they're carrying the same exact amount of muscle mass, but it can look very different on different people just because of structure and muscle shape and things like that. See, structure is ideal for class. No, it's not. It's not. We just ran through all those guys, the other 11 guys he's competing against, and they all were gifted. They're all more genetically gifted in terms of structure. Your bones are your bones. You can't change your bones. You can change a lot of things about your physique, but your bones, yeah, you're not doing jack to those. Sims 5'11. Uh, okay. Okay, so 5'11 [sighs] IFBB ProLeague weight cap classic physique 5'11. Come on AI, do your thing. This can't be right. 5'11 says 209. Maximum weight. No, I think that's amateur. I think that's amateur. Pro rules. So, it's pros are different class physique. Okay. So, here we go. I got it. So, if he's 5'11, he can be 219. Is that right? Yeah. This is uh from the IFBB Pro League. This is the IFBB's official website it went to. But that doesn't sound right to me. 61 can be 234. 62 242. Yeah, I guess that's right cuz like I'm [clears throat] Yeah, that is right because [snorts] I know I looked into classic just in case I wanted to try it. Could I get to it? It was for my height it was like 187 would be the amateur limit the NPC but for a pro they can be 197. So Sam can be 219. That is his limit for this show. got a bone extension machine season. We stepped on product almost did be Martin Sam just getting few Oh yeah. I mean I I don't [clears throat] think Sam's gonna hit his full potential as a physique competitor for a few more years. He's he's young in the game now 24. We had guys like Rich Gaspari being runner up at the Mr. Olympia at 24. We had guys like Lee Haney becoming Mr. Olympia at age 24. Arnold Schwarzer too, but he's still a very young kid. He's a young guy at 65. What's your limit do pump? It's a good question. You might be unlimited. Uh, okay. Classic physique. Uh, let's see. Donald, it's 65. You can be 263, Donald. You can be up to 263. It's Chris's tree on the back because I never see it as an upside down moment. Yeah, it's uh so show it to you real quick. My dog's getting antsy. He does this like fake sneezing thing when he wants his walk. There's the Christmas tree right there. Yeah, it's like an upside No, it's not an upside down Christmas tree. See, it's kind of looks like a tree now. You get it? Okay. The 20 years fill out. Yeah, I need to pick different parents. It's too late now. should take a year off to gain size. He can't. Well, if he wants to go open, I don't think he can gain much more size and still be at still make weight for classic. It's not size that he's he's he's not giving up a lot of size to these guys. It's the shape of the muscles that's different about those. Thought his weight limit was 226. He might be the 5'11, including six foot. Well, it goes God, I keep losing weight. We need to keep it there. So uh what do I do with it? Pro rules rules competition rules. I'm [snorts] going close this out after this. So wait, let me 226. There is no 220. There's a 227 if you're between 5'11 and six foot. So if you're over 5'11 but under six foot, you can be 29. Wait a minute. To including six foot. Yeah. So if he's over 5'11, if he's 5'11, it says up to and including six foot is 227. Yeah, he is estimated as far as Yeah, he was pretty damn good. See where he is Wesley. Yeah, Wesley's pretty damn tall. All right, guys. I'm going to take off. So, that was our little talk for today. I'll be doing more videos throughout the week. Please keep your notifications on. If you're not already subscribed, please subscribe to the channel. Liking, subscribing, sharing, all things that don't cost you a penny, but really help me out with this channel. Help it grow. Appreciate you guys so much. Keep it tuned right here to Ron Harris Muscle. I'll see you guys next time. Peace. [snorts]