What's up guys? Ron Harris here and big news in the upcoming Mr. Olympia in terms of Samson Dada. He just guest posed and this video has gone viral. Let's take a look at Samson guest posing. I believe this was yesterday. really not sure, but this is six weeks out. If you followed Samson's career, you know he has never looked this sharp six weeks out. This is very close to contest condition for Samson or I should say previous contest condition. meaning I think he is on track to finally finally display that extra degree of conditioning, that crispness, that dryness, those deep clear cuts everywhere that we've always wanted to see because this is the greatest physique in the world. This is Mr. Olympia right now, guys. So, the question is, is he on track to be better than we've ever seen him before? And is that Samson, that sharp, sharp, shredded Samson, is that going to be so much to handle that Nick Walker, Derek Lunsford, Heidi Chupan, the rest of the guys are just not going to be able to get past. Let me know what you think, guys. That's that's why we do these things live. So, I I don't know what he weighs here. I don't know if he's posted what he weighs here, but I strongly suspect Samson is not worried about his weight anymore. I heard he was already about 300 lbs here, which would mean he's very close contest condition. So, if he's 300 or a little over 300, that's typically what he competes at anyway. And with another six weeks to go, he could easily drop I don't know how much more, another 10 pounds beyond this, another 15 pounds. Yeah, I know the risk of him flattening out is always there as a taller guy, but geez, this is this is uh exciting because like I said, we've seen Samson many many times big and full and in good shape, but not awesome shape. Let's take a look at the Arnold Classic. This was six about six months ago at this point. Close to it. Yeah, almost exactly six months ago. This is the Arnold Classic where he showed up looking for that $500,000 Uh, but Derek Lensford squeaked past him and got the win basically on condition. Samson's condition was very good. It just wasn't great. So, I I think he's already very close to this and he's got six more weeks to play with, guys. A lot can happen in six weeks. I think losing this Arnold Classic was the best thing that could have happened to him in terms of uh foreshadowing how good he was going to be at the Olympia because if he had won the Arnold in this condition, he would have had no incentive to do anything differently to bring a different look to the Olympia. And I think losing this contest, losing that half a million dollars to Derrick Lensford, that lit a fire under his ass that really motivated him. I think we're going to finally see that conditioning. If it takes extra suffering, if it takes going lower on carbs, whatever it's going to take, I believe we're gonna see the best ever version of Samson Delta. And I think it's gonna be a lighter version. I don't think he's going to be 300 or 305 anymore. I think we're going to see something much, much closer to 290, 285. And I'm here for it. I would love to see him at that weight because I think he's got so much size that even if he was a tiny bit flat, a tiny bit. Obviously, if he's very flat, that could lose the show for him. But still, his stature, six foot tall, the width, the structure, the shape. He's got so many things going for him. I believe that extra degree of condition could be all it's going to take. So, let's hear what you guys have to say. That's why I go live. Aon, happy Labor Day weekend. Thanks, Tippon. I found out they have Labor Day in Canada, too. They just throw a U after the O. Labor Day. I don't even know what this holiday is supposed to be. He was going to lose. If not, he wins five. Yeah, I I don't know if will be too heavy. I mean, Nick Walker is like what, 290 right now. If anyone's going to be too heavy, I think it might be Nick Walker because it really looks like he's pushing pushing for mass mass mass trying to come in as big and freaky as possible. Don't know if that's the greatest idea. We'll take a look at his recent updates. He is looking absolutely freakish Nick Walker right now. No doubt about that. It's gamer for sure. He looks more lean. Yeah, we've never seen any any of you who have followed Samson over the past even two or three years, you know that six weeks out, he was never looking like this. Dave M, my buddy Bayou Muscle, if Tensburg is an excellent condition, nobody else can compare with him in size, shape, sim conditioning. Yeah, I I've I've been saying for a long time, and you know, I don't have to be a genius to say this. He's got the best physique in the world in terms of that total package. The structure, the mass, the muscle shape, the balance, the proportions, everything. The only thing guys beat him on, guys like Lunsford, guys like Heidi Chupan, they have that extra degree of conditioning that he lacks. Uh, and he was still good enough to win the Olympia last year, even though several people, including the two we just mentioned, were in better condition, but they didn't have everything else. Remember, it's not a conditioning contest. Condition is important. You can't be way off. However, if everything else is equal, or I should say if you have the best overall package over a lot of these other guys and they're in uh you just happen to be slightly slightly less lean than them, you're going to walk away with the win. Uh go back to his Olympia look. I'm going to pull up his look from the last Olympia. I know I have I have a lot of video clips loaded, guys. I need to get rid of some of these, but then then they come up all the time and I want to use them. Okay, so here was the Olympia last year. Yeah, I'd say he's very very close to this condition right now. Maybe, you know, I mean, maybe. Yeah, I'd say he's maybe a few pounds a few pounds away from this look. And this won the Mr. Olympia last year. So, we shall see. We shall see. Not a s there's no way he was going to beat him. I mean, who's got the better overall package? That's what you have to ask yourself. In terms of sheer mass, I think we're going to see Nick Walker up there is probably going to be the most massive, the most muscle pound-for-pound. So Nick's 5'7 on a very good day. If he's 290 now, I think it's very very likely we could see Nick Walker on stage somewhere around 275. I think that's that's a reasonable expectation. So in terms of height, weight, mount muscle per square inch, Nick Walker is going to be the bigger guy, but Nick does not have that that Vtaper. He doesn't have that narrow waist that Samson has. Nick has a pretty thick blocky midsection. Granted, he can sort of compensate for that by being so huge in the shoulders, the arms, the quads are even better than they were before. But I I just don't see anybody beating this right now. Where are my Nick Walker fans to tell me I'm full of [\h__\h] Nick's going to destroy everybody. He could stay that weight and just hold till dry out week. I I I don't see him holding that weight. I just don't see him maintaining, you know, doing cardio every day and unless he's eating a lot of food, more food than he would be at this point of diet. I don't see him staying at this weight for six more weeks. I mean, the whole point of prep is that you get leaner and leaner and your body weight does go down. You know, it doesn't go down dramatically for these guys because these guys, they hold on to their muscle mass pretty well for the most part. But I could still see uh I could still see him coming in lighter lighter than ever before, but in a condition that we've never seen before. Would he look as big and full and round? Maybe he won't have quite as much of that quality, but I think the extra conditioning would be worth it. I mean, I I really want to see that Simpson won't win. He's known by not being consistent. I mean, he's never been off. He's never been like smooth. Don't Don't get it twisted. Um, I'd say he actually is pretty consistent when you think about it. Like when was he was he even off at the Arnold? I mean, a tiny bit. He was a tiny bit like two 3% less condition he was at the Olympia when he won. Uh, and that was enough for Derek to get past him. So, we'll see. He actually looks flat. He never looks flat. Yeah, that that's one thing. A lot of people have commented he looks smaller. He's not smaller. He's probably on very very low carbs right now. I don't know how many I don't know if he discloses that in his videos. I don't follow him as closely as some of you guys do. So, if he has if he's disclosed that information about how low he's going on the carb or something, let me know in the comments. So, I'm I'm curious to know if that's the case. But, it does look like he's pulling hard. He's depleting. Uh, and, you know, he's he's putting more effort, more suffering, whatever, however you want to phrase it, into this prep than maybe he ever has before in his life. Can't tell. Can't tell he's dieting harder. Yeah, he wants this. He does not want to lose. So, it was $600,000 last year. I strongly suspect when that check gets turned around at the last minute. I I don't think they're going to announce it ahead of time. I think they're going to shock us at the moment of victory. When that check flips around on stage in October at the Mr. Olympia, uh whether it's Samson or someone else, I think it's gonna say 750,000. That's my prediction. We'll see if I'm right. I believe they're going to give away 750K for first prize this year. That's my prediction because the Arnold already said they're doing that. Uh so they have to match the Arnold and they're not going to wait until 2026 after the Arnold's already done it. I think they want to beat the Arnold to the punch and have that money available for the athletes ahead of time. They want to award the 750 first, which is great for the athletes. They're getting paid some good money now. Finally, you could seen there's Tilapia and Sam. Okay, see there you go. Thank you, Jedi Master, because you're actually looking at his videos. Uh I I don't spend a lot of time watching the videos. Spend more time creating YouTube videos than I do watching them. But yeah, tilapia and salmon. So fish. And tilapia is a very very low calorie white fish. Very cheap. But uh if he's eating a lot of fish now instead of steak and chicken, that tells you he's really really going for for a great condition. His biceps look improved, his waist is smaller, and his legs and back are improved. Nick is heavy is too heavy as well. Yeah. Go to his uh go to his Instagram page and then we'll take a look at Nick. I mean it's funny how you know people aren't talking so much about Hottie or Hottie or Derek. It's Nick who's getting getting all the all the interest right now. Uh so that was a guest posing from 12 and six weeks. Yeah. 12 July versus 30 August. Dee, he must have guessed posed like this morning, I guess. I know Europe's ahead of schedule. Amateur Olympia today. I don't even know what which amateur Olympia that was. Biceps improved way smaller. Legs and back improved. I mean, that's he's getting better and better. Nick is too heavy. We'll take a look at Nick. Raymond Jones s still doesn't have a ton of detail. Yeah, I'm curious though to see this is six weeks out. I I I don't see that detail that I want to see yet, but I I do hold out hope that we're going to see that in six weeks. I think we're going to see the Samson that we've been waiting for. I mean, he's already damn near perfectly small, definitely on par with the Arms Commissioner. I think he's really flat here and feels up nicely. Yeah, I I do believe and I don't know for sure, but I do believe he's in a depleting stage. He's going low on carbs. He's really pushing the for the condition right now. Maybe he'll bring the calories back up toward the very end and fill out if he's already got the leanness that he wants. But right now, I think he's really pulling, really going hard on the on the prep, the cardio, and the uh the diet. Yeah, you could see how much fuller he was uh in July there at the guest posing in Amsterdam. That was the uh Euro Muscle contest, Eurom Muscle Show. Sorry, J was there. I was should have been there, but I had to get my shoulder replaced. That reddish stuff Nick is taking. Well, that's just a GLP-1 uh drug that's very similar to WGOI to uh OMIC. I think it's just an appetite suppressant. It just makes people not want to eat. So, you know, you can you can fight the cravings and not and eat smaller portions on your own. It just takes a little more discipline and you're going to go through more discomfort uh hunger pangs and things like that. But you it can be done. People be saying he looks stringy in small. He's improved since more details. Well, I Yeah, I mean, Ryan, he's he's not as full. He's not as big and full as we might expect him to be, but we've never seen him this lean this far out from a show either, and that's that's what I'm really excited about. He'll fill out when he needs to. I agree, Kentucky. So, you know, his wife is his coach and um I I think she's got a great handle on his physique at this point. Um, my plan if if I was his coach, obviously I'm not, if I was his coach, uh, I would be doing exactly what he's doing now, what I believe he's doing, which is, uh, going hard on the condition, going real low on the calories, real high on the cardio. Um, and then when the time comes, as he gets closer to the show, very close to the show, that's when he could probably eat up, really start filling out while he's already, while he's got all that body fat taken care of, gone. And then I think we're going to see an incredible package because he'll be shredded to the bone like we've never seen before. And he'll have that fullness and that beautiful shape that he has, seeing something he's never used in the past. What do you think it is? Steppon says, "Shipman, there's so many new compounds out there." I mean, I don't I don't necessarily think or believe that he's using any any new peed that he's never used before. I think we're just seeing a guy who got his butt kicked at the Arnold at a show that he was the odds on favorite to win. Everybody, just about everybody, I should say, everybody had him picked to win that Arnold Classic. We didn't think Derek had a chance because Samson was the the reigning sitting sitting Mr. for Olympia champ. He just beaten Derek a few months before that and we fully expected Samson to walk away with the Arnold Classic title in the 500k, but he didn't. Derek beat him and he beat him on condition. And I think that was exactly what needed to happen so that this could happen so that we could see Samson really going for condition to a level that I don't think he ever has before. He's coming for Olympic title. He doesn't want to let go of it. He's Mr. Olympia. He wants to stay Mr. Olympia. You know, people say, "Well, once you're Mr. Olympia, you're not as hungry because you're the guys who still want to win are hungrier. I don't know about that. I think it's quite possible that when you you've become Mr. Olympia, you're super motivated to keep that title because it feels so good. You have so many more opportunities in a multitude of ways uh to make money, to advance your career, to set yourself up for life after bodybuilding as a Mr. Olympia champion. And the more Olympia titles you win, the more you can cement that legacy and really build that that future for yourself. Nick is my favorite. Yeah, he's he's damn good. Oh, these are these are I don't even know. I mean, Rea is the only one I've heard of. Matza C. S lu PP P. What the hell are these things? I have no idea. Granddaddy of them all. Essentially lose fat and water. Now you can see doesn't have that real dense condition muscle. Can't hide the lack of muscle mass. He looks small. Okay. Well, wow. Harsh. Harsh. Correct. Step on. He might just have thicker skin. Never see him grainy. I We never have. And I'm That's what I really think we might see in six weeks. I really would love to see that. Just needs to come in peeled, which you haven't seen. Yeah. I mean, unless he's super flat, I I don't see anybody beating him. If he loses a bunch more muscle, a good amount more muscle, and comes in flat. Yeah, he could get beat. He could get beat by by Hottie, by Derek, maybe even by Nick. Uh if he if he comes in that flat. Merrick got him on SLU Retack Merrick Health. That's his uh men's health specialist or I should say HRT clinic is much improved. Yeah, he looks downsized. Yeah, he he's flat. He's definitely flat. He's not not popping and full like he would be. Two eggs for breakfast. Oh, well, that's it. Wow. Is that true? If that's true, that's that's crazy for a guy who's I heard he was 300 lb here. For a 300 man pound man to just have two eggs for breakfast. I mean I assume you mean no carbs, no no oatmeal, no cream of rice, no cream of wheat, just the car, just the eggs. Wow. You expect Derek, but if Sam comes in shredded, they can't even compare. I mean, Samson is just very gifted. That structure, the height, uh the muscle shape, he's just he's the best physique in the world right now. I mean, he is Mr. Olympia for a reason. He had tits. talking about Kyno. Nick looks more shredded than Sims right now. Well, well, I think I think it's only fair to take a look at Nick then. Okay. Sure. He hasn't blocked me or anything. Why would he? I don't know. You never know. Okay. So, yeah, Nick is a freak, man. That is a mutant. My goodness. He's going to be the biggest guy up there. The thickest, most muscular guy. Yeah, that is a that is just a crazy crazy physique. Crazy. This was four days ago. I don't know if I'd say that's more shredded. I don't know if you're just looking at veins or something because I still don't see the deep clear cuts. Yeah. You see, you're looking probably like looking at veins, veins and so forth and confusing that for condition. I'm not saying he's not on track. He's on track. Nick Nick's going to be in shape, but I don't see like crazy deep No. See, he doesn't have like deep deep cuts in his hams or anything like that. No, he's not more shredded than Samson right now, guys. You're looking at you're looking at things that you think are indicators of condition, but they're really not. That was New York. There any full body posing stuff? Anything? Come on, Nick. Got a lot of I guess that's the most recent picture. That was a week ago. I mean, and the the midsection, it's it's pretty thick. Of course, he's a freak. He's got that herculan type of Zeke. He can get away with it uh to an extent, but if you put someone else next to him that's just got almost as much size, but much better proportions. Only two eggs for breakfast is criminal. Those lower abs are much tighter. Talk about Nick. So, have a back to go with that body. Samson's never been flat. I'm gonna go back to uh I'm gonna go back to Samson because we're talking about Samson. We'll talk about Nick. Nick's going to get plenty of uh attention later. Don't worry. This crap Samson. Oh, that's Quint. He's training with the training with Quint Beastwin. All right, I'm just going to leave this up. Leave that up while we talk. Okay, back to your comments. Dave Me by you muscle. My man Simpsons never flat. the only buyers that can afford to lose muscle from safety machine so yeah I mean I've seen many many cases over the years where a pro who has never been that sharp one time they finally give up a little bit of size and fullness for that extra level of conditioning and they usually win it usually pays off very rarely does someone come in so someone that's who's got that much mass which is a a rare few bodybuilds who have that much mass that can afford to give up some but rarely has that not paid off that strategy of giving up sacrificing a little bit of size and fullness, not a lot, just a little bit for that extra crazy level of conditioning. And you know, especially, you know, judges like to see improvements. They like to see a package that's they've never seen before from the athlete. They want to see Samson shredded. They've been waiting to see a shredded Samson for the past couple years. And uh if he finally shows them that that version, uh you know, he still has to beat everyone up there on stage fair and square, but it's going to impress the hell out of the judges and rightfully so because, you know, this is this is a guy who's been on he's been on the top now for a little while, for a minute. Uh and they just want to see improvements. Simpson lost too much chasing condition. He hasn't lost it yet. I mean, if if we see another video in three weeks and he's smaller than this, that's when we might start to worry, start to go into panic mode as Samson Dow to fans. But I don't I just see a flat Samson here, which I honestly believe he's just just really pushing the prep very hard right now. Low on carbs, low on calories. Uh probably doing more cardio, I would be guessing, because conditioning is is been the missing link for him. The one thing he never had was that crazy condition. He's never been the most conditioned guy on stage. Maybe he will be this time. Wouldn't that be something? Also give Sam credit the lighting. Guest posing is very distracting. And there's a drone flying around him for God's sake. An actual drone. Nick laura v. Vera. Vera is like for penis. There's a different word for for penis in like every Spanish country. Uh banga is how what the Cubans say. I think vera is how what the Mexicans say. Nick is going to be the winner. The pure dick vulo sal he's doing treadmill in the morning stairs post training. I mean yeah that's two two cardio sessions a day. Samson lost sizes Nick gained I will pick Nick rea does a lot more than that. Thank you because I don't know much about rea so I appreciate this day. It helps reduce hunger, but also has a mitochondrial effect. Speeds up the turnover and partition of food. Well, sounds like a like an awesome drug for bodybuilders. Well, there well there well there's never going to be an end to the amount of new drugs that seem to pop into the bodybuilding world. But thank you for that day. And I I confess I did not know much about red. I assumed it was just another GLP-1 antagonist just like ozanic or wiggoi. It's phenomenal. Small dose of reticin help with nutrient partitioning. Plus SLU is a cheat code. I think you meant to say cheat code. What's SLU? Sounds like a university to me. Southern Louisiana University. It's a drug. It's a PD. I have no idea what it is. No idea. Samson lost too much chase and conditioning cheat code. Yeah, I knew what you meant, but I I do that all the time, especially with talk to text. Just [\h__\h] diet suffering. Looks to me like he is suffering. Looks to me like he is. So it's called an in show. People say I'm too small or condition or way behind. If not, this guy's putting sure enough help. I'm surprised he still does. Is he? Oh, he's he's still sing he's still a hostile athlete. What am I thinking? Hottie at six weeks. Big difference. Okay, I'll do that. I'll look at Hottie. What the heck? And you know, obviously I'm hoping Heidi has no issues getting to the USA. Uh this was yesterday. Big difference in size and fullness. Absolutely. Midsection is popping out a little bit there as you can see. I'm not saying he's going to have a gut or anything like that. I'm just saying genetically Samson has just a superior structure. Hottie's a shorter guy, denser, more compact. You know, Hottie's packs more muscle per square inch. He's a short, very thick guy. Sim more similar to Nick. Nick Walker. I agree though. Hottie looks phenomenal. Hottie's coming. Hottie wants this win. I don't think Hottie's going to be anything less than crazy looking. All right, this is a week ago. Yeah. I mean, look, look how much blockier and thicker the midsection is. Yeah, I see all the detail. I see there's no fat there, but Samson's just very gifted with his with that Vtaper that he has. Hottie doesn't have much of a Vtaper. It's more of a block just like Nick. And it's because they just have shorter torsos. They have Well, I shouldn't say that. Nick proportionally actually has a fairly long torso, but they're shorter guys. The the structure is more compact. It's it's tougher for guys like that when they put on all that mass to still have a good taper because it's very hard for some of that mass not to affect the midsection, which is what we're seeing. I mean, this is a crazy looking physique. It's It's He's been Mr. Olympia. He's been an Arnold Classic champ. He's a phenomenal world class, incredible bodybuilder. Not taking anything away from Heidi Chupon. Some back shots. Back shots. People acting like he's peaked here. Well, not yet. Next thing stage would be 2757 is scary healthwise. Well, I'm not going to I don't want to speculate on that, but yeah, I would. Yeah, Nick isn't winning. Grave slightly better than last year's Olympia. Black light had a peak for this guest. Oh, yeah. He did not. He did. I'm sure he did nothing nothing to peak for that guy. He came in as is. He didn't carb deple or drop his water. I He didn't need to. He's Mr. Olympia. He's pretty lean. He's got a crazy physique. He wouldn't He wouldn't do He wouldn't prep for a guest posing. It's over already. Go back to uh I'm going to go back to him. I'm go back to Samson. He's We'll talk We'll be talking about all these other guys in the next few weeks, guys. Obviously, but for now, let's let's keep the focus on Samson. Yeah. Okay. Make that a little bigger. Little bit bigger. There we go. Okay. Take some more comments. Three eggs. He's down from three eggs to two. Taller means nothing. Ron. Oh, obviously we've had hottidi and Derek have won the Olympia. Nick's one a bunch of shows. Taller means nothing. It's it's just the structure. But when Samson comes out, uh it's he just takes up so much space. He's so impressive, so imposing. Same thing with Andrew Jack at 6'2. When he comes out there at any show that's not the Olympia, people are their jaws drop. It's just you you can't help but your eyes be drawn to it. Sam says seven feet. He's getting taller all the time. Two eggs only hit that story with two eggs in morning coffee. Wow, that is not much of a breakfast. I He's on zero carbs here. I I believe that. I believe that. So, that would explain why he's smaller. There's no glycogen in his muscles. He's very very flat. Become a regular on Fit Nation podcast. Steon, thank you. I like Batty. Uh I definitely I I hopped on another one with him and Justin Compton yesterday. I don't know when he's going to put that one up, but yeah, I'll I'll be on that one more and more and I'm going to get him on my panel format podcast that's coming very very soon. Nick look like Nasser. He's not trying to peek. Noobs don't understand that. No, of course I wouldn't. Nick needs to get round glass, a little bit of hair for the Nasser. You know, I don't like the bald head on Nick. That's just my personal preference. I think he looks better with hair and he still can grow hair. So, I don't know why he's going for the bald look. I know it looks more hardcore, more badass, but he had a nice beautiful head of hair. He had I should say he has. He wasn't losing his hair. He wasn't I didn't see a bald spot in the back. I didn't see a receding hairline, so I don't know why he did it, but obviously he thinks it looks good. And I guess most of his fans do, so who cares? Never seen somebody look more like a Marvel villain more than Nick. Yeah, that he does look more like a villain with that bald head, the new Hulk. Great calling Nick's video. Don't let people their veins fool you in thinking you're ready, Nick. Yeah, a lot of people they'll they'll see vascularity and they they think, "Wow, this guy's shredded." But I've seen people who are still way off contest condition, but they have very prominent veins. Veins that are thick. They're close to the surface. So they have a ton of vascularity even when they're not that lean. I've seen people who in the offseason when they're pretty fat, they still have a lot of veins like on their arms and their chest, even on their quads. If Derek had more comfortable legs saying everybody would say cartoon B Samson, more monstrous classical shape. Yeah. I mean, Derek, I don't want to compare the two, but Derek's Derek's no joke. Derek Lungsford has a crazy crazy physique. We know this. Nick is in better shape now than Nick on stage. No, he's not. Nick gets pretty lean for shows. He gets He gets in shape. Nick upper body sick Simpson's quad sweep is crazy. Yeah, Nick does not genetically have a great quad sweep. He's got pretty big quads, but they don't quite match his crazy thick upper body. Training with Clint Eastwood. Quint Beastwood. Yeah, they're trained together. Quint's staying out there till the Italy show. He's nine years old. Yeah, Quinn competing next Sunday, a week from next Sunday in Italy. That'll be interesting. Don't win the show on Instagram, unfortunately. No. No. If that were the case, a lot of guys who have lost shows would have won shows. Nick's in better shape now. Samson on stage. No, he's not. He's not. Samson's leaning the O. Sam side just looks so big. Well, being leaner is being Sam side just chest. No. Now Samson's got some crazy shots. his front lat, his front double bicep. He's just got a lot of great great poses. Where is this yet? Ah, I don't know. It was an amateur Olympia somewhere. I I didn't even bother to find out because to me it doesn't doesn't matter wherever it was. Uh there he is. It's between Nick and Hottie this year. Okay. You're that is your opinion and you were entitled to it. It took big Romney Slink condition was size, but it was a rare thing. Yeah. And when he did, boom, it was over. is not making it to the O. O, I hope you're wrong there. Vera is like [\h__\h] for us. Chingga. Chingga. Chinga is a very bad curse. Chingga. That's how to say that. Chingga. That chinga. That [\h__\h] guy. It's laugh when people judge you on a guest posing. I mean, I remember Nick Walker uh two years ago was being judged very harshly for a guest posing he did before New York Pro and he came in and blew the New York Pro away. Visa has already been approved. Thank you. All right, so he's coming. Yeah, I didn't think he was going to have a problem. He's got a whole team of people helping him out. Age wise, they could all do Masters Olympia. No, Samson's not 40 yet. The only one over 40 in the show that I'm positive is over 40. Well, two, Brandon Curry's over 40 and William Bonak. Uh, and Dorian Haywood, who just won the Masters and qualified, he'll be over 40. He's 43. He's just flat. That structure is God-given. You remember Nick gave up some size be super lost. Oh, it could happen. I mean, anything can happen. Anything can happen in bodybuilding, guys. There's no guarantees. There's no guarantees. He could come in too flat, super conditioned, but very flat, and he could lose to Hottie, to Derek, maybe even to Nick. I mean, we've seen we've seen placings go all over the place at the Mr. Olympia. Who cares if it's approved? He's not making it. He's got his visa approved and um I'm sure the plane ticket the airline tickets probably already bought as well from Eva Nutrition Honey Rambod's company. So, I don't know what you mean by he's not making if he's got the visa. There's nothing there's nothing stopping him. He's been doing three sets of 10 leg Donald need to release Samson meet. He's winning. handling multiple things for them to win. His waist the same size as the lats. I agree. He's very straight up and down. He's very It's what we call blocky. He doesn't have that vtaper. Samson has got that god-given vtaper that hottie doesn't. Hottie's legs hottie's legs been I always thought his legs I can't believe people used to talk crap about his legs proven formula. Samson downsizing of classic. Haha. Samson repeat or Simpson would beat Ronnie Coleman and Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Haney at their best. No, maybe Lee Haney only because Lee didn't have the legs or the arms quite to the level. Uh I think he would push Lee Haney for win. I at Ronnie at his best. No way. No way. There's nobody right now. Nobody. Not even Samson who I could see beating Ronnie at his best. Lats are small. Lats are small. He does have a good vtaper granddaddy than all. Yes, Derek has a better back. Derek has a better back than everybody pretty much. I'm I would never say Derek's blacking in the back department. He's got an incredible back. It's nuts. Even a few years ago, I remember walking behind him at a gym and we were doing a a video shoot. Hector was doing a video shoot. Hector Mendoza and I was just in awe of the back development. Give Phil Claire a special invite. Well, there is uh they can always invite somebody. The ball look on Nick makes him look a lot bigger. I don't know about that. I mean, he already looked big. SLU 32 PPY is Nick has talked a lot about the worked and changed his prep. Nothing imposing about tall doesn't make any sense. Ron imposing. Well, I I don't know how to describe it, but like I I was at the Texas Pro, uh, two out of the three times that Andrew Jack won, and I can tell you when the whole lineup came out initially, because he was so much taller, it just draws your eye. It draws your attention. And I'm AI'm 5'7 and a half. I'm not a tall guy. I'm not I I'm not [\h__\h] on my short kings out there. Sams looks natural. He looks natural. I don't know any natural people that look like that. Daniel. Uh, I don't think he's going to be skimping on the gear. I think he'll use exactly as much as he needs to. Classic now. Wow, you guys are brutal. It's in Romania. So, this was in this was an amateur Olympia. Thank you. In Romania. Okay. S will be 40 in six months. So, yeah, after this Olympia. So, he'll be 40 by the time of the next Arnold. But he won't be 40 for this Olympia. I like Sam's shape. It's a muscle contest. goes with the show. You're going to keep going. Zeke looks better quality than before. Watch video Samsung Jerard that brand before scenario big. I think I think they they gave him all the equipment free and they're paying him for the exposure because he's got a pretty successful YouTube channel and and Instagram account. So, he's basically giving them advertising every time he shows himself training on that stuff. Where are you and Andrew? Andrew. Uh, thanks AC. I Andrew I see in the top five. Uh, I see him battling Nick Walker him for fourth and fifth. I see those two being my fourth and fifth choices. What's the next type of seeing Samson? I can see Nick winning. Well, you're judging Samson by a very flat. I think he's on zero carbs. He's doing two hours of cardio a day. Samson seems like a chill dude. He's going to barber shave his head. I don't care about my face. I only care about my body. Never look like this six weeks out. I agree. I've never seen him look like this. So that's why I'm excited. Me and Simpson Pittsburgh got a picture. I put my arm around Justin. I could reach his other lat. It's like 2022. Geez. 40 was Dexter's prime. Are you gay, Ron? I'm not. I don't drool over tall dudes. I don't know why you're saying that. I give credit to all kinds of short bodybuilders. Otherwise, I would only be talking about Quint Samson. And besides, what would being gay? Why would gay people only gay men only like tall guys? Why why wouldn't they like uh regular height guys? Hopefully he doesn't keep pushing. Doesn't look good on these physiques like Jack and Quint. Her heard Andrew never went back to be news. He's been training in America. Wow, I didn't know that. His wife coaches. She doesn't want any bigger girls. No, they're they're Marina is very very strategic. I think she's she's worked out to be a perfect coach for for Samson. A wifecoach. Priest got a lot of love from men. Exactly. Yeah. Short short guys get plenty of attention from gay men. I don't think I don't think gay men are as biased towards taller towards height as as heterero women are. A lot of heterero women they put on their dating profile filters. No, you know, six foot, six foot or under six foot. Don't bother swiping on me. You doing early Olympia top 10? Yeah, I mean, we'll start doing the Olympia predictions and updates very soon. We're not there yet. I mean, they admired him and Nick will be third. Uh, who do you have in first and second? Because we got Samson, Derek, Hottie, Andrew, Nick, Martin. Uh, we got some heavy heavy hitters. Some heavy heavy hitters in this Olympia for sure. Yeah. All right, guys. Well, I didn't want to dwell on it too much. I mean, I'm showing the same damn footage over and over and over again. So, that's it for now, guys. So, that's the update from Samson Data. We will be talking more and more about the Olympia. As it's getting closer and closer, I'll be bringing on all kinds of other other experts and uh notables to to talk about it. S looks like a bigger Victor Martinez in this guest posing. Yeah, I mean, beautiful, beautiful shape, symmetry, flow, and he's a great poser as Victor was. So, anyway, guys, thank you so much for watching. Appreciate it. Show some love for the channel. If you haven't subscribed yet, please subscribe. Hit that like button. Smasher, as they say, do all that good stuff. And as you can see on the bottom, my code run 15 on blackstonelabs.com actually gets you 35% off this Labor Day weekend. So, until Monday night at midnight, you can get 35% off. That's a pretty good deal. So, thank you guys for watching and I will see you next time.