Well, guys, the Toronto Pro just finished up and Sassan Herati pulled off the win. Oh my goodness. I am so happy for this guy. Third place at I'm sorry, second place at three different shows this season. Runner up three times and now he finally gets his redemption. Finally gets his ticket to Olympia. Let's take a look. This was not the stream. This was somebody else's video. This gentleman spoke Spanish. So, uh what's that? We saw uh fifth place go to Felix Norman. Fourth place go to Eric Janicki in his pro debut. Hussein Kalleta Kleta in third place. Regan Grimes runner up. Nothing to be ashamed of. And Sassan Herati finally finally getting a win. He can finally shut it down until the Olympia. He was dead set on getting his ass to the Mr. Olympia this year. He was just going to keep going and going. And today he finally finally got it. Congratulations Sassan. He looked phenomenal. Condition was better. Color was better. But that was the case two weeks ago at the Cali Pro as well. So I was thinking things were going to go Regan's way again. Of course, deep down, as I said in the last video a couple hours ago, I love rooting for the underdog. I wanted to see Sasan Herati get it, especially because Rean's already got the qualification. I know that shouldn't matter. It's not like, you know, the judges I don't think the judges gave it to Sassan purely because of that because Rean already had his qualification, but it was very, very close. You know, a lot of people uh who were there. I saw some a good amount of posts on social media. There's Ron Hashe, the promoter, saying Cassan was a better bodybuilder today. people that were there in person were posting about that. And I couldn't be happier for this guy. You know, he's he's been through some He's been through a lot. He's been going back and forth, competed in Detroit, Germany, California, and now Toronto. I'm sorry, also New York. He was also New York pro. So, this guy's been going for a while, for a minute. Uh, that's the end. Oh, he's got his novelty check. I want to go back to the final call out, the final comparisons. Uh, that was the other group. Oh, Jim Manuel was there. I didn't know that. So, this was the confirmation round. Uh, but I want to skip ahead. Skip ahead. Yeah, there we go. So, let's take a look at the last the last chance the judges had to compare Sassan and Rean. We'll look at the other guys in a second, but right now, let's focus on the top two men here. Sassan and Rean looking fantastic. Both of them excellent bodybuilders. Regan's tan still an issue and condition definitely seemed to be down a notch or two from where we saw it two weeks ago at the California Pro where Sissan somehow looking just as good in spite of dealing with challenges such as being stuck at JFK airport for 20 hours almost a full day with without any of his luggage. That sucked. Sucked royally. Yeah. So this is Yeah. Persistence pays off. I love seeing stuff like this. I love seeing the underdog, the guy who just won't quit no matter how how many times he gets knocked down. Didn't get discouraged. Kept coming back. Kept coming back better, leaner, tighter. You know, he was in fantastic condition at every show this season that I've saw. And this is his fifth show of the season already. He's been going since uh Detroit, which was what, late March, early April? Late March, I believe. All right, SAS. So, yeah, we'll put up this banner and leave it there for the placings. Yep. So happy. I know a lot of you guys are happy. So happy for him. Happy for SAS. Paul was on the I saw him on the live chat for this other guy's video. Like I said, I would never show the stream while it was on. And I waited until it was over for a couple minutes. Then I popped on. I don't want to lose my channel. This guy here doesn't seem to care. He's just living on the edge. Kept trying and trying. They got it right. Yeah. Yeah. Because condition matters. Color stage color matters. You know, Rean has a more impressive physique in some aspects. Obviously, he's a bigger man. He's got all that width up top, but Cassan, you know, he's not lacking anything. He's got no weak body parts. Brings the condition. brings perfect presentation and stage color. Love to see that. Love to see it rewarded. Deserved. Eric, that's a win. Yeah, Eric. Uh, you know, a social media bodybuilder, someone who was massive on Instagram and YouTube and Tik Tok. A lot of times they don't translate on the stage very well. Sometimes they manage to get their pro card, but they're not going to do anything as a pro. And I'm not going to name names, but um, fourth place in his pro debut. Come on. Give it up for the guy Eric. Super happy. Sesby Regan and Cali. Yeah, I mean the the same same reasons I had him beating uh Rean today. I had I had him ahead of Rean those aspects two weeks ago. Condition, color, presentation, better quads. Rean has the better back. So, it's, you know, they they each have things the other one lacks. Jeff says top 10 guy at the O. I don't know. It's gonna be a tough tough Olympia. You think about how stacked that Olympia is already. You have four Mr. Olympias competing already. There's your I'm not saying top four, but that's four spots right there that are definitely going to be in top 10. You have you have uh Samson reigning Mr. Olympia, Derek Lunsford, Hottie Chupan, Brandon Curry. So, four Mr. Olympia competing. They're going to be in the top 10. Don't don't think for a minute they're not going to be. You got Nick Walker, of course, he's going to be in the top 10. There's five guys. Andrew Jack, he'll be in top 10. There's six. So, we're already running out of room in that top 10. It doesn't leave a lot of room. You know, if he doesn't make top 10, if he ends up, you know, 12th, 13th, 14th, whatever, no shame in that. Olympia is going to it's the greatest show. It's the toughest show in the sport. I know the uh the Arnolds for now pays more. So, glad my good friend got sick. Gonna book my flight to him for watching football. Lord Crawford is a friend. You're a personal friend of SAS. That's awesome. He seems like a really cool guy. I've met him, but I don't I can't say I know him. I want to grab him for an interview soon. Outlaw coach [\h__\h] the bed. Outlaw. Boss of Outlaw. Who do you [\h__\h] the bet on? Reanito's guy. Who? Who coaches? I don't even know. Is that it? Oh, then they did the routines. Yeah, then they did routines. So, jump ahead to that. How long is he going to keep that? So, this was Erin Aaron Goaly. I'll just leave the routines up and running while we're talking. There's only nine routines, so it's going to go by fairly quick. Boss Valla, who did Boss have in the show? I only know, you know, his top top clients. I don't know everybody. If only we got the same judges at the Pittsburgh Pro. It probably was a lot of the same judges. Ricky dropped the ball. Got content the last few weeks. I don't know. I don't know if that's what happened. like, you know, he uh I'm sure he tried to he stayed on his diet. I don't think he blew his diet or anything like that. Um I can't say why he lost a little bit of sharpness from two weeks ago. There's so many factors that go into peing and how these guys look on stage in those precious moments when they're up there. Things can go wrong. Could be one bad thing they ate or didn't eat or drank or didn't drink or can be a lot of things that go wrong. So, who knows? UK. Yes, Mark Bates is an expat, as we say, an expatriot uh Brit living in Thailand. I'm sure there's a few over there. Another L for Regan's coach. Oh, no. Hub Boss is his boss his coach, right? Boss of Outlaw. Am I right? Yeah. Why do I think it was Aceto? Because he was with Aceto before. Let me see. I want to see if Boss has anything on his Instagram. I'm just curious. And I wouldn't say he shipped the bed. Boss, come on. Boss, where you at? Boss of Outlaw. Stefan Keenel. Did this guy Oh, he got he had the runner up in classic Jaws. John Lee. We'll see. Oh, he's got a picture of him. I'm just looking at his Instagram. It's a show in Spain. Yeah. Did he have Yeah, he did have Yeah, he had Rean. Yeah, we nailed this one. Boss. Yeah, he was praising him on on uh two weeks ago on Instagram for the win in Cali. But you know what? I know I know Regan wanted to win this. It's his hometown. He had a lot of people there in person, family, friends, supporters there in person to see him. And you know, in that aspect, I feel for the guy. Second place sucks. But Sassan, Sassan had already racked up three runner-up finishes this season. He really had it coming. A win. I'm so glad he got that win. All right, so let's take a look at Rean. Rean's performance at the finals. Now, I know this isn't the greatest footage. It's a copy of a copy, but the stream is not it's not as good as say when Gilko Productions does a stream. Those guys are freaking amazing. But this is better than some of the streams I've seen. I've seen some really rancid streams. Here's Rean. I mean, shape, structure, size. He's been the top 10 at the Olympia before. Will he be in the top 10 at the Olympia this year? Will he will he place ahead of Sassan? It's quite possible he missed his peak for this. He wasn't as conditioned here and Sassan Sassan got him. Sassan caught up to him. I'm very very happy for Sassan. And I'm not gloating. I'm not happy that Rean lost. Somebody had to win. Somebody had to lose. And where Rean already had had a win from Cali where it was very close with him and Sass even though the scorecards didn't indicate so. But Rean got his qualification two weeks ago. Sassan, this was his fifth show trying to get into that Olympia and he finally has it. Now he can take a little break, just a brief break of a few weeks before I'm sure he's going to kick it back into high gear for the gear. That was a Freudian slip. Kick it into high gear for the Olympia prep. The Olympia is not till October, guys. We're only in We're five months away from the Olympia. We're a long ways away. We're 19 weeks out. 18 or 19 weeks. It's good. It's a good chunk of time. Up next will be Sasson. They did follow each other numerically. Sick look at SAS. Your winner. This was the winning routine. If I was still with MD, let me take that Alian's coach off there. Rob was doing this show. He's already got spot. Well, he wasn't going to miss he wasn't going to miss a Toronto Pro. I'm sure he's always I think every Canadian pro I think they aspire to win this. like Ian Valier had to win it in his final season uh just because it's it's so prestigious. It's their top pro show. You know, they also have the Vancouver Pro that's coming up in a few weeks, but Toronto is a more established show. Um it's had a lot of good winners and now Sassan is one of them. But Rean, he'll come back and do it another time. I don't think so. Ron Bayz, another Ron, what's up? Rean should hire Christo. Well, Rean had Christo before. And you know, Rean had better condition two weeks ago. So, I don't know if you know, we always want to point the finger of blame at the coach when somebody doesn't win or if they come in a little bit off. I'm sure sometimes it is a coach's fault, sometimes it's not. Sometimes things just happen, their reactions to who knows, some a food or drug or a fluid. Who knows? There there are a lot of things that can cause a physique that's already super lean to lose a little bit of hardness or spill over a little bit too much water or flatten out. We've seen, you know, that's that's kind of the beauty of social media, Instagram is, you know, we we never really saw guys in the past right before a show, the week of the show, we never saw updates because there was no way. We just had Eric Janicki. Eric Janicki in his pro debut. Turned pro last weekend in Mexico at a pro qualifier there. Big big guy. He looks very tall. I'm guessing he's got to be well over six foot just based on the proportions. You can often tell guys short or tall just by even when they're by themselves on stage by the the skeletal proportions. You're never going to see a guy who's 5'4 looking like this with those long arms and legs and the the head's kind of small in proportional body. The shorter guys tend to have shorter arms and legs and the head's bigger proportionally to the body. Just a little fun fact for you. Very happy for SAS. Oh, it paid off. You're training legs. The East Coast Mecca. Nice. East Coast Mecca is Beavenon C's powerhouse gym in Sioset, Long Island, New York. I've been there twice. I did not get to train either time. I was there to cover events. Dang it. Somebody I'll go back and train. Erica, very good poser. a a little wide in the waist if I'm going to be critical of his physique. I'd like to see more of a X-frame, but whatever. Your structure is 100% genetic. And still fourth place, man. You can't you can't be mad at that. You can't complain about that. Weird ring perfect scored over Assassin Cali. Yeah, I'd be interested interested to see when the score sheets come out. This is uh third place finisher Hussein Kalata. Kalata. I'd be very interested to see if Sassan won with a perfect score here the way Regan did two weeks ago. Keeping us updated. I'm trying, man. Paul Sass wins every shot except me. Back to the bicep. Yeah, the back double just based on the lack of width that he has. Uh Rean Regan's back just is his shoulders are so wide, his upper back is so wide, he's got that back thickness and density all the way from top to bottom, side to side. Sassan has a very good back as well, but Regans is a little a level a level beyond. Rean list lost his abs here. He lost condition. What's he doing there? I was saying he's looking out at the audience through his finger binoculars. I don't know what that was about. Sass wins back lat spread. No joke. No, I did. I I I see what you're saying, Paul. The the back lat spread is a better is a better shot for SAS than his rear double. And I have no problem giving him that that shot. the rear double. That's Rean all day. But the the back lat spread, it's close, but I I could I could go either way. But I'll give it to Sass. Chris coached Sass and Boss coaches Rean. Thank you, AJ. Or cool. Thank you, AJ. AJ. Chris also coached Branch Chin, took first in class, and Jaws second is also coached by Boss. That would be in the classic physique. I'll take a look at those awards because I I I want to give a little bit of love to Classic again openers. Was this Yeah, that's what am I doing? Does Boss have too many top guy? I don't know, Goku. Who am I to say? And I don't know how many I haven't really tried to sit there and count how many guys does Boss have now. He's he's a very very popular coach. Hussein very very happy there. He practically bounded off stage. Team Clayhar. This could be either Phil or his wife Patty. Sass deserved it today. Reagan wasn't sharply said. Happy Sass. Has a bunch of second place finishes. Yeah, three in a row. I'm assuming it's Phil, but who could be could be Patty. Three in a row, man. All right. This is Adam Millage. Uh, I hope I didn't mess it up at the end when I said Felix Norman was fifth because I had the had the audio off. And there were two bald white guys. No offense, Paul Bartlett. Two bald white guys with beards and mustaches. So, you'll have to forgive me for I hope I didn't confuse them. I think they both had blue trunks for God's sake, too. But this this is Adam Millage. Was he fifth place? I hope I didn't screw that up. I mean, at least I got the winner right. I definitely got the winner in the second place, right? I think this is Adam Millage cuz these qu these legs look a little bit on the weak side. And I seem to remember the gentleman that took Yeah, this is Adam. Adam's a little smaller. They have some similarities, but they're not they're not identical twins character mix. I give the two side pose most muscular and abs and thighs to sass rest for Rean. Second fact would be perfect color presentation of Sass scorecard. Uh I will look for scorecard right now while that's up. Sometimes they put them up right away. Sometimes the scorecard doesn't come out for quite a while. results. It's not up yet. It's not up yet. Yeah. Scorecard. I don't know. Sometimes they don't put up till the next day. Sometimes it's up within an hour. Yeah. I'm on ifpro.com. That's where I go for all my all my stuff like that. I guess I'll leave it up in case they This is Andrea Muzzi. Andrea Mutzie. Not to be confused. Andrea Prey Muzi from uh Italy. Very good competitor. Did not make top five though. I'm a little surprised. He looks a little smaller and flatter than what I remember. Press is a bigger guy. The other Andrea from Italy. Andrea, which is like Andrew. Um Prey is massive up top. Needs a little bit more legs. Muzzy Musi Mutzi a little more balanced but smaller. Prey has a really thick, massive back, chest, shoulders. Uh Mos is a big guy. He's not he's not a shrimp or anything, but not as big as Prey. It's why he hasn't done these [\h__\h] Coaches never show the losses. Well, loss of losses. Geez. Hey, what's up Bayou? So happy. You need to send me some progress. Send me some before pictures. Uh Davey, don't forget. So I proess on because he truly deserved this win as he showed up fuller and in better condition. So all time. Yeah. Not only that, not only he's been consistent, it's been when was Detroit? I believe Detroit I'm going have to look. I think I have it in my marked on my calendar. It was April. That was Brazil. Classic. Okay. So it was the week after. Oh jeez. So yeah, Detroit was March 29th. So, he's been going since he's been competing since March, April, May, June. Yeah, it's been it's been a long time he's hold had to hold his peak for. Okay, this is Felix Norman. Yeah, he was the fifth place guy. He's definitely bigger than Adam. But you see where I can get confused? Bald white guys with a beard and mustache. Same color trunks, too. Why didn't they consult each other? Say, "Dude, I'm wearing blue trunks. Make sure you don't wear blue trunks." Good stuff. Grimes look better. Oh boy. Okay. Well, that's what I'm saying. I'll be interested to see the score sheet to see if it was really close. Three shows you can out peak all three. I've seen some guys do it, but it's rare. Dude is massive. Great win for Sassan. That backlat spread wing was two among the back to buy. Yeah, I mean I'm I'm on on the fence as far as the backlat spread. I could give it to Sassan or I could give it to Rean. Um, Sassan has, you know, the fact that he had better color when he was leaner, I think the pose looked better on him today. The rear double still, I got to give to Rean just it's it really showcases the width of his shoulders and his back uh and his his legs from the back look phenomenal. In person's ass looks best looked. Yeah, the this does not what you're seeing here doesn't do him justice. Doesn't do any of these guys justice really. Swatchy on. Thank you. Thank you. So, iron brothers, you're part of the guy. You're part of the lifers. I call I call us lifers sometimes, too. Those of us who have been training for, you know, 30, 40, 50 years. This will be my 40. I started training seriously in 83. 82, I'm sorry. End of 82. So, what's that? 43 years. Geez. It was Christmas. Christmas 82. Yeah, I was 13. Wow. Proportion symmetry and severe condition prevailed. Yep. They did the right thing. I'm pretty stoned. Does that guy just pretend he had fake binoculars? He did. Uh, that was Hussein Kalata. And I don't know why he did that. That was kind of silly. Rean has to figure out why he fades as the show goes on. All right. This is Skyler Schum making his pro debut. Yeah, Rean needs to figure out a couple things. He needs to figure out that color. His stage color is still awful. I don't know why he can't figure out uh some pro tanning product, something that works well for his skin tone, skin texture, whatever the issue is. I don't know what it is. Uh and the peaking, yeah, he was he was off. He was a little bit off off his best for sure. Boss close to 200. He has he's close to 200 clients. I mean, I don't know if I don't know how anybody could any coach could work with 200 people at the same time and give them all proper attention. Admiral's flat, not carved up proper. Rean was sweating a lot. He always sweats a lot of content because he started filming a bunch of influence stuff after Kelly win lost focus. Well, that's a big part of his income. I I I can't really fault him for that. Fresh Prince. Uh he's got a couple million followers across the platforms and his sponsors depend on him to bring in a lot of views, a lot of eyes, clicks, views, all that good stuff. So, he's got to play the social media game. Um, I don't I don't know necessarily that it interfered with his prep in any way. I don't think he missed any meals or cardio sessions or trained or missed any sleep. Um, he's got a team. He doesn't do it all on his own. So, he's got people working with him. It's not like he's all he's all on his own sitting there editing videos for hours a day. I I seriously doubt he edits his own videos. I would imagine he's got somebody handling all that for him. At his level, when you make that kind of money, it's why wouldn't you? Why would you waste time? Ah, it's Patty. Okay. Who's the head judge today? I don't know. I have no idea. Anybody who was there watching, if you want to let me know. I'm curious, too. I'm also stoned, boys. Yeah. Well, I I had to stay sober for this. So, this was the ALT final pose down. So close to me. I'd be shocked. No judges said Rean is number one. Yeah. I I that's like I I'm going to keep going back to the uh the results tab on ipbro.com. Olympia needs to have a different venue. I understand why you'd say that, but they've been in Las Vegas for a very long time now. I think it's been 25 years and I don't see them leaving Vegas anytime soon. It's it's just a convenient hub. People from all over the world travel there for vacations, gambling, sex parties. Who knows what they're there for? You're a beast strong eye content. Thank you. Appreciate that, buddy. Yes, Johnny. Rean needs a 10 before the show. This might help his spray tan look better. Yeah, I mean, he looks pretty pasty whenever you see him. And it's not showtime. Maybe he's just trying to preserve his skin and not get skin cancer, which I can't blame him. I mean, I don't want skin cancer either. I I tan a lot and I It's risky. It's not a safe thing to do to tan. Even just a a base tan before a show. I see what you're saying. It would help it would help that tan that goes on top look look better. I always tanned extensively before my shows. Obviously, I know I'm not at this level of these guys. I'm not claiming that, but I had pretty good stage color. And I think a good part reason part of the reason was because I did tan ahead of time and I had a good base tan. I'm a lifer, too. Big Island Fitness started 76. You're older than me. 76. I turned seven years old in September. So, you're five years. Yeah. 60. I'll be turning 56 in September. This is uh Wow. Ron was natural. Ronnie was natural. I believe that. A lot of people say no. Sass has to be the happiest he's ever been in his life. Oh, yeah. Of course. I mean, to win, scorecard is out. Oh, okay. Let's go to that results. Oh, okay. Here we go. Scorecard results open. Okay, let's take a look, guys. It's all the way across my screen, so I'm going to have to Okay, so here we go at the scores. So, Sassan, well, that's weird. So, they they must have had nine judges because they dropped the high and the low. So you can't have sometimes you'll see a different number there like five or six or something. It depends on how many judges they dropped the high and the low. So I'm guessing there were nine judges. Sassan won with a perfect score. Rean Grimes eights ac Hussein. Yeah, look at that. The only thing that changed there was Janiki. Janicki was ahead of Felix. Oh no, he was still ahead of him. What am I saying? He was ahead of Felix by one point in the judging. Janiki over Norman and then he was ahead of him by three points to finals. Uh Sky Oh, Skyler was actually sixth. Golly. Yeah. Okay. So, Cassan won with a perfect score. Tyler Man was head judge. Thank you for Thank you for that. Phil Tanzy's black. Lol. Phil. Phil Phil's not like I think he called him so he had a word for it like mocha or cinnamon or something. I know there's different different words to describe the skin tone of of people of African descent. Uh but yeah, the lighterkinned guys like Phil Heath used to and Shawn Ray, they always tanned. I know they did. They and they used color on top of that. Thank you, Gary D. Tyler said, "Judge, I'm gonna stop sharing this." Uh go back to share this tab instead. Okay. Does win every pro. Yeah, every pro every pro win every pro show uh qualifies you for the Olympia. So I don't know if that that show that you're speaking about there has an open men's bodybuilding, but every division in every pro show that division that winner is qualified for the Mr. or for the Olympia. So, if you win any bikini show, that's why we have, you know, this year there's going to be 80 between 80 and a well, there'll be about almost 100 bikini women qualified. Men's physique, same thing. Classic, there's a lot of shows. Uh, open has the fewest amount of contests. Uh, actually, I think fitness does, women's fitness, but that's why you don't see as many open guys up there because it's it's there are fewer opportunities to qualify for the Mr. Olympia as an open pro bodybuilder simply because there are fewer open pro shows. It's a it's a much more expensive sanction fee. Uh they have to pay out higher prize money. Uh I've I've talked to several promoters say they never make money on the open pro division. It actually costs them money, but they make their money basically by the amateur shows that they hold in conjunction with the professional shows. You know, those those people are the ones that really pay for the paid for the pro shows is the amateurs competing. Monica Delgado in Mexico. Cassan has amazing physique. I'm very happy as well. Davey, good to pitch you tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Hope you had a good conference there. Davey's going to work with me. He's a big dude. He's 6'3. I'm like, you know, 4 foot2. So, I look up to guys like Davey. Seth, Abcore of Hotties. Do you agree? Tur Labs. Uh, you know, he doesn't have the most dainty midsection. He's not a tall guy. He's actually taller than hottie by a couple inches. Uh, I haven't stood next to him in a long time. When he came out for New York Pro a few years back, I remember interviewing him and stuff. He's probably about 5'8. So, he's not that short. I mean, that taller than me. I used to be 5'8. Where will SAS place at the Olympia? It's going to be very, very tough for him to be in the top 10. I'll say that. It's a very, very crowded top 10. Uh, I'm going to go back to an other divisions because I want to show some love for the other divisions. So, confirmation round for this would be classic and I didn't know I didn't know these guys that well, but this was going to be the call out for the top four classic guys, I think. Just want to give them some showcase the classic guys a little bit. I'm a fan of the classic division. I'm not overly familiar with these guys. I'll get on Instagram and find some good stuff. I think there's nine judges seeing got color 15. That's a five times three. Well, if there are seven judges and Sassan won with a score of seven, they're supposed to drop a high and a low score. So if that's the case, if that's true, then that there were seven judges and they did not do that. They didn't drop the high and low scores, but that's standard. Sus better than a FIBO. I we'd have to look at side by side analysis of this. Okay, there's seven judges. There's not always the same amount of judges. Not always. I know it's it's not always the same. It's supposed to be. Low and high score get thrown out. Judge get Sass first place and two game second place. Okay. Three just get SAS first place. Oh, you're making me do a math. Doesn't matter. He won. He won. He won with a perfect score. All right. So, three judges gave SAS first place. Two gave him second place. Two judges had Rean first, and three Adam second. I know that's basic math, and I shouldn't be that confused as I seem to be right now. Right. Rough. Go ahead to the classic awards. And was it John Lee was the winner? I forget. I'm just gonna leave it up. Crowd was actually cheering for SAS. No booing for Oh, that's Toronto was in Boston. Oh, we didn't boo anybody in Boston. I mean, the only pro show we've had here was the Boston Pro 2022 and William Bonak got a very good reception when he won. No, I'm glad. You You know, I shouldn't be surprised because I'm going to stereotype Canadians, but in a good way. They're very polite people. Uh I've I've been to Canada a few times now. Never spent a lot of time there, but I was there for like weekends. Uh one weekend in Montreal way many years ago, and then more in more recent years, I think I went to Toronto Pro four different times. And the people are very, very polite. um versus east coast USA especially places like Boston or New York is New York City is God people are just so rude there oh it's awful it's awful but what are you going to do probably seven judges throughout high and low so one plus one plus one yeah why do you know like math do math well I was very good at English uh I used to get straight I was in like the advanced placement English class in high school I got awards for some of my essays and stories and stuff that I wrote. So, I was an excellent even in the SA SATs, if you guys remember SATs, the the placement test, I did much better. I got a 720 in the verbal and I think I only got a uh barely barely 600. I think it was actually 580 or something in math. So clearly I was far better suited to English and writing and words than I was to math and numbers. Rean at eight, sass seven. Oh, what am I doing? So yeah, so it was a point difference. What am I saying? Saw her Toronto Pro Super Show. Oh, I was looking at the Yeah, let me go back there again. Back to the uh back to the math. So I was looking at that. So Sassan had uh he he won by two points. He won by two points. So 7714 888. Yeah, he won the show by two points. So perfect score. Yeah, I mean he I think that's still a perfect score. Or would a perfect score have been five? I don't know. I don't know. Doesn't matter. I don't really care. I don't really care. I just uh you know I like to see the winner. So classic was who won classic. Who is this great guy? I'm going have to go to Instagram now. Look at some Instagram stuff. Boss of Outlaw. Boss of Outlaw posted his second place guy was Jaws. Beyond Stage TV guys going to the Olympia. Courage wins the 212. Chen Kang wins Olympia qualification. Chen Kang. Chen Kang. Do you have any footage of that? Was Branch Chen Kang branch 2015. Show you the top two. Top two in classic physique. Why not? It's uh Chen Kang and John Lee. Look at the condition on these guys. Even in this This is not the stream. This is somebody's iPhone footage. You can tell because you can see somebody's You can see the judge's heads in shadow at the bottom of the screen there a couple times. Yeah, they both look phenomenal. Look at the hamstring drop on guy on the right. I don't know which one's Chen and which one's John, so please forgive me. Yeah, I mean I follow classic, but not as closely as I do open. Uh, and once you get past those three divisions, open, classic, and 212, I really only know a few people in each division, like the top top people for the most part. I might recognize them, but I, you know, I couldn't tell you much about them. Those guys look fantastic. Fantastic. That was I bet there's some better. I wish there was some Gilo footage. I love the Gilo footage. It's the best. Good shot of Sass. This chimp. I would have used that as a thumbnail, but I had to have the thumbnail ready to go. Yeah, I'll use that one. Who took that picture? going with that second one because I don't want to use someone's picture without giving credit. I've gotten in trouble before doing that. Good job, SAS. Congratulations. Great job. By building up orders. And that was just one more look at Rean versus SAS. Some better footage. Yeah, Rean looks, see when somebody looks, you know, in in really great condition in this low resolution type of video footage, you can tell they they had to be super shredded. When we see some high-res images come out soon, the condition that SAS was in is going to be a lot more evident. This is not even an accurate representation of how how lean and shreddy he really was. And Rean probably looks a lot better in those pictures when you see the high-res images than he does here. But you could see the glutes are they're not as dialed in in the hams as they were two weeks ago in Cali. Yeah, you know what? SAS does have a hell of a lot spread. Paul Bartlett, I agree with you. I agree. We agree with Mo. We agree on most points, but you know, no, it wouldn't be any would be pretty boring if we all agreed on everything all the time, wouldn't it? I think so. Great job, SAS. Great job. You know, I would have been happy for Rean, too. He's a good He's a good kid. I say kid. He's only like 31, 32 years old. I think he's 31. Uh, but like I said, who needed this more? Who was the underdog? Obviously, it was Sassan. Sas fifth show of the season. He's been going since end of March competing, holding his peak this entire time. That was what, like 10 weeks ago. So, last weekend in March was Detroit. You had all of April, all of May, and now we're into the it's the end of the first week in in June. But still, that's a long time. That's like nine ten weeks to be holding your peak. That's a long time to stay stay peaked. So, God bless this guy. If it wasn't Boston Pro and beat Regan that show. Ah, that's right. That's right. That's right. I forgot. I mean, man, I wish they would do another Boston Pro. Think if it happens, it's going to have to be Jay Cutler's going to have to be involved and Nate T from GymHub. I think they're going to have to collaborate and put together another Boston Pro. Dude, perfect scores five. Not saying if we were in English. Yeah, absolutely. Oh, I I never never for a minute claimed to be adept in any way with uh mathematics. I'm horrible. I struggled with math. It's crazy because I was I was always in the the the very top English classes in high school and I was never in, you know, like level one or advanced placement. I was in like level two math, which, you know, it's one level up from special education basically. Ron crush the spelling be back. I I'm I'm a good speller. I I could spell a lot of words. I don't I don't need spellch check very often. Put it that way. See s because he was super dry. Yeah. cleto. It's It's nice to see because he brought the condition, the color, you know that those are professional things. You want to be a pro and you want to look like a pro every step of the way and he certainly did. Mr. Finals, what' you think? Uh well, Boston, I was watching the finals after the fact. I mean, I I watched the recap right after it ended, but I think the judges did the right thing. um the right and just thinging and giving Cassan the title the win. How can I differentiate between bald white guys with beards and Asians here like so equal treatment? True. True. You know, it's funny. I like to fall back on uh a quote from Lee Priest because I don't like to take credit for funny things that I didn't come up with. Many years ago when someone someone accused Lee of being a racist, which is bull complete [\h__\h] Lee says, "I'm not a racist. I hate everyone equally. I don't hate anybody." Um but yeah, I thought that was funny. beards were all It's not only that they had to have the same color trunks, too. At least they could have been two bald white guys with beards and mustaches with different color trunks, but they both decided to wear the same exact trunks. Dang it. While pulling for SD, thanks for hanging out. Let's give us your don't change seno. Yeah, I'm not saying he can't make top 10. It's it's just it's very crowded up there. It's very crowded. Congrats, Natalyia Quello, physique Olympia champion. Hopes to get that title back. Wishing you wishing you the best of luck in doing that. All pulling for SAS. Uh we go to the 212. That wheelchair. They had wheelchair edition, too. Somebody with their Harley-Davidson riding by making a lot of noise. I hope you guys didn't hear all that. All right. So, did you pick 212 up? Confirmation round for 212. Yeah, there we go. Which I don't know. I didn't check the final scores, but I know Courage won. Courage Oparo was making his debut as a 212 after a fairly successful career as a classic league pro and he's been he's been uh missing for a year or two. I mean the last time I remember him was uh being at Texas Pro and seeing him win classic there. And I I want to say that was a couple years ago. That was at least 2020. I didn't go in 2024 obviously and I didn't go to Texas in 2023 I don't think so it must have been 2022 but there he is with uh oh god Franarios to his right uh Cody Drobot to his left there in the turquoise trunks and all the way on the left I think his name was Mike Cromwell. Please don't uh don't slaughter me for not knowing this guy's name. Uh, I'm just gonna go back to the uh 225 qualify 100 million views. Okay, so 212 was Oh, he didn't put the uh Coach Andrew Vu, he didn't put the results there. Beyond stage, you didn't give me the results. Damn it. So now I got to try somebody else. Five wheels all borders courage one. Okay, so second was Cody Drobot, third Franarios Vilk, fourth Mike Condell, and fifth who's not on stage right now was Juan Lemon Juan Alimman, which means Germany, a German in uh Spanish. He won the overall at the Mexico Super Show 2023. Assume that's where he turned pro and he was fifth place. Looks like a young young guy. Great great physique. Try to find courage is courage. Not courage a cowardly dog for you old Nickelodeon fans. Try to find the winning routine. That was Dura. Is that Dra right there? Yeah. I think this is him. Curious to see what he looked like because Mammud Dur Aldura. Is this him? Yeah. He was a very good 212 competitor. I I saw him at this show a few years back take a very close second to Zayn Watson. It's very close to the point I could have given it to to Dura. Uh he's huge on social media. He has a massive following in all the uh Arabspeaking nations. Incredibly successful online coaching business primarily dealing with people speaking Arabic because he's very very uh knowledgeable, experienced, and he speaks their language. So, he's found his niche. Certainly doesn't need to compete. Uh but he wanted to try it one last time. Uh I Giles was asking me if he had health problems and I could not remember. I still can't remember if that's why he got away from the stage, but he's definitely definitely significantly smaller than what I remember from before. Where's courage? That's not courage. That's not courage. I never know if it's courage or courage. I feel weird just saying courage. Like that's too plain. I can't seem to find his routine skipping around like this. But I want to show I want to show you guys the uh 212 winner. 212 is a great division. I would hate to see there's sort of been rumors that the 212 division might go away. You know, there's talk of getting rid of it. I don't think anyone at the at the top has has made that uh comment. I think it's mostly just, you know, speculation among the fans that it's kind of losing some some popularity, but I don't know if that's true. I mean, Keon is an amazing champion. We still have Sean Clarita, another 212 Olympia champ, is actively competing, trying to get his title back again. Uh, and there's a few other really good guys. Carth Bajjo is moving to open. I saw he was an excellent 212. This is skipping just five points. Yeah, I'll give up on this in a second. I'm probably giving you guys a headache trying to find Courage. Courage is winning routine. That's not him. I know that's not him. Is that a big BUN on top of his head? Was he after this guy? Maybe. Nope. I don't know how I missed it, but I missed it, guys. I missed it. though. Oh, was this uh It's not 212. Were these amateurs? Who are these guys? I don't even know who these guys are. Oh, boy. All right, I'm going to have to go back to another something else, guys. I'm going to go back to this. That's I was just really lost in space there. Sass brought up doing Spain earlier this year. Do you think he will stop now? He has the win. AJ, I I don't know what he will do, but if if I were him or if he was asking for my opinion, I would shut it down right now because clearly his intention was to qualify for the Mr. Olympia. And obviously at the Olympia, you want to place as highly as you can. He wants to be top 10 at the at the worst. Nobody goes to the Olympia to place 15th or 18th. His best chance of doing that, in my estimation, is to shut it down now. Take a little bit of a break. What they call that health phase where you get off all the gear, stop eating as much food for a few weeks. Uh if if you're training at all, just train very lightly. You know, let the whole body re recover, recharge, reboot, and then kick it all back in once you start your Olympia prep. Olympia prep, Olympia's 18 weeks away. I don't know if he needs a full 16 weeks of prep. As long as he doesn't let himself get too out of shape, I bet he could do all that in 12 weeks. You know, he's he'll stay lean. He's not going to get out of shape. Rean must have gotten feedback. The color is off. Yeah. More characters in the mix. Mike Mike. So, we keep hearing that he can't find a tanning product that works well for his particular skin tone, texture. He's allergic to nuts or to almonds. So, that was an issue that one product gave him an allergic reaction. I think that was at the New York Pro. So, I don't know. I don't know what the deal is, but it you're right. You're pro. You just won He just won a show two weeks ago. He's going to the Olympia. He's won a couple pro shows now, and he's won a classic pro show years back. He should have his color handled. And I don't remember his color being an issue before. I don't remember this being a problem until recently. Hey, Miss Natalia Marquez Beer Reed didn't have chest like he did in the last couple shows. Yeah, his condition was definitely not not as good for this. Definitely not as good. Kevin, you definitely have OF prescriptions. Who's Kevin? This is 2020. Yeah, Kula, this is going to be a pretty epic Mr. Olympia. Like I said, we have four Mr. Olympia champions competing already. Plus, you got Nick Walker who damn near beat Derek. A lot of people feel he did beat him legitimately. You have Andrew Jacked. Uh Hunter's taking the year off, but William Bonak still a force. He'll be up there. Uh Kriso is not going to be up there. He's already said he's out for the season. Who else we got? Martin Fitzwwater. He'll be one of the top guys. I got to go way back in my list to look at people. Uh, Bruno, Justin, Antonio Burton, who just won Legion. He'll be up there. Uh, anybody else popping into my head right this minute? Nah, not really. Check my notes. Check my notes. Oh, here we go. Hottie, Nick, Da, Derek, Chris. So, Kriso's out. Kriso is gonna he's going to come back just to do the Prague show to qualify for next year. Is Prague Prague? It better be after the Olympia, right? EVLS Prague. I don't know if I wrote down. I think I did. You see, I still got old school calendar here. I don't think I wrote Prague Show down. I probably didn't. I did write Olympia down. Interesting. Should take a look and see what shows are left competition information. schedule. Take a look at what open shows are left for the year. Uh let's see, guys. So, we've already had a bunch of shows. Started with the Arnold and let's see. Toronto is today. Emproic is in Alakante, Spain. That's next weekend. Looks like it's a Sunday show. Weekend after that, we got the Dubai Pro. Weekend after same weekend, I'm sorry. Same weekend, we have the Wanji Pro China Pro in Beijing, China. These are all Olympia qualifiers, guys. Flex Weekend Italy Pro in Milan, Italy. June 29th, my wedding anniversary. My 34th wedding anniversary. Thank you. Mr. Big Evolution in uh Estorial, Portugal, July 6th. Chicago Pro the weekend after that. Oh, two weeks after that. Is that right? Chicago Pro, Tampa Pro, Natural Canada Pro, Texas Pro, Tupelo Pro, that's a Masters. So, if it says just Masters like this one, Tupelo Pro, that's not a Mr. Olympia qualifier. You have to have open open division. Chicago Pro. No, that can't be right. Huh? Chicago Pro has to be open as well. It is. I don't know why it doesn't have open list on that list. Hang on. Uh, where was I? Okay. Texas Pro, Tupelo Pro, Midwest Naturals Pro, Masters Olympia, Max Fit Classic. That's a Masters show. So, those two there in a row. Those are only for masters there. They're not Olympia qualifiers. Pro Muscle Italy in Milan. That's a That's a qualifier. I don't know if these natural shows, Oklahoma Natural Pro, I don't know if they're Mr. Olympia qualifiers. I don't know. That's a good question. Europa Pro in Germany. Dennis James putting that on. Yep. Okay. Dennis James put on that show. Another Natural Pro show. Natural Open. Hm. Tsunami in France. That's September 27th. AP Natural Pro show. Yeah, I don't think these Natural Pro shows qualify you for the Mr. Olympia. I don't. That's why it says natural open there. And they don't have a natural Mr. Olympia in the IPB Pro League. So, everything after that qualifies you for next year. So, the British Grand Prix October 18th, uh there's a Mexican another show, a pro show in Mexico, same weekend, a natural show in Spain the same weekend. The Prague Pro isn't until October 26th. So, Kriso is doing that. Uh that will qualify him for the 2026 Mr. Olympia contest. Natural Open Everest Muscle Stars Poland Pro. That's a new show. That's going to be a qualifier. Uh, Romanian Muscle Fest. See how many pro shows? But that's nothing. If I show you women's bikini, good lord, it goes on and on and on and on and on. Look at all those bikini shows. Is that even all the shows? Uh, so Bikini has a ton of show. Uh, I bet men's classic physique. There's 150 150 classic physique pro shows this year. Wow. Wow. Some of them might be just for masters, but I don't think many of them are. So, look at the difference there. Okay. Uh, 150. Is that right? Yeah, there's 28. 28. Okay, so I think I was wrong. I think I messed that up. Let me go back. It tells you at the bottom how many entries there are, how many entries per page. So, men's physique has this year 107 pro shows. Bikini has the bottom 116 pro shows for bikini this year. How many did men's open have? Some of these Some of these were mass only. 46. So, not not even half as many shows. I think women's fitness has doesn't have a lot. Yeah, there's only 17 pro shows for women's fitness. So, they have the fewest opportunities to get the Olympia unless you want to talk men's wheelchair and the Olympia's in there in the Arnold Classic. So, aside from the Olympia and the Arnold Classic, there's only five other wheelchair pro shows and one of them was today in Toronto. Yeah. Wacky. Let's go back. All right, guys. Yay, Martin. What a lineup. Do bodybuilders get escorts? So, I don't think bodybuilders need to get escorts. You're talking about like sex workers, prostitutes. So, interestingly, uh, prostitution is not legal in Vegas. It is legal, I think, in Reno, Nevada, which is, I believe, about an hour, 40 minutes, an hour away. So, it's it's not that far. They have legal brothel, houses of prostitution that are fully licensed by the state with inspectors coming by and the the the women there. Maybe they have men, too. I don't know. They get tested for STI all the time. So, yeah. But I don't think uh Oh, when you said bodybuilders, you didn't mean the Olympia competitors. Do they get escorts? I mean, I've been to the Olympia, I don't know, 25 times over the years. Most of the Bibles I see there, they they have a wife or a girlfriend with them. I don't see too many of them that looked single, so I don't know if they would need to do that. Don't forget about Beef Stew. I forgot about him because he hasn't qualified for Olympia yet. Uh I think he's doing is he's in prep for something up. Beef who? That's Beef Stew. Steuart. Uh what's Stew's last name? I always call him Beef Stew. Copeland. Is it Copeland? Gosh, what is Beef Stew's name? Southerntherland. Southerntherland. It's Southerntherland. Chicago Pro is not open. Wow. I I I thought that was just an error on the page, but that's crazy that Chicago Pro would not have an open division. They always have for years and years. For the Mr. O, I got the top three. Derek, Hottie, and Nick, you don't have Samson in the top three. Granddaddy of all Samson fans gonna be pretty upset at you for saying that. How dare you? Amazing. So some episode never gave up flipper. Yeah. I mean we love to see people who just won't give up. They keep coming back fighting and scraping and scratching and clawing their way. And he did it. Sassan would not stop until he got that qualification. So props to him man. Really very very happy for him. Way too many pro shows in open as well. They're going to be 25 open Olympic competitors. Uh well they don't cap out. The Olympia doesn't put a cap on the amount of competitors. Everyone who is qualified can make the trip and show up. And the Olympia pays for them. The Olympia pays their way. Every single competitor, their flight is covered. Their hotel stay is covered. I believe they also get uh a cash allowance, a meal, a meal allowance for uh for all the days they're there, which is probably like five days, maybe six days, I don't know. They're there for a while. Um so you'll end up with 70 guys in class. 60 70 guys in classic, 70 women in bikini, 60 70 in figure. Men's physique will have like 70 or 80, who knows? It's it's a lot. Whereas the Arnold Classic, it's invitation only, and they cap it out at 15. You'll never see more than 15 men or women in a division. And they don't have all the divisions. They've they've discarded the the divisions that they didn't feel were as much of a draw, as much of a money maker for them. So, they no longer have women's bodybuilding, women's physique, women's figure, or men's 212 bodybuilding. Um, they have bikini, women's fitness, uh, those wellness. They have those three for women. And for the men, there's open bodybuilding, classic physique, and men's physique. They have six divisions where the Olympia has to have everything. The Arnold has wheelchair as well. I'm sorry. includes wheelchair bodybuilding. Be a bad look if they didn't, wouldn't it? What's results? Okay, there are the results. Sassan Herati first place. Rean Grimes second place. Hussein Kalata Khalate Kalata fourth place in his pro debut. Eric Janicki fifth place. Felix Norman. There you go. there else. Great job. Will series Olympia be won from the back? We don't know. Very knowledge about hookers run. Yeah. Well, you know, luckily I don't need them. I mean, I'm not AI think prostitution should be legal. Honestly, why not? Why not? You know, if it's especially if it's if it's legal, it would be regulated by the states, federal government or whatever the states. uh you know the women would have to be licensed the places they would have to be in they would have to take tests it would be legal it would be all legitimate and legal why not I mean if if it's happening anyway why not legalize it and then then it can be better regulated government could take a chunk of taxes off of that if they wanted to how much of an issue is the body get their chain going to the walls the floor is a venue program used for show uh I can tell you that I know I I can't recall any specific instances But I do know there have been times where venues would not let bodybuilding promoters back after damage was done to their the curtains or the drapes of the stage, the walls of the backstage area. Uh in particular, there was a product called Dream Tin. It's still in use. It goes on like a cream. It comes in a little jar. The guys don't apply Dream Tan until the very end backstage. It's you'll you'll you still see it occasionally, but it was banned in the IPB Pro League because it was becoming an issue where uh venues were refusing to let promoters back because damage was being done. It was very difficult or impossible to get the stains from that stuff out. Uh it gave like a metallic sort of sheen to the bodies. It looked great. But uh and you know in at at any place where there's a contest at the host hotel, you have to sign uh you have to sign off when you check in uh that if you ruin the bedding, the sheets, the pillowcases, any of that stuff, the covers with tanning stuff, you'll be responsible for replacing it, which is, you know, it's going to be a couple hundred bucks. I bet beef stew has Scottish descent. Rean lost control of stomach between sauce had better sauce is in better condition overall. George, what's up, George? men's open numbers initiated some of the other classes. Yeah, I agree. I mean, nobody wants to sit through a judging at the Olympia level. The Olympia is supposed to be the cream of the crop, the elite, the very best in each division. So, if there are 70 or 80, let's let's say we end up with 75 bikini women on stage at judging, that's just brutal. That's going to take it's going to take you an hour just to get through bikini judging. And you got all these classes to go. It's already a long two days and nights. Uh, Friday and Saturday. Friday, Saturday, both the day and the night time is judging in finals. Uh, and with these numbers, it's only going to get longer and longer. Does that remind you of Dennis James? No, not really. No. I I I could see where you might say there's like a passing resemblance, but no, I don't think so. Ron is a real one for that. You talking about my my how I want to get prostitution legalized or I believe it should be legalized. What else do we have here? I'm just trying to see if we have any better footage up now. Sometimes if I wait long enough I get good I get really good footage or get new footage I haven't seen before. There's Courage. It's Courage winning. Props to Courage. So, his first his debut is 212. He's much much bigger than I remember him as a classic physique athlete a couple of years back. I don't know how much stage weight he's added. It's got to be at least 15 pounds. He's a shorter guy and he's got very small bones, so maybe it's not as much as I think it is, but he looks so much bigger and thicker, very full and round. He had beautiful shape and symmetry a few years back as a classic guy, and it was enough to win some shows. He he it he wasn't going to win the Olympia. Um but man, he's he's damn good. I'd be curious to see how he does at the Olympia. Yeah, good job. Good job. Courage, Branch, what's his real name? Branch 2015 Chen Kang who won the classic. Yeah, he looks really good. Look at those legs. Here's another stereotype. Asians have awesome legs. But that's a good stereotype, man. That's a good stereotype. There he goes backstage. Ian Valier says, "One of my favorite physiques of all time." Dude was in shape. Dude was in shape. Yeah. Chen Kang, congratulations. Congratulations. Who else want to look at anybody? I think that'll do it. Get on the stage. Do they have anything new up? No, they do not. They do not. So, I'll just leave that up while I say my goodbyes to everybody that's getting late. Been been on for a while. Been on for a while. Your dance ch is a Puerto Rican descent. I don't know about that. think the Olympia should try and do a show in the sphere of Vegas. Also go overseas like Dubai or Asia. Um, obviously it would be great to go to Dubai. No one's gonna send me to Dubai, but I think they're happy in Vegas. They've got a good thing going. So, I don't think there's a compelling reason for them to leave Las Vegas. They they sell out every year easily. So, I don't think they're ever leaving Vegas. As a do have awesome legs, Casmo, that's a bad stereot that's a negative stereotype you're saying right there. But it's true. have never seen an Asian bodybuilder with weak weak lower body development. Always have really good quads, really good calves. South Koreans especially, great calves, great quads. And the Chinese, I don't know why. I have no idea why that is. Who knows? Who knows? All right, guys. I'm going to wrap it up. So, I want to thank you all for joining me once again. This was the Toronto Pro Super Show. Congratulations one last time to Sasan Hati for persevering all the way from end of March till today. Five shows it took him to get a win in his Olympic qualification. Went back and forth from UK to to the USA to Canada, back and forth several times, went to Germany and it paid off. He got his win. He's got his ticket to the Olympia and uh did it legitimately. Nothing to nothing to be ashamed about. He should be very very proud of himself. Good day for Sasen Herat and all his fans around the world. So that's it guys. Thank you so much for watching and I guess what we got next week in what do we have next week? We have another show. Next week we have the Empro classic in Alakante. So I'll probably probably see you on a live then if I don't do any lives until then. So, please check out uh the channel. A lot of great content. Like, subscribe, share. Please do all that great stuff. Means a lot to me and I appreciate each and every one of you who sit here and watch these things live and and participate in the chat. So, that's it. Thank you guys. See you next time. Peace.