What's up everybody? Welcome to Ron Line Report. Today's guest, you know this guy, how could you not know him? Sergio Oliva Jr. back in the United States where he belongs. No offense to you people in other countries. What's up, man? How are you? What's up? I've been I've been I've been back for like a long time now. It's like almost a year. I know. Yeah, I I before we recorded I had to like back up and say what country we I mix up Kuwait. I mix up Dubai. Spain I don't mess up. I know where Spain is. That's uh over here somewhere. So uh and the last show you did prior to coming back at FIBO was the 23 Cali Pro. Okay. So yeah, you just had a really good comeback. You know, I hate using that word because I feel like it's like a cliche in sports in general, but especially in bodybuilding, but you looked really, really good. Let's take a look at that for a second. And yet, uh, this was a first first prep with a new coach, Stefan Kinsel, boss of Outlaw. He's got a very good track record for nailing it the first time out. So, let's go to that video because you didn't have the video on your page, but Stefan had it on his, so here we are. No, please don't play this. This is like the worst routine ever. Really? Okay. [\h__\h] off. Yeah, this is literally probably besides Legion, this is probably the worst prep I've worst routine I've ever done. Okay. This is a guy that won best poser uh at the Arnold twice. Yeah, man. You know, honestly, I I I realized after the last time I won, I made a post about it after I won the best poser at the uh the Arnold the second time. And it didn't even help me with my placing at all. Like, I don't think people should be beating other people because of doing posing routines. But I think if it's within one point, I think the guy who is now [\h__\h] his knees up and hurting himself, practicing, you know, in the in this on the on his off time to try and do a routine and a performance, it should benefit me somewhat. And I learned at that show, it doesn't matter anymore. So, I actually haven't done a routine since that show. Um, but this time I was like, you know what, I need to do a routine. I'm I'm starting to love bodybuilding again. You know, I need to enjoy it. But I um I just been with traveling over there and trying to finish my routine. I really just started telling myself like I need to focus on other things that are a little bit more important. This is they don't judge. Posing is only is is posing even judge at the Arnold. I know it was supposed to be, but I don't know if it really is. Oh, it does. At the Arnold, you do get points. Okay, good. Good. Anyway, why are we showing 2021? Let's Let's get going. Did you get best poser at that one? I think you did, didn't you? Yeah. Yeah. But best poser doesn't mean [\h__\h] That's what that's the point of my converation is show routines doesn't mean anything. I promise you, the judges are going to the bathroom, they're getting a drink. Um, and so that's not going to dictate how I did is uh looking at a routine. But anyway, yeah, so the prep was good. Uh, it was probably the best prep of my life. Um, and I was going to go back to what you were saying about not wanting to use the word comeback. In this case, for me, it was a comeback because I did more than just kind of come back to the stage. I really had a whole life change um, behind closed doors. And yes, Stefan is absolutely the guy for me. Um, it works better with my body. Um, but it was my life at home that changed that really helped me really have the best prep ever. Yeah. Talk to me about that because you've made some posts. You're showing your new I don't know what people do. We still use the word girlfriend because I'm so old. I don't know what I what we can say and what we can't say anymore. Well, I don't know. I'm married so I don't know if it's girlfriend. Okay. You're married. Okay. Well, there you go. Your wife. All right. Awesome. That's easy enough. I can't mess that one up. So, uh, this is this is your wife now. What what's what's her name? Olivia. Olivia. Oliva. Wow. Okay. Yeah. That's got to be the most interesting name in bodybuilding, right? And I bet you I'll bet you 20 bucks someone will still [\h__\h] up her last name. Oliva. No, I think uh that's easy enough because that's what everybody calls me is her name. And pronounce Oliva. It's they they say Sergio Olivia or if you're dumbass Tony Dhy and you announce me at my first Arnold and you say Sergio Oliver. So I think people have called me everything except Sergio Oliva on stage. I find that hard to believe since we had a a guy that was three time Mr. Olympia, your dad named Oliva. People have had plenty of time to digest that and know how the name is pronounced. But oh, you got to be around back then to to even care about the name. So Bob doesn't mess it up. Uh Lonnie Teper didn't mess it up. Dennis James didn't mess it up at Fibo, but for the most part, everybody just messes it up. I have heard Olivia. So, yeah. I mean, tell me about because honestly, I I think the one thing that's sort of slowed down your progress in your career has just been a lack of stability, a lack of uh support at home, if if however you want to phrase that. Um having the right woman in your corner. I know people think it's corny and old-fashioned. Maybe maybe it's because I'm so old, but I honestly believe it can make or break somebody, especially a professional athlete in a sport like this that's so demanding if you have someone that's sort of working against you or sabotaging you in little ways, which I've seen a lot of times over the years with couples, uh, versus someone who's in your corner, believes in you, supporting you, it can make a world of difference. Has that been the case with you and your wife? I mean, yeah. Yeah, she's all of that. But it doesn't mean that that's not what I had necessarily before. I I'm not I'm not a guy like these some of these guys that you see them with girls and they they make them feel bad about going to the gym and they feel jealous about, you know, doing shows. Like those are the hugest red flags. Any bodybuilder who's still with a girl who makes them choose between bodybuilding and them is you're just an idiot to even pretend that that's going to work. So I never had a situation like that. I never had anyone who wasn't uh believing in me and supporting me and stuff like that. I'm very grateful. Um, Ron, you should know as many interviews we've done, I was with the same person almost my entire life for almost like 20 years and it's not a thing of someone doing anything wrong and you can look at like past relationships like like Jay and his ex-wife. It you know, you can just your lives can just go separate ways and you can still support each other and still even my ex, she's still helping run the business, you know, she's still one of my best friends. It's not on any kind of bad terms. It's just after a while it turns into where is this really what people want to do? you know, are they just doing it because they love you? And I realized after a while that the people that were in my life, um, including Katie, my best friend, which I don't think I've ever seen you not with her. Uh, it's just this isn't what they want to do. You know, they're just doing it because they care about me and they believe in me so much, but it's not their passion. It's not what gives them joy. And then it turns into this kind of like where they're having to choose. And you know, even if you do things like you're just not dating, you're not together, let's just focus on the business. Now, I'm also hurting them, you know, because now they can't find somebody, they can't date somebody. Nobody's going to come up to them. My workout partner for eight years was a girl, my best friend. Who's going to come approach her to ask her on a date when I'm next to her, you know? And I like I like it because I can go to the gym and I can focus and no one's going to distract me. Um, but it's just turned into one of those things where we just had to go our separate ways. And exactly, now they're a lot happier and they're doing better. But there's no bad terms or nothing bad ever happened to me. I mean, except for my ex-wife and that whole thing with Australia years ago. No one's done anything wrong to me. It's just there's certain there's certain situations that happen. You get injured. You get stuck in a country. You [\h__\h] you know, like me getting stuck in Australia. Whose fault is that? That's not my that's not anyone's fault. I went there to compete in the Arnold, you know. So sometimes certain circumstances like getting injured in Spain like I got injured like it's the first time that I ever got injured in my life. It just happened to be right when I was going to come back and do a show. You know the Dubai situation. Is that my fault? Like the guy crashed into me and then someone else ran him over? No. I just happened to live in a country where their due diligence on stuff is [\h__\h] and they have to put everybody in jail before they figure things out and they just do things different than us. It doesn't mean that I did anything wrong in Dubai. And if if I did, I would still be stuck there. I would have never got out of jail. It's just like we're so used to, like you were talking about Kuwait and Dubai and not understanding the difference. We're American, so everywhere we go, we bring America with us in our head, in our mind, and the laws that we know. And to us thinking like if you got into an accident here in in the States and two other cars got into an accident as well and one of them died and you had nothing to do with that and you went to jail, it would blow your mind in America because it doesn't make any sense, right? You could even kill someone in America and then you still don't go to jail until you go to court, right? So, a situation like that where I didn't even run somebody over, but they put everybody in jail, that's just what they do. So, these are all things that have just happened to me in my life. And look, some of the things like me choosing to stick around with people, choosing to, you know, continue to do things, Dorian really helps me learn that those are my faults. even even if you think that you're doing something right or you're doing something, you know, in in love, you could be hurting yourself. And so, I put myself in those positions. But really, the biggest setbacks in my life, it's just it's just circumstances. And look, it's going to be one of those things when I do finish this story and I do kill it because now I am the healthiest I've ever been. I feel the best I've ever been. My h my house is the best it's ever been. Then everybody's going to say, "Wow, what a crazy story." Because that's how it is. is like you can have all these bad things happen to you and if you don't make it they're excuses you know not that I've ever made a post ever once like oh I didn't do good because of this I have only said because of me or something I did or I need to do better I have never used any kind of excuse for these things happen but they've happened and now if now if I win the Arnold you know or even first call on the Olympia now it's like damn he went through all that and then got there the narrative changes completely right away but that's on me to finish the story out and finish it, you know, the right way. Yeah. So, I remember the shoulder thing. Can you tell refresh my memory what happened to you? What was the diagnosis? Did you have surgery? And how long was the rehab? No, I actually uh tweaked it a little bit training with Dorian and I even stopped training shoulders and chest with him. It's just uh it's just like for my age to to train that heavy duty, it benefited me in a lot of areas that are really good. And there's a lot of things that I'm still doing with back that I learned from him that I'll do forever and I'm paying it forward and and teaching other people about it. But some of the stuff like on your joints, uh, primarily my shoulder, it was just a little rough and I had to then take a break like I said and then it was just getting better. Like I just finally did military press, you know, almost 3:15. I remember even looking at my girl like, "Yeah, we're back." You know, and cuz that was the only thing holding me back. And literally, I think it was like two days later, you know, I'm walking and I I've had this like it's not an injury, but it's just something my body does. It's from all the track and field and football that I did. My ankle will roll out on its own like like nothing. It's just it is what it is. I mean, I've probably torn so many things in it from from doing it so many times and then continuing to play football in high school that now it just rolls so easy. It just happened to be where I did it in the gym and then fell on my shoulder. So that irritated it, I mean, severely to where I couldn't even raise my arm at all. And so that was the weirdest thing is that it literally felt like it was destroyed, broken, torn, can't lift it up to even wash underneath when I'm taking a shower. I couldn't put deodorant on. Um, but I went to go get an MRI and it was nothing. It was just really bad, inflamed, and it was just one of those things that I just had to go to rehab now. So I started going to rehab in in in Spain and that was really hard for a while. got insane amount of gigantic needles stuck into my shoulder for whatever, you know, cortisone and anti-inflammatories. And it wasn't until, and this is the best part about FIBO, Ron, is that I didn't even do incline press until it was like almost February. I didn't do a pull-up or a lat pull down until December. So only since January have I been able to really properly ch train my chest, really been able to really do actual lats. And so now what you see at FIBO is like right like an underdeveloped I mean obviously I was a little flat too that definitely doesn't help but they're also just muscles that aren't caught back up. There's a difference of being injured and you torn something uh that's never going to come back. It's just not, you know, and especially at at my age. This is just something where I just stopped training it and I need now that I'm training it back 100%. That I'll be fine. So really what people are seeing is just kind of me just getting back in the game. Yeah. And then this new coach now trying to learn my body. And so from now until my next show is going to be me on all cylinders not having to baby something, you know, does this hurt? You know, I must have went to every single therapist in Vegas. And shout out to Flex Wheeler actually because when I first got here uh I was so small and I also could not turn my arm to do a front double. So I hadn't done a front double literally for I don't even know seven months and I was just talking to him randomly and he was just like, "Hey, I know this guy. This guy put this I posted it. It's like a glove and it's like shocking my whole shoulder. He's taking a hammer hammering my shoulder and I get it for a double right away immediately." And so whatever it was that he released, it just made me be able to I don't know, you know, so that's what saved me was that therapist actually. But the BPC and TB-500 for anyone out there that is having any kind of injuries or things that you're worried about surgery, that's where it's at. That saved my legs. That's why my legs were the best improved from if you go to that 2023 cow to FIBO, the legs are almost twice as big. And it's just because I wasn't able to train them with my meniscus. So the TB helped my knee, the BPC, uh TB helped my shoulder. So to answer your question, yeah, that's what saved it. No surgery, no nothing. Just being smart, taking time off, everyone telling me that I'm done, losing my stock, nobody gives a [\h__\h] about me, and then now I'm healthy and 100%. Whereas if I kept training, I would be done. This would be something that I'd be dealing with for the for the rest of my career. You can't train with a bum shoulder. do it. Trust me, I need I need a replacement. I I wouldn't wish this pain on anybody in the world. It's It's like someone stabbing you in the shoulder 24/7. But you knew about it, you know, and that's how it is with all of us. We always know about it a long time ago and then we kind of tell ourselves it'll get better cuz sometimes some injuries do come and then they just disappear. And then some you can work around, some I'll warm it up. You can only butcher bomb and BPC and TB-500 something so much, you know, and um you got to listen to your body, bro. Okay. So, thanks for explaining that. But, so now that leads me to ask, you only had a couple months of really solid training, you once the shoulder issue was resolved. Why did you why did you come back so soon? Why didn't you just wait a few more months and get some more training under your belt? Um, I you learn more from doing shows, you know, than anything. And no matter what, it was about to be a long time since I had done a show. and I wanted to I wanted to do for two reasons. One, Stefan had recommended that show. Um, so that was already something that if I've never had a coach ever in my life ask me about a show. I just picked them, told Aceto, you know, hey, this is what we're going to do and that's what we did. So, I never had anyone message me and was like, it's showing that they're thinking about what plans they have for me. And, you know, that really meant a lot. How how much this guy cares about me and we just did one show together. I don't even understand. But also number two was also while my stock had dropped and nobody gave a [\h__\h] about me. Every sponsor dropped me except Jim. Jim is the only company that kept me paying my bills here in Vegas. And one of them including Black Skull who really screwed me over. They knew that I was moving to America. They knew that when I worked they came here for the Olympia that they were they were running out of money. They knew that when I went to Brazil and and spent my birthday working the expo that they were running out of money. And so just not even giving me a heads up like, "Hey, we're going to drop you even in three months, even even two months notice, it put me in a real bad damper right before Christmas." They called me four days before Christmas and told me that they were dropping me. And that was my biggest income coming in. So really, gym 80 is the only reason why anybody is even talking about me right now because I was able to finish the job. I mean, look, there's a lot of other things behind it like me killing it, my wife killing it, my trainer killing it. Uh, but really financially, I would never been able to have made it there. And now, right now, everyone's like, "Oh man, maybe Sergio's got something left in him." When I wouldn't even have been able to have that. So, Jim 80 was the main sponsor of Fibo. That's like their home, Germany. And so, I really wanted to make sure that I was there uh for them. And I really wanted to win that show. I honestly wanted to win that show more for them than I wanted to win myself. I just needed to get it back on stage and finally look like what I look like in the gym. If you look at those pictures that I posted from the past years, Yeah. It doesn't mean especially the abs one. The absorn is the most uh I think difference. People think when you bodybuild and you get on stage and you look bad, they think that that's what you looked like the two weeks before. That you literally looked at that mashed potato stomach and said and said, "You know what? I think I'm going to go into the Arnold." They don't understand that that's that could have been messed up three hours or two hours even before. And so that Arnold where everyone's just like, "Oh, wow. You're a lot fuller." That's the worst placing I ever got because that's just a good photo. But if you look at the abs and thighs from that show, the back poses is so sloppy because I spilled over completely. So, uh, so now now, right, I just have everything right and um, and that's all that's all that matters to me. I just need to look like what I look like in the gym for the first time in my life. If I did my whole career, I I said this on Dennis James show. The biggest letdown for me, I know people want me to be. I mean, look at that. It's disgusting. So, everyone in 2021 when I did the lat spread, including you, were like, "Oh, wow. That's a better look." That's one pose. That's one lat spread pose. You have absent thighs. It looks like I am pregnant. And then imagine what the back looked like. Completely different structure to the 2025 today. And so, for me to go into Vivo and just look like what I looked like was enough for me. I was happy. Yeah. I mean, it was a fuller look, I think, in 2021. I think that's that's what really caught people's attention, the bigger fuller look because you know I you're you're a tall guy, you have a big frame, so when you're full, it's so impressive. Um like Fibo, I would love the condition, but I was like, man, I wish he was fuller, especially in the you know, I now that I now that I understand exactly what was going on with the shoulder and everything, it makes perfect sense why. I was like, what happened what's happened to Sergio's chest? I know he has a thicker thicker set of pecs than that, but now it all makes sense. So, um, what's the plan now? I mean, how many do do you have another show in mind? Does Stephan have another show in mind? Cuz Yeah. Yeah, of course. And you know, that's what I was going to say, too, is like I mean, what do you what do you expect me to do? And do you think I'm going to like because you know it's the same weight. Well, you were talking about where I look fuller and and Fibo is the same weight. Wow. But nobody's talking about the legs though. It's like fuller chest, chest, chest, chest, chest, chest. Why are quads not more important than chest? And what it is is because if I had chest and I didn't have quads, we'd be talking about the quads. We just talk about what's missing and we can't really appreciate what is even doubled. And so that's why my weight is the same. It's because my legs are so much bigger. Yeah. I remember making a comment. I don't I don't can't recall where I did it. Might have been on when I was covering the show uh for my channel, but I said, "The weird thing is is a lot of times guys 40 and over, you start to see the legs go away." And Sergio's legs look as good, if not better, than ever. Now, now I know it all makes perfect sense. They're they're I mean, when your shoulders, you have a bum shoulder, you're obviously going to focus more on legs, but it really was just me fixing my leg. I mean, that's actually how I really got close with my wife is I was in Dubai. This guy was telling me, he saw on my story that my knee was hurting me and he said, "I can tape it for you." I tried KT tape a hundred million times because I was a track runner and it's and it's [\h__\h] It doesn't it doesn't for me for me it didn't do anything that I'll say that. And so what he was telling me is is there this is like a different tape. See it's a different tape. And then the way you tape it, it's just helping me stay aligned when I'm training. And also walking. Walking sometimes was actually irritating my meniscus more than the actual training was because it's the side left and right that that really irritates that meniscus, not the not the up and down. And so my my wife, who wasn't even someone I was even really talking to, she saw that I was driving so far in Dubai to go I would drive like 45 minutes, have this guy take my knee, then drive back to the gym, do legs, but I was having the best leg days. And she was just was like, "Hey, you know, I I used to do that. I can do that for you so you don't have to drive that far." So she started she started taping it for me. And that's actually how we started. That's how we met. Wow. So if it wasn't for my tormeniscus, I would not be married. Wow. I mean coming back to miniscus and you're squatting 405 here for great reps. That's God love you. Yeah. Just a couple weeks before the show I was doing five plates uh as well before. Um but you know it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what weight you're doing. You know if if you're really not a a a veteran workout person, you know the difference of being able to train and when you can really go into that movement, you know, you're really stretching into it. you're really the next rep you're like, you know what, I can even make it a little bit lower, a little bit more deeper, whatever it is. And so being able to train like that again is the best part because I've been training for since Legion and that Arnold you keep showing the routine of I've been training in like a timid scared way, you know, like does this hurt? No. And then we keep going, you know, does this hurt? No. You know, keep going. If it hurts, stop. Now, I mean, [\h__\h] bro. Knock on wood. I'm doing everything and anything I want. And this is only remember I also messed my my leg up. I meant to say that too that my shoulder got messed up. But when I rolled that ankle, it was humongous for like a month. I couldn't walk on it. My girl had to tell me go to the bathroom. It was really bad. So I I had a bum leg and a bum shoulder. So I didn't even train legs until I moved to Vegas. So legs are only less than a year. Geez. Yeah. So yeah. So back to the question is like how much you know ideally how much time would you take now to train to just now that everything seems like you're firing on all cylinders and there's no limitations anymore. How long do you feel like you would need before you want to start another prep? Yeah, because that's what I was going to say is like look what I focused on I improved on. Like I was doing the best that I could with my back and I was doing the best I could with my chest for what I was given. But now that I feel like really confident with my legs, I'll keep doing that. But now I can really um switch the focus back onto my chest and mostly my back. I think I think also because I'm a lot wider and a lot like taller, I need to just have super super dense uh muscles in the back. So when I for me to get shredded, I need to just be super thick. So yes, we could have been fuller. Yes, we could have maybe tweaked a couple things, you know, us being our first show. But no matter what, I have structural issues that I need to train in the gym. And so I mean I can ask you Ron, how long does it take for a muscle to grow? Well, couple weeks, you know, there's no way months. Yeah, it's a couple months. So why am I going to do another show, you know? Like someone even messaged me like, "Oh, you should do this show and the the fourth place in Dubai is this amount." Like, who thinks that I'm still doing this [\h__\h] for money? Like, I'm trying to go to the Olympia and that's what's important to me. Let alone talking about a [\h__\h] fourth place. So, I'm I want to qualify for the Olympia this year, and that's all that matters to me. So, I'm I'm back to training. Uh I've changed a lot with my training as well. And so, now I want to see how stupid I can get my back. My chest, if I don't change nothing, Ron, it's going to be back to normal by the time I do another show. Because not being able to do incline presses, especially dumbbells, once, um it's really impressive that my chest was even what it was. Uh, I I I I was like so close to for the first time in my life, I'm going to synth all my chest because it was so [\h__\h] strong. Um, but so I don't really need to change much with my chest. I just need to stay on it. But my back, bro, I'm really going to kill it. And let's see what I can do if I train for three months, destroy my back, keep doing what I'm doing with my legs. Even Tyler on his recap, you know, he even talked about, you know, that I had had a really good showing and and Tyler doesn't give out much compliments. It's not a It's not his thing. He only He only if it's genuine, you know it's genuine if Tyler says it because he would he would just not say anything. Absolutely. Exactly. So yeah, give me a few months. Let me get back into the gym. Let me hop into one of these shows, you know, maybe the end of summer, qualify for the Olympia, and then see what I really look like. Uh I meant to ask, I know we we we only touched on Stefan very briefly, but how did you end up working with Stefan? He's until a couple years ago, I never heard the guy's name, but now, my god, he's like the coach. So, how did how did you become a It's because you follow the big guys more. It was the same with me, too, you know, because he's already been Ersz's guy, Wesley Vissers, you know, and it wasn't really until Nathan uh Nathan Bono really Bono's the person who actually really convinced me more than anything. taking a Martin and making Martin look good. Like it it's a very impressive but it is less impressive than Bono coming back from his age. I mean it's just to do the things that they did. They're just impossible. Martin Martin trains Martin trains harder than anybody. You you you almost have to kind of like try to mess it up to like mess that guy up. And so to see Bono's legs get bigger. And then when I talk cuz I've known Bono for a long time. He's been one of those guys that for whatever reason whenever he saw me backstage he would just help me out. He would give me, you know, whatever tips. Um, so we've always kind of like been friends. And when I messaged him after, remember last year he won a show, beat Nathan, then Beir, it was like all those three shows that Nathan, Beirus, and Bon were going against each other. I messaged him after those and I was just like, how how did this 40some year old guy get his legs bigger? and he was just saying that, "Yeah, man. Stefan made him and every one of his clients, including me, you do less. You just do less, man. It's so crazy." And now, it's funny because Rean's, you know, here in Vegas and we now have also switched to uh Stefan for the first time. And me and Regan are almost the same height, almost the same weight. So, it's very it's very similar. And yeah, he's saying the same thing where that's what I would do. I would message him, can I do more cardio? No. I would even sometimes message to do less carbs and he would say no. And you know Regan's going through the same thing now where he's like begging for an extra 10 15 minutes more cardio, but he won't give it. And Bonox's legs look the best they ever have. My legs look the best they ever have. And I was doing two hours on the stairs every day, you know? It's just so nuts to think to do less um and and do better, you know. But I guess we're so hard-headed. Yeah. Did was it I mean because you worked with Chris for was it 10 years you were working with him? Only Chris. even since before I was an amateur. Wow. So, I mean, it must have been it must have been tough to to try someone completely new that you had no experience with. Yeah. Yeah. Ask me how did I get teamed up with him. I'm sorry. Um, so honestly, I actually had tried another coach um here locally and I I just thought exactly I need to try something new because also what I wanted to figure out too is am I done? Because look, if this is a thing where I can never look like what I look like in the gym on stage, then maybe it's something with me, you know? You know, because right, the 2020 Arnold, that was like one of my best looks. Like, we killed it at that show. New York obviously was sick. But look, let's be real, every single other show, every single other one was either second or third. I've only placed first, second, or third in every single one of my shows. I've never been in a second call out. The only time that was really bad was actually that Arnold that everybody wants to tell me is the best, which is my worst placing ever in my life. Wow. Um, so yeah, we killed it. And and and look, we'd all be having a way different narrative if those second places were first because now Sergio won Chicago. He won Tampa, you know, like those are those are second places. And I would have won the cow, Tampa, Chicago, and New York. I mean, I don't know what else there is in the States, you know? And so now that changes Chris, that changes me when we didn't do anything wrong. It's just uh there was a lot of things that maybe like mess it up a little bit at the end. But no matter what, it was time for me to do a completely different shock to my body. I needed to go to something completely opposite. So I thought I would try someone local here in Vegas. Someone that I could see, I could train with them. They could see my body. I I I don't think I've ever prepped with Chris and he's changing my diet in person. It's always photos. Yeah. you know, and uh and then it was weird. It was exactly like you said, it was already scary for me to switch. And also, Chris is like a father figure to me. So, it's not even just losing a changing coaches. It's really changing the only positive male role model I've had in my life. And that was a big thing for me. And now I'm with this new coach and he literally could not give a [\h__\h] any less uh about me. And I just I'm one of those guys where I'm just like, you know what, he's busy. You know, I'm the new guy on the team. you know, I need to be patient. But after you're waiting for months for a diet, what um it starts to turn into where I'm an idiot. And so, it's so funny. This is how life works. I'm literally talking to Brett and Martin at the Olympia here last year or they came early, you know, for the Olympia. And I was telling exactly what I'm going with going through and I'm literally talking to them like, "Yeah, but you know, like he's got this person in the Olympia and that person Olympia. Like, I don't want to bother him, you know." And it wasn't until they were like, "It's been how long and you haven't got a diet?" Like, "Bro, you're stupid." And it wasn't until that they said that to me, I realized you can also be the like, "Look, there's guys that are like, you didn't respond back to me in [\h__\h] 30 minutes and then they're mad." There's guys that switch coaches every show. I'm like the complete opposite. I stay with somebody too long. I I I like have too much patience, you know, letting people kind of like not be stressed about prepping me when in reality, I should have been like, I mean, hello. Like, yo, what the [\h__\h] And it wasn't until you have people who are at your level and your boys telling you like, "What are you doing?" that I like snapped out of it. And it was so crazy the next day I literally was just like almost out of it. I went to the gym and guess who was at the gym? Stefan. Oh wow. Okay. And he and I just I didn't even I don't even know if I even said what's up to him. I think I just kind of like nodded because he was there, you know, looking at his clients and he was immediately was just telling me like how great he thinks I could be. And he then then he pulls up. He's like, "Hold on a second." Swipes his finger for like 45 seconds. And now he's showing me all these photos that he took of me at one of the Arnolds with his own phone from his seat because he was just so impressed by me that he wanted those from me. He wasn't posting them. He wasn't to send to me. And it was just so crazy that I'm literally trying to now beg my coach that I'm paying to send me something. And this guy is already now making me feel so good about myself. I was like, "Man, this guy's so great." I went home. I told my wife and she's like, "Just just switch." Like there were how long are you gonna wait around, you know? And so I did. I asked him if he would prep me and we started right away. It was like it was so crazy how it happened. But I would have never ever left, let alone switch to boss if he wasn't there that day. Wow. I mean, that's I I believe everything happens for a reason. people put God or whoever whatever you want to believe higher power puts people in the right place at the right times and yeah you know going back to the shows in the second places was it 2018 where you did Chicago and then Tampa were like a couple weeks apart and got second yeah because that's when I went to the Olympia that honest to God you could have won both of those shows I I remember easily at the very end it was just you and Lockett over and over just like posing to see I don't know was I don't know I think Tyler who's head judge or Steve's it doesn't matter who the head judge was worked the hell out of you guys and I was like it was clear they couldn't make up their minds because it could have gone either way so I'm thinking why did it was it was mindboggling why did it go to Michael he's got a great physique and everything but I mean and then that two weeks was it two weeks later when um Alexis is that name rolled on he yeah with those quads I mean he looked great too but I mean gez I'm like wow because you should have more than one pro I'm not [\h__\h] on the judge judges. They do a great job. It's a tough job, but you you should have more than one. You have one pro win, the New York Pro, right? Your pro debut. It's crazy. And then everything else is second and third. So everything else I'm just one place or two places away. Look, if you're not first, you're last. But if you know bodybuilding, you know, there's people that show up to shows that get first. And it's because nobody was there, really, you know? So like it it just happens that way. And look at FIBO. Look, the whole n the whole bodybuilding um judging panel would had to have changed if you take one guy out. So you take you take you take uh Andrew out, Cassan's winning that show because he's so shredded. He's so peeled. He's winning. You take Cassan out, man, I think I could beat Andrew because I would have it would have been the same big person to big person. He improved a lot at the night show. So I don't know, maybe he would have came back and won. But I think now you're comparing oranges and oranges. It's a completely different type of judging. You have two tall people. So, right, he's he if you look at Tyler's uh recap, he won a lot because he out muscled Cassan. Yes. So, that means I would have won the side poses then because I'm more conditioned than what he was. And so, this prejudging is really bad. But if you look at the post pictures that that I posted, somebody put our photos next to each other, which I'm really glad that they did because it really showed the difference. Um, is that on your page? Yeah, I posted it. And it's funny because the guy who posted it hates me and and he posted great great side by sides with me and Andrew. No, you missed. Did I miss it? Yeah. Go up. Okay. That to the left. Ah, there we go. Ah, there we go. There we go. Wow. They took Son out and then put us This is at the night show because I got a lot better at the night show and the lighting was way better. I would say Fibo's prejudging lighting is the worst lighting uh in all of IFBB. You called it uh RV Expo. Was that RV Expo? Yeah, the trailer park uh lighting. Yeah, that's fairly That's accurate. I'll take it. Yeah. So, so now the show is completely different. It's just different judgment and he he might he he could still win, you know, he's just such a dominant person. But I'm just saying it's completely different now because now the person who's he's getting points for being bigger, he's not that much bigger. No. Yeah. It's cuz you I don't think you were ever actually directly next to him, were you? Not at night. No. No. They did another one where they brought out that guy Justin. So there was four of us. Yeah. And then Yeah. So yeah, even this guy, it's the bodybuilding uh Yeah, shout out to him because he for sure has disliked me and the Fernando and the they all hate my guts. They they will wait till I'm like mid pose, post a [\h__\h] shitty pose of me and then they'll put the best pose ever existed of the other person. And it's fine. I get it because the engagement I'm sure it makes people go nuts. Yeah. But I was really shocked that somebody who disliked me actually made me feel good because I hadn't seen these until he put these. And if if Andrew has the best abs and thighs ever since Shawn Ray, I should be getting [\h__\h] on in this pose. My first show back and your quads are actually I probably give you the quads. Lose that pose. He could be he could be 50% and still win that pose. He's not saying he's losing this pose. I'm just saying that I it's different now. It's different. It's different judging. So that's the cool thing about bodybuilding though. You can have different people at different sizes and then they compare a little bit better or you have maybe now different sizes and now it's just on condition. True. Yeah. I mean, look, this is AI mean, Andrew was like I don't know, slightly tighter, but this is he got [\h__\h] on because people were saying that was guest posing shape and he wasn't that if you look at the uh at the Arnold from was it like eight weeks before, he wasn't that much leaner at the Arnold. I've I've never seen Andrew like diced out of his mind ever. He's he's one of those guys because the size and the shape and the structure. Exactly. But that's saying was that you know some people they are like that. I mean I remember Flex Wheeler beating a lot of people when he was like 85%. And corner. Absolutely. Yeah. I mean rightfully so because it's not it's not just a conditioning contest. There's probably guys in the third call out of this show who are better conditioned than guys in the top five. I I mean I've been saying it since Legion when Clarita beat uh me and Regan, right? beating me for sure. I looked horrible. But Regan should have won that show because it's like we stopped giving credit to building muscle. Like that's also not something that also took years. So Andrew and his amount of muscle is not from on accident. It is not some kind of like thing that he was born like that, you know, that took a lot of hard work. So being able to have such crazy size, we we need to reward it as well. And now if it's close, like super close, yes, give it to the guy who's more conditioned. But if you outweigh somebody by 100 pounds and they're just slightly more conditioned than you, you know, Regan should have won that Legion show. You can get me third all day. It's fine. That was no exaggeration. I think he actually was 100 pounds heavier than Sean. We both were. Yeah. Yeah. Two. You guys were around 275 or something. Both of you? Yeah, I was even more than that. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So So what's You're saying the weight your weight has been fairly consistent over the years, huh? Yeah. Yeah. Unfortunately, it's not because of like something good. It's just because right now I lost weight in my upper body and my legs got bigger. So, but that what does that mean though? That means that my next show I'm going to be the most conditioned cuz cuz also remember too this is my wife's first prep. I don't have to tell any bodybuilder NPC or IFBB retired or current competing that your first prep with your woman is just your first prep. There's things that happen that aren't it's not good or bad. It's not anything like that. It's just so many learning experiences. There's so much to understand about now your spouse going through these like phases in their life. Luckily enough for me, I'm not like an angry guy. I just get so dead tired. It is just like such a lethargic where if you're not really secure in your relationship, you're not going to understand that that's just a normal temporary thing. So no matter what, this was her first prep to learn everything. And she absolutely killed it. This is not only her first prep with me, it's her first prep doing any kind of bodybuilding. So she's already gonna be better. We're already going to be better. Stefan's going to be better. And now, exactly. If I just don't [\h__\h] up my lower body. Now, I'm able to now put more weight on my upper body. And I think I'm going to now be the heaviest I've ever been. So, if I'm the heaviest I've ever been, the most conditioned I've ever been, and my home life, I'm the happiest I've ever been, then you know what? [\h__\h] [\h__\h] it. I'm going to [\h__\h] be happy. Right on. I mean, because you I hate to I hate to put the age thing out there because I'm I'm way older than you, but you know, you'll be 41 in what is October? Uh-huh. Yeah. I mean, the clock's kind of ticking. It's 40 is not like it used to be. Obviously, it's like the new 30, but you know, you don't have a whole lot of time to to really fulfill the Sergio Oliva prophecy that we've, you know, I don't think I don't think anyone amount of years is ever going to fulfill that Aliva prophecy. I think that's the catch about it is it's impossible. I would have to win four Olympias, more than my dad, for it to ever be something. Um, and so luckily enough, I'm I'm able to swallow that and understand that I'm going to do my legacy of what I want to do, not anything to do with my dad. But yeah, no matter what, you're right. I got four or five years at the most. Sean Wood at the oldest. That's right. Sean was 44, right? Yeah. And I think that was I think Dickerson had been the oldest before him. Chris Dickerson was like 43. Yeah. And that doesn't count because that was almost like a men's physique competition. I disrespect the kids because he is such a good guy. I mean, but he was, you know, no matter what. Ju just to so the younger viewers because I'm sure a lot of them have no sense of Olympia history. One of the Olympia your dad won people were so afraid that literally nobody showed up to compete against him. Yeah, one of them. Yeah. It was back when Guennis used to actually honor bodybuilding. They don't care about us anymore. But it was actually a Guinness World Record of winning a Mr. Olympia title uncontested. Look, let's be real. It's because second place I think was like 200 bucks. It wasn't even worth to go. But yeah, to be that dominating that one, you made Larry Scott retire and then which he's talked about and then right one of them nobody showed up because it was so ridiculous. And then the other one is him beating Arnold, you know. There were two there were two pe one uncontested the other one one the one of the other two was just him and Arnold, two guys. He beat one guy and I think even the other one was, you know, the Olympia back in those early days was there. There just weren't that many pro bodybuilders in the world. There was like a handful of them. So, it was totally They were They were in the short class. That's right. The short class. I forgot about that. Yeah, they used to have a short and a tall class at the uh at the Olympia. I guess I guess 212 was a nicer way of saying that. They also had a lightweight and a heavyweight for a couple years. They tried that because Robbie Robinson won the heavyweight Olympia one year. Mike Mensel won the heavyweight Olympia one year, but Zayn beat them both of those times. Frank Zayn, I didn't even know that. That's at an Olympia. They had a weight class 70. I think it was only I think they only did it in the late 70s when Zayn was winning. And you know, to this day, I'm a big Zayn fan, but I don't I I don't understand how we beat Mike Venture at his best and Robbie Robinson at their best. They were amazing. You know, you talk about men's physique competitors, Frank Frank's way smaller than most of the men's physique guys. out. That's a whole other topic, but I'm not going to get into. Yeah, Frank looks like the guy who just won that natural Mr. Olympia and then he like retired. I forgot that guy's name. I don't John John Hansen. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. He's like younger guy. He's like a Oh, he's like a He's got like a billion followers. But yeah, that's his thing is that he's been natural forever. He just won the natural Olympia. Oh, I didn't know they still had a natural Olympia. Huh. But but yeah, you're right. Exactly. But but that's the but that's again that's the beauty of bodybuilding because now people that are dieh hard Frank Singh fans they got into bodybuilding because of him. It gave hope to people that had a certain shape and it also taught us too the art of illusion in bodybuilding is almost more important than how big your muscles are because how you stand I mean the lighting back then let's don't even get me started. So that also helped. You stand under a spotlight. You know, my little sister can look like she's a one. But you shift your hips a little bit, turn your legs a little bit, hide this. That is also bodybuilding. And we've got away from that because now we're on microscope. Zoom in on this guy's lines on his ass. And if he doesn't have enough, he's not conditioned where, you know, no matter what, this is the evolution of the sport. And you can this is better, that is better. It doesn't matter because we wouldn't have what we have today if we didn't have that evolution go through. If we didn't have a Gaspari, a lot of the guys today would not even be doing well in bodybuilding. I mean, the whole 90s would have been completely different if Gaspari didn't show us what glutes could really look like. True. Yeah. It was like that was the three-minute mile that no until the first guy ran a three-minute mile back in the 60s and Oh, right. It was Roger Bannister. People thought it was impossible, you know. I mean, everything's evolved. You know, obviously you trained with Tom Plattz. You know, Tom, until Tom Plattz came along, nobody was trying to get huge legs. Nobody. It's why we look at this pumping iron go guys and go, "Huh, my legs are bigger than that." I'm like, "Yeah, because they weren't trying. They weren't trying to get these 33 inch quads." That's if they had, they probably would had bigger quads, but Exactly. Right. It's the same thing with the men's physique guys. Of course, I would have the best abs and back ever if I don't have to now do hamstring day, glute day, quad day. Like I'm doing adductors, abductors, glutes, and men's physique guys don't do that. And of course, their backs, I mean, some of these Mets physique guys have way better backs than I do. It is very incredible. Brandon Hendrickson just moved to Vegas. He's from Chicago where I'm from. So me and him have literally been training from the same gym that we started. And this guy was like I mean, I think he weighed less than my wife does. And and now they say that, you know, he's like one of the guys that brought muscle to men's physique because he does he has quads. He trains his lower body. So, some of these mass physique guys are pretty badass, but the rest of them, you have such a tiny waist because you don't do leg press heavy. You don't do squats heavy, deadlifts, all those distending stomach exercises that you have to do to stand next to these behemoths in the open. It does mess your stomach up. And I've tried everything like where you just keep your belt on, but then it just actually gives you a hernia. It's it's it's it's a slippery slope of once you're over 280. People need to understand that there's bodybuilding 275 and under and over 275. It's just a completely different animal. Yeah. I that that reminds you one thing I want to ask. I've been having this argument discussion whatever you want to call it. Do you believe that a bigger heavier guy like a 270 280 pound guy on stage is it that much harder for them to get conditioned versus someone who's 220 230? I mean yeah that's that we we already know that. That's like saying when the skinny guys have abs. like like fat girls with boobs. Like it's just it's so much easier. It doesn't count. But also, I think what the amount of tissue that you're putting on to try and now thin it out to make it look like look, if I think if you had a competition of all over a certain weight and all under a certain weight, the condition would be different. But if you stand next to um who's who would be the Derek, what does Derek weigh in the 240 250? He's probably about 240. Man, that's crazy. That's so crazy. But he is paper thin, you know? So when you stand next to him, I'm also whoever it is will be paper thin, but they weigh 30 40 more pounds. It's just a different look. It doesn't mean that he's more shredded. And so I think that's more that is the confusing part is that you have to stand next to the guys who are smaller and then it makes your condition look like it's worse because are we going to say this year Samson's not the best example but like let's say Samson from before you know his most shredded I I don't can he get more shredded? Can he like literally do it? We want him to and we think he can but what if it's a thing where he just actually can't and this is the most dried, you know, version that we've seen him. Well, we won't know until he's done with his career, but he's got a lot of tissue on him. He's in the 290s. Like, what the say he was 305 at the Olympia that he won last year. That's that's like an unbelievable amount of weight. And but then because we have Ronnie Coleman, it's like, oh, well then, well, you should be able to look like Ronnie Coleman. If you take Ronnie Coleman out of bodybuilding, everything changes. How you how much weight you should be training with, how your form should look like, what you know, what your back should look like. It really kind of like helped and hurt bodybuilding because if you're a big guy, then you should be able to look like Ronnie Coleman, right? You know, it's easy. That's right. Jay Jay Cutler's famous quote about Ronnie that I'll never forget. He says, "Ronnie ruined it for everybody because he was just such an anomaly in so many ways that people are going to compare everyone to Ronnie. It's like comparing a regular sword to a Hanzo sword from the Kill Bill movies. Threearters of your followers don't even get that reference. I know, right? But yeah, what if Big Ramy came around and there was no Ronnie Coleman? The world would have exploded because it's like I don't even understand. But then what do we do to Big Ramy? Like, oh my god, you look good, but your back doesn't look like Ronnie Coleman, right? You know. Yeah. I mean, it's a we're never going to see another one. People say, "Well, we'll see another one." I said, "Maybe, but I'll be dead for 50 years before that happens." Well, that's it would be like if Ronnie Coleman's son got into bodybuilding, because this is what I always say to people when they're like, "You'll never be like your father or you'll never look like your father." Who has since my father who really has somehow that waist? It it would probably be Keon. Keon's probably the closest thing to having a waist that you're literally looks like you're wearing a screen but then your lats are so thick and and hanging and then you and you have flaring quads. So who uh that theory pastel guy, you know, like you know, stuff like that. But there's like little guys here and there. But but my point is that Keon's 200, theory Pastel was like 200. Buchanan. Remember Brian? What' you say? Brian Buchanan. Do you remember him? Yeah. Yeah. Right. Exactly. Yeah. He was a little bit thicker. Maybe he was around 250 like my dad too. But right to be my dad's weight, you know, and those dimensions. Who has since then? Like so that's always my that's always my response now is is yeah, of course I'm not going to look like my father. And neither will anyone ever again. It's just it is what it is. So, if you had Ronnie Coleman's son get into bodybuilding, now he has to look like Ronnie Coleman. Holy [\h__\h] Good luck, kid. Because your dad literally was the Now we know what the max is. We at least figured out what our max was because we thought it was Marcus Rule and it was not because Ronnie Coleman was way bigger. We thought um Well, Rammy was like 300 close to 300 lb on stage. Yeah. But it it was just lower body. Yeah. True. Yeah. And I want to clarify to people, there's a difference between being a child of somebody and being their clone. Two different things. So far, as far as we know, we haven't cloned a human being. So, you have a lot of your dad's genetics, but you're not an identical clone. And and does Dexter Jackson's dad not have good genetics? Sean Rhoden's dad not have good genetics? Lee Haney's dad? There's so many people that probably have good genetics, but their parents also just didn't strip down imposing trunks and compete. That's really the only difference. But we think we have this thing like good genetics means muscle builds faster, you know. And look, I've met some guys where I swear to God they do half the work that I do and they are humongous. So there is those cases, but I didn't get any of those. I promise you because we just learned for 10 years I've been doing so much extra and so much more. And uh it didn't make my lats look any lower. Didn't make my waist look any smaller. I'm born with what I'm born with. I'm g try to find the the old because you put a quick I gotta find the post where you go all the way back to your beginning. It's the front double buy. The front double buy I posted. Yeah. And I would say that this front double from Fibo is probably like my favorite front double ever in my career. And again, it was just somebody who show Look at that guys. Look at that's 22 years old. Wow. It's not on here. No, not on gear. Not on weights. No, no, no. I'm saying it's not on the screen. You can't see it. Oh, you can't see it. My bad. Thanks, man. Dumb. Sometimes I make the dumbest mistakes. Ah, you're boomer. Boomer. You know, I understand now that Boomer is not technically Boomer. Yeah. So, this is good. This is good genetics. No, go back to the other one. I looked at that. I would say this guy abs. Tell me those abs are good genetics. That is like love handles. You had no muscle. You had very little muscle. You had like love handles. Yeah. Because my hips, my hips are big, you know. This guy, forget it, Sergio. I would have said this is not for you bodybuilding. Absolutely. I I would tell him the same thing. And then this is the first show where I'm 176 in a middleweight class at six foot tall. Jeez. Still natty, I'm guessing. Here. This is Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is actually a back double bite. You can just see straight through my body. Yeah. But yeah, I would not have even here I would have said you're okay, but I don't know. You know, I don't know about pro bodybuilder. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, that was uh trying to get my pro card still. Look at that chest. Horrible. This is This isn't when you turned pro. No, I was I was trying to go pro. Was this your first like national show? Yeah. So, you must have been like a barely a heavyweight at this point. Yeah, light heavyweight or light heavyweight. Yeah. I could see the arms though. The arms definitely filled out a ton. You can see the shoulder caps. I say it all the time. Look at the calves. it. All the genetics I got from my father are all muscles that don't get judged in bodybuilding. Calves. I got I got forearms, I got arms, and I got calves. And they don't do [\h__\h] I would I would say the arms do help a lot. A lot of poses. The arms they're very very important. Not to judges. Just to just to us it does. And I could see the biceps. So your dad I I I don't know who told me this but they he said maybe it was Arthur Jones in his writing said he couldn't even come past the 90 degree angle in the front double bicep because the biceps were so long they got in the way and he couldn't contract them fully. So he couldn't even really hit the shot right your dad because his biceps are so long. That was about right for me too. Yeah. Yeah. I mean yours you you can come in at a little bit of an angle but you don't come in all the way. Geez. Look at those arms. Okay. So glad you thanks for pointing it out that I didn't have it on the screen. Anyway, man, well, I've taken up enough of your time. So, we're gonna see you one more time before the Olympia. That's about all we can say. I promise, Ron. And I wanted to say, too, that I appreciate you and the doctor's um you know, just critiquing. I think a lot of guys when they hear something good about themselves, they want to tell them like, "Oh, thank you." You know, but you guys are also critical of me and because you guys know me personally, you know that I can do better. So, I just want to say that on the show when you guys are talking, it's very real. You're not kissing anyone's ass and you also are not like, you know, really um just hurting anyone's kind of like reputation or anything like that, you know, because it's very easy to to point out everyone's failures and then it does make people think like, yeah, you know what, damn right, he is [\h__\h] a piece of [\h__\h] you know? And and I think I think the latter of the two is really great because you're right. when you guys saw that Andrew was jumping in the show, all of your guys' consensus was absolutely true. It wasn't And you could see too that you were rooting for me, you know, and I I really appreciated the authentic authenticity of it. That's what I was kind of wanting to get to. Yeah. I mean, because you could have taken it. I was very I think I I think I made it clear a couple places. I was mad that Andrew jumped in the show because I wanted you to win that show. Exactly. You both were. Right. And I'm real. I know. I said, "Unless Andrew's way off. Serge is not beating Andrew Jack. He's not there yet. Um, exactly. I can't I can't lie. I shouldn't be. Since the last time I left Dubai and I saw this guy, he has not stopped. I shouldn't even I shouldn't beat him and I shouldn't even be close. Absolutely. And luckily, me and Cassan are actually really close since that New York when we went against each other. We've been talking even when he took his break and I took my break, we really except for him having kids, we really have similar lives. And we've been talking, you know, about when he lost to Bono and we lost to Andrew. So when he entered, you know, for feeble, of course, we were messing each other and we're like this [\h__\h] like of course, you know, and but exactly like what he was saying is is and and this is what I wanted to talk about. This is the first show I've ever been said that I shouldn't win if you really think about it because like look at all the shows you just named that Chicago, that Tampa, the Cal, the Legion, all those second and third places. It's if Sergio doesn't win, he's done. You're supposed to beat the 212 guy. Michael Lockett is literally missing a leg, you know, he it it's just was his downside. I should be able to beat him. And Alexis Rodriguez, um he wasn't a big bodybuilder, wasn't a big name. The Latinos knew him because he was really good, but he wasn't famous. So, every show I've ever done, it's if Sergio doesn't win, it's like really bad. So, this was actually the first time besides the Arnold in the Olympia that I ever edited a show and not one person had me winning. And it was so weird, Ron. It just made me feel so relaxed. I felt so good. It motivated me so much where it wasn't in like a, oh, I'm going to show them like how I used to be. It was a like, oh, if I'm not supposed to win, then anything is a positive. Anything is a bonus either. Like, that's what Can was saying when he stood next to Bono, he lost. Everyone was just messaging him about how good he looked and maybe he could have beat him. He kind of left almost as like a co-winner, you know, and even though he didn't get the paycheck, no matter what, that's who people were talking about. And now who was talking about who was who were we talking about after Fibo? Well, we're talking about Andrew, you know, Cassan is the Cassan's the talk now. Now going into the cow, now he's the leading person. And it's because he lost to another guy. So it was just the first time that it was very exciting to go into a show and I know that no matter what at by Wednesday, I already looked the best I ever had. And so I just felt so comfortable. I I felt so calm. I almost felt like I was drugged out like on some kind of like, you know, anti-depressant because it was just so different. I didn't have this anxiety attack backstage. You know, pumping up was a lot easier. But also the the chemical peak that I used for the show couldn't have been any different. And so maybe my the less harsh on my body, the less training, the less cardio was also aiding in that. You know, I I'll learn a lot this next show because this one was just a bunch of firsts. I don't know if it's because my life is good because I'm happy. I have no pressure for the show. Is it Stefan? So, the second show I'm going to learn a lot. Um, you know, really what's going on with my body and and my life, but I I feel so healthy. I trained after a show. You know how long it would take for me to train after a show? I'm so dead. My body and my joints hurt. It would sometimes be weeks and well, sometimes like a month. Wow. Yeah. I would just take time off. I was just so broken that I'm just like I feel like if I go to the gym, I'm not even going to build muscle. I'm not even going to maintain [\h__\h] I'm just literally making my joints even drier. So now I feel good. I'm so ready to go back into it. I'm training again, you know? So we'll see with the next show. Final question. Have you learned any Spanish? I can um I can order food like a professional. Perfect. Um but uh but yeah, I'm still not ready to, you know, I told you I want to like promote shows. Uh I'm not ready for that yet. Yeah, because I mean in 60 years we've only had one Latino Mr. Olympia so far. You know, if you went to South America, Central America, Spain, speaking Spanish, they would go goooo. They would go I'm telling you, Ron, I just got to win one. Can you tell me who are the the only other two Hispanics to ever get close that they got second place? Well, I know Victor Martinez. Uhhuh. Oh, man. How far back do we have to go for the other one? I'm curious. Well, it's it's the only it's the only other one ever. Gustavo got third couple two years in a row. Yeah, I think it was fourth, but yeah. No, no, no, no, no. Close. Second. I'll give you a hint. He's Cuban. Who else is Oh, Labrada. Yeah. Why don't I Why do I not think of Labrada as Latino? I don't Cuba. It's so funny. Just remember, me and Hunter are the exact same nationality. That's right. Some like my kids, too. Yeah, exactly. And Lee was born in Cuba. I mean, he he is as Cuban as they are. Right. For sure. So, that's cool. Out of the three Hispanics to ever come first or second, two were Cuban, and the other one was Dominican. Yeah. I mean, the best the best Spanish bodybuilders over the years have Dominicans have been pumping out awesome bodybuilders and baseball players for a long time. Players. Yeah, for sure. So, I think it's time for one more, right? Yeah. I mean, and learn some Spanish, man, because they they would just go they love it when you can speak their language. Any any any country loves when you can speak their language. I'm ashamed to my own race. Trust me, I know. I mean, dude, it would take No, but it is true. It is true. And especially having the exact same name as my dad. Like, Jesus. Get one of those apps, man. You could, you know, like you probably 10 minutes a day, I bet you'd be speaking at very very like I do the app. I've done the apps. I've done all of them. I even had Rosetta Stone when it was the CD. The problem is is that it teaches you school Spanish. True. I need I need them to make a street Spanish English app, you know, and I could be talking to the Cubans and the Puerto Ricans. Yeah. You're You know what's funny? But because I took it for five years in school and I was fairly fluent. Um but then I met my wife a couple years out of high school and her family, they kind of laughed at the way I was speaking it and some of the words they're like, "We don't use that." the votos. There's that the way they they teach you Spanish in schools is not the way actual Cubans and Puerto Ricans and I never use no sto one time in my life. Yeah. I mean it's it's only in Spain, I think. And they probably gave it up 40 years ago. Yeah. And I learned Spain Spanish is actually different than Latino Spanish. That was also something I learned. That's like Spaniard Spanish. And a lot of the words like even even saying it was funny one time I was saying how it was hot. I was actually saying I was horny. And so there's a lot of even differences between Mexicans, Spaniards, and all the uh Tyino Latinos, Dominicans, Puerto Ricans, Cubans, you know, Colombians. So there's three different types of Spanishes to even make it even harder. Now I want to know how you say I'm horny in Spain. You're hot. Okay. I always just when it's hot, I say. So when you learn Spanish the Cuban way, because I I I can speak my my vocabulary sucks, but I can annunciate it pronunciate exactly the way the Cubans do because they they eat their words as the other other Spanish speakers say. They don't really finish a lot of the words like uh you'll figure it out. Yeah. Oh yeah. I I look I don't know the Spanish, but I sat at those coffee shops my whole childhood, so I know. Oh, yeah. It's I had no idea there were so many Cubans in Chicago. That's a weird thing. Yeah. Yeah, they even have a parade where they mix it with the Puerto Rican parade and it's actually for the Cubans as well, just like New York. Yeah. I mean, because my daughter's been in Miami for like three years now and there's a substantial Cuban population down there because all the applications for things say Cuban and other basically. Well, well, now thanks to Trump, now all the Cubans are hiding because they voted for him and now he's getting rid of them. And that's our next Well, that'll be our next talk is the politics now. Screw that. All right, Sergio. Thank you so much. appreciate the the the time and uh I'm I'm happy you're back. I'm happy to hear you're on a a different track and things are going really really well because you know I swear for a while I thought you must have like broken a mirror or something or walked under a ladder because a lot of things you said where they were just bad luck. It's not poor decisions or Sergio's a crybaby. He's late. No, no, no. I mean, if you really look at the record of what's happened, they there were so many things that were completely out of your control. They just happened to you like like a Final Destination movie or something. It was awful. Yeah. It's okay. I'll I'll change the narrative about the way you do that is by killing it because Exactly. It goes from there's always something with this guy and then if you're good it it turns into there's always something with this guy and he still never quit. It's completely different. So yeah, I'm still here and look Ron, I'll tell you like I know that there's a lot of bodybuilders we've both met that they're done. They've been done and they just oh my god they would swear on their life that they're not done. They're quitting their jobs. They're leaving their wives. You know, they're mad at their sponsors. They're leaving their coaches because it's their fault. But in reality, your body is just not reacting anymore. And you have that old skin. You just can't fix that. I promise you, Ron, I am I'm I'm coming back. Yeah. I mean, like I said, you've got a few good years left in you. I want to see you make the most of those. I want to see you take your rightful place in the sport. Whether that means missing winning Olympias, Arnolds, or whatever, whatever it means, I just want to see you do what I know you're capable of doing. And I I'm glad to hear all the things you've been telling me because now I'm very very confident I get to see that finally because you know I I root for certain people more than others. I am biased and you're one of the guys that I just happen to root for a lot more than many other people for whatever reason. So wishing you the very best. Thanks Ron. All right man. All right guys, thanks for watching this episode of Ron Line Report with Sergio Oliva Jr. We'll see you.