What's up, guys? The first qualifier for the 2026 Mr. Olympia is over. It was a tsunami pro in France, and I had no idea this guy was going to win. We're talking about Sergey Donnil Love from Russia, who I didn't have in any of my previews. I went right past his name when I was doing all the all the previews. Didn't occur to me that this guy was going to be the one to take down the favorites that we had. This is the uh show you the results here. Sergey and Quinton Naria got second again. Another second place for Quint. And of course, this has to be the last show for Quint for the season. This is eight weeks. He's been peing. We don't have another show for three more weeks and that's going to be the British Grand Prix. I don't think he was winning that. I think we're going to get a lot of Olympia competitors in that. Uh after that, we have unless he goes to Mexico that day. Same show. Two weeks after that is Prague. Anyway, it's safe to say that Quint is probably all done and nobody saw this coming. I didn't see this coming. Maybe some of you fans that follow follow bodybuilding even closer than I do, you saw Sergey as the as the heavy favorite, but until today, I hadn't heard of him. I believe it's his rookie season. Uh Giles said he had competed he had competed a couple months ago on fifth. So this was the top four. This is Roberto Buenomo from Italy on your left. Of course, Quintinia, Sergey Danilov there second from the right. And of course, Hassan Mustafa all the way on the right. This did end up being the top four with Stefan Matala in his open debut getting fifth, beating James Hollings Head. Real surprise there. So, yeah, Sergey definitely definitely brought it. This is a big freaky guy. Not the prettiest physique, but you know what? He's he's still got pretty decent shape and structure. It's not like he's got a gut. He does not. You know, next to Quinton, very few people can be called pretty. Hassan, you could see the narrow clavicles there in that pose. He does have a wider waist, and that's what knocked him all the way down. Uh, but you know, props. This is the best I've seen Hassan in a long time. But Sergey, this guy, see if we can find his uh solo stuff here because I'm very impressed. And I, like I said, I had not heard of this guy until today. Here he is, the Russian giant Sergey Don Dunlo. If he was born 95, I'm guessing if that's his Instagram, which would make him 30 years old. Looks like a young guy. Big, freaky. Gosh, he reminds me of a few other mass monsters. Look at those quads of delts. This is a massive dude. And he brought that grainy freaky condition, too. Yeah, definitely deserved it. What you guys got? What's up, Zionic? I didn't know who the guy was, but Dam. Yeah, like I said, I when I saw the list for the show, I went right past him like, nope. Sergey Denal from Russia, never heard of him. Yeah, maybe he'll maybe he'll make the top 10 or something. Quinton should have shut it down after Tampa. You know, we we Anybody who was saying Quint's body, he was looking tired, this and that, wouldn't be able to hold a peak. We were called haters, but human body is a human body. Quinton is not a machine. He's a human being. All this travel back and forth, Europe, U, Canada, back and forth over and over again. The US shows in uh back in August didn't affect him so much, I'm sure. But going back and forth to the UK, to Italy, to France, uh to Germany, this guy's putting some frequent flyer miles in. I'm sure it didn't help, but props to this guy, man. I have never heard of him until today. Let's take a look at his Insta. Yeah, he doesn't even have that many followers. So, I don't know what that is. Is that his schedule for all the shows he's doing this year or that's his competitive record, maybe? It's hard to say. Uh, yeah, it's in it's in Russian, so I really can't Let me see if there's a translation here. No, not really. Eat porridge, listen to your dad. So, this guy was a total surprise. And you know, I say this, it typically happens in in divisions like classic where there's somebody I've never heard of before and they just end up blowing the show away. Is this even his Instagram? Yeah. So, had I seen this, maybe I would have had him in my predictions, but I did not see this. But he's got he's got really good shape. Look at that side leg. Look at that ham drop. Look at that quad from the side. Yeah. Had I seen this, I would have said this guy looks like he would definitely be giving Quint Hauling headfon Hassan all these guys trouble. Uh I did not see Roberto Buenomo as a as a real threat. Maybe I should have. He's placed he's placed pretty decently in a couple shows recently, but this guy, yeah, he's got his qualification wrapped up for the 2026 Mr. Olympia already. I don't know what he's got over his belly button there. Some sort of tape. Is that a hernia maybe he's got taped up? Milos likes him. You can see in the comments there. Yeah, I keep checking Nick's strength and power to see if he's got uh he usually has all the footage up right away. Nick has not done a video yet. Oh, yeah. There it is. There it is. Okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna share that in a second. This will be Nick's strength and power video. I'm giving him full credit. He's got uh 1.38 million subscribers. Yeah. So, let's put that up while we're talking. Let me share that. Okay. Share that. Go full screen. All right, now we're back in business, guys. Uh, Quinton should shut it down. I don't know why you guys are surprised that Quinton didn't win. He looked his worst. Well, because he's done so well. I mean, he lost to Jordan Hudson at the first two shows. Joe Palasos beat him at that second show in the Texas as well. And then Urs beat him two weekends in a row in France and then Germany. I'm sorry, Italy. Italy and then Germany and then today second place again. Wow. Congratulations to the big Russian. Absolutely. Told you the other day Stefan wasn't going to win the show. Uh you know what it's still for Stefan to get fourth that's that's pretty good. You know I worried that his lack of size relative to the other to the other guys but he doesn't look that much smaller like I thought he would. In Russia he is known as a crazy guy. He's working on the brink of death. But he's a very kind guy. Now crazy can mean a lot of things. It doesn't always necessarily mean something bad. So, we're looking at a call out here with uh who's that on the left? Is that Roberto? I can't really tell. I'll have to go over to back to YouTube to try to figure out who this is who we're looking at. I don't know who that is on the left. So, that's Tim Buddha in the blue, Stefan Matala, James Hauling said, uh Berto Bueno. Oh, was he not even in that? So, here's Stefan in his open debut. Oddly enough, uh the condition that we saw on Instagram, and I was looking at his Instagram even like 8 10 weeks ago, he was shredded. He's not shredded here. So, I don't know if not having a coach because Patrick Tour and he parted ways like only about a week ago, I believe. So, he went into peak week without a coach and I don't know if he overcarbed and overspilled or if the condition that we were seeing on Instagram was just really good lighting. You know, any gym has a spot or two with freaky lighting where if you're pretty lean, you're going to look just absolutely shredded. I don't know if that's what happened or if something happened at the last minute to blur out his condition because I'm not loving this condition that I'm seeing here. Not overly impressed. Uh wrong about Stfan. Well, I mean it's his first open show. Mayor of bodybuilding Dan Dylan following season full swing. Bring on the muscle man. Yes. What do you think of James? Uh I'll let you know when I take a look. I haven't really got a chance to see him. I know from the updates he was looking a little downsized from what I remember and even from the way he looked on his updates. He was another guy James who was in really great condition long ago talking like eight 10 weeks ago he looked stage ready. So this was your looks like your top four here. Yeah, that's Roberto Buenomo from Italy. Thick dude there on the left. Quinton, Sergey, and Hassan. You see, Hassan is definitely a short on the shorter side. Thick as hell. I want to say Hassan is 5'7 and Quinton is probably about 6'1. Quinton should have done this show. Yeah, you know, he I I don't think it made much of a difference as far as, you know, it was just another two weeks. Germany was two weeks ago. So, it's not like he is missing too much offseason time. And it was it was a good gamble for Quint. I mean, he he was hoping to win this and hoping to seal his qualification for the 2026 Olympia. Now, I don't see him doing any more shows this season cuz the next show is British Grand Prix. I doubt he's winning that because there's going to be a few guys from top 10 the Olympia. I bet even if only a couple guys from top 10 the Olympia make their way over to to UK for that, they're they're going to beat him. So, I don't see any point in Quint keep going after that. And then Prague is gonna have a tougher lineup. I mean, Keon, uh, who else was doing Prague? Uh, Kriso, I can't remember. It was It was It was a tough show. Yeah, it's not his time yet, Stefan. But give give Stefan some time. Give him time. James should retire. No. Come on, James. This is his first show back since earlier in the spring when he did the Arnold Classic and the Detroit show where he was What did he do in Detroit? He was the third in Detroit, right? So, James is is also committed to Prague. I assume he's going to get better. Feel bad for James. I can can't see him winning a show again. H don't say that. Don't say that. I mean, there's a lot of shows. James is still a young guy. Uh his Instagram is James Hollings said 89. So that makes him 36 this year if he hasn't already turned 36. So that's not an old guy in bodybuilding. Stefan ain't winning [\h__\h] Put more tissue on that back. I agree. But even for him to get fourth place in this lineup was very impressive because how many did they have? I was looking at the results. There were 16 men. Exactly 16 men. So to get fourth out of 16 in your open debut. Not too shabby. Not too shabby. I don't know what your name is. Is that Greek? I assume that's Greek. It's hard to believe Christo missed that much. James in my opinion. It was both flat and distended. Uh again, it was James' first show back in six months, almost seven. What's TGIS? Thank god it's Saturday. Blooming G stuff looks totally softer than those pics. Yeah, when I saw the pictures, I was like, "What the?" Because he was he was lean as hell in all those updates, the chest driations, everything. I was very The one thing I thought he wasn't going to be lacking was condition. I was worried about his size overall and especially his back development. Uh back development was definitely not in his favor, Stefan. But the condition was especially in the legs was way off. But props to these guys. is Roberto Buenomo, who I wasn't even talking about in my previews. Sergey Danloff, who I have never even heard of until today, until three hours ago basically, and this guy came out of nowhere. I always say I was saying before in classic, I I always suspect there's somebody in the lineup that I haven't heard of in any given show, aside from the big big shows, who's probably good enough to win. I just don't know who they are yet. I don't expect that in open bodybuilding. I I certainly didn't expect this Sergey guy to come along and look this good and beat some big names cuz gez Quint uh I mean look at that. He beat Quint. He beat Hassan who was a one of the favorites. Beat Hollings Head. I mean these are all guys who have won shows before. This is Sergey's first pro win. Let me get rid of that as soon as I get a chance to skip the ads. Skip, skip, skip. It's almost over. And then we'll go back to Instagram after his video is over. Yeah. Stefan wasn't anything from IG. Yeah. I mean, it's it's it's the sign of the times of social media is we get to see these guys leading up to the show in very favorable lighting. Stage lighting is usually not favorable at all. It's it's very unforgiving and harsh. But even that being said, I still think something happened to Stefan's condition. So here's the the moment of victory for Sergey. Congrats to him. That is awesome. You know, talk about talking talk about coming out of someone coming out of nowhere or as we say in US, coming out of the woodwork like like AI don't even know where that phrase comes from. Probably termites. But yeah, props to this guy. really pulled it off. Lan quit needs more muscle. Quinton, I'll do another show. Well, I mean, again, you could say he shouldn't have done this show, but you know, he took a chance. He was a heavy favorite to win. He did get second. If this guy Sergey hadn't showed up, Quinton would have had his qualification. Just in bodybuilding, you just never know who's going to show up. Unless we're talking the Olympia and the Arnold Classic, then you know exactly who's going to show up. these other shows. You don't know until Monday when the list comes out. And even then, I don't think anybody or very few people outside of his fan base saw this guy coming. I didn't see him coming. I definitely didn't see this guy coming. Let's go back to Insta. Share this. So, let's go back to Beyond the Stage TV. go to his uh some of his posing. Italy has shown up. Why he's got all the open guys or the classic guys first? So, here's some video of the shed. James Hauling's head. This is really the first I've seen. It's Yeah. Wow. Every the arms. He's really flat. This is a much flatter James than I've seen in a long time. You could tell on the side his arms have lost some volume. chest looks down. Yeah, he just he missed the mark. Uh I'm not blaming Tuttle. I'm not blaming him. Who knows what happened, what quote unquote went wrong, but this was not a not a great showing for the shed. Sixth place in a show that I thought he was going to be the one in all my predictions, he was going to be the one pushing Quinton for the win. I saw it coming down to Quinton shed and I was wrong. Wrong. Harris. Wrong. Harris strikes again. Yeah, I do that, guys. Uh, here's Quint. As Quint does as he look today. Yeah, you can see the legs flatten out. Everything he's he's definitely flatter flatter here. I mean, he was flat in uh a little on the flat side in Tampa, but he was in better condition. Texas, he filled up, but the condition was a little softer. Here, I could just see his body is just it says no, man. At some point, your body, no matter who you are, just says, "F you. I'm not doing this. I'm taking my ball and going home." And that's what happened to Quint today. His body just said, "We're done. We are done, dude. We need a break. I need a break. Dancing [\h__\h] is uncalled for." Who's doing the dancing? I didn't even see Stefan has a lot of potential. Great shape and structure, big chest and calves. Oh, yeah. I mean, this is only his first open. We expect now because Urs did so well in his open debut. Chris Bumstead did so well in his open debut, almost beating Martin Fitzwwater in Prague last year. There's that expectation now that any classic guy that goes to open is immediately going to be very successful. That's not the case. Dude has no business beating Quint. What an ugly physique. Yeah, I didn't say it was pretty. Yeah, but Quint was this was not the best Quint. The way Quint looked in Germany, I think would have had a much better chance of beating this guy. Sergey Quint just won that pose down. No. See what the judges think. Okay. So, let's look at the scores. Sergey Dunla from Russia got a three in judging, a three in finals. So, perfect score. First place. Quint was a solid second. 66 and 12. It's like top three were the jeez, nothing really changed. Everything all the way to down to seventh place. Of course, the finals, just like in all these other European shows, the finals came right after the judging. They had maybe like a 15minute intermission or something and they rolled right into it. It was in Leelle, France, wherever that is. I assume it's I just assume everything's near Paris. It's probably not. So, did anybody else change scores? Nobody in the top seven did. Interesting. Interesting. Let's go back to that. All right. There's Quint. If you guys know of any better footage anywhere, let me know. The Russian giant or Buddhist. What's this Buomo? No, I don't want to see that. No offense. No offense. I have to say that. This Buomo guy was pretty good. Did anybody get some footage of him? Anybody? We'll try AJ. I think AJ was there. AJ's World of Bodybuilding. Yeah, AJ always uh gets some footage from up close. Here's his footage of Hassan. He said, "We'll be top four." And that's exactly what he got. He got fourth place. Oh, that waist is very wide. That waist is very wide. I'm going to give him a a pass on the condition because I think that's just bad. The camera AJ's probably like six, seven rows back from the looks of this, but still the condition doesn't look doesn't look as good as I was hoping. And Hassan needed to be peeled and dry because structurally we we know he is not gifted. He's got a wider waist compared to a lot of the other guys and his clavicles, although you can't tell there when he because he's got so much muscle on his shoulders and his upper back, but when he hits a shot like that, you can see the clavicles aren't as wide. Oh, thank you, Dan. Appreciate that very much. Yeah, I mean, so straight first, I mean, it was three. So, if they had five judges because they used they dropped the high score and the low score. So, we don't know if one of those judges might have had him in second and they might have had Quinton in first or two of them. We we don't know. Wrong. Harris. Yeah, that's me, man. I gotta go back. Uh, should probably go to a group a group photo. Let's go back to go back to Nick's I'll go back to Nick's thing while we're talking. Nick's strength and power, everybody. If you're not subscribed, then you probably are. You probably are. Jesus. Okay, there we go. All right, guys. We're back. Just had to queue up some good footage. should shut down Tampa, Russia. I lost my place here. Sorry guys. Steph looks suffering pixel wasn't anything. Literally everyone. I don't know who was dancing. Quinton getting stage experience. Yeah, I mean he's actually done plenty of pro shows. I want to say he's done at least 20 somewhere between 20 and 30 pro shows at this point. So he's he's far from a rookie. Far from a rookie. This amount of detail only certain shots. Yeah, I imagine that his pecs because his pecs are so strided. He does have crazy striations. He splinters like a hundred of them that go all the way across his pec. So those are going to be an evidence no matter what. Quinton should have won. That Russian guy's stomach is horrible and a bad hernia. Yeah, I did see on his page he had a bunch of tape like that rock tape probably holding his hernia in. I have a hernia. I know it sucks. Stiffon has Yeah, I've talked about stiffones high lats. That's when you have high lats. Boy, all you can really do is build up the lats as much as possible. I mean, like guys like Dennis Wolf did. Tampa version Quinton would have won the show. I I agree with Tampa. Maybe even Texas. But yeah, Quinton's body is just it's beat. He's beat Instagram body. Even raise Quint's hand like he even knew Quint could have got the nod. No, you know what? That's that whole raising the hand thing. It's a respect. It's like when box a lot of times when boxers or or MMA fighters have a very tough tough fight even when they win just as a show of respect like this this guy really gave me a great fight. He's a very worthy opponent. They raised a hand because they want to they want to give him respect. There's Stefan. So when they do that it's not it's not them saying this guy should have beat me. No no nobody does that. you know, if they really did that, if he really felt that way, he would hand over the check in the in the first place trophy. It's it's a sign of respect because that happened at the Masters Olympia where uh it was misinterpreted that Dorian was conceding the victory after judging to uh to Phil Clayar and Dorian Haywood later clarified that that was not the case. He was he was doing it as a sign of respect. Like, give this guy his props. He put up a hell of a fight. I went on and on about that. He's going to have trouble nailing down a good coach with all that baggage. We're talking about Quint. Quint doesn't seem to want a coach. Oh, Stefan's doing all the dancing. Clinton? You mean Quinton cannot keep doing shows. Hoping no one better shows up. I mean, I don't think he was doing that. I don't think I mean, he knew Hassan was in it. He knew Hollings was in it. And those guys are they've won shows. They're worth the adversaries like I just said, but this Russian guy, nobody saw him coming. Nobody saw him coming. Something wrong with James arms, chest, and shoulders really bad. I just think he was super flat. I don't know if it was a diuretic. I don't know what James did, but that was a very, very flat shed today. Wrong Harris. And James retires. No, man. Come on. One bad showing. Give him a chance. Let's see how James looks in uh Prague. Well, he'll do British Grand Prix. There's no way I I don't see James skipping the British Grand Prix, which is three weeks from today. I mean, it's right there in the UK. Okay, I gotta go back to next video and skip the ad when I can. Thank you. Thank you. This is Nick strength and power his finals recap video. Check that out. Oops. Oopsie. Hoping that isn't nerve damage arms and latch. Yeah, I mean like if you've been following James and his what looking at his update photos and videos, he was looking much bigger and fuller even a couple week even just like a week ago. So something happened at the last minute. I I would suspect diuretics, but of course, you know, I'm totally speculating. Quinton's body looks just tired. Oh, I mean, how can it not be tired if he's been peaked for eight weeks? Tampa show was eight weeks ago yesterday. That was his first show out of Five weeks. So he did Tampa, Texas, Germany, Italy, and France. Yeah. Five shows. Five shows in eight weeks. That means if he was dieting the standard four months before that, he's been in prep over six months. So Quint Quint needs a break, man. He really needs a break. Stefan looked really good. Oh, yeah. I mean, Stefan to get to get fourth place uh in your open debut against guys who are much much bigger and especially where his legs were not dialed in. They weren't. Stfan got danceless as Fubio. They're not great dancers. Neither one of them, oddly enough. Not every black eyes got rhythm. Did I say that? I did. Stefan looked amazing. Needs to work on his posing. Yeah, the posing. Yeah. I mean, the the mandatory posing is what matters. The routine the the the posing routine doesn't really matter. They don't judge it or anything. But yeah, the way you present yourself in your poses during the judging is very important, very critical. Quinton should he says pronounced Leil. It's near the Belgian France border. Thank you. Le Dan Philipex surprising it was straight first for sure. Yeah, I mean a lot of you guys had Quinton winning and uh you know I don't Was that one of the weakest lineups? something appear, but everyone seemed off. Yeah, I didn't see. Quint was off. That was not the best Quint. Uh, Buenom looked good. Hassan was off. Stefan was off. Uh, lower body was pretty blurry looking. Hauling's head was way off. So, yeah, this was not the toughest show. Look amazing so far. Better on screen. Quinton is just too watery at this point. You know, your body your body will only stay peaked. It will only peak so many times. And no matter who you are, I don't care who you are. This whole peaking process and all the traveling, it's got to take a toll on Quinton. It takes it would take a toll on anybody. Think of all the traveling this guy's done back and forth and back and forth to Europe and back back and forth from Europe to Canada like five times in the last couple months. You guys Stefan wouldn't play top three. Well, he was close. Urs would have butt [\h__\h] this entire You know what? I I I do think Urs would have won this show, but [\h__\h] Chame. You can I don't care. Muscle Discord. It's fine. Did live chat GPT. Oh, well, there you go. Well, in that case, I guess chat GPT is pretty damn good. You know, I was just I I I didn't say the chat GPT judging thing couldn't work. I'm just I'm skeptical. I want to see I want to see how it compares. You'll put it up against human judges in a few shows and see how consistent it is or how different it is from what the human human being judges do. What's up, Ron? What's up, Kenson Hardin? Crazy upset, not a robbery of an upset. Yeah, I mean, obviously a lot of Quinton fans are going to say, "This was a robbery, Quint." Rob Quint Quint looks tired. He's He's Look at those legs. They're really They're really losing their fullness. Think about all the cardio he's been doing, all the leg training. I mean, geez, poor Quinton. He has deserved to win yet, but it's a shame. H I mean, yeah, I haven't seen one show yet where I thought, ah, Quinn got robbed. Quint should have won. Huge upset, but who saw this guy coming? So, Connie, I I'm I'm curious if anybody saw this guy coming. I didn't. And Quinton should have won. Okay, Connie. Quinton's definitely got better shape. Absolutely. No doubt. But Quinton is flat. His condition was a little off. Wrong. Nurse must feel to get a hernia hurt. Mine doesn't hurt. Uh that's why I haven't had it operated on. I woke up one morning and I believe it was while I was at the Arnold Classic. I want to say 2013 or 14. I woke up on I think the Sunday morning after the show was over and I had a hernia. I saw it. I It did hurt for the first few days and then never hurt again. Most of them do hurt. Mine is up pretty high. It's up No, it's up a good two inches from my belly button. So, if it hurt, I would have had it repaired. I mean, and if I was thinking about competing again, I would get it repaired, but who cares? First guy's stomach was washed out and a really bad hernia. Paul Bartlett judge got it right once again. I mean, trajectory of thong is good. Grats Sergey fell. Yeah, I mean, think about it. if it was politics. Quinton's got a huge following compared to this guy. Um, he's done so he's come so close to winning at this these last few shows on a couple occasions that I could see the judges would have been like, I just give it to him. But they didn't do that. They gave it to who they thought was the rightful winner. You can't say this Sergey Dunlow had politics on his side or favoritism. Maybe if the show had been in Russia, you could say that. Uh, and there were Russian judges on the panel. But no, I don't think they had any reason to favor Sergey over Quinton. If anything, you know, if you want to do conspiracy theories and politics, Quinton should have won if you if you believe in any of that stuff. But like I said, the judging is very fair and impartial for the most part. Quinton got screwed. He's got the best flow in symmetry. I don't think he was conditioned enough for the win. I mean, we can look at the end. I feel so sorry for Quint. Cesarlet, you really deserve to get a win. Yeah. I mean, but it's it's does he deserve a win? Sure he does. But you only deserve a win if you beat everybody there that day on stage with you and you rightfully beat them fair and square. And judges saw this guy as as the rightful winner. So, props to Sedge Dunelof from Mother Russia. This must be heartbreaking. Yeah, he needs he needs a really solid off seasonason at this point. Quint, he needs to shut it down. Shut it down, guys. Shut it down. All right. All right. Where do we want to go for Instagram? Who do you think's got the best stuff? Who's got the best footage now? Uh, what was this? This is AJ's footage of Quint. So, this footage actually looks better there. Looks better here than what I was just looking at on the the footage from the stream. But yeah, he's losing some of the pop. He does look a little flatter. Legs are still pretty hard. Yeah, you could see the abs are kind of washed out. I know he's not hitting ab pose, but you could tell when the body is just not popping. It's just not it's not fresh looking anymore. Yeah, you can see it there. I mean, he gave it his best shot, guys. He's a trooper. Quint, he five shows in eight weeks. Didn't didn't do what most American bodybuilders do, which they just kind of stick stick to the USA. Maybe they might go all the way to Canada, but generally speaking, American bodybuilders don't travel outside the USA to compete very often. Quint competed twice in the USA, once in Italy, once in Germany, and today in France. And we know he spent a good amount of time with Mr. Olympia Samson Dao in UK training. So, he's got some frequent flyer miles, Quint. Man, he's put some miles on speaking out of her behind. I don't know if Conniey's a male or female. Connie could be a guy. Got a hernia as well. Doesn't hurt all the time, but it happens once. Yeah, mine I have one. It's Should I show you? Sure. It's right there. Look at that big gut. That's why I don't compete. See that big belly? Oof. Yeah, it doesn't hurt. Although, if it hurt, I would get it I would get it repaired. Quinton lost again. I know. I know. It's it it must be hard to be a Quint Quinton area fan right now to see this guy come so close second place at three out of the five shows he did. I'm sorry. Yeah, three. Is that right? No, four out of the five shows. He was second in Tampa, third in Texas. Uh second in Italy, second in Yeah. four out of the five shows he was second place. If there had been a point system, if there was a point system, he would have racked up the points. Uh those other points would have only counted for the Olympia though, this year's Olympia. Ron, this is joke. Quinton should win, says Kulawa. Well, it's not a joke. I He looked damn good, but the judges had him second place. Solid second. Didn't look like there was any argument from the judges. He needs a damn coach, Gravy. He doesn't think so. Who are we to tell him what he needs and doesn't need? I mean, I think he's got people around him that that will look at him. He trains at that pure muscle and fitness. There's a few pros there for sure. Um, Samson would always look at pictures and videos, I'm sure, and give him some good feedback. I don't know. He doesn't He doesn't want a coach. Does he need a co would I mean, when he had a coach, he wasn't doing much better. He's actually doing better this season without a coach. second out of second place in four out of five shows. So, he's actually doing better without a coach this season than he ever did before with a coach. Didn't have Sergey Denlo winning on my bingo car. The wave hit hard today. Congrats Sergey with Queen runner up. Absolutely. I want to see if I can find this Roberto guy. I want to give him some him some props because he got third place. No, that's a sign. All right. So, let me go to Are we on Beyond Stage? Let's go to Let's see if we can get Roberto anywhere cuz I want to give this guy some love. Nope. Nope. I guess they didn't Did nobody see him uh doing that? Well, is that why why didn't they Why didn't anybody film him? Uh, you should look at No, they don't have them either. What about about Muscle Insight? Muscle Insight might have something. If you guys know of any good Instagram pages that have some good good video footage up, no, they don't do anything like that. Body borders. What about who is the best bodybuilder? That's a good one. Let me check that. Who is the best bodybuilder? Who is the best bodybuilder? There we go. All right. What do we got? Who's the best bodybuilder? Uh, was this the classic winner? Andrea Mami. Did he win? Uh, look at the results. Classic was Yeah, this was your classic physique winner. Andrea Mami, I'm guessing Italy. Look at the results. Yes, he was from Italy. Muhammad Ali was in from a Austria was fourth place. Wow. So, I never heard of this guy before. Looks pretty damn good, though. Andrea Mamolei. I guess that's all we're going to get from Andrea. Yeah, the classic guy. So, he qualified for next year's Olympia. Look at that condition, man. The classic guys rarely disappoint with the condition. That's because they are forced to get down to a specific weight, a weight cap. Okay. All right. That's enough of Andrea. Congratulations. Yeah, a lot of people were holding out high hopes for Stefan Matal today, and I wouldn't say he's a disappointment. Fourth place. Fourth place is not bad. Not at all. What's this? Oh, it's Ronnie Coleman. It's going way back. Who was the best bodybuilder? Doesn't have anything up. That's some pretty pretty far away footage. I'll leave Stefan up while I I'll ask you guys if you know of any any good Instagram footage out there. What do you got? Look good. Trying to eat here, Ron. Go ahead. Don't let me stop it. No tan at all. Who didn't have a tan? Chat BT said. Quinton say he's going to spend more time with Samson Marlene during the winter. That's a good idea. Uh, like I said, even if you don't have a coach, if you have someone who's sort of like a mentor, Mr. Olympia would be the best, you know, a great guy to hang out hang out and I'm sure they let him stay there. I think he's going to get an Airbnb next time. So, he's probably not imposing on the doubters again. He loses Quint and the rest of those guys from Pure All Suck. Geez, not a big fan of Pure Muscle and Fitness Gym, I guess. Does Quinton knows something improves to me in his pro debut? He has improved, but it's the it the the rate of progress has been painfully slow. Um, Samson put up a a picture. I don't know if it was on his I wonder if it was on Samson's stories and it might be gone if that's the case, but Samson put up a picture. I hope it was in a post. I don't think it was. Uh, it was backstage at the 2019 Vancouver. It's probably already gone by now. and he was he was backstage with uh it was a picture backstage with him and Quint and a couple other guys. And in 2019, Quint was bigger than Samson. Uh I think it's long gone. Long gone, but take my word for it. He was Oh, there's Samson showing. He's watching uh Quint. So, in 2019, Quint was bigger than Samson. And now Samson is much much bigger than Quint as we know. Uh what does Quint need to do? Uh I I would love to see him. Training with Samson's great. I keep coming back to Milos. I I think Milos would be a great guy to even if he doesn't want to coach him, if he doesn't want to coach, Samson would be a good guy to train with a great training partner. There's uh Sergey. Well, you can't see the hernia there. Can't see it there. It's all covered up. Who's that? Who's he hugging? Is that Brett Wilin? I don't know who he's hugging there. I don't know who his coach is. A lot of these white guys all look the same to me, so it's hard to say. Yes, he's got tape over the hernia there. Clearly, it was a it's been a problem. He's got that one class. Yes. Look good. I mean, Sergey won without the middle section. Yeah. I mean, if it had come down to Quint and him were totally equal, but Quint had a better midsection, how is it possible? Uh, I guess the judges didn't find it that distracting. So, he was Quinton was the only guy on stage in contest. Yeah. Nobody was really looking great today. Exactly. That's why he won. He was drying hard. Yeah. Conditioning still means something. This is good. Absolutely. You know, sometimes if a guy has great size and shape, sometimes he can win a show at like 85% condition like we saw Andrew Jack do that Fibo back in April. But doesn't work for that many people. Judge appreciation condition. This guy's This guy's structure isn't that bad. It's really not. I want to take a look. I'm g see if I can find uh see if Buenomo's got anything up. So, I want to at least give the guy a little credit since he took third place. Roberto, Roberto Buenomo, IFBB Pro. That was Roberto's update 42 weeks ago. Geez. Okay, forget that. Never mind. That was a long time ago. Okay, what's he saying? Some post-race warm thoughts. Thank you again for the support. Please leave a comment. I care to know why. Okay, so he's got to be feeling pretty good. Third place. And he and he beat he beat Hassan Mustafa. He beat Stfan Matala. He beat James Hollings. It's got to feel good. I guess this was backstage backstage area in the the hallway or something. Great delts, good quad sweep. What's up the thong, dude? You can't wear that on stage. Why was he wearing that? I don't know. I guess he wanted to show you his glutes. So, that's Roberto Buenomo, your third place finisher. Does he have anything video in the stories? Probably not getting sprayed. Oh, there he is. Okay, so this is the only footage I've seen of him from today's show. Thick dude. Look at those delts. Delts are nice and melonike. Big round full delts. Big thick arms. Nice quads. You brought the condition. Yeah. It just goes to show you you don't have to be a big name. And I don't consider Roberto Buenomo to be a big name. I mean, I know who he is, but I don't follow him or anything. And he's not someone I ever have like picked to win a show. Maybe that sounds awful. Sorry. But third place in this lineup. He did pretty well. He should be should be pretty happy about that. There is after the showstopper. Incredible today. I'm praying for two. Oh, this was after judging. He was hoping for second place. I mean, we're weren't too far off, dude. You're third place. It's pretty damn good. Probably not related, but there's a No, no, no, no. Family Express Pizza. Where's that Paul? You're I can't remember where you at. Are you in the DC area? Glad place should have beaten Quinton. Lol. Well, Quinton fan, there's some people on here saying Quinton deserved to win, and they're very upset Quinton didn't win. How dare Quinton not win. judges are chat GPT had Sergey winning though so you can't argue with the robots you know almost maybe ruins his midstick and he didn't ruin Samson's midsection he was able to put about somewhere between 30 and 40 pounds I don't know the exact amount but Mua Sarv was able to put about 30 at least 30 pounds maybe it was closer to 40 pounds on Samson Dada in the two years three years they worked together So I and I don't think Samson has a a big gut at all. And the winner is Sergey Dunnelov. Donny Love. You know, I used to say I was part Russian until that whole war broke out a couple years ago. And then I had to clarify. I'm part Ukrainian, not part Russian. Of course, when I was a kid, we just called the whole Soviet Union Russia. That was just what we called the whole USSR. Even though Russia is only one one of the republics, one of the former republics, it's now its own sovereign nation like they all are. You see, he held up Quinton's hand as a sign of respect. It wasn't saying Quinton deserved to beat me. If he really felt that way, he would have he'd give him the money and he'd give him the first place medal, but he did not. He's keeping that money. Trying to see the uh the abs. Can't really see. Okay, go back. Let's go back one. I think in that winning shot, you can't see the hernia. Yeah, he's got it all covered up. Uh, did they have his posing here? I think they did. So, I want to go back to that for a second if I can. So, what are you guys seeing? Where are you seeing the hernia? I mean, I seen Audi belly button, so it's in Yeah. Okay. Wow. I mean, I've seen worse. He probably should get that taken care of. That's an umbilical hernia. So, it's like a little pinky finger sticking out of his belly button. Like a little giant clitoris. Sorry. Where's my mind at these days? But man, he looked he looked damn good. You can't blame him for winning. I mean, you could see here Quint is he's flat. He's flattened out. He's still got some great body parts. He's still got that beautiful shape. His calves are ridiculous on Quint, especially the inner calf. Look at that inner calf head. But no, I think the right guy won. Who' you pick to win? I wasn't watching I didn't get the live stream. Full disclosure, when I was looking at pictures, I was watching Xavier's desktop bodybuilding. I thought I thought it was pretty close between Quint um and Sergey, but when you see the score sheet, it wasn't close. Judges did not feel that way. Uh unless one of the higher low scores that was dropped was a first place for Quint. I don't know if that was the case, but Sergey had perfect score. Uh he got three to Quint. Quint got six. So judges judges saw it going Sergey's way. Game in the open. They showed the judges for a few seconds. Two were not even looking and two were talking. Very strange, huh? I mean, they should have been looking. If you're judging your show, you should be watching the show. Uh, if you're talking about like the the finals, like the when they're doing the routines, sometimes the judges aren't looking. I don't think they're looking at their phones or anything, but they should be looking if they're supposed to be judging. Absolutely. Sergey, uh, I want to give this guy's props because until today I never heard of him. If you said you got to check out, if anyone had said like in our previews, in the comments, look out for Sergey Donov. I'd be like, yeah, dude, whatever. Because people always say that about someone that they follow or someone they know. And a lot of times it's like a third call out guy. He ends up placing somewhere between like 12th and 20th. And I was like, yeah, there was no reason to look out for him. He wasn't that good. But in this case, they would have been right. We should have been looking out for this guy. He looked pretty damn great. done a little. Good job, Sergey. Yeah. So, what else we got? Remember the coverage as always? Nick Rock wins Olympia. Peace and love for the Iron Warriors. Well, I'll tell you if Nick wins, that would be an upset. It would also be I did a video that I put out yesterday called seven Mr. Olympias in eight years. We've had seven different winners in that time. Uh, Phil Heath 2017, Sean Rhoden 2018, Brandon Curry 2019, Big Ramy 2020 and 21, uh, Hottie Chupan 2022, Derek Lungsford 2023, and Samson Douta 2024. So, if we have Nick Walker winning the 2025 Olympia, that will be eight different Mr. Olympias in nine years. I mean, that's a lot of turnovers, guy. That is that's a lot of changing hands. Little lump. Fugazi. Fugazi delts and arms. Uh, you think Sergey had bad conditioning, Paul? I don't I wouldn't say that. In fact, I think he was able to win. He beat he beat Quint on conditioning. Quint as big as my head. They're pretty damn big. Sergey's fans must go crazy. But he can't be I only know Sergey because of Andre Smith. Yeah, I'm looking at his Instagram. He's only got I say only because all a lot of these guys have like a millions of followers or or at least somewhere between half a million and a million. Uh and he's only got 36,000. How is it possible that horse MD had a very small waist group because he lost in one year with Milos? Uh his back horse MD doesn't have a very good back. His back thickness is lacking. Lacking. He's crazy tall and heavy though. Ser was the only guy in stage condition. Yeah, he brought it. And you know what? Good for him. You know, it's not his fault that Quinton didn't show up looking his best. It's not Quinton's fault. He did. I'm sure Quinton did everything humanly possible. I'm sure this guy's been dieting. Obviously, he's been dieting for over six months. Sure, he's been hitting the cardio, training hard, doing the business of bodybuilding, going back and forth all over the place, going back and forth between Canada, UK, Italy, uh, Germany, and now France, freedom fighter. Very sad Ser compared to Urs. Well, we don't get to see Sergey in this Olympia. Remember guys, this is not a qualifier for the the Mr. Olympia happening in two weeks. This is a qualifier, the first qualifier for the 2026 Mr. Olympia. And I think Earth would have won this. So it's very tight with one year fridge now. Horse MD. Well, Horse MD downsized a lot. He lost like 60 pounds to come down for classic. So yeah, Sergey Denol, Quinton Ura, Roberto Benomo, Hassan Mustafa, Stefan Matala, and James Hollings said, "That was your top six." And he has time to fix hernia for next year. Yeah, he should. You know, I would, if I were him, and I'm not. If I were Sergey, I would get the hernia fixed like now, like next week. Uh because you know, you want to do your health phase after you compete anyway, going off all the gear, get the hernia fixed asap. Uh then you can take some time off training, get off gear for a few months, just let the whole body rest and recover. And then what's that say? Oh, people are congrat people are saying happy birthday to my son. It keeps coming up on my notifications. Get out of that. If you were s too late. Oh, Sergey, I assume you were doing talk to text. Does it need an operation? Yeah, you have to have a her you have to have it repaired surgically. There's no other way to fix a hernia. So, it's it's when the your colon your intestine, your I guess it's your large intestine breaks free from its uh casing, its membrane or or from the the stomach wall. Uh it just pops out and um it can be very dangerous. Uh I am uh I am not going Kultawa. I wish but uh no one is paying my way there in the good old days for many years. Uh so the live stream guys, nobody can live stream the video at the same time it's happening or else they will get a copyright strike from uh the Mr. Olympia and they can get the channel taken down. They can lose their YouTube channel. What happened to me last year was I was showing the footage on a delay, like a 10-minute delay, and I still got a strike. I had like 3,000 people watching my uh my live coverage of the Mr. Olympia last year. I had Giles staying up all night in UK. Anyway, long story short, at about 2:30 or 3 in the morning, I saw the view count up in the corner go from 3,000 to zero. And that's when I knew that I wasn't on my video was gone. It was it was struck down by YouTube. So if you're watching any live stream videos on YouTube of the Mr. Olympia ne in two weeks from today. You can be pretty sure they're going to be taken down or later they're going to be reported and either get a strike on their channel or they're going to which and if they were going live that means you can't go live for uh at least three months after that or they might lose their channel. It was classic look great then went to open. We're talking about horse. He was classic looked great. I don't think he ever actually competed in classic. I I know he turned pro in classic but I don't think he ever actually did a classic show. 20KG went back class and mid6 ruined. Yeah. Yeah. So, nobody can show the live stream on YouTube as it's happening. Guys like Nick Strength and Power, he can do he can do uh clips later. That's just considered news coverage. Fair usage I think is the the technical term for it. It's crazy that copyright six is for vital. Well, it's it's YouTube. I mean, I get what you're saying, Paul, but I mean, think about it this way. Say UFC, what are they up to? Like UFC 400 or something. Say I had a a a channel called UFC Reports or something, and I tried to stream. I bought the pay-per-view for whatever it cost, 60, 70, 80 bucks. I don't know how much the UFC pay-per-views cost, but let's say I did that. And I decided I'm going to show the live stream on my YouTube channel live while it's while it's on and I'm going to comment on it. Dude, UFC would would have my channel would have that video down before you so fast it would make your head spin as we say. So yeah, it's not it's not worth it. It's just not worth it. Anyway, so what's that? Let's make our own service. I'll buy some service dong vision. It's not a bad idea. Freedom Fighter. Every time I see Freedom Fighter, I think of uh the Creed song because I'm AI'm an old guy. I'm 56 year old white guy. So, of course, I'm a Creed fan. There's a song on that uh Human Clay album called Freedom Fighter. Let's create one by streaming platform. We can buy something for one year, 100 bucks. Everything should be filmed by the same professional company. Yeah, it'll never happen. It'll never happen. Just kidding. Bye, guys. Stay strong. Remember, thank Ron. Thank you, man. Yeah, guys. Please give the video a like. Give it a share if you don't mind. That'd be great, too. Uh, if you're not subscribed to the channel, please do that. Let go back to Dunny Loaf. Does he have anything on his channel? This is Dunny Love, your winner today. Guy looked really good. Never heard of him until today. Honestly, no idea who he was. And now he just beat some big names today. got his qualification for the 2026 Mr. Olympia. All set. Thank you. Thanks, guys. So, I think I'm going to take off now. I think I'll stop sharing that. All right, guys. Thank you all so much for watching. Appreciate it very much. Uh, please keep your notifications on. We're going to do some good stuff. I'm still trying to get Jay Cutler nailed down for a time. I want to do our Olympia preview with him. Next week, we'll be doing another Power Hour. We'll be doing another Meatthead podcast next Wednesday night at 7. Please tune in for that. So, thank you guys so much for watching. Appreciate your viewership so much. Have an awesome weekend. Talk to you guys later.