What's up everybody? Ron Harris here and as you've probably heard by now because Japan is very very far ahead time zone wise from most of the world. Sean Clarita has won the Japan Pro. He's now qualified for both the 2022 Mr. Olympia by virtue of this win and the 2026 212 Olympia. Uh he's qualified for life or at least for five years anyway being that two-time champion, but he also took second place. So he could do either one. Uh let's take a look at some footage. Now this footage is Instagram footage. Why? Because there was no live stream. There was no live stream for the Japan Pro. This is the same promoter who put on the Masters Olympia back in August and got a lot of crap over his poor lighting, uh, very poor quality live stream and for not paying the competitors, uh, who who placed in the money at the Masters Olympia. So, same guy who put the Masters Olympia put on this show, the the Japan Pro. Um, uh, I'm assuming Sean had a novelty check on stage. I'm assuming that was good to cash. I don't know. But uh again, there was no live stream. This is just some Instagram footage. Uh and you can see I'll put the placings up here. Hope they don't cover up the whole screen. Sean Clarita was first. Oh, this is actually wrong. I have to fix this. My bad. It was actually uh Florian Porson from France there uh in the red trunks. He was second place. Yoan, that's how you pronounce it. Yoan Pradesell's was third place. Fourth was Yan Turk from Czech Republic. UK's Mark Hector in fifth. Yeah, I gotta fix Let me Let me just fix this real quick. I can't believe I thought I think I was so used to uh Predell's taking second that I automatically had him in. I'm going to look at some more stuff on Instagram, too. And we can all complain together about how this promoter really needs to get his act together. So, just revising the placings so I can keep those on screen while we talk. Okay, so here were the placings, guys. Sean Clarita, the giant killer. All 1780 pounds him first place. Florian Porson. I'll put that footage up again. Second place, third place, Yoan. It's pronounced Yoan. Even AI confirmed it. You know, AI is never wrong. Yan Pradell is in third place. Yan Turk in fourth. Mark Hector there with the beard over on the right. In fifth place, sixth was Iran's. This is a very Iranian name. Mazahar Tabani Barani. So, it's kind of like Tobani, but it's got some extra on there. Steuart Sutherland. And I had to add beef stew because some of you guys probably don't know who his real name is. Steuart Sutherland and the shed James Hulling said down in ETH. Let's get some of your comments going. Giant [clears throat] killer. Oh, there was a live stream. [laughter] See, thanks, Savior. Because I mean, if Nick if Nick didn't buy it, uh Nick made this video very early this morning. Nick Strength and Power. I assumed there was no stream. So, I apologize to the promoter. Thank you for correcting me. There's a girl on IG streaming on YouTube. The quality is worse than the video you have. I mean, the the lighting was just horrific. If I show you some Instagram stuff, you'll see what I mean. You think these guys will get paid? Sean look great here. Well, I mean, Sean had a novelty check. It said $16,000. I assume he can I assume he can use that to cash it in. I don't know. [laughter] Let's hope so, right? Uh, let's go to that. Let's go to some of the Instagram stuff. All we have is Instagram. Thank you, Xavier, for correcting me on that because I know I'm called wrong, Harris, and I'm kind of used to it by now, but I don't want to be wrong all the time. Just get rid of this. [sighs] Oh, here we go. Okay, so I'm going to get the banner off so you can see a kind of a full screen here. All right, so here's his some of his routine there. And Clarita, just a very, very complete physique. He's five feet tall. I don't think he even claims 51 anymore, but built like a tank. So much thick, dense condition muscle. And geez, the Olympia was how many weeks ago at this point? Let's see. One. So today is the 24th. So one, two, three, four, five, six, seven weeks ago. Seven weeks Sean maintained this condition to come in and win the Japan show. Now, the argument is going to be, and I'll get to your comments again in a second, why can't he do both the Mr. Olympia and the 212 Olympia? Because you can't. You have to pick a division. You have to choose one or the other. It's like, you don't want to see a figure a figure pro in the bikini or or in the women's physique. You don't want to see the women's bodybuilders in women's physique. You just have to pick a division. at the Olympia or actually any show. In the very early days of the 212, back when it was the 202 class, they did allow crossovers. You could do both in the same show. Those days are long gone. We're talking about like almost 20 years ago when they were doing that. So now you have to pick a division. But there's Clarita looking fantastic. Uh see who else. It's like hunting around for footage now. Is this uh Florian? Yeah. Here's your runner up, Florian. Poron Pon. Now, I know I can't say Theo Legier's name, but I can say he was your runner up. Uh, and this is a guy that actually looks better on stage than he did on Instagram. I was impressed. Charles and I did a preview of this show a few days ago on in on our on our show Power Hour. He looked pretty good, but boy, with the tan and even this the lighting actually looks very different from from picture to picture. Like, it looks awful there. The lighting, you could still see the condition. This guy was in in great condition. Florian. So that was your runner up. See if they got anything of uh is this Joan? Yeah, here's Yoan. Yoan Pardell's. Yeah, this promoter. He's he keeps putting these really busy LED backgrounds that are just not doing the competitors any favors. That's a better shot. So this backdrop is better than I assume this is judging in finals. This one was a lot better in terms of less distracting uh patterns and textures and colors in the background to take away from from the uh physiques. So, just to keep you guys posted on how Yan's been doing in this season, and I thought it was his rookie season, but Giles let me know that he did do one of the late season shows last year, but nobody remembered him. So, in the Romania Muscle Fest, he was runner up. Uh that was to Andrew Jack, right? Poland, he was runner up. Prague, he was fifth place. British Grand Prix, he was third place. And Japan, third place. So really good season for Yoan. And I don't think he's done because he's from Spain. And there's one more show happening next Sunday, the Big Man weekend, and that is the Big Man Pro is happening in Alakante, Spain, his home country. It'd be silly of him not to do that. So, I imagine he's going to do that. Uh, let's see if we got a good leave this up while we go to a couple comments here because I do like to get to your comments. Sean is an amazing athlete. Yeah, there are not many 212 competitors that are capable of doing both at the same time and winning an open show. Keon tried to win an open show. Of course, he had a hell of a much tougher lineup a couple weeks ago. uh but he could only muster fourth place. Clarita has been top five in the Arnold Classic Open. Uh he did win the Legion Pro in 2021 and that was uh beating Rean Grimes in second place who was about 265 270 big boy and third place Sergio Lever Jr. who was closer to 280 at that show. Sean was 178 pounds. So he was literally giving up 100 pounds to some of the people he beat. But he's a giant killer. That's why they call him the giant killer. I think these guys will get paid. Oh, I think I I missed that one before. I think I hope so. That background is abomination. Yeah, Giles. And thanks, Xavier, for bringing that up. Uh Giles and I are going to we're going to preview the Big Man Pro Show tomorrow hopefully if the list is out. But we also got to talk about the lighting at some of these shows. There should be a standard a standard for lighting. And I don't know how you would enforce that. uh you know the head judge from the IFBB would have to be the one to give the final say. But I mean if they don't have the right setup, the right lights and technicians doing a good job, I don't know what the head judge or whoever would be in charge of uh enforcing that. I don't know what they would possibly do. [snorts] Good question. Good question. So let's take a look at some more of the comparisons. That was the front double. Here's the most muscular. So, let's see. Left to right there on your screen, you could see Yan Pradels, the black trunks. That is Florian with I think you can kind of see the red trunks below his knuckles there. Florian Parson, your runner up. Clarita giving up like a almost a he is giving up a foot in height. If he's five feet, some of these guys are are six foot. I think Yolan is is he's got to be close to six foot. He's either 5'11 or six foot. Florian looks like he's exactly the same height. In fact, everyone else in that in that top five up there looks to be the same size. Looks to be the same height uh roughly. They're all somewhere in the range of 510 to six foot. And then Shawn is way down there at 5 foot. But this goes to show you they always say a good big man will beat a good a good small man. Well, in this case, a good small man beat some good big men. This is from TF Media. TF Media's page. Who else did we look at? Yeah. I mean, he they did the best job they could trying to take good pictures of these athletes, but that backdrop, you could see how it just it the if if you know anything about photography, and I know just a tiny tiny bit. I took like one photography class in college 30 years ago. Uh when the background when there's light different colors and lights, the camera is always trying to color balance and and white balance. It's trying to trying to get the best setting. And when you have a busy, bright background like that, it really interferes with the camera's ability to focus on what's in the foreground. In this case, the athlete who we're really trying to get the best pictures of. So even there, it's tough to gauge the the condition, the full condition of Shawn. We look at that density in his back. So thick top to bottom, side to side. That's how a back should look in the in the rear double by. There's his uh hands class most muscular. Any more comments to get to? Yeah, I'm with you, Xavier. These these backgrounds again, but there's there's no I don't see a way to enforce that unless they say to this guy, you know what, we're really we're not digging the quality of your lighting. Uh, and if if I'll tell you, if these guys don't get paid, if for any reason they don't get paid, I I don't think this gentleman will be getting getting a a sanction to to promote any more shows for the IPB Pro League because Yeah, you see there there's Sean's check. You know, I think legally you could probably take that you could probably take that to the bank. I think that's a legal check. Maybe. Probably not. Probably not. It's what they call a novelty check. If you remember in Happy Gilmore, the Adam Sandler character. Happy Gilmore had a bunch of them in the back. Oh, was Keon there? Yeah, I guess Keon was it. No, that was 50 weeks ago. This is an old So, TF Media is the channel of one of these guys. So, I'm going to go to another channel. Who is the best bodybuilder? Who is the best bodybuilder? So, here's their post about the winner. So, this ca the show was done at something like uh [clears throat] 6:00 in the morning today for my time, Eastern Standard Time, because Japan is 12 hours or 14 hours. They're way way ahead of me. Uh but yeah, I I a lot of people are are kind of kind of hurt hurt sympathetically hurt for Yolan because this guy that's five shows in a row and he's he's yet to win one. But let's see who's in the show next week in Spain because if Florian's not going and he probably will. He's in France and France and Spain they're not that far apart. Uh it's probably like a 40minut 40minute plane flight plane flight. So he's probably doing that. But uh I'd love to see this kid because he's very good. But that would mean he's qualified for the Olympia. Is he ready for the Mr. Olympia yet? Yoan, I don't know about that. I think he's That's the same shot we just saw. There's Yoan. I think Yoan is a work in progress. He still needs to get the condition down a little bit better. And he needs to work on that back. And these are amateur guys, I'm guessing. Or is it men's physique? I don't know. I'll go to Clarita's page for a minute there. And see if Sean has any pictures. Yeah, it's kind of sad that none of them really have great photos. Sean's a winner and he doesn't really have any good photos of himself. There he is with the awards. And there's there's the worst backdrop you could possibly have. Bright fire colors, orange, red, yellow. And you can see how they they backlight the athletes and the camera the cameras are focusing. It's not it's I don't think it's something they can control. The camera is going to focus on the background because that's where the light is and the colors are. And the athletes get washed out. You really can't fully appreciate the physiques. I mean, the condition looks awful on them, but I bet under much better lighting circumstances, you would really be able to see the condition was far better than you think. These are all the division winners. Gez, look at the size of that classic winner. He looks freaking pretty damn pretty damn huge himself. There's Sean backstage with his money. We hope. Yeah. I mean, I hate to sound I don't want to I don't want to be that negative guy. I just we saw what happened where they didn't get the the athletes from the Masters Olympia from the same promoter didn't get paid. Jake Wood had to step up and pay them out of his own pocket. I assume that this promoter is going to reimburse. Uh and he was coached by John Jwit. Remember another >> So the backstage, see the lighting here? Well, this is like, you know, they got a backdrop and they got the light set up for taking photos. That's what the lighting should be like on stage. It should be lit like a photo shoot. You know, the old-timers who remember the old pro Iron Man shows, the Iron Man Pro Invitational, they were uh lit by photographer Mike Nephew, who was co-owner of Iron Man magazine and the chief photographer. He shot all the covers and 90 90% of all the photos inside the magazine were Mike Nebie shots. He was so good at lighting. There he is with the I assume these are the promoters. Must be got that medal, got his money. They got They have a separate placard for the Olympia qualification. Here's the Mark Hector. This must be the promoter. They tag him. No, he does not. Uh, that was probably right before they went out to eat. He's got that big metal. Yeah. A couple more comments. No more comments. Okay. Not many guys watching right now, so it was hard to find. Yeah. Uh, I'll just look at a couple more and then we'll we'll call it a day here. So, Clarita again, he is qualified for both the Mr. Olympia now and the 212 Olympia. He could do either one. He can't do both. Uh, I seriously doubt he would do the Mr. Olympia even though he's qualified because he's not going to win the Mr. Olympia. He's not going to make top five. It's just the the competition. It's it's too great at that level these days. We got we got a great group of guys up there now with between Derek, hottie, Samson, Andrew, Nick. Uh it's just a it's just a very very tough group. So I think he'll stay in 212 and he'll try to get his title back. Remember, he did win it in 2020 and 2022. He is a two-time 212 Olympia champion. I'm sure he'd love to be a three-time Olympia champion. And he's got a much better chance of doing that than he does ever winning the Mr. Olympia. So, even though I'm sure he would like to say he stood on the Mr. Olympia stage with those guys, he probably knows in his heart of hearts, it's not the best course. If you have to be strategic about these things and compete where you have the best possible chance of winning, let him do both. No need to open plus only top five get paid. What's up, Mike? Mike and I will be doing the Meatthead podcast Wednesday night at 7. Still nailing down the uh the guys who will be joining us, but we're going to be talking about what we're thankful for. 700 p.m. Eastern Wednesday night. We invite you all to tune in and share what you're thankful for. Don't do it now. Do it then. But yeah, Clarita is he's one of the few 212 competitors who is good enough to beat plenty of open men and in some cases win a whole open show as we saw here today. Uh go to one more channel to see if there's anything else. Let's go to bodybuilders.org to see if they have anything. Uh they do not. That's a score sheet. Well, there's a look at the score sheet. So, it looks like Shawn didn't win the judging with a perfect score. So, I'm guessing Florian Florian Antoan Jinson, he must have gotten like one first place vote. Uh, and then in the finals, they they were all for Shawn, but Sean still won with the low the lowest score of seven. Porcelain was 12. Uh, looks like everything else is pretty consistent. Yeah, a little disappointing to see Big Beef Stew and James way down there in seventh and eighth. I was really hoping they would do better. Leang Yan from China. I thought he would do better than 12th. The other guys I'm not really that familiar with. Maybe one more channel. That was buys and tries. Go to see if AJ's got anything. AJ's got Florian's routine. Did we see that yet? No, I don't think we did. So, here's your runner up. Obviously, if Clarita hadn't hadn't been there in Japan, this guy would have been the champ and he would have had his Olympia competi qualification, very very good bodybuilder, big guy, balanced, good shape, good structure. Uh, from from what people are telling me who who had better vantage points, Clarita basically won on condition. [snorts] Uh, you know, he's he's a hell of a bodybuilder. This guy is, too. So, like I said, the it wasn't a perfect score win. So, I do think I suspect I should say this guy Florian probably did get at least one one first place vote in the judging and then Clarita got unanimous first place in the finals, but he won by five points. It wasn't it wasn't that close. But he looks great. He looked great. We'll be seeing more of him. I assume he's going to keep on going. I bet everybody from this show and maybe even Clarita, maybe Sean will stick around. I don't know. He might stick around and go to Aleante, Spain next weekend for the big man show. He might win that, too. You never know. You never know. Okay, one more. One more. Uh, what about Beyond the Stage TV? Sometimes they have There's not a lot of footage as you could see. I don't see any footage. They have nothing. I don't see any footage from the live stream. Oh yeah, even the photos from this look awful. Just awful. It's just it's it's the lighting. It's the lighting is just horrific. James. Yeah. All right. Does he do the Arnold? Uh talking about Sean. I I heard that Predelves was was putting in for the Arnold. He had been invited. That's not confirmed. I just I just heard something. No Samson to Derek. Okay, so Samson's definitely not going to beat the Arnold, Derek. Yeah, he could definitely place. Does James do now? Well, you could say you get a new coach, but he's had a lot of coaches. I left this up from uh the other day. This these are the people who have coached James Hollings so far. And this is not a knock on the guy, but he's had he's had a lot of coaches. He's been through Patrick Tour, Jordan Peters, Phil Viz, Evan. It's e it's Evan, not even boy, I'm messing up everywhere. Nathan Harmon, Chris Aceto, Stephan Keins, Milo Sarv, Chris Tuttle, and currently he's working with Zack Fatheringham from the UK. Uh I think Zach is a local to him, so he does get to do check-ins live and in person. Anyway guys, that was just a quick report because I didn't want to have zero coverage of it. It was a It was a qualifier for open open bodybuilding men's open the Mr. Olympia. Ton of coaches. Yeah. So that's it. Sean has his Sean Clear has his second open open win open bodybuilding win. Uh and a qualification to the 2026 Mr. Olympia if he wants to go there. And these were your final results. Sean Clarita first second Florian Porson from France. Three Yoan Yoan that's how you say it. Predell is from Spain. Czech Republic's Yan Turk in fourth, UK's Mark Hector in fifth, Iran's Mazahar Tabani Barani in sixth, beef stew Steuart Suddland in seventh, the shed James Hollings in eighth place. Peace out. Florian Wing, he looked he looked damn good. No, he looked really good. Uh, you don't have to be biased to have thought that. He's much bigger than Shawn and I could definitely see how it could have gone that way. Yeah, one last look. I mean, apparently the the the actual pay-per-view, the stream wasn't any better than this quality-wise. So, I'm It's 45 bucks. I'm glad I I wasn't going to get it. There's no way I was going to get it anyway, but I'm very glad now. Best guys come from 212. Well, not all the time. [laughter] Samson, Andrew Jacked, uh, you know, most of the guys in open didn't come from 212. Hottie and Derek did. So they're the best the best examples of former 212 athletes. Bonak came from 212 originally, but most of the guys at the in the Open Mr. Olympia were never 212 competitors. They were always, you know, 230 to 250 pounds to begin with, and a lot of them grew a lot bigger than that. All right, take off. All right, guys. So, I'm going to wrap it up and that's it. Uh, thank you so much for watching. Congratulations to Sean Clarita, the giant killer, on his second open bodybuilding win. First one was four years ago at the Legion Sports and he has qualified once again for the Mr. Olympia as well as being qualified for the 212 Olympia. So, we'll see. We'll see what he does. Thanks for watching, guys. Appreciate it. I'll catch you next time.