Hey everybody, welcome to Ryan Line Report. Today's guest, he's been in this sport for over 40 years. As an athlete, as a sponsored athlete, as a journalist, you name it, he's done it. He's still going strong. Please welcome Shawn Ray. What's up, Sean? Big Ron. Happy to be here, brother. Um, yeah, I' I've pretty much done it all. When you say 40 years in the game, I've actually been involved in the game longer. I'll be 60 in September. I know we're all growing old together. 60 sounds like that number. Yeah. But I'll be growing a nice fraternity. You know, Lee Haney is there. Um, Dorian Yates, Labrada, Mike Christian, my mentor John Brown. He's 10 years older than me. So, um, and then I got good company. Kevin Levrone, Flex Wheeler. Yeah. um several other guys that have that have hit that milestone. I don't say that lightly because there's a lot of guys that didn't make it. Um so the older I get, the more nostalgic I get. Um because I look at where we are as a sport. Um where our trajectory is, what I've bear witness with my own eyes standing on stage with some of the world's best. And then again, like you said, I have done everything. I mean, I've I've been a sponsored athlete. Um, I'm a contest promoter both professionally and amateur. I've done uh the Shawn Ray Muscle Camps around the world. I'll toot my horn for a little bit for those that don't know because what I'm realizing with social media is there's guys that are just coming in like this year into the business. But um over the course of my career on and off the stage, hosting uh my own TV workout show for ESPN back in the 90s doing the muscle camps around the world. And when I say around the world, I'm talking Ireland, South Africa, Australia, Chile, California, Las Vegas, Miami. I mean, I've done those muscle camps, which I'm pretty proud of because it takes a lot of coordination, but more importantly, I've employed other athletes, which means I put money in these athletes pockets. And some of the guys I've worked alongside with at my muscle camps were the best of the best, including your boy Lee Priest, Jay Cutler, Dexter Jackson, Kai Green, Sean Rhoden, uh Cedric McMillan. Um I've pretty much had everybody involved with those muscle camps because that's a way we give back to the guys coming up behind us. Um, and of course it's been an honor and a privilege to work with the leaders and founders of our sport from the Joe Weider and Ben Weider brothers to see Blackman over at Muscular Development, John Ba, who I won his very first show, put me on his Iron Man cover of the magazine. Um, shooting with and for uh Chris Lund and um, uh, Robert Reef, uh, Rick Kevin Wayne, Ricky Wayne's son. Uh, I've worked with some of the the industry leaders including the late Bob Kennedy. Um, and so the the closer I get to age 60, the more nostalgic I become about the people I've worked with and the guys I've competed with from Lou Farignode, Robbie Robinson, Bob Paris. I mean, these guys were my idols coming up as a teenager. And now with my show in Hawaii on its eighth year, watching some guys come up, win the amateurs, go on to win their pro cards, and then wind up in the Olympia. That's kind of like watching your kid, you know, go through high school, college, and graduate and become a lawyer or a doctor, right? Yeah. Um, so yeah, it's interesting times. I'm just as busy now as I was then uh traveling the world as a as a global missionary and and ambassador for the sport, promoting it with uh working with and for Jake Wood, the owner of the Mr. Olympia and Wings of Strength along with one of the best supplement companies, Mutant uh and Jim McMahon and all the crew over there, Ian and George and Dusty. I mean, we got some really cool people at Mutant and now working for Rudy Panata, the maker of the best gym equipment in the world. Uh, Panata gym equipment is global. And getting on board with them, joining Bob Chick and uh, Lee Haney and some of the other guys, Phil Heath and Ronnie Coleman has been nothing short of amazing. So, the wheels are turning and I'm getting ready now to go support uh, The Press, Jim Manion Show over in Pittsburgh. He's uh he's superersized it, added an expo, made it two days, giving away $100,000, and I'm going over there on my own dime just to bear witness to that because I want to show Jimmy the support he showed me. I met him when I was 17 years old. Wow. Um and I've been uh I've been paying it back ever since because becoming a national champion, the fifth national champion ever, um would not have been possible if Jim Manny didn't put the NPC together. So, I'm looking forward to supporting his show. Let's uh let's not forget you were 22 years old when you won the NPC nationals. Correct. Yeah, it was one day after my birthday and uh I'm still the youngest overall national champion, which uh you know that's my that's a badge of honor because when I went to go do that show, I didn't have a plan B. I was in college. Um I kind of went in there pretty cockure because the guys before me, Bob Paris and Lee Haney and Mike Christian and and Gary Stratam, Phil Williams, they were all decorated bodybuilders. I wanted to be just like them. And when that happened for me, uh, I didn't go back to college. Let's put it that way. Yeah, I think you made the right move. So, yeah, Pittsburgh, man, this is the first time that they've the the show's been around a very long time, but they've never had Open men until this year. And, you know, he's coming out of the gate strong with I believe it's is it 100 grand for first prize? It is. And and that that prize money is not possible without the great sponsors of our sport. Listen, some of the sponsors of our sport are now doing very well because of the NPC and because of the IFBB and Jim uh Jim Manion opened that door for the growth of a lot of those companies who are now digging a little bit deeper in their pockets and giving it back to Jim and Jim doing the right thing. Giving it back to the athletes is nothing short of what I would expect from someone like him. And these bodybuilders are the sole benefactors of the work that Jim Manion has done establishing, curating, and uh massaging those relationships with those sponsoring companies that they go deeper in their pocket because they're making more money off of being uh supporters of the NPC and the IFBB Pro League. Right. So, um let's start getting into the lineup because this is a stellar lineup. I would never expected this guy if you told me a few months ago Derek Lunford's going to jump into the Pittsburgh Pro. I mean, the Arnold Classic was surprising enough, but for him to jump into a show that's in May, um, this is AI I don't know. I I have two minds of this and I want to hear what you what you have to say. The Arnold is a gamble. Um, because, you know, prepping prepping multiple times a year, not everybody can do it and be 100% at all shows. I don't think anyone's ever been their absolute best at all three shows if they've done that over the course of a year. But he also went up against Samson who was a reigning Mr. Olympia and beating him was a long shot. He did it. But now here we are two months later, May to April, a little over two months later and he's back on stage again. He wants that wants that big title of Pittsburgh Pro. He wants that $100,000. Uh I I see him as obviously the odds on favorite. He's a Mr. Olympia champion. Is this uh is this his show to lose or is there anyone that can possibly push Lunford here? Yeah, I mean this is his show to lose. Listen, this is not unique. Uh back when I was coming up in the 90s, we would see this quite often. Uh with Vince Taylor, with Flex Wheeler, with Camel Levi, with Chris Cormier, these were some of the winningest bodybuilders on the planet in the history of our business. What Derek is doing is not unique. It is something that happened on a routine basis in the 90s. And these bodybuilders are capable of peaking and reaking multiple times a year. The good thing I like about Derek, and I knew this as he was coming up winning the USA's, was that he had the tools to take it to the next level. And when he won his first 212 Olympia, I reiterated to him he should be in the open. He could be a Mr. Olympia winner. And I believe he went in in his first year and got third or was it second? Uh first Mr. Olympia, I believe he was fifth. No, that was his first 212 Olympia. The first open Olympia, wasn't he? Wasn't he second? I think he was second. And the following the following year he won. But I mean, it didn't take a rocket science. I just had a closer view than many people because I was at the USA. I was at the Olympia when he was uh when he won the 212. I mean, I I witnessed his whole career. So, I knew that this was a guy that had the potential just like I believe Keon Pearson has the same potential to do what Derek Lunsford has done. Going into Pittsburgh. I just want to make it crystal clear. This is this is what bodybuilders do, right? This guy's got to put food on the table. I believe he's a new father. He's got confidence that winning that comes along with winning. Um he doesn't really, in my opinion, have a lot to lose because he's he's not a 200 60 lb 6 foot bodybuilder. Staying on point after the autoclass is not that hard. The only thing I'm concerned about with Derek is does he run out of gas by the time October comes because again he's a new father, unch uncharted waters. He um has opened a gym. Um he's come into some new for newfound fortune in terms of the finance. Um he seems to be doing everything right. He was able to change coaches seamlessly and maintain. This is not the Olympia. He does not have to be 100% to beat these guys. However formidable they are, Nick Walker, uh, uh, Fitzwater, they pose a challenge, but they are not better bodybuilders than Derek. So Derek doesn't, like Dorian, like Ronnie, I don't believe has to show up and peak. Now, we did see this happen to Andrea Shaw, and she was dethroned a month before the Olympia at the Wings of Strength Rising Phoenix by a bodybuilder that did not have her genetic gifts. But she fixed that by the time the Olympia came around. Derek going into this show says sends a message to all the other bodybuilders that if you're bodybuilding and you're professional, this is what you do. Me and Bob Chit call this the business of bodybuilding. You bodybuild to compete. I was not of the same frame because I was more about my business which was promotions. So, I only competed mainly in the Olympia. And the rest of the time, I I built my career around traveling the world, which was one of the perks that I was in love with with the sport when I was a kid. And I stayed true to it throughout my career, which is why I didn't compete as much as the other guys I was up against. But Flex Wheeler, Vince Taylor, Dexter Jackson, Chris Creremier, they do what Derek is doing. They did all the time. This is not unique. Derrick has the ability not only to go in here at 95% and win, but also show up at the Mr. Olympia and be a formidable challenger. The question remains, come Olympia, does he run out of gas in Pittsburgh? I think he's going to have plenty of gas in the tank. Yeah. I mean, that's I was going to get to that later, but I mean this is what happened with Hottie last year. Hottie did the spring shows. He did the the Arnold USA, Arnold UK, blew them away. Best hottie we'd seen maybe ever. But then he rolls into Olympia. I don't think he was off by much, but just being off a tiny bit off his best was was enough for him to lose to Samson. He's the guy sitting out the whole year staying fresh, you know, working in silence. And I I I see a big advantage for Hottie in that aspect up against Samson and and Derek. Um well, I can tell you based on the recent history of the Olympia, this is not we're not in the Dorian Yates, Ronnie Coleman, Phil Heath era, that Olympia title has changed hands what, how many times? Six or seven times in the last seven or eight years, right? Seven. Seven times in eight years. Okay. So, Hottie sitting out uh and and thinking that if this is the solution, it he could still wind up in third. He could slip down to fourth if Fitzwater shows up right. He could miss his peak, miss his timing. A lot of things can go wrong because he's waiting. But he he did take a well-deserved rest. I'll give him credit for that. Um but he did open the door for new names to be talked about like Fitzwater and like Derek, who is not a new name. He's one of his rivals. As a matter of fact, um, he's going to be the man to beat, I believe, Derek, because Hottie has more to prove. Now, more time off doesn't necessarily mean you improve. You can miss your peak on the day. You miss your peak at prejudging and you're screwed. It's happened. Um, it's a different criteria that's being judged at these Olympias when I was coming up. You could show up and be off and still win and have a good strong argument because you've won multiple times prior. Yeah. Winning prior does not give you cart blanch come October. Either you're on or you're off. And hottie earned the break that he took. But Dererick will look back 101 15 years from now and realize that by going in that Arnold Classic and winning that half a million dollars and going into Pittsburgh and potentially winning another $100,000 and getting third at the Mr. Olympia to add that hundred and change to that, that's a really good year. and and then he'll be back on stage in October and he's a top three bodybuilder. We know that he's a former Mr. Olympia. I don't see Derek slipping out of the top three and to be third will not be a slap in the face if he lose to the defending champion and a former champion. So, he needs to take one show at a time. Going to Pittsburgh is a great strategy. I would have recommended that had he consulted with me and worry about the Olympia when the Olympia comes. Do you know how many guys have been training for the Olympia, gone to Las Vegas, and was ready and didn't even step on the stage? Yeah. Yeah. I'll remind you that I'll remind you that our late friend Cedric McMillan wound up going to the Mr. Olympia and didn't come back after prejudging. I'll remind you that two years ago, a guy by the name of Logan Franklin who won the Shawn Ray Hawaiian Classic twice, qualified, waited a whole year, showed up in Las Vegas, and never stepped on the stage. Yep. Yeah. So, you can't plan the future thinking about the future that way. He's alive today. He's healthy today. Go get what's yours. Um, and and secure your financial future and and build on that reputation. Listen, Chris Cormier and Kevin Levrone and Vince Taylor. They never won the Open Olympia, but they built a career off of victories and those victories made a certain lifestyle for them. So kudos to Derek for choosing this show, supporting what Jim's built, and uh I'm sure he's up for the challenge. I know he wants to feel like Rich Kaspari when he won the first Arnold Classic, right? Rich won the Arnold, but never won the Olympia. He made a career off of being second place three different times, but we know Rich Kaspari for being the first Arnold Classic champion. Derek is in the history books. He won the Olympia. He wins the first Pittsburgh Pro, there's another feather in his cap. If he never wins the Mr. Olympia again, he will always be Mr. Olympia in everyone's eyes. Yeah. And so far, he's the only person who's won the 212 and the Open Olympia until Keon does that in a couple years, which Keon will definitely do that. Um, and it's up to him how long he wants to wait to do it. I would love to see him do it next year and just go for it because I believe there's nobody rivaling him in the 212 this year. Yeah, agreed. All right. Well, Derek obviously the huge front runner, but boy, Nick Walker is getting a lot of a lot of talk. It's It's not the prettiest physique, but it's brutally huge. He's not much taller. Maybe a half inch taller than Derek and he's got to have 30 40 pounds of just sheer mass on him. Um I don't know, man. There there's there's talk that maybe maybe in some weird scenario Nick Walker wins this Pittsburgh. What do you think his chances might be? Well, he's got a chance. He's got to be very careful with those deltoids. Um we saw that happening with Nasserel Sati of my day. We saw that happen with Big Ramy uh throwing off his balance and even Hottie Shupin um was they were critical about his shoulders and Nick Walker has now put himself in the critical to watch out for the deltoid area which might become an isore and could be something that he gets marked down for. So he's got to be careful with those delts. Um he doesn't have the prettiest physique like you said and we watched Branch career Branch Warren win two Arnold Classics and a first Olympia runner up with that physique. So he he's capable like Branch of beating guys that are actually better than him based on his pure uh muscle. Um, but again, looking great by yourself in a gym in black and white photos, uh, with ideal lighting weeks out from a contest is not the same as the pressure of standing there backstage, oiled up, tanned up, with all the eyes waiting for your return after being out of the limelight for for a while and you're standing on stage with a former Mr. Olympia and the reigning Arnold Classic champion with a lot of expectation and a lot of pressure. We've seen people melt under those same circumstances. We'll find out if Nick can rise to the occasion. Yeah. I mean, like you said, everybody looks amazing on Instagram. Beautiful lighting, you know, curated photos. People probably post uh one photo for every 50 they take. Stages stage light is unforgiving. Nobody. That's why I think a lot of people get disappointed when they go to shows or even when they watch the stream and they see, wow, he doesn't look he doesn't look the way I thought he was going to look. He looked way better on on his updates leading up to the show, even like in the hotel room two hours ago, the picture he posted. But, you know, you you have no choice on stage. The lighting is blasting you from every possible angle. Can't hide every anything. It's uh it's going to be interesting. But Nick, man, imagine, you know, well, let me let me give you a little perspective. We're looking at this photo here. Yeah. He's got zero tan. There is zero oil. Those are not stage lights. and he's not standing in front of 4,000 screaming fans to be scrutinized against the world's best. So, the only thing we're able to compare this photograph to are the other ones that he took like this one. He's not standing next to anybody. He He's a professional bodybuilder and he's a champion bodybuilder. So, that's what you're supposed to look like. But we know that all kinds of thing go wrong with the carving process, with the cardio process, with the lighting, with Big Ste's booming voice, front double bicep, stand back in line. Um, Nick is he's been on the stage enough to understand the dynamics of pressure, but will he be able to come back after pulling out of the Olympia because his mental mindset wasn't right? again, he's by himself on this journey on Instagram and his social media, but when you stand on stage and you got to warm up backstage and you see your rivals and you got to go out there and prove it, um that's where the rubber hits the road, which is why this Pittsburgh show is going to be so interesting to witness. Yeah, agreed. So, obviously Martin Fitzwwater, another another well possible winner. Who knows? I mean, he caught he caught Derek Lunsford and almost beat him at this past Olympia, but that was a very downsized in the legs, a depleted depleted looking Derek, way off his best. Um, I know Martin's been making improvements and so forth. I I kind of see the real battle between I see Derek winning and I I sort of see the battle being as second place for between Martin and Nick again. I'd be very curious to see who beats who at this show. Yeah, I I mean, I agree with you. Uh Fitzwwater posed last weekend with u couple other guys at Jack to Tony show in St. Louis and I was there as a guest and he just took his shirt off. He didn't want to he didn't want to do the full guest posing routine which I thought as a professional thought it was a mistake. Would have been a great time for him to practice his routine and get up there and and do the entire business of bodybuilding. But he gave them a sneak peek glimpse and just took his shirt off again. no oil, pale white, uh, pink when he was holding his breath, hitting his shots. Fitzwwater has everything and he's moving in the right direction. Now, you throw in Derek with a different type of physique up against Nick who's had a very, very long extensive time away from the stage. We're going to find out what Fitzwwater uh, is up. He doesn't have the same muscularity as you can see. He looks almost downsized after looking at Big Nick. Yeah. Um, but he has a he has a prettier shape and it's this pretty shape that I think a lot of guys including the judges might be drawn to over the chunky muscular um Nick Walker who again this the deltoids are a little bit overpowering. Uh the varicose veins and the legs are a little bit distracting. It comes down to the judge's personal preference of whether they like a a pretty physique or the chunky muscular physique. These are two different physiques. I don't think that they're very comparable. Because I I think that right now looking at Fitzwater posing and after looking at Nick posing, Nick almost looks 20 25 pounds heavier at the same height. So we know that this can go one of two ways. It could be a muscular competition or it could be a shape competition. Uh Fitzwwater wins in the shape department. So that's really where the contest is. I think Derek wins this show and Nick and Fitzwwater are going to be battling it out for second place. But we got one other guy that I'm I'm looking at coming out of Brazil um and the Arnold Classic that might throw a monkey wrench in this whole thing. Talking about this goo this dude right here. He's he's a he's got a lot of muscle, right? I mean, I saw him win the Arnold Classic only online. I wasn't there in person. I'm not a big fan of the the midsection because he's just missing a little bit of detail. His legs are on par with Nick Walker, if not better. I would say he's got better legs than Nick. I say they're better. It's his midsection he's going to have to be mindful of throughout the the competition uh in standing relaxed in between poses. Um I wasn't a fan of his color. It looks a little bit dirty and a little bit muddy. I'm not sure what product to use, but Derek will make him look out of place because Dererick's color is always spot-on. Um and again, if he starts moving back and forth like Mike Matarazzo, kind of prowling around the stage like a branch warren, his stomach will be distended. He'll be breathing heavily and he can't afford to do that against these more shaplier bodybuilders. Yeah, but we didn't say the name. So, we're looking at good veto guys. Vitali Gulnikov, originally from Russia, now living in Brazil. You know, I I I don't see him cracking top three, top four at this show yet. Uh to me, he's a work in progress. Those legs are done. Stick a fork in them. Um arms, arms, upper body in general to to match those legs. He needs to fill out a little bit more. the back in particular, but he's I think he's 26 years old. He's a kid. Yeah. Yeah. He's He's got the potential. And again, I think if he It's a long road from that Arnold Classic, but he did what I thought uh Fitzwater should have done a week ago. He went through the process of drying out, went through the process of getting on stage, and they actually scored him a winner. So, he's got confidence and I know he wants more for himself and this is a great opportunity without having to wait until October where you might throw in some other guys that have better genetic gifts. This is a good lineup for this guy and if he one of one or two of those guys come in off he might he could put one of them on the sidelines. He doesn't have the most pleasing physique midsection and and he doesn't stand right like his legs are so far apart when he stands. Yeah. But he's young. like you said, he's young and those mistakes he's making on the biggest stage and uh he may be able to correct some of those come Pittsburgh. Yeah. You know, I heard some people criticizing like, why is he doing this show? There's no way he's winning. But, you know, if you want to I I'm always been of the belief and I think you agree, if you want to be the best eventually, you need to get yourself up there on stage next to them and start being compared to them, even if you're not ready to beat them quite yet. Yeah, he's he's got nothing to lose. Then why wait until you're up against the world's best on the biggest stage, which is the Olympia? This guy, like you said, if he's in his 20s, he's going to have a nice resume in the next three to five years with experience to where he may be able to only compete once a year. But right now, this experience is invaluable to a young bodybuilder, uh, being put through the the poses, being compared to some of the best. And again, it's like wine. It's got to mature. You got to let it let it marinate just a little bit. But by staying on the diet from the Arnold to Brazil, uh he's training closer to his body weight. He's he's letting those muscles get the detail that they need conditionwise. And then what does he have to lose? He's not a favorite to win. So, he's got everything to everything to gain by getting the stage experience and and comparing with some of the world's best. I mean, Fitz Water was fourth. I mean, Dererick is a former Mr. Olympia. Nick Walker's won the uh Arnold Classic. This is a great lineup for him. Yeah. You know, a guy that I don't think gets enough love. And I I'm guilty of it. Sometimes I just forget about him. Maybe it's because he's all the way over in Netherlands. But William Bonak is Olympia, Mr. Olympia runnerup. He's a two-time Arnold Classic champ. Came back strong last year after a year away from the stage and and a serious leg injury. Won a show and uh you know, he's still top five at the Arnold. Still top 10 in the Olympia. I I think he might surprise some people at this show. What do you think about I don't know that it'd be a surprise. Listen, William just won over in Germany, right? Didn't he win the Germany over Fibo? Uh, no. That was Andrew. Okay. So, he was um he did win a show last year though. He came back and won uh one of those uh I can't remember the name. It was in Spain. He won that. Yeah. I mean, there are shows out there that he can Oh, I'm sorry. Detroit. He won Detroit as well. Yeah, Detroit. Yeah, Detroit. That's what he won before the FIBO, I think it was. But there are shows out there that this kid can win. This is not one of them. Um it's it's going to be great. I think like Bob Chick said, he's probably making the retirement tour right now. Uh, I don't think he's got any grand illusions of beating these guys that are much younger than him, but he can hold his own in certain elements and, you know, a top five placing for William Bono at this show would be a nice feather in his cap because again, I think we're looking at the next Masters Mr. Olympia this August coming up. Um, he by competing in this show, it forces him not to balloon up in between uh getting ready for the Masters Olympia, which I think he's already thrown his his name in there. Yeah. Because I talked exclusively with Brandon Curry at the Fibo and he is not going. Brandon Curry on paper would have been this year's Masters Olympia winner. By him pulling out, I'm putting all my money on William Bonick winning that show over in Japan. I believe this August. It does have a new date. I think it moved up. I think it moved up to August 9th and 10th if I'm not mistaken. Sounds right. This is not a show that William's going to win. It's a show that he needs to do to stay on his diet and to stay on on on course to become the next Masters Olympia champion. Right on. So, uh, Alaska, I want to talk about in the open all the way from Slovakia, which Czech Czechoslovakia used to be, uh, one big country. They they've narrowed it down to a couple ones. Talk about Creo. Where'd I put him? Creo. So, Michael Kiso, I think I had him at the top here. Uh, yeah, here we go. So, these are June pictures, obviously, fully pumped. Uh, good lighting. Probably like a skylight right there. Yeah, we're not seeing we're not seeing like a full physique imposing trunks on a stage, but my goodness, the the detail, the separation, the thin skin, that's something we just don't see that often anymore. No. And he's like the new Dennis James of the gym. I mean, Dennis James looked like Mr. Olympia in the gym, right? Yeah. And this guy in the gym right now, who's going to beat that? It's He's sick. Again, he's ghostly white, no oil, he's not depleted. Um, and he's probably a lot bigger here than he'll actually wind up on the stage. Um, so yeah, the gym light can can can do wonders to a physique. If he can bring this look to the stage, yeah, he's he's going to be very formidable. But unfortunately for Kiso, his back doesn't match his front. And I think his legs still need a little bit of work, which is probably why he has those sweatpants on. Um, I'd like to see him on his leg day do those type of poses for his legs and show us some real progress. But Cruiso is B.I. big. He reminds me of remember Alexander Federov back in the day when he came out of Russia. Oh yeah. Yeah. He was he was he was the next big big thing out of the Eastern block country. Kiso right now is that guy. But again, what we're looking at in the gym is not always what we see on the day of the show. Ko has a tendency to fade fast and get lost in that lineup. Um, but if he could bring the condition and darken that tan up and come on with the right color and not disappear on the stage when he turns to the rear, uh, it'll be interesting what the judges decide to do with him because this guy's got a lot of muscle, man. And he's tall. He's big. Yeah. Six foot. He's also working with the new coach, George Farah, for the first time. Yeah. And and and George knows how to dial people in. Look, I don't think Kiso's condition is going to be a concern. I think again there's some structural things that might hold him back against these other Olympians u that might exploit the differences between the two physiques. This is not a show that uh Kiso is going to win, but there are shows out there that Kiso can win and can wind up going to the Olympia. Um again, everybody's dream is to go to the Olympia, but you got to have that moment of of of success and fortune to have the confidence to go to the Olympia, right? Like he's got to get a victory. And I don't think this will be the one, but if he stays on his diet and continues through the summer, he might be able to find a show that has victory uh for him because we do have a lot more shows. That's true. All right. Well, I want to want to mention classic real briefly because, you know, you're you put on a pro classic show. I think we're both big fans of the division, classic physique. Yeah. Um this is my pick right here. Where'd he go? Rough Diesel. Terrence Ruffin. He's been away for a little while. Well, not too long, but he he took a year off and he put on some some size, which I think that's all he needed was a little bit more size. And personally, this is my one of my favorite physiques of all time in this division. Uh I see him as I see him as a front runner. Yeah, he's got the classic lines. Again, he's very slight in the leg department, but he's a little guy. I I don't think he's 5'6. Um I I don't think he breaks the 200 pound barrier. Um, and we've been witnessing with classic physique a lot of sixfooters. I mean, almost all the good guys in classic physique have been as of late about six feet tall. Um, this guy is put together structurally well. He's very slight in the hamstrings, very light in the calves. The criteria is different. He reminds me of the new Tony Pearson. Tony Pearson, a former Universe America champion from back in the 80s, had this tiny little waist, huge vacuum, looked phenomenal in his latre. His front double bicep was sick by himself. And he went on to win several shows. Yeah. Uh Rough Diesel can win some shows. If these taller uh classical physique guys show up and they don't bring that presentation the way that Diesel does, the eyes are all going to come to Rough Diesel because even standing relaxed, you know, you feel like you're looking at Lee Labrada. When you're watching him go in and out of the poses, you're looking at a seasoned veteran, somebody who understands the art of posing. This guy flew out to to Houston, worked closely with Lee Labrada. Um I believe he's the recipient of a a best poser award. So classic was developed to show us those lines and show us the artistry of bodybuilding which was lost. He can make a bigger better classic physique guy look like an amateur simply by being using the tools that he has which are which is the art of illusion. He's the new Tony Pearson. Yeah. I'm trying to think who else is in I know the uh the youngster Jose Manuel Monos these names. Yeah. So I do my best. So this this I call him the kid because he's uh he just turned 23 after the last Olympia. So when we saw him take sixth place last year at the Olympia, he was only 22 years old. Yeah. Um I I think he's got a bright bright future ahead of him, you know, he's going to push he's going to push rough as well. I'm trying to think who else show. No, he definitely has a he's got a lot of potential. That's what's great about the past physique is there's you don't know where these guys come from, but when they arrive, you start to see kind of what the future of that division has. And it has a lot of youth. I don't know. I don't know that Rough Diesel's that young, but this kid is is a baby by comparison. Well, Rough's only like 28 or 29. They're all They're all so young. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Relatively speaking. I mean, you know, for us, I mean, when we start making comparison, listen, uh, Lee Haney won his first Olympia at 23 years old, right? So Arnold too, right? Yeah. Well, yeah, Arnold 2. I mean, the evolution of the game is that the most recent youngest person to win the Olympia would have been Derek. And Dererick, I believe, is already 30ome years old. Correct. 31. Yeah. He's still pretty. I mean, it's it's funny how we look at age now versus how we looked at it back in when we were pups in the sport. You know, back in the old days, a guy in his mid30s. I remember to me Lee Haney when he retired, he was only 31, right? Yeah. Yeah. To me, I I was 21 and I'm like, and this is a grown he to me, he was so old and so mature and so wise and I'm like, "Wow, he was 31 years old." And when I got to 31, I'm like, "Man, I don't feel like I'm that old or wise or mature." Not only that, but he was so accomplished, right? I mean, he was a father, a husband, been around the world, had eight standout trophies at 31. I mean, that's he he did a lot in those 31 years. Yeah. I'm trying to think there was one there was one other big name doing classic. Can you recall who it was? Yeah, I probably should have prepared a little bit. Well, I'll be doing full full uh previews next week when I have the full list of the competitors. So, yeah, I mean, it's still shaping up. Listen, I'm just so glad that that gym has been able to expand. We've been waiting for him to do something big in the game um other than create the NPC, right, in the IFBB Pro League. We wanted something more. He's giving us more, not only with the prize money, but also with the slated two-day convention. Unfortunately, it is Mother's Day weekend. Uh I won't I won't be there for the ladies part and the uh some more amateurs on Sunday, but it's still going on on Sunday. It's at the convention center, which is nice because that's where I was holding my shows. A lot of promoters hold their shows in high schools. Yeah. Um so they they're stepping up their game there. And the list of guests that Manion has uh got coming to that show is like uh it's like an all-star list of who's who that'll be in attendance at that competition. And again, a lot of us are paying our own way just because it's Jim and we want to show uh our support. I know that uh there's going to be an all-star cast of people coming out there to uh to witness what's going on. It's all on their website. It's what's it called? The the Pittsburgh Festival. Uh well, the you guys can find the Pit Power Fit on Instagram. Yeah. These are the guest posers because this event was always known for having basically the whole top 10 of the Olympia more or less as on stage as guest posers. Now we have some Olympians competing, but we have he does have guest poses. I didn't think he was going to. Yeah, always. He's got Mr. Olympia, the reigning Mr. Olympia, Samson Da, Mike Somerfield, who is the heir to the classic physique Olympia possibly. Yeah. As is Ramon Ramonino. His actual name is Ramon Keros. Okay. And uh 212 Olympia champ Keon Pearson. So yeah, I just saw I just saw a video I saw a video of Keon at 2:30 on his Instagram and he looks just sick at this stage out from the Olympia. Keon is the real deal. Yeah, I think you're talking about uh this this sort of broke this broke Instagram. Look at that. This I mean not many not many bodybuilders look like this in the offseason. Wow. The way Look at how small. Remember Brian Buchanan? Of course I do. That's what his waist looks like here. But Brian Buchanan, this far out from a show was like pregnant, you know, and and Brian didn't have legs that matches up the body. I mean, Keon is I I honestly think Keon's the most genetically gifted person competing in the world right now. Yeah. I don't think you're going to get an argument out of very many people. But what I see in Keon, I I saw with Derek Lensford, he needs a little bit more pec, you know, area that he's not he's not 100%, but as he fills out and and ages a little bit more, it comes with time. Um Keon can maybe be the next guy in line behind this generation of bodybuilders as they age out because remember, Ron, when I aged out in 2001, Yeah. Yeah. Coming behind me was like uh you know a few of the newer guys, you know, it was like Victor Martinez and Tony Freeman and Branch Warren and Vic uh Dennis Wolf. Yeah. And Dennis Wolf. So now this next wave that we're going to see get out of the way. Keon may be the last guy standing in four or five years. Oh, I mean I would not I'd be more surprised than not if he's not the open Mr. Olympia champion two or three years from now. Yeah, that's exactly where he's headed for sure. This look, this is just phenomenal. I know we're It's not a Keon the Keon show today, but gez, we got to give this guy's props. Look at that. Yeah, and just the mere fact that he's guest posing um and he's not competing until October. You rarely see that. You rarely see that happen because remember, we've had some guest posers at Manion Show, including me, in the month of May, that look like we just, you know, were at the buffet. Yeah. I mean, I that that's the thing about the Pittsburgh show is some of the people would they close the competition or they had just competed and they looked really lean and then there'd be other people uh we caught them at their their absolute worst off sometimes in a what we call now a health phase when they're they're off all the special supplements and yeah, it it was a it was quite a hodge podge of physiques up there. But yeah, again, really really happy that Jim is uh Jim is still keeping the guest posing tradition alive at the Pittsburgh show. And absolutely. So, do you have any official capacities at the show or you just there to support it? No, I this is one of my uh as a fan bought the ticket, booked the hotel room, going out there to watch what's going down and I call it witness history because the last time was the creation for me of uh the Arnold Classic back in 1989. I think this one might have some legs. And years from now, Tyler Manion will be running this show uh and and JM will be sitting in a rocking chair with me. uh saying, you know, hey, my grandfather started this way back when and the first champion. Well, well, I like to be there as well. I I witnessed uh Gaspari win back in '89. It's very few things that we could say is the first in our industry. So, this is one of the first and I don't want to miss it. Yeah. And you know, wrapping it up, just to mention Derek again, if he manages to do this, to win this and get his Olympia title back this year, I I would argue that could possibly the greatest season of any pro bodybuilder that we've known. Other guys have won the Arnold Olympia. Uh but he would be the first, let's see, to recapture the Olympia title. The only person since Jay Cutler was able to do it in 60 years of Olympia history. Jay did it in 2009. If Dererick can pull that off this year after winning the Arnold and winning the first Pittsburgh power power show a pro show, good lord. I think that would be a it'd be a record in prize money, too, because I think it'd be $1.3 million in the course of one year, which, you know, it sounds like a lot of money for a bodybuilder because we do know that bodybuilding is on the lower end of the totem pole when it comes to finances in professional sports, but it it is gamechanging when you're a brand new father and a new gym owner and you got vengeance on your mind. Remember, he's lost that trophy and he got beat by people that he beat in the past. Yeah. So, right now, vengeance has got to be on his mind. Um, victory has got to be on his mind here in Pittsburgh. And that would be probably enough confidence just to go into the Olympia on on just, you know, electricity on on the idea that if he could repeat and win that contest. I mean, there's no there's nothing else for him to accomplish at that stage uh of the game. And uh you know, I've always told people, you know, if I win the Olympia, I'm going to retire. Well, I never I spent 13 years trying to do it. Never happened. If Derek recaptures the Olympia, he's got nothing else to prove. He could be a young retiree if he decides. Um, but he may also have more confidence to continue trying to be a multiple Olympia winner. So, definitely makes it interesting for the Olympia promotion, Dan Solomon and Jake Wood at the Resort World uh Hotel and Resort this October, which again, we're going to be celebrating 61 years and uh it'll be a huge huge showdown because we got a lot of other qualifying shows before we even get there. But Derek has already cemented his place by being a past champion. you have a lifetime um invitation to compete in the Mr. Olympia. So, he's got nothing to prove right now. This that this contest that he's doing is surely because he wants to be the first Pittsburgh Pro Champion. Right on. I want to make sure I get the right Instagram for you because I messed that up again. Did I do it right this time? John Ray FBB Pro. Yeah. No, I screwed it up again. I thought that was it. No, that was FBB Pro. You got to learn to spell. Yes, it is. Sean Ray, ISFBB Pro. I'll get it. It's the letters are so tiny on this Ben. Well, after Pittsburgh, man, and after the Olympia, my show comes up November the 8th. There we go. At the Hilton Hawaiian Village Hotel and Resort, Ron, I'd like to have you out there reporting on it. Uh, so put it on your calendar. It's after the Olympia. Come out and take a break, dude. Uh, you know, if anybody wants to bring me out, any sponsors or anything, here I am. You guys know where to reach me. come out there and have a m Thai and drink out of a pineapple. I mean, it's you you certainly were a smart guy to put that show in a in a place everybody wants to go to anyway. Yeah. Well, when you love what you do, you got to make sure you're doing it in the right place. So, Honolulu, Hawaii is uh is the place to be this November the 8th. All right. Pro bikini and pro men's physique. Awesome, man. All right. Well, Sean, well, thank you so much. I know you're busy getting things wrapped up before you head off to Pittsburgh. So, appreciate you taking the time and you know, you pull no punches. You got a amazing eye for physiques and you're not afraid to speak your mind. So always always love having you on. We'll see you in Pittsburgh. All right guys, thanks for watching Ron Report with Sean Ray. We'll see you next time.