 balmir-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i- Tuesday before being judged Saturday at the NPC Masters Nationals Pittsburgh that year where I took 14th place out of 31 over 40 heavyweights. But I was in the best condition of my life. I'm really happy with the way I looked. I just wish I'd been bigger and fuller. This workout also features a good friend of mine, Matt Cullia, Dr. Matt. He's a doctor of physical therapy. He placed fifth out of 15 in the super heavyweights that year. He did much better than I did. But let's get to it. So the first exercise we did was chins. Chins are an exercise I always like a lot more when I'm lighter because I can do a lot more of them. Yes, you'll notice range of motion is not awesome. I'm not getting a good stretch at the bottom, focusing more on the top of the movement. Now, honestly, this was kind of a bullshit workout. We're just kind of preserving some muscle here at the last minute. Again, we were four days out of our competition, very, very depleted, doing tons of cardio, low on calories and carbs. But I was down to about, I competed at 204, 10 days before this at the universe. So I don't know what I was down to here. I ended up weighing in Thursday morning in Pittsburgh at 201, very, very light. So after this, we did a bunch of dumbbell rows. I prefer doing them with my hands stabilized just like this on something, a bench. Lately, since then, I should say this was almost 13 years ago. This is over 12 years ago. I do them with the non-working arm on a dumbbell rack. And again, this was, I was going too heavy for the camera, eagle lifting. Normally, I would pull back a little more and get a little more of a stretch. The range of motion here, not awesome. You'll see even the footage was, this was shot on something called a flip, which is a very, very low budget video camera that was available at the time. I think it costs like 100 bucks or something. But it was good enough. You can see that we're human beings and we have two arms and two legs. Matt going heavy. So the gym, the gym's dumbbells at the time, the gym I was going to went to 150. So we're going to eventually get to that. But what was this? Was this a 130? So yeah, again, this was not typical of what I would be doing in an off-season workout at the time. This is more, more just touching up and preserving a little bit of muscle. But again, I wouldn't normally not have been going this heavy. Only reason I was doing it was because there was a camera on. And I know this was going to be a video on muscular development. So they say, leave your ego at the door. I definitely brought my ego right in there with me. And after this, I proceeded to the biggest dumbbell we had, the 150. And yes, the form is, I consider this shit form. Normally I would be pulling back a lot more, getting a much better contraction. What was that? Like five reps, six reps? Not one actual good rep was done there. But again, I was going for it. Still at this time, 43 years old in July, I would turn 44 in September. But definitely still was able to go pretty damn heavy. I mean, considering how light and how lean I was here, I'm pretty happy with that. So next time we did a hammer strength pull down. Normally what I would do on this machine is go as heavy as I could with both arms and then alternate arms. Or at other times, I would just use one arm at a time. In the interest of time here, because I was training with someone else, I was just doing everything with two arms at the same time. We were both pretty damn tired. See, Matt has a great back. Matt is a very strong guy. Here we are. Almost 13 years later, he's still handling all kinds of crazy weights in the basic movements. Barbell presses, incline barbell presses, barbell rows, squats. Me, not so much, not so much. From there, we did a cable row. You'll see in a second, that was the interview portion where we're yapping. Again, I would typically get more of a stretch, more of a contraction. But I was working as hard as I could, considering how depleted, how tired I was at this point. Toward the end of PrEP site, my sleeping was really bad most of the time. It's probably from all the fat burners, all the pre-workouts. Clem Buterall didn't help. I didn't use thyroid hormone in my PrEP. I used it a couple of times in the early 2000s. Didn't really like it. Felt like it was making me lose too much muscle. It's muscle is something I could never afford to spare. Not one of those guys who can give up a few pounds of muscle to trade off for sharpness, which is kind of what I did for this show. I ended up, you'll see in the posing, the glutes weren't completely in. But a few days later, they were. I dropped diuretics. And like I said, I weighed in at 201, which is barely head weight. I think by the time I got on stage, pissing all night long, I was probably like 195, 196 at the most would be my guess if I had to guess. But yeah, I was in great condition. I was super lean. Getting lean was really never a problem for me, especially toward the end after I'd figured everything out. It was staying big and full that I was never able to quite able to do that. Last thing we did was racked deadlifts. And we had to both be douchebags and take our shirts off for this. This is one of those Smith machines that it can move both vertically and horizontally. So it's almost like using like a barbell almost. It's very similar. It moves in both of those planes of motion, vertical and horizontal. Very cool. I haven't seen too many of these. This was my old gym here in my hometown. I haven't seen, I can't even remember the last time I saw another one of those. But yeah, so I would just go to just below the kneecap, making a pure back movement, squeezing everything up at the top. You can see Matt's a super head weight. So I was probably about 202 or 203 while you're watching me there. He was like 240. Obviously he's taller. I was 5'8", maybe a touch under. He was Matt's 6' or at least he was back then. But man, you can see the back on him. He's got a powerlifting background. He started out in powerlifting. He actually met Jose Raymond. They were good friends, just training partners for years. They met at bench press meets when they were still in high school, I think it was. I know they were teenagers. So yeah, I never was very good at full deadlifts from the floor. I don't know if I'm just not built right for them. But racked deadlifts were something I did for many, many years. Haven't done them. I just don't feel my lower back is stable enough to go heavy on them anymore. Once in a while I'll do them a little lighter, but won't go heavy on those. So the last thing I'll show you is we did some posing. Me and Matt went through the quarter turns in the poses just to cap off the video shoot. Show the condition that we were in. See the legs both look kind of pasty on us from the side though. I was actually pretty dark, but the lighting here, the sunlight coming in washes us out, takes away the color. You can see there, that's the bad arm. That's the tricep that was, the long head was torn many, many years ago. I say it looks like a shark took a bite out of it. Front double. Yeah, I mean, I never, I never had a lot of great poses. I think my side chest was a good shot. My most musculos are good shot. After that we can start debating. But just gives you an idea of the condition I was at four days out. Four days out from the Masters Nationals that year. That was my best shot, the side chest. Still pushing a lot of good weight on chest and shoulders in those days. Now we're going to go into the side tricep. Again, I was 14th out of 31 over 40 head weights in this show four days later. I had taken fifth place out of 21 or 22 over 40 guys at the universe where it was all one group, no weight classes. Didn't we do the lat spread already? No, no, no. I feel like we already did the lat spread. Almost done here guys. Just going to go through the last two poses. I always hit that serratus right before I did the Abandhi shot to show everyone how great my serratus was. You got to play your strengths guys. Going to finish up with the most muscular hand on hip. Not the best idea for someone with wider hips. And that's it. Yeah, Matt was much, much bigger. He had a good 40 pounds more muscle than me. So anyway guys, that was my back workout in July 2013. That was the last time I was in really good shape. And yeah, I miss it. If I ever competed again, compete again. It would be purely to get into really good condition to get shredded again. Because I haven't been like that since summer of 2013. So hope you enjoyed this little video and appreciate you watching.