Hey, what's up guys? Ron Harris here with Ron Harris Muscle. Today, little departure from what I normally do. It's not an interview. It's not a contest coverage or anything like I want to highlight a young guy I discovered on Instagram who is not only impressively strong, big big kid, uh, and he's also hilarious. Uh, when when you see him, you might think I was going to troll this kid either for carrying too much body fat or for claiming to be natty, but I I think he definitely could be natty. I don't think he's a liar. He's a very, very big, strong kid. Jack Gentilly. Here is his Instagram. And let's take a look at some of these videos. And I have to have the volume up because he makes these commentary. He makes these poems almost for every video. And you know, sometimes they're in poor taste, but hilarious. So, I'm going to start. Let's see. Let's share the screen. Okay. Go to his uh Instagram profile. He's got almost 200,000 followers. Uh he's also on Tik Tok, which I don't know much about, so he probably has a million followers on Tik Tok. Here's the first first clip of his from Instagram. World record dumbbell shoulder press. [\h__\h] flies before your eyes. I jumped straight to the 120s. I was loose like some puss. 150. She smelled fishy. I was hungry. for more. Yeah, buddy. Come on. Don't let it go. [\h__\h] world record dumbbell shoulder. Now, those are not He put kg. They're not 175 kilograms, which would be I don't even know what 350 pounds or something each dumbbells. So, no, they were 175 pound dumbbells, which that is crazy to overhead press. I've seen only a few people ever do that or more. And these were guys that were 300 lb juiced out of their skulls. This kid's 18. Even if he's on steroids, I don't think he is. Uh maybe he is. I don't know. But even if he was, still super super impressive. Let's go another one. And this is his squat day. And he's he's a very powerful presser and squatter. Check this out. Squatting is fun. Haven't squatted in over a month. Let's see if I still got it. The bar flew like a [\h__\h] car. Threw on a plate. I declined the Tinder date. 225 for the gals. They were squirted like empty ranch bottles. Slapped on three jelly donuts. My jelly was all over the rack. 405. I took a drive to her best friend's house. I threw on five patties, no cheese. [\h__\h] flew like [\h__\h] ketchup. I wasn't that hungry, so I took a half a bite of the donut. I threw a 25 on. I'll be back to that 585 soon. Don't worry. Until then, I'll be squatting seven times a week. it. The barf. So, again, he uh he does make the mistake of putting kilograms when these are pounds. Other than that, still very, very impressive. And this was, this one, next one is pure comedy. He's going to show you a little stunt he did eating some cat food. You want to get big like a [\h__\h] cat, you got to eat cat food. I train like I got nine lives. Eat like a cat and lift like a lion. Don't be a puss. You want to get big like a [\h__\h] cat, you got to eat cat food. Now, there are big cats. There are big cats like lions, tigers, cougars, things like that, jaguars. Um, house cat would not be on that list, but you know what? What the hell? Uh, this is very impressive, the leg pressing here, because we've seen Elmpon, the uh skinny Mexican dude out in California. He's literally from Mexico. He's not just Mexican-American. who piles on all kinds of weight and barely budges it. He's got to be at late 30s, early 40s. Alone, whatever his real name is. Uh Jack here, Jack is only 18. I think he just turned 18 a couple months ago. And uh he gets some some good reps with a lot of weight on the leg press. Let's take a look. Let's like press your daddy's truck as a high schooler. The machine flew like your sister's cream. Be 15. She better be 18. 675. She was wet like blueberry pie. Sloped three more double stuffed Oreos on them and gave her a quick little dunk. [\h__\h] flew like [\h__\h] paper. 24 plates later, I felt like I was taking my girl out to the buffet. 1,395 back shots later, she said it wasn't enough. 1,535 lbs later, I ate her out like an alligator. She finally couldn't take it anymore. Daddy's satisfied. Let's like press your daddy's truck as a high schooler. Yeah. So, I don't think he does a lot of reps. I think he does a lot of max reps, single reps, ones and twos, which, you know, if you're training for strength, that's that's the way to do it, actually. So, he's doing exactly what he wants to be doing. And uh yeah, God bless this kid, Jack Gentile or Gentilly, I don't know how he pronounces it. Take a look at one more a cooking video, which even that he makes hilarious. Let's take a look. We got 12 in of meat. Let's make it. Throw your 12 in straight on the counter. Wipe the wetness. Find a pan that could take all your meat. Make sure she's hot. Season it up so you can eat her fast. Rub it in in a circle motion. took a pick of my meat cuz she asked how many calories were in it. I made sure to butter her up and then the meat went in. No problem. You should only last 2 minutes. You should be splattering everywhere. The meat came out looking whiteter than ever. Oh my god. We got 12 in of meat. Let's make it. Yeah. We got any comments yet? No. Oh, we got no no comments. Only a few people watching. I'm just going to show you a couple more videos. I think this kid's hilarious. Super super strong. 18 years old. Amazing that he can push these weights. He carries this much size. Yeah, he could be leaner. Of course he could be leaner. There's there's no question about that. But uh gez, it's a ton of a ton of uh ton of muscle mass. Back exercise that will make you scream like a monkey. Make sure to get your potassium in. 500 lb pull-ups like a monkey. Bananas are loaded with nutrients. Make sure to take them in the app. Back exercise that will make you scream like a monkey. I don't know what app that is. It takes a picture. You take a picture of the food, but everything seems to be 1831 calories. Uh, do you want to show you another cook? His cooking videos are pretty funny, man. Let's see. Well, shoulder press. Let's get Stop being a clown and get under the smith. I'm [\h__\h] starving today. Only drank a bottle of water. Let's move some [\h__\h] 135 is a new 45. Two plates. This [\h__\h] about to take off. Come on. Let's go. Four little [\h__\h] crackers. Yeah, we still got it loose. 315. I was pressing that [\h__\h] at 14. Think Lincoln Park might have limp biscuit beat. Who knows? That's an overs. 365. You got to wake the [\h__\h] up. Might be sleeping under this weight. Whiff on my elbow straps real quick to get some pneumonia. Fast, fast, fast. Yep. Yo, y'all are like 405 on the Smith. Oh, that [\h__\h] don't count. You [\h__\h] get under it. We got a couple grown men on this [\h__\h] boy. Let's go. We got Big Connor in the back. Stop being a clown and get under the Smith. I agree with what he said. 405 on a Smith machine, it's not as impressive as 405 on a barbell, but you know what? You do it. Uh I I bet most of us I think I tried it once in my life. 405 on a Smith machine for shoulder press. I had somebody helping me, so God knows how much I was really doing. It was It's a lot of weight. So, I I'm impressed. Even if it is a Smith machine, it's still It's still weight. Uh well, here's a 600lb squat. Let's see. Let's work up to a 600 lb squat. We're at the public gym. Let's catch some air time with the squat bug. I heard they had no gravity here. Let's see if that's true. Let's put a Oreo on there. Let's go. Let's go. Get tight. Put a [\h__\h] popsicle stick on our back. Three Oreos. Who want bring my [\h__\h] milk? Take a hop with this [\h__\h] on my back. Three cookies tickled my stomach. Let's take a bite of a fork. This [\h__\h] ain't nothing new. We got 40 g of creatine in here. Five points. We're getting serious now. Next place equals more dates. Go get a batty after this. I move slow. Don't touch me unless I like start dropping slowest music possible on right now. If I hit that [\h__\h] was I? All right. Thank you. Oh, [\h__\h] no. Let's work up to So that was 600 lb. I mean, could have been maybe an inch or two lower, but damn. 1800 18-year-old kid squatting 600 lb on a barbell. Pretty impressive. I don't I'm impressed. And I don't impress easily. Uh, what do I want to show you? Just want to show you how I like the fact that he's just a goofball. He's he's not worried about, you know, looking cool or anything like that. As you can see here, here's in his high school running around in a gorilla suit going high school. Amazing, man. Yeah. One more. One more gorilla cuz I can't believe he went into the war. I never return. I mean, that wasn't I' I've I've seen too many people do 80 pound curls. I know that wasn't like the strictest curl. And now these videos you're backing up. This is when uh here's a here's a little video that shows you what he used to look like before he started getting, you know, as bulky and put on as much body fat. Just so you burgers on the cut. Let's eat them. Yeah, man. So, any comments, guys? No, we got six. Let's see what you guys have to say about him. What's up, Sarosas? That is all the Armenian I speak, my brother. Yeah, finally his real voice because it's it's like a character he does. It's almost like a pro wrestler. Yeah, let me tell you something. mean Jean like Hogan and those guys uh Macho Man used to do, but you actually do hear him speak sometimes. Sometimes he's not because he says so or his blood test. Well, special ed, I don't I've never seen any evidence. I honestly don't even care if he's natural or not. I the weights he's moving as an 18-year-old. Even if he was juiced out of his skull, I would still be impressed. That's a lot of freaking weight this kid moves. And I understand he's got a lot of body fat, but he's got a lot of muscle mass, too. His height, he claims to be 5'11. I don't know if he is or not. Other people are saying he's more like 5'7, 5'8, but uh man, he's he's a big freaking kid. Banana monkey clip. Yeah, he's hilarious. Going show later. Uh no, Saros, he's talking about uh today is the NPC Jay Cutler Classic in Boston, but I'm going to see uh a guitar virtuoso named Buckethead. Some of you might know who he is if you're in really into guitars and that that style of rock. It's like uh guitar virtuoso. It's like three hours guitar solos. He does he does have a drum runner bass player. His Buckethead. Buckethead was with uh he always wears like a Michael Myers mannequin mask and a KFC chicken bucket on his head. This will be the third time my son and I have gone to see him. Um so that's why I'm not going to the Cutler show later. Going to that with my son. Why did I FBB elite separate from Oh, uh, well, I don't know all the details of why the IFBB ProLeague and Elite, they split off from what was just called the IFBB in 2017, I believe it was. It's 2017, I think. So, I think that's that was the year it was. Uh, so, um, what's his name? Can't even remember his name right now. Over in, uh, Spain. He runs the IFBB Elite and Jim Manion runs oh it's what the hell's his name? I can't multitask. I can't think of too many different things at once. Uh someone will tell me in in the comments in a minute. Uh they split up and so Jermaine runs the IPB Pro League which has still has all the prestigious events, Mr. Olympia, the New York Pro, all those u Arnold Classic and then there's the IPB elite over in uh in Europe mainly. Um, the hell was his name? Raphael Santo. Raphael Santo. So, they're never going to reunite again. They're They don't like each other. Um, they'd both like to see the other one gone. So, no, there's there's absolutely no chance they're ever going to reunite. Raymond seems very one-dimensional. You need to watch some more depth like Sam Sock. Well, Sam's serious. I understand Sam's content is it's more real in terms of he's explaining what he does and his motivations, how he's feeling that day, what's going on in his life, things like that. This kid is like pure entertainment comedy. I assume he's trying to be funny. He must be with all the masks and everything. But it's just a different style. I mean, Sull obviously is doing wonderfully with the style of content that he produces. Millions and millions of what 30 million followers, 20 million, 30 millions of followers on Instagram. Many many millions of followers, millions of follow millions of subscribers on YouTube. Yeah, Sam's content resonates with a lot of people. Um, this kid's this kid's a nice alternative. N doesn't matter me with cringy hilarious sweets. Yeah, you don't have to like it. Harry Palms runs Harry P. No, it's actually Raphael Sana Jr. Let's see if there's anything else I want to watch from this youngster. This is when he was only 17. 17-year-old chess presses. Let's see. You're going to be misidentified for a girl after this dumbbell press motivation. Let's do it. We got in the tank today. Come on. Are we doing anything? Of course we [\h__\h] doing something. Lifting some weight. Let's go. Oh [\h__\h] We hungry today. Let's go. 115. I paid 15 bucks for a pound of chicken last week. Let's go. We got a little middle schooler in our hands. Let's go. Let's go. Oh, wait, wait, wait. Yikes. Damn it. Yo, that's that big step of [\h__\h] You're going to be misidentified for a girl after this dumb press motivation. So, we got in the tank today. Yeah. Someone actually in the comments said something rude. Ever seen so many dudes angry at a kid for making content that's just shits and giggles? He's big. He looks crazy. Yes, he's not shredded. Do you want him to be shredded? For what? For your viewing, you're a grown man. Come on, let him do his thing. Exactly. You don't have to like it. You don't have to appreciate his content. The chicken last week. Some of you will like it and some of you going to be like, "Oh, thanks for showing me this wrong." Some of you be like, "Ah, this kid sucks." Uh, just pictures. You can see that's what he looks like normally. Young LA sponsors him. Huge kid, man. huge. Yeah. And I know I people always get triggered when I say someone's natty because like he's not natty, you know, how could somebody be how could somebody that that young be that big natural? I honestly I I'm not going I'm not vouching for him and I I don't even care if he's natural or not. I really don't. We got Let's make it Put it in the microwave. 32 seconds. She's going to try it. Give her honest review. Yes or no? Yes. How much out of 10? Five. Five out of 10. We got cake. Let's make it. Yeah, I think he's hilarious. Personally, I think he's hilarious. Pro social media back in the days would be a lot more beneficial. Oh, I mean, I often, you know, I wonder social media hasn't been around that long. I wonder what it would have been like if we had had Instagram, you know, forget about Facebook, I guess. What if we'd had Instagram and Tik Tok and YouTube 30 years ago, 40 years ago? Yeah. we would have really gotten to know these athletes, all the pro aletes on a much deeper, more personal level because they could have been posting content every day, showing you what they do in their daily lives, family, friends, gym, hanging out, food shopping, whatever. You know, everything gets everything gets put on social media now that these athletes do. But back then, all we had was the magazines and there would be like interviews with them, workout articles. They might be mentioned in a gossip column here and there, but we didn't know much a whole lot about them as far as their day-to-day, what they were really like. Usually, we only saw them pictures and videos of them, usually pictures, uh, when they were in contest condition. So, we never even saw these people offseason unless they were guest posing or something. Uh, I think a lot of people back in the old days before social media, especially assumed that these pro bodybuilders were always huge and ripped because that's the only images we saw of them. Um, you know, unless again like like unless they were guest posing or something, but man, we would have had a whole different perspective on these on these guys. He's funny to me. Randy Savage style. Yeah, you love him or you hate him. I get it. Honestly, when I first saw him, I thought he was annoying. And then I started watching it and he grew on me. It took it took a couple weeks. I started looking at his content. I was like, you know what? He's just having a good time. He loves training. He's super strong. Clearly loves to eat. I mean, what's not to like about the kid? You know, you might not like the uh the fake persona, the the it's like a pro wrestler voice. You might not like that. That might rub you the wrong way. Why does everybody have to be young? That's a character. It's like, do you guys Some of you probably follow, A lot of you must follow because he's got a million subscribers on YouTube. Coach Greg Ducet. Coach Greg Ducet does most of his videos in this high-pitched whiny voice that reminds me of uh the par Gilbert Godfrieded as the parrot in the Aladdin movies. Can't remember the parrot's name. who cares? But that's not his real speaking voice because other times he speaks normally and you realize that that that voice, the high pitch whiny voice shouting almost, it's it's all for the camera. That's not his normal speaking voice. But it gets your attention and clearly it got a lot of subs and views. He's got, like I said, I think Coach Greg has three million viewers on YouTube and every video he does he puts out is like a minimum of 100,000 views. So clearly a lot of people dig it. Craig Elias in high school. He does remind me of Craig Golias. Craig Golias is like uh uh yeah, you call him a bodybuilder. He's a bodybuilder, but he's to me I I believe he's got all kinds of stuff in his shoulders and arms. He's got a little head. He does all these pictures where he's like leaning back and you see this massive like looks like a 30-inch arm and 400 pound body with this little peanut head on top. So yeah, Craig L in high school. Yeah, I think this kid's hilarious, man. You know, like I said, you don't have to like them. See if there's anything else from him. See, fat triceps, shoulder press, sleeper builds, got a motorcycle, too. Good for him. Okay. Yeah, I I think the kid's funny. I I think he's super strong. What's this? So, he's 17 here. This was 36 weeks ago. He's 235 there. He's probably put on 15 or 20 pounds. Um, but that leads me to believe he must not be 5'11. If he was 5'11, even right here, he would probably be more like 260 to 270. So, I'm going to take a wild guess and say he's probably more like 57, 5'8. I don't care. I'm only 5'7 and a half now. I was never much more than 5'8. So, you know, I'm not I don't I don't rip on guys for being short. I never would. That'd be the pot calling the kettle black, as we say. But, uh he's probably not 5'11 as he claims. And again, I don't care. I don't care. I just think he's funny. Anything else funny? Hunting for the creatine. Pizza. Cuz I love pizza. Perfect for senior year. Oh yeah. Tight end straps. Can fit my books in here. My creatine. Where's the creatine? pizza cuz I love pizza. Perfect for senior year. Oh yeah. Tighten the straps. Yeah. Someone said, "Why all the 52 guys say what's this? Yeah. Yeah. I think it's hilarious. Why are there only 18 people in this live? Well, I didn't announce it and it's, you know, it's not like I'm If I had in the title like Nick Walker or Martin Fitzswwater or something, I'm sure there'd be a lot more people in the in the live. That's fine. That's fine. I appreciate all you guys who are joining me on this. Ron, your son's competition prevents you from hitting Pittsburgh. What about the New York Pro? Um, honestly guys, uh, I'm I'm making enough money to pay all my bills, but I don't have any extra money extra money as far as like going down to New York Pro. I can drive there, so it's only a couple tanks of gas, but it's like 200 300 bucks a night at the hotel. I'd have to be there two nights if I want to grab some interviews. The channel doesn't make that much money. Uh, I do have a sponsor, thank you, Euro Muscle, but just as far as a return on my investment, it wouldn't make any sense. And you know, to his credit, uh, promoter Steve Weamber, he did, we had a conversation a couple months ago, and he did offer. He said he would give me a good seat, press pass. So, we'll see what happens. Maybe things will change between now and then because, yeah, I'm definitely not going to Pittsburgh. My son is competing that day at the Natural Massachusetts Championships. Um, you know, I want him to do he's doing one OCB show a week from tomorrow. That's May 4th. The OCB Spirit of America, that's a natural organization. And then the NPC has a natural event that same Saturday, six days later, so he's gonna hit that because it's a natural Massachusetts. I wouldn't put him in a non-ested show. He doesn't have a lot of muscle mass. He's in really good condition. He's a great poser, but he's 5'7. He's 134 pounds right now. He would he's going to be, you know, I'm going to have him do open banttom weight at the natural mass because he's a bantamweight. And I'll have him do uh True Novice because it'll be his first NPC show. So, good times. Craig always out angling bathroom doors, man. Craig Elias. Yeah. You know, Lee Priest would compare. Oh, at 18. Well, Lee was Lee was built far far better. Obviously, Lee was probably one of the the best built 18-year-olds in the history of mankind. Uh, he had won the Australia title twice by that age. I believe it's 17 or was it 17 and 19? As a teenager, he won the Open Australia, not the teenage Australia. He went in against all the grown ass men. He won it twice. They didn't give Lee a pro card because they thought he was too young. Uh but then a couple years later he was out in California. He was going to do the guy I was working for at the time actually flew him out from Australia and he was going to have Lee stay there for a while. We do some filming with him. This is for the ESPN American Muscle Show. And then Lee was going to do the Niagara Falls ProAm show as an amateur which was a couple weeks later. Jim Manion happened to be at Gold's Venice. Met him and come up and said, "Geez, who are you?" Had never heard of him before. immediately got on the phone uh to Wayne Demilia in New York and said, "Get this kid a expedite a pro card for this kid. Let's get him in the Niagara Falls as a pro." And I think he was seventh place at his pro show that he was supposed to do as an amateur. Just found out from Muscle Discord there's no stream for Pittsburgh. What? What? That I don't know about that. You know, I I go on Muscle Discord usually every Monday night. So, I know Matt Sinkerang is uh he does his research and everything, but I don't know where he found that. That's awful, but I don't believe it because we still have uh almost two weeks before Pittsburgh. Yeah, we have like two weeks to Pittsburgh is two weeks from today. So, there's still time for them to put a a live stream together. Start selling feet picks. No, I I've had offers Kane for weirder things that you know, webcam stuff, and I'm like, "No, man. Not only am I way too old and you know I'm dad all I just have my dignity and no offense to the people who do all that stuff the cam work and my whatever but no it's that's not me man I don't want to do it for your son I mean I'm very excited it's his first first show he's 25 years old I started competing at 19 loved it had such amazing experiences met so many cool people I'm very excited for him let's crowdfund you now man I I'm not I wouldn't do crowdfunding I wouldn't do a GoFundMe. I'm not going to ask people for money. I mean, if it's if I want to go, I need to come up with the money. I mean, I do some coaching. I'm not complaining. I'm not broke or anything. I'm paying my bills. I'm getting by. I'm doing okay. I just don't have extra money. And going to these shows for years and years, I had my my job sent me. Muscular development. You know, I worked for them for 20 years. And I was probably covering shows for them from about even though I was only online editor from 2017 to 2023. I was going to shows uh working for them probably from like 20 2010 on I want to say. So they sent me a lot of trips. They always paid for my airfare, my hotel. I had a couple hundred bucks a day for meals. So I didn't have to spend any of my own money. I mean, and in my head I said, "Why should I? I'm there for work. The company's the company's uh hiring me to to go work there. I shouldn't have to pay for anything. But now that I'm on my own, I have to cover every little expense and those things add up." Damn. Jake, let's get around the Olympia. Well, I'd love to work for the Olympia in any capacity, and you know, they know I'm interested, uh, and we've had conversations, but nothing's ever come of it. It's kind of like, you know, I was with when I was with MD, there were I'm not just singling them out, but there were a few people who said, "Man, too bad you're working for MD. I'd love to I'd love to have you on my team or this and that." I'm like, "Oh, okay." And then MD was gone, and all of a sudden, I hit these people up and they weren't interested anymore. I think it's kind of like I think it's kind of like a lot of women are into like married men because they know they can't have them. But if a married man suddenly gets divorced, they're usually not interested in him anymore. They only want him because he was married and unattainable. Once they could have them, they didn't want them. So what a weird analogy for myself and employment. I know. Sweet Jes been offered weird as well. Well, I'll tell you the one of the weirder things. Someone wanted to buy my used posing trunks. This is probably like 20 years 15 20 years ago. It was a long time ago. They wanted them to still smell. They said, "Don't wash them." So, I said, "Okay." And, you know, we negotiated and I was I was I was going to get $600 for a pair of my crappy old posing trunks with, you know, sweat and posing oil and stuff on them, tanning crap. He never gave me the money, but I was ready to send him that. I mean, that I would have done. It's not like I was selling him my semen or something. It's my used trunks. I'm not about to do anything like that anymore. I'm not I'm not desperate for money, guys. Uh I hope it didn't come across that way. I know what you're saying. The economy is a bastard. It's not the I don't know if it's the economy to blame. It's just, you know, what I do is very niche. You know, what I did for MD was very niche. Uh magazine writer, there are there's like no magazine writers anymore. And there's there's very few writers making any money in bodybuilding anymore. Very few. I mean, they can go anybody who needs an article on something. Maybe an interview is different obviously because you have to speak to a person, but you can go to chat GPT and say, "Give me an article called eight ways to lose body fat fast." and it it'll spit out an article which you know it might have you might have to do some minor edits but you got a readym made article for free in like 10 seconds. So yeah, AI has put a lot of writers out of work. Just like it's putting a lot of artists out of work. That was me between you and me, bro. Ah, funny. 600 bucks. 600 bucks. Yeah. 450. No, it was uh I don't know what the initial offer was. I think it was 500 and I said, "Let's do 600." He's like, "Okay." Money never came. I was ready to send it. I mean, do you want to take It's like that woman that there's a woman that sells uh farts in a jar. I can't remember her name, but it was l some some chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick chick show showing my age here calling a woman a chick some woman young woman um was selling her farts in a jar she would fart in a jar put the lid on I think she put a rose in there too for anyway $1,000 and she was getting she was selling like five to 10 of those a week so think about that money 10 times a th000 is $10,000 a week that would be like $300,000 a month, right? Times 12 months. So, one over a million dollars a year she could have been making from her farts. I mean, I I fart all the time if somebody was paying a thousand bucks for my farts. I could have a a palace in Belair. I could have a yacht. I could have lambos. All that crap. Chat GPT ain't that good. I've never, you know, people have been telling me to download it and I don't even know if it's free or not, but I just haven't got around to doing anything about it. Uh yeah, but you know, like to the AI AI art, like I use a occasionally I'll use an AI image for my thumbnails and stuff. You know, they look pretty cool, but it's it's they're very obviously AI. I'm sure it's going to get better as time goes by. Her boyfriend was definitely filling the fire truck. I don't know if she had a boyfriend, but you know what? I I wouldn't I wouldn't I wouldn't be I would never want uh uh to be with a woman that was like I guess nudes are one thing but there are a lot of guys who have these only fans girlfriends and the girls are having sex with other men on camera. They're basically porn porn actresses except you know it's not a porn company production company. It's just them doing it on their own. They're producing their own porn. And a lot of them uh they say well that's not cheating on my boyfriend. That doesn't count because that's work. kind of like how a prostitute would probably consider that or an escort. That's work. It's not my personal life. But these guys are fine with it because I guess maybe because they're making so much money and the guys are enjoying that lifestyle and they don't have to come up with all that money for her uh $5,000 bags and $3,000 high heels and trips to Fiji and Aiza and you know all these places these guys go 250. Even if I even if I was only selling a hundred bucks uh charging 100 bucks, I would make a lot of money. The real report copyright contain political signs. I work contract based all my time. Get a good job elsewhere with AI annotations. Yeah. $38 an hour. Yeah. I mean I I look back and I hate to be that guy that keeps looking back look living in the past, but oh man, I was making really really good money at writing for a long time. I actually made more money before I went full-time. the the couple years before I went full-time with MD, I'd say probably from like 20 2010 to 2015 were my highest earning years. And it was it was I had a couple years over 200 grand. I think I had like three years in a row over 200 grand. And it would be like even with MD at those times when before I was on uh before I was on staff and and working on a salary, I was paid per article. It was 750 and that was whether it was a column or an article and I could bang out sometimes three or four Q&A columns a day at 750 each. So the money was great. So I'm very very appreciative that I had that opportunity. And in my heart of hearts, I knew it wasn't going to last forever. you know, times change, technology changes, um things things, you know, magazines were they had a hell of a run and now they're they're they're just not the way people get their information and their entertainment uh anymore for the most part. So, you know, who knows? I mean, there's still things that could happen. I'm optimistic. Try an internet business called Panties for Prisoners. That chicks. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The prisoners had money for these panties. dragging remote jobs writing you a CV called Case for brother stuff you've been doing. Thank you for the uh thank you for the uh Yeah, I mean obviously fitness writing is my niche. Uh I I go on link I'm on LinkedIn like there's all these jobs for writing and like medical field and law, you know, real estates. It's things I have no interest or knowledge about. I mean I'm I sort of painted myself in a corner. I'm very good at what I do or did or do but it's a it's a pretty limited range that I that I work in. It's the fitness and bodybuilding realm. So, yeah. But I'm I hope I'm not complaining, guys. I'm not trying to complain. I'm not I'm I'm okay. Um I'm very grateful to still be able to pay my bills. My wife works, my son works, everything's okay. It's just, you know, I don't have a lot of extra money. There was a time, you know, I really hand it to my wife. She's been with me when we had like no money, when we were living paycheck to paycheck. She's been with me when we had tons of money for us. Tons of money. And we weren't like rich, but for both of us who grew up with uh with not very much, it was it was a lot of money for us. And we had some nice things. We bought some nice things. We went some very nice vacations and so on. Had some nice cars. So, you know, I'm not complaining. I had a great run. And my It's not My story is not over yet. You know, things will turn around. I'm not complaining, guys. I'm doing fine. Anyway, I want to go walk my dog branch. And tonight, I'm going to see Buckethead, the guitar virtuoso. Yeah. They written for magazines hundred thousands of years. You have a narrow mind. No, I I've I've I'm sure my writing I've I've had 5,000 articles published or more. So, I'm sure my writing has reached millions of people over the years. My videos have reached millions of uh I bodybuilding is what I know and it's what I love. So, yeah. Had a great run. Still a [\h__\h] man. Yeah. I hope I didn't when I say had a great run, I don't mean to say uh you know, like it's it's all over. I'm I'm retired. I'm uh I give up. No, man. I don't I don't give up. I'm not giving up. No, not at all. But uh yeah. Yeah. Where am I? Anyway, guys, uh I appreciate you watching today. I'm going to go walk my beautiful pitbull branch, the Bubbas branch, my good boy. Uh and that's it. So, uh thanks for watching. I will talk to you guys later. Have an awesome weekend or what's left of it. Peace.