 sekspof veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya veya and women all around the world across the board. The chances are you watching this, you're either going to die of a heart attack or cancer. So a heart attack is something you need to know about. And we're going to talk to Giles. Giles, you're someone who's been through this. So you've told bits and pieces of the story over the past few years. This fateful day, you just told me May 15, 2022. But let's go through it because a lot of the viewers, unfortunately, you're going to have this is going to happen to you probably. So maybe you can prevent it. Maybe you can manage it. We'll see where we go with this. But Giles, you were in Ireland for a muscle contest and you were doing MC duties. You were at the podium. So walk me through how, first of all, were there any warning signs in the days leading up to this that something was amiss? First of all, that's a very cheery start saying basically all you viewers, you're all going to die, guys. But hey, listen to this. This is really entertaining. Yeah. No, it was. So basically, I was because I would say I was really building everything because after the pandemic, I was really building everything in this studio. I had like five, six online shows, filming, producing, you know, editing. I was doing everything. You know, it's all different, all different stuff with Ronnie and the pro league, everything, MD, the female show, everything. And then I was like, right, I want to really push what I'm doing, you know, because obviously you and me kind of had one of the last two sort of really the last two writing jobs in the industry. You know, we kind of hung on, you know, years after, you know, Flex magazine folded and everything else. So we were kind of, so I was always looking to do more, do more. And kind of, you know, because the thing is, I've done so many different things in the industry. I like doing lots of different things in the industry because I like learning, you know, and like I've been a photographer. I've been on the other end of the lens. I've been on stage. I've been, you know, I've done everything. I mean, people, you know, people know, know of me, know probably most of what I've done, you know, over the years, if they followed me over the decades. And, yeah, so I was looking to start emceeing shows because I was supposed to emcee an amateur one in Cyprus for the NPC, for Avramas Kiriakou and Mo El Masawi, you know, the New Zealand promoter who used to do, he was top 10 in the Olympia a couple of times, now a promoter and a judge, because my dad was living in Cyprus at the time, retired at the time. And I was looking, so basically that, and then obviously the pandemic happened and that got cancelled. But I was really, because I'd emceed a couple of non-pro league shows and I really enjoyed it. So I wanted to sort of, that was the next thing I wanted to sort of take on, you know, because there seems to be very few MCs, but tons of shows and, you know, the shows at the time were just exploding with the NPCs since the split in 2017. So basically I was looking to emcee. So my first pro league one came up at the, the Island one. So I was really excited and yeah, got up there and I'd been, I'm struggling with my blood sugar for a couple of days because me and Lauren, it was her birthday on the 13th and I went to, for an Italian and, you know, bread, pasta, it was like the worst thing for diabetics, you know, so my blood sugar was really, I was really struggling with it those couple of days. So anyway, so at the day of the show, I was trying to find anything to eat and it was, it was a lovely venue, but like there was no, there was nothing to eat. And it was kind of like, it was not in the middle of nowhere, but it was nowhere visible to eat. So I managed to get an Uber Eats and the, basically the cleanest thing I could get was a Thai red chicken curry with white rice. Now white rice is basically like the kiss of death for diabetics. And I knew it that I was going to be up on stage and I thought, well, I can't eat nothing. So I have to, so I basically just, I'll just eat this and I'll just have to make do, you know, cause it's either that or nothing. And so I ate it and then my blood sugar went and then basically before I went on stage, cause I'm type two, but sometimes if my blood sugar goes too high, I'll have to take a corrective dose of insulin to bring it down. Normally I can get away with not using it. I'll just go low carb, exercise and you know, I can, and I can, I can, I can basically avoid the injections altogether. But I thought, okay, I'm going to need to take an injection to cover this because my blood sugar is up to like 20, 21 and it should be like six to eight. So that's when your blood goes thick and your heart starts skipping beats. And so, and then my insulin pen wouldn't work. It kept clicking through. It wasn't, it wasn't administering. I was like, shit. And they're like, okay, Jules, you know, you need to get up on stage and, you know, to the plinth and, you know, you're going to be up there for the next God knows how many hours. I was like, shit. So basically I knew, I basically knew my blood sugar was going to be running high. So I got up there and then I started like fiddling with the mic and I was, you know, you're like watching your hand do something. It was like it was somebody else's hand. And I was like, what was, what? And I thought, and I thought, and then my legs started like sort of doing this weird thing. And I was like, well, what's going on here? And I wasn't nervous. I wasn't, I was just kind of wanting to get, get going. And so, and then I could feel my heart start skipping beats because my blood sugar was going high, which means it's like, it's the blood goes thicker and it's having to work harder to pump thicker blood. And then, and I thought, oh shit, people, when I start fiddling, people are going to start to notice. Anyway. So the next thing, you know, I said to the girl who was doing the medal, I said, I don't feel so good. And she said, really? And she looked really like, oh shit, really? I went, yeah, I really don't feel so good. And I said, can you get Brian out of your place? And she went, yeah. And she, as long as she knew it was an emergency, even though I was trying to, even though I was being very calm with my response, I was like, I don't really know what's going on here, but I kind of need to just take a minute. So in the next 30 seconds, I was literally running through the back, out the back. And then this, this, this pain just all through my jaw. And then there was some pallets stacked up and I just sat down and I was just basically holding my head, shutting my eyes. And it was just the most painful experience ever. It was, and then he managed to get some, they managed to say over the speaker system, look, has anyone got any insulin? And of course his bodybuilder is going to have some. So then basically some guy in, in flip-flops all tanned up in his trunks came out with this plastic bag and he had all the sealed insulin. So I was banging it in and kept checking my blood and it still wasn't coming down. Cause it takes a while to get into the bloodstream anyway, but I was panicking, you know, cause I was in a lot of pain. Cause I thought it was a diabetic thing because I had no warning shots. I've, I do cardio Monday to Friday. My diet is good. I, you know, I train hard. I keep in good shape as you've seen, you know, I keep in regular shape. I'm lean. So I had no reason to believe it was anything to do with my heart. Cause I'd never had any, anything like a warning shot. I was traveling a lot. I was doing a lot of commentary trips and I felt great. I felt great. Energy was good. I used to sometimes get a little bit tired sometimes, like, you know, like really like almost like narcolepsy, but I just, I, I've been used to that for years. So, so yeah, anyway, basically I mean, where do you want to go to? I mean, basically, yeah, they took me to the hospital, tested my blood, uh, check my troponin levels and they were, they were high, took it again a few hours later and it went really high and it went up to 6,500, which apparently the ambulance lady said was a new record. Wow. So, um, yeah. And then an hour afterwards, because I was on the stretcher bringing me in and I was like, ah, give me something for the pain. I was like, give me some fucking morphine, anything, you know, I was like, I'll do it myself. And then the guy put like two things in my mouth and I was like, what's that? He's an aspirin. I said, fucking aspirin. I said, what's that going to do? But apparently aspirin is one of the best things to give because it instantly thins the blood. Um, so, and then within 15 to 20 minutes of being like writhing in agony, like convulsing in the, in the ambulance, cause it would give me that spray as well to dilate the, the, the vascular. I forget the name of it. It's got, it's a, it's a four letters, three or four letters. So, um, so yeah. So, um, um, um, yeah. And then I was, and then I felt completely fine. And, um, and before they told me I'd had a heart attack, I said, Ron, should we just go? I said, we've got to get a flight back tomorrow. I said, we may as well. And they said, no, you're not going anywhere. So they told me that basically they checked the blood test results. So they had a massive heart attack. And then that turned into three and a half weeks in Ireland. Um, two weeks later, I had a triple bypass operation. My heart was over 80% blocked. Um, which, which was extremely unusual for someone of my age. You know, they're looking at me and they're like, you don't fit the bill. You know? And then like, even when they're wheeling me through the cardiac thing, it was all old people, overweight people, people that you could see that smoked and didn't really take care of themselves. And I'm kind of being wheeled in and I'm kind of in shape and I don't fit the bill. Or, you know, like when the guy looked at the, when I had the angiogram, he's like, what? I said, is it, is it stent? And he says, no, you're way past stent. He says, you're talking like you've got serious heart disease. He said, I'm 45. And he says, well, you've got really bad heart disease. He said, how have you, how have you managed this? How have you got it? And I said, I, it's news to me. I said, I feel fine. I said, I look after myself. I, I don't know. I said, I just, um, that's it. You know, cause I think, I think what it was, I said, I think I was, I thought I was diabetic type two in 2013 after the last time I competed. And I think I was for a number of years. I just didn't know about it. Now, if you don't know, cause a bodybuilding lifestyle, like we're competing lifestyle, low carb lifestyle is probably the best way to control your blood sugar. So what I was doing with my bodybuilding was probably managing as a consequence, which I didn't know was managing my blood sugar really, really well without even knowing it. So it was like, I'd lower my carbs and my energy would go up. And I was like, this is great. You know, most people, when I see when they're low carbs on, on, you know, they're dying on their feet, you know, they're like, and I'm just bouncing around the gym and hitting PBs two weeks out from a show. So, um, so yeah, so yeah, it basically turned out I'd had a, had a massive heart attack, had a triple bypass. They took veins from my, you know, I got the veins, you know, they've got the, you can't see the scar there. I don't, you can see it. It's probably faded now. Uh, they, they, they take, basically they take veins, they open up your arm, they take one from your leg and they take one from your chest cavity. Um, then we can see the scar. It's, uh, you see that it's really, it's too, it's too bright. You can't see it, but I've got a big, big ass, like sort of 10 inch scar where they literally crack you open. Um, in fact, there's one point where they take your heart outside of your body and they attach the veins. Oh yeah, they are. And they attach the veins to cause really raw there. It's a lot better than that now. And they basically, they attach the veins to your heart and then they put the heart back inside the chest cavity, literally sew you up and then, and then send you off to wake up a few hours later in, in terms of care. So, um, yeah, it was, uh, it was, um, it was, it was quite an experience. Um, and, um, yeah, but I also like, uh, cause Ronnie was asking, cause he had his stents and he said, Charles, he was, he met, Ronnie was messaging me the other day and he says, how long does it take before? I said, cause I asked him, I said, are you back training now, Ronnie? And he went, yeah, I am now. And he said, um, they wouldn't allow me to train for five months. And stents is basically what you hope for because you can do it through keyholes, through the arm. They don't open you up. So I was praying for stents, but they went, nah, you know, you're going to have to be, you're one of the, you're going to be in the zipper club, mate. We're going to have to crack you open. So, which is, which is the one thing you don't want to hear. Cause it's like the woman, there's a woman that came in to psychologically prepare you. She's like a psychiatrist almost. I think it's like a psychiatrist. She said, look, it's my job to make sure that you're mentally ready for this. And I just said, um, and then she started describing the operation. I said, I'm going to stop you there. I said, look, I know I've got to have it done. I'm absolutely fine with it. Let's get it done. I said, I don't need to know the details because she said, oh, do you know, then they crack you. And I went, oh, stop there. I said, stop there. I said, look, I know I'm going to have it done. I says, I'm okay with it. Just do what you got to do. I said, cause I can't, I'm probably not going to live without it. So I'm going to have to take my chances on the table because there's a one in six chance. You won't make it. But, you know, I had to sign, I had to sign that to say, look, you know, you understand before you signed it, there's a one in six chance. The guy's words were the doctor's nurse. He says, we can't, we don't save everyone. We can't save everyone. He said, we'd love to. He said, but there's one in six. Don't make it. And I said, well, one in six chances. I used to take bigger risks than that every weekend, but I used to get partying. So I said, yeah, I said, I just laughed. I just laughed and signed it like that. And he just, you could see him like, okay. We thought this guy's a bit weird. But I just thought, well, you know, got to have it done. And I'm relatively young, fit, healthy, you know, ironically. So I just kind of got on with it. The surgery was a success. But anyway, Ronnie was asking about how long it took. And I said, well, after like two, three weeks, I was back here doing cardio at home on the treadmill. I kept a diary every day. So every day the incline would go slightly up or I'd go slightly faster or burn more calories. And I did that for like a couple of months every day, you know, increasing the time, the incline, you know, basically just working my way up, keeping a diary. Then after 12 weeks, I started back training. And then, which it wasn't training. It was exercising. It was like, you know, light exercising training. And then after three, four weeks, I kind of, they said 12 weeks. And this was like about 15, 16 weeks. I was back training hard. And yeah, everything went to plan. Everything went to plan. I used to get a few pains on the, used to like pull my right side sometimes. So I used to get pains on my legs sometimes when, on the, on the, the, the bottom of the scar used to sting sometimes in winter or, but absolutely no problems now. I've, I've, I've, I've had my checkup as well, 14 months after the cardiologist. And he said, he said, Jars, he said, I've got something to tell you. He says, I've been looking at your scans for about 40 minutes, 45 minutes. And he says, I've never seen in all my years, he said, I've like 20 years of being a cardiologist. He said, I've never seen anyone have that level of heart attack and also, but also have zero scarring or damage. He says, you should have notable scarring and damage. He says, but he said, it's as if they've shown me the heart of somebody that's perfectly young, healthy. And, and there's like, nothing's happened. He says, you, it's an absolute miracle. I've never seen it happen. He said, you're very lucky. He, he said, he said, but yeah, he says that's, he said, that is, that is literally a first for me in all my years as a cardiologist. So I looked at, I looked at the risk factors. It's not hard to do smoking, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, obesity, diabetes, and physical inactivity. The only box you tick there is diabetic, that you're diabetic. So in hindsight now, would you have done anything more preventative, more cardio, anything, any, because I know you eat very clean. I know you train, but is there anything you would have done differently that you think might have prevented this? Well, I just, well, I didn't know I was diabetic. I mean, I don't know when I, when I became diabetic. I found it in 2013 because after the show, there was just, I wasn't like filling out. It was still really like my cheeks were sunken in and I was still shredded. And I wasn't, I was eating a lot of food, but I wasn't kind of, nothing was kind of happening. I wasn't kind of putting any size back on it. One way I was thinking, this is great. And then I was filming Ant Fails and Dan Smith, the wheelchair pro bodybuilder. And I was like, I said, guys, can we come back tomorrow and film the interview? I said, cause I feel like I'm going to keel over. And then, and then Ant said, he said, you can go back and forth to the toilet a lot, Charles. He said, and I've seen you, I've noticed you've been drinking a lot. He says, let me just, let me just do something. I want to check your blood sugar on my machine. And he checked it. It was like 26, which is like, my blood was like treacle. And he said, you need to get yourself to hospital. And he said, you're diabetic. He said, cause anything over 10, he said, you're basically diabetic. He said, you're at 26. He said, so that's why you're feeling a bit dodgy, you know? So, so anyway, in answer to your question, I think I wished if I'd known, cause I was really good when I found out I was diabetic, I kept keeping a diary. You know, I took it seriously with the, with the diet, you know, the low carb and I eliminated all sugar. I mean, it's like, for me, it was, it was actually quite easy. It wasn't because I've always been quite disciplined with food. I've competed, you know, so I do feel bad for people that, you know, don't have the knowledge or, or anything or the will, or they don't like eating clean. So for me, it was an easy transition. So it wasn't really much of a, an imposition. I just kind of adapted to it very, very well. So if I'd have known for how many years I was previously, it could have been 10 years. I could have been diabetic and not known about it. And those in doing that time, you know, when I was eating carbs or sugars or whatever, my blood sugar was, was going up and causing the damage. So that's the only thing I just wished I'd known. But it took competing, you know, going from one extreme to the other with the diet, you know, it was after the show. That's when I started noticing, you know, I wasn't feeling, you know, I wasn't feeling too good. And so that's really, there's nothing else I could have done. Cause like I said, I don't smoke. I drink a little bit of red wine. That's the only thing. I went a bit crazy in my twenties, but don't we all, you know, so I don't really see what else I could have done, mate. Nothing, there's nothing really I could have done or differently or, um, I don't know. I think the doctors don't have it. I was going to say you and me and a lot of people watching this, we've done our fair amount of gear as well. That's a risk factor for heart disease. Uh, and then people in the comments are going to talk all about the vaccine. So I can't not mention that. Were you vaccinated? Yeah. The triple vaccine vaccine and then boom. Yeah. So, I mean, yeah, I mean, there was a, there was a period of time where I just thought, is it to do with that? But then I think about kind of the shit I did in my twenties and gear and recreationals and going out to restaurants three times a week and eating two desserts and, you know, and the fluctuations in body weight and, uh, you know, GH and just different things and just kind of burning the candle at both ends. But I think when you're in your twenties, your body can heal and get over a lot of stuff anyway. I think you're quite, you are quite resilient. Um, but you know, I mean, I'm thinking as I got into my thirties and certainly into my forties, all the things I did in my twenties, I didn't want to do in my thirties and forties. So it wasn't like I carried on that lifestyle, you know, I, um, I mean, yeah, I was, I was a bit reckless with, with gear. I never took high doses, but I would sometimes just, you know, I probably should have come off for longer and done poor properly. And, you know, but we all have body dysmorphia and we're all frightened, losing size and, you know, and, um, yeah. And just, and just, you know, the thing is like, I've spoke to you about eating like the six meals a day thing anymore. I think once you get past even 30 or even, no, sorry, definitely past 40. I don't think it's healthy to be in the six, seven meals. Cause I can easily eat six, seven meals a day. I wouldn't be hard for me to train myself up to it. But now I'm down to typically four meals a day. Sometimes I can get away with three on the weekend. Sometimes I can have enough to, and I'm still kind of training hard and I'm feeling my body changing and I'm, I'm, my energy levels are good. So I think, um, like Jay Cutler's talked about the, you know, the, the, the, the important, you know, the food that goes in and stuff. Cause I think that's one of the most dangerous thing because your body can't handle it. Your body's not designed to eat six, seven meals a day. Um, so I think it's, and also now like, I don't, I didn't have breakfast till half past 12 today. You know, so I mean, I don't have breakfast between, between half 11 is the earliest. Sometimes I want to have breakfast till 1 PM. And the thing is, have you seen those progress pictures by training? I look like I'm changing. I'm, I'm, you know, and so my, and I'm fasting and I'm hungry for as soon as I get up. So I'm hungry for like four or five hours, but now it doesn't bother me like it used to. It used to really stress me out. I'd be like, Oh no, I'm going to lose size. I'm going to lose strength. And you know what? You don't. In fact, actually fasting is, that's very, very good for you. You know, it allows, because my digesting and my, and my, my, my body's, uh, you know, especially with the cardio and stuff, it keeps the blood moving around the body. Um, we're not bombarding my body with, um, you know, tons of protein. Like if you look at all my portion sizes, I put a post up yesterday and I just basically put random shots of the food I'm eating now. And you know, the meal, the meal sizes aren't massive. It's all, I don't eat till I'm full to bursting. Um, so my digestion is, my digestive system is, uh, yeah, this one. Yeah. Let's go on next one. That's, that's recent. It's, it's not huge portions. It's fish, greens, nuts, fruits. Um, keep going, you know, steak and sweet potato. It's all basic stuff, but it's not huge piles of food, you know, because I'm 49, I'm 50 in a few months. I don't, you know, I don't, I eat clean. I eat, um, I eat well. Um, I very, it's also very balanced. It's all whole food. There's no, nothing processed. I mean, maybe, maybe the, the whole green rice cakes. I don't have sugar. Um, I don't really have a lot of dairy. Do you know what I mean? A little bit of cottage cheese every now and again, and a bit of grated cheese in my, in my omelet in the morning. But, um, you know, I keep it, I keep it balanced, keep it varied. Um, and I don't have huge portion sizes. So I think that's the secret as well to, you know, I mean, my last blood test results were the best of, I think the best they've ever been. Um, cholesterol is low. Um, yeah, do cardio every morning and, you know, I'm literally, that's why I'm literally sat to the right of that now. So there's my studio. There's the. Oh, I didn't know. Is there a separate building? No, no, look, look, it's the, um, that's the, that's where I'm sat now. Literally where I'm sat. You'll see now, look, right. That's where I'm sat now. That seat there on the right. That's where I'm sat now. Hello. That's where I'm sat now. Okay. What have you? There's a scarlet. There's a scarlet. Yeah. That's my web shooters. Oh, geez. Another one. Yeah. That's one of the legs. And then they take one, they take a vein from your chest cavity as well, um, which they then attach to your heart. And that basically bypasses, um, the blocked, the blocked valves. So that was when, that was when that was after I had my heart surgery and seven, that's me seven days after having my chest cracked open and they let me leave. They, they, they give me a wheelchair. I said, I don't want the wheelchair. I'm walking out of here. And in a suit, no less. Yeah. And that was like, yeah, I refuse to walk out in a bloody pajamas. A lot of bullshit. I'm like, no, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm not leaving how I came in guys. So, um, and they sent me home cause I had to get on a plane and lie about being flight safe. Cause I had, it was in Dublin. I was in bloody Island. I had to fly to get home. I had to lie about being flight safe. Wow. Um, and, um, yeah, the, um, yeah, I was, yeah, I was, yeah, it was, um, I was, they sent me home with no pain relief. So basically seven days before, I mean, that was last night. I think it was last night. I think I posted that, you know, so I'm in good shape. I hold good shape and I'm nearly 15. I stay lean and, you know, and I feel great. My energy levels are good. And, you know, sometimes get a bit heart arrhythmia. It's like seeing you start with them. That was another thing that quite upset me, actually, you know, after the Prague thing. You know, everything happened in Prague. You know, like there was people, certain people, I won't mention their names, just certain people on podcasts, kind of like making fun of the fact that I said, I need to go see a cardiologist after that, because it wasn't what happened was stressful. It was all the shit that came afterwards. And also seeing stuff on podcasts and seeing my name being brought up. And it's like people are saying, oh, he's a pussy and stuff. He's saying, they're basically making fun of the fact that I had to go see a cardiologist. Because the thing is, it does, the slightest thing can trigger like two weeks worth of heart arrhythmia. So my heart can start skipping. And the thing is, when I had the heart attack, that's what happened before I had the heart attack. My heart started skipping. So I have to be conscious. I'm not being a baby. I'm literally, you know, it's like stressful situations can trigger it. And the thing is, I have no bodily response. I have no choice of how my body responds to that. So if it does start skipping stuff, I do actually have to go there and make a point with my cardiologist. So it's, I've just been sensible because the end of the day, you know, I don't want to be, I don't want to be in an ambulance again, being cracked open. Because I'm telling you, if you've been through something like that, you know, you, I think you can forgive me for having a little bit of, being a little bit careful, you know, the next time. So, you know, that was really, that was really upsetting actually seeing how people, because I'm thinking, mate, you don't want to go through what I've gone through. Because if you did, then maybe you might be a little bit more understanding of when I say that. I'm not doing it to be dramatic. I'm not doing it to be a baby. I'm doing it because it's actually, you know, that's basically what the cardiologist said. He said, if you have any incidents, you have to book an appointment, get the ECG, you know, because we've got to, you've got to be monitored. I'm under the guidance of a cardiologist, you know, for the rest of my life now. So anything happens, anything, any stressful situations or anything like that, then I can be in trouble. I can be in big, big trouble. That's one thing. I'm glad we talked about cardiologists. See, I think if I got a cardiologist myself that I started seeing about five or six, maybe seven years ago, just to be proactive, because I said, I've done a lot of steroids in my life. You know, I was pretty heavy for a long time for my height. I think I need to see what's going on and keep track of that. So every year I go see this guy because you can get your blood. We all, you know, everyone says, get your blood work. Great. Check your blood pressure. Great. But that's not telling you what's going on in your heart. You need to have the ultrasound, the EKGs, you know, the calcium score to tell you how, how much, how much calcifications in your arteries. They do a stress test where you're, we have the electrodes and they have you running on a treadmill to get your ejection. They get your ejection fraction, all kinds of things. So I tell bodybuilders, be proactive. Don't wait until there's a problem because then it's kind of too late. The damage is done. If you had been, you know, you had no reason to even think, maybe I should go see a cardiologist. But had you seen one a year, two, three, four years before your heart attack, don't you think that damage would have been evident that they would have said, geez, your artery, you're blocked up. You need to do something. We need to do something quick. Yeah, most likely. But you know, all those things you've spoke about, you know, like, I mean, I've had loads of American friends reel off those things that they can get quite easily. Like for me to get something like that, even on private, they, they just shy away from it. They're like, oh yeah, they don't, they just like, they're not, they're not sort of, they just, it's hard to get in the UK. Like if I went to America, I could probably easily get all those things that you're saying, you know, as a preventative thing, as a, as a, as a follow-up thing after what I've been through. So for me, it's, it's actually quite hard. I mean, if I really, really push it, I can get an ECG. But then, you know, if I get an appointment with my cardiologist, I have to pay so much on extra, extra, extra on top for, I mean, the last time I went to see the cardiologist, he just basically checked my pulse and spoke to me for an hour and answered my questions. And, but that was it. He didn't really do anything else. I was like, look, I kind of need the full, the full works here. Cause I'm, I need peace of mind. I need to know that if I do get this heart arrhythmia, it's not going to be, you know, being carted off in an ambulance again. So I need to know that it's actually just okay. And it will calm itself down or whether I need to address it. So like in America, it seems to be a lot more further ahead when it turns to prevention, because I probably, I mean, I used to get heart arrhythmia, um, even as a kid. Um, yeah, I had a heart, like a heart. They thought I had a heart member when I was like four or five years old and, and, um, and I've had it before where I've, um, where I've, you know, I've had heart skipping. I remember one of my first preps and I think it was, I started taking Clembuterole and it gave me some, uh, yeah, made my heart start really start jumping and stuff like that. Um, so I probably had, you know, probably warning shots even back then, you know, but, um, I think, I think anything you do over time as well. Like, I mean, I just, I mean, I'm, I take one mil of testosterone now with like TRT, which is slightly over TRT, 250 milligram venanthate. And, you know, and I'm feeling and looking good on that. Um, cause I'm not a bodybuilder anymore, but I want to maintain, you know, that picture of the side shot, you know, and it's like, I'm posting that for a reason. Cause I'm trying to maintain a look that I can maintain all year round. So I feel good about myself cause I feel really good at the moment. I feel, I feel I'm, you know, my shoulders is hurting now actually, but, um, like I'm, I'm working around it and I managed to maintain a little bit of shape. So if you see me in a t-shirt, my arms looking good and my abs are nice and sharp. And, and I think for a guy nearing 50, I think that's really, for me, that's very, very important because I don't want to, my, my goals aren't to get big and get on stage now and, you know, and, uh, get a better taper now and all this. It's just, I just want, I want to have something where I can just maintain all year round, look healthy, feel good. And, um, and that's it really. But, um, yeah, I probably, yeah, it's, it's difficult. It's tricky in the UK though. It's, um, it's, it's not, like I said, in America, it's, uh, your healthcare is just, is light years ahead of us. Yeah. You know, if I've talked to Canadians, Canadians tell me a similar story. I think any country with, uh, you know, universal healthcare, even though you can pay privately for, for different things, it just seems like, uh, the standard of care is so much lower. Yeah. You have the NHS, National Health Service. Is that who you're doing? Yeah. And I, I, I, I had it where, um, I was getting really bad arrhythmia and they ended up giving me a, and I addressed it and I went to the GP and I said, look, you've got, this is really bad. It's really stressing me out. It's skipping a lot. And, you know, and I know that's not good. I know that's not normal. And, uh, and, uh, and, um, and they gave me a 24 hour ECG where you basically put the pads on, you put the thing in your pocket and they, um, you just keep it on you for 24 hours. You sleep with it on and then you give it back. And then they check the readings and, um, they give it, and they, they, they sent me the ECG back in and they said, yeah, everything's looks pretty fine. It'll probably sort itself out. And it did. Um, but, um, a lot of the, a lot of the time it's, it's the worry, you know, when something's going wrong, you think, you know, especially I'm a little bit, um, oversensitive maybe, uh, but I have to be, I have to be, you know, because I don't want to go through that again. You know, it's, um, and it's the heart and thing is now, yes. I mean, I know it's probably real, you know, there's, there's a lot of people dying in the, in the industry, you know, and like you said, it is hard. Um, and it seems to be the first thing that causes the most amount of problems. Um, but I try to mitigate that as much as I can with my diet and cause my diet is like super clean all year round. Um, I do, I never do, I only started doing cardio in 2016. My last show was in 2013. I mean, I wished I'd done cardio back then. I mean, I could have eaten more. I would have been able to train harder. I could have recovered quicker. And I'd like, honestly, now, I mean, I can't imagine living without cardio now because there's so many benefits to it. Um, but I would recommend everyone, even, even bodybuilders, um, you know, just do even like 15, 20 minutes, three, four, five times a week, fasted or whatever after training, before training in the morning, you know, fast walk outside. If you've got a dog like yourself, but just implement it somehow, you're not going to lose size. And in fact, you're going to be able to process your food better. You're going to have better. It's better for anything to get the blood moving around the body. I think it's the heart rate up. It's going to be good for your tendons, your joints. So it's going to be good for injury prevention, recovery, digesting food, uh, mentally. It makes me feel so much better. Um, I have more energy means I can train harder. I can, you know, I can recover like after a leg workout to five minutes later, I can walk out there. No problem. Even if it's a really hard one, I used to be out cold for like 20, 30 minutes. Sometimes, you know, like completely wiped out, you know, now I can really hit it hard and then just, just walk out of that, you know, it's, and I'm, you know, I feel completely normal again. So I think cardio is one thing I would definitely recommend. Um, and also the other thing, um, it's going to, is, is this, this, this, this celebrate, I put this on Instagram, the celebration of worshiping the high offseason body weights, you know, cause we've seen a little bit of that recently. And it's like, you know, these targets, these bodybuilders are set in themselves. And I just, and I just, and then I see the comments and I'm like, no, no, you're just enabling these people to keep going. You're motivating them to push it another 10 pounds, another 10 pounds. That's why I think, um, I'm so glad Jamie, the giant got the gladiator gig, you know, the, the TV show. Cause he's now like a major, he's like a major celebrity. Now he's, I saw about on his Instagram. He was there with the King and all these celebrities. He's one of them now. And it's like, cause when I remember when, um, he was working with me last week, like looking up to get 350 pounds in the offseason to, and then it was like, look, to really make it as a pro, you're probably going to have to push the body weight up to 400 pounds. And it was like, and then shortly after that, he just went, I'm done. Um, because I had, I heard rumors. He was sleeping with a sleep apnea machine and his wife was sleeping in a separate room because he was just, you know, probably snoring and just like taking up the bed and the machine, you know, it's not good for a matter. It's not good for a healthy marriage, is it? You know, I mean, but thinking people don't see that stuff behind the scenes, you know, they're, I mean, when I, like, I don't want it to become normality that bodybuilders are sleeping with these sleep apnea machines. I think that bloody, the fact that that's just, yeah, yeah. Look, and the thing is, he's still, he's still massive now and he's still, he's still got a great physique. And, but, um, I think, I think the gladiators, I think it saved his life. Honestly, I really do. Because, because right now I think if he was pushing those kinds of body weights, I, I really struggle. I think he'd be another casualty right now. I think we'd be seeing another obituary online. Absolutely. One percent. Do you remember Ilya? They call him Gollum. I can't remember what his real last name was. The, the Russian, the Russian guy, he was a young guy. He was 27. He was trying to hit 400 pounds body weight. Yeah. It's not, that's not. I remember, um, remember, um, uh, Jeep Swenson played Bane in the Batman film. Yep. Yep. Like he was another one. It's like, it's just, it's almost like once you, I mean, anything over 300 pounds is just, you're a ticking time bomb. I'm sorry. You know? And I know I've seen these things of Samson. I saw one today where he's at 342 pounds and you know what he's aiming for. He knows he's aiming for 350. Yeah. You know, and thing is, imagine, I just, I can't even, you know what I'm, you know what I'm hinting at here? Like, I mean, I don't want to see that. I don't want to see, and people then are like throwing flowers over him and say, oh, this is amazing. This is great. And it's like, no, you need to call this shit out. It's like, I mean, I'm sure he's getting blood work done. I'm sure he's getting, but you know, it doesn't matter because when you're putting that kind of strain on the heart and you know, you're training hard and the hard cardio and the restrictive diet and the stress, you know, of being one of the top guys in the world, it's like, and everything that it entails, it's like these, these guys, I don't want to see, well, I just don't want to see, I don't want to see these guys dropping dead basically. It's like every week, it's about an average of one a week. Somebody that we know, that we knew or knew of passes away. What do we do, Ron? What do we do? How do we, how do we, how do we, how do we fight against this? How do, what, what do we do? I mean, do you, like, you know, I can, I can tell my story on here and I wasn't somebody that was pushing 300 pounds. I was just, I wasn't even competing anymore. I was like a normal guy, you know, but obviously the after effects of what I was doing in my twenties and thirties when I was trying to be a, you know, a bodybuilder and have a physique and push my physical, you know, to the limits and stuff like that and getting shredded condition and then trying to get bigger and strong as I could in the offseason and all about getting bigger and stronger and, and, and more ripped. It's like, it's like, what point, you know, and I'm not, like I said, I'm not someone that was pushing 300 pounds. And now you've got guys like 310, 320 and 300 pounds. Remember when 300 pounds used to be like, oh, this guy's 300 pounds in the offseason. Now you've got like third call out guys in small pro shows, you know, open guys. I think there's, I'm sure I've seen like classic guys up to the, up in the 280s. Wasn't my bumpster like 260, 270? 260, 270. I mean, I mean, earths, even when he was still competing in classic was 270 in the offseason. Yeah. That's a, that's a big guy, mate. And that's, we've got, our hearts are only the same size and you, you open us up. We're all the same inside. Well, the hearts do grow, unfortunately, which is part of the problem. The athlete's hard. It's harder to pump the blood once the heart expands inside. And think about the car, think about the cardio they're doing. And that's like, okay, you've got to get ripped. So, you know, you're pushing two hours of cardio. So that means your heart rate is elevated for two hours. Then you've got to go home. Then you've got to stuff all this food in. And then, you know, but your pancreas is working overtime. And then you've got to come back and train. And you've got to train hard because you've got to get your title back. You've got to win. You've got to, you know, the pressure from the sponsors and the fans and the expectations and the expectations he's placed on themselves. You know, it's like, it's, it's, it's a recipe for disaster. And I just, I don't know. So that's why I made a comment. I don't know if you picked up on it. And I said, oh, Kevin Navrone would disagree. And what I was hinting at was that like, like Kevin Navrone, like in the offseason, used to look like me at my best. You know what I mean? Like you just look like a sort of an athlete, a slightly athletic guy that probably looked like he trained in a t-shirt if you saw him in a t-shirt. And then four months later, he'd be 240, 250 shredded. And then after a show, he'd go back to normal. It's like, what a smart approach. Imagine if everyone could do that. I mean, you just have to ask yourself, would there be as many deaths? Of course there wouldn't. But I mean, there's also, I think, a pressure because of social media. We see these guys every day. They have a pressure not only to, to be big, but they have to stay lean for pictures and videos. So they're probably on all kinds of peptides and RETA. And, you know, there's all, all these, all these research peptides. Not one of them has been through a pharmaceutical trial with a legitimate pharmaceutical. Wow. They're all research chemicals. So there's no evidence of what's going to happen, you know, three, five, 10 years from now, if you're using all these, all these crazy chem, peptide chemicals. I mean, you say about the peptides. Exactly. Everyone, that's what everyone's talking about now. And now everyone's talking about the GLPs. And it's like, now that's another thing on top that everyone else is using. It's like, oh, Nick Walker uses RETA. And so everyone else is using it. And, you know, when you ask these people, oh, I heard Nick Walker's using it. I heard so-and-so was using it. It's a game changer. And it's like, so that's another, another drug that everyone is now having to use. You know, it's, you know, now we're hearing about all this, like small plastic balls, PMMA. And I know, I mean, I find that how, how many of the guys, even from the nineties that you know were heavy users of site injections and SEOs, how many of them got away with it scot-free? Most of them. Oh, no. I mean, I mean, Nasser died, COVID. I don't know what the ratio would be. I mean, it's, it's, that's another thing that, you know, nobody knew what was going to happen in the long term because it was a, nobody started using those until the mid nineties. But you said it, you said it long, long term. We don't, we don't know what the skin, I mean, even like that, I mean the whole, the explosion of the, the, the skinny jabs, you know, we call it in the UK, like the, the, the widespread usage now, it's like, I'm going, guys, we don't know what the long term usage of this is. You know, it's like, it's like when people still talk, when people say about vaping being so much better than smoking and it's like, and then a couple of years down the line, now you hear about all these horror stories of, you know, its own health issues. And it's like, look, there's no, it's, you know, it's just, it's just these new drugs now are always going to come with, they're going to come down with a, with a downside. And, um, you know, so, um, I just, I, I, but I think now I think the whole, the whole body, the body weight thing makes me really nervous. And I think I don't even know how we, we really sort of, unless I, people like myself speak out and say, guys, when you, when you see the comments and you see these pictures of them, you know, like certain bodybuilders on, on weighing scales and, you know, and it's like, and you're, you're, you're clapping for them. Well then, you know, you're part of the problem. You know, you're, you're part of the problem. You're the part of the problem that is going to, you know, when, you know, maybe in a few weeks time, we're going to see the picture, a black and white picture of this guy with the year that they were born and the year that they died, you know, and it's like, and everyone's sad for a day or two, then they move on and then it happens again and again and again. So where, where do we draw the line and how do we draw the line? Well, I mean, it's, it's, it's, I think an underlying issue here is that most of us bodybuilders to an X to one extent or another are mentally ill suffering from body dysmorphia. Yeah. So even if you knew there are some, even if you knew you were doing damage to yourself, are you going to stop? If that means looking in the mirror and seeing a much smaller physique and you're not getting that attention and validation anymore and the likes and the clicks, people saying you're a freak, bro, you're a beast. You're huge. You know, those little dopamine hits every time someone gives you that little comment, even on an Instagram, some stranger halfway across the world. But meanwhile, you know, you're, you probably deep down your heart, you know, you should be taking your blood pressure to see what's going on. You should go to cardiologists, but you'd rather just not know. Ignorance is bliss. It's easier to just pretend everything's okay rather than go to a cardiologist and find out, uh-oh, I'm not going down a good path right now. If I keep doing what I'm doing, I might not see 45 or 50 years old. Yeah. I mean, and also these influencers, they're the ones that there's more demand on them to be in shape all year round. Because at least with a bodybuilder, you know, you can, you can go a little bit fluffy and everyone just goes, oh, you're offseason, you're a huge bro and you're pushing big weights. And, you know, it's, um, it's, it's not as, it's not as bad, but these influencers like, you know, like Carly Muscle, you had a heart attack, um, you know, and then the Gollum guy, you know, someone who's, you know, rich piano. I mean, my God, I've, I've sat, I met him twice and sat next to him at one of the shows. And I mean, I was just like looking at him and everything, his arms look so artificial and, you know, and God bless him. I mean, he seemed like a lovely guy, but like, that was not a healthy looking guy. I just thought, and, you know, and then when you see that something's happened and they die, you go, well, obviously we saw that one coming, but then, you know, it's like, it's sad. It's really sad, you know, cause these guys are like in their thirties, forties. Um, but, um, yeah, so like, I'll be honest, the Samsung 350 thing is starting to concern me now, but what, what, what, there's nothing we could do. There's nothing we can do. Um, hopefully he's, he's with Maripel. Hopefully he's on top of his health. Um, you know, and even he's, he's 40, I think he's just turning 40 right around now at some point. Well, yeah, he was 39 when I was in Hungary in April, 2024. So he's probably died. He's probably 40 knocking on 41 now. And I think the game changes when you get to past 40. I'm sorry. I think your body, you know, I could talk to you about the frequency of meals and stuff. I think you, you need to reduce it once you get to 40, you know, I mean, I was talking to a friend of mine, he's, um, he's just sold his supplement company and he's a tall guy, really big guy. And he's in his mid, he's 53 now. And he, I saw some bitch on Facebook. I said, mate, I said, you're looking the biggest and the leanest I've ever seen you. And he said, he, um, he said he eats two meals a day. He said, wow, he's down to two meals a day. And I, and he said, he said, I do my, my, but all his, all his like training is all geared towards like the hot and he's got, he's got one of those infrared saunas in his house. He's quite wealthy guy. And he's got one of those, uh, ice plunge things. And he says, and I take this supplement of that. And he said, um, he said, only breakfast till like 2 PM. Um, and, uh, and he's just, this guy's huge. I mean, this guy's a big dude. I mean, really, really big dude. Um, but, um, yeah, so there you go. There's a guy and he says, oh, he says, oh, my, my body would not be able to take, um, even four or five meals. Now he says, plus the body's not designed to take that many. Yeah. I don't think the hunter gather, uh, cavemen or whatever you want to call them that we, we all evolved from. I think they were eating once a day if they were lucky. There you go. Yeah. They weren't, they weren't having chicken and rice every two hours. Um, do you, um, did you see Ian Valliere's latest update? No. Yeah. It looks like he might be gearing up to do something. See, thing is, I mean, I, um, like I think, I think Chris Bumstead will compete again because I think after a couple of years, you'll see the engagement because he's very numbers driven because he's all of, most of the focus on that guy's Instagram account there. The phenomenon that is hidden is that amount of followers he's got. And the thing is you could tell engagement by the numbers. So, and you can tell how interested people in all of him by the numbers. So if he doesn't, if he's just posting pictures of him and his kids, which is lovely. And, you know, and here's me doing this sort of different sort of, um, high rocks training or whatever training I'm giving a go for the next couple of months. If people start to lose interest, the numbers will reflect that. So if the numbers reflect that, um, you know, it might, you might be thinking, shit, that's Ian now. Huh. Looks like, uh, looks like his goal about what he was supposed to get into like cycling or not, not years. He was, I thought he was trying to get into some, was it running he was getting back into? I think it was running. Well, obviously that's gone out the window, but, um, the thing is he's still relatively young, isn't he? He's only like early thirties. Yeah. He's not, he's, he's not much older than, he's probably like three or four years old and won't than Chris. Yeah. So, um, I mean, there's a guy that I'm thinking is, and also something, something interesting to note is that he said he's doing it on a fraction of the gear he used to take. So he said, that's the thing that he's taken away is that since he stopped competing, he doesn't feel the need to push the dosages as high because he's not competing. He doesn't see the point. And he's obviously just trading for the love of it. So the pressure's off the competing. He's probably just eating well because that's what he likes to do. And look what's happening. He's probably, you know, the, the, the pressure of competing is off now. So it means that you can, you can just pursue his passion of training without, without the pressures that come along with it. And his body is responding on less gear on a fraction of the gear. So guys, you know, the, the difference between you and that top pro isn't because they're taking X, Y, Z in, in huge amounts. It's not because it's because of things like genetics and, you know, and the consistency of their training, their diet, you know, everything. And it's also, and it's not, it's not about high doses. I know people don't want to hear that, but, um, cause they want to believe that they can, you know, anything is achievable, but unfortunately, like I'm not going to wake up tomorrow morning, like look like Ronnie Coleman, you know, no matter what I do with gear, food, training, no matter what, I'm never going to, you know, it's never going to happen for me. It never was. So you have to understand that, um, it's not just about someone giving you that magic formula of taking X, Y, and Z and, uh, you know, or this compound that you've never heard of you could, this person can get and stuff like that. All right. Let's end, let's end on a high note. Cause this has been kind of a downer of an episode. Not really. Cause I'm still alive. That's true. I mean, I'm so happy you're still with us, Charles, but, uh, just, just about great news today. You just announced the dates for the first of what's probably going to be two 2026 tours, maybe three, who knows for Andrew Jack Olympia all-star tour. This is your second tour with Andrew, correct? Uh, second tour. I did one in October, 2024. Um, and it was, um, it was absolutely fantastic. Cause thing is like, I'd only interviewed him twice and I didn't know him that well, because most of the people I've toured with, I've got more, I've got a little bit more of a history of, of, with them because I've, cause thing is Andrew is quite relatively new to the sport. You only turned pro in what was it? 21, 20, 20, 20, 22. So 2022, he turned pro and then straight away, Texas pro eighth Olympia, fifth Olympia, you know? Um, so I didn't know him that well. So I was taking a bit of a gamble, but, um, cause of Matthew from the Euro muscle show, I was chatting to him and he said, he said, Charles, he says that Andrew of all the athletes at that first year, he said, Andrew was the first one I booked. He said, and it gave me a really good impression. He said, because he was such a pleasure to deal with. So easy to deal with. He said, um, he said, I, I, I put on from a personal point of view, he says, I would recommend him highly. Um, cause I had a very good experience and, um, you know, Matthew is quite new to the industry, you know, but he's, he's at a high level cause he runs this huge expo in Amsterdam. Um, yeah. Yeah. And he's, he's, he's looking to expand them as well to other countries. I mean, news on that soon. Um, I'm looking to work closely, more closely with Matthew as well. Actually, there's a few things I'm, I was literally chatting to him today because, uh, um, I might even be moving back up, back up North as well to be closer. So, um, cause I said, look, we should get an office together and there's several projects we want to, want to do together. In fact, that one we were talking about earlier with those big names, um, that'll, cause we'll announce that once, uh, once that's, uh, finalized. But, um, yeah, so Andrew, absolutely amazing. And, um, and he's, and he messaged me cause he wanted me to take, take him to, uh, Asia last year, but I couldn't, I couldn't quite pull it together. I had all that stuff with Ronnie, you know, with the Ronnie sepsis thing and all that. And then the chaos of that. And, uh, cause it was back to back with the Lee Priest tour. And, um, so, um, yeah, I had a great experience and, um, and I thought I'd definitely do another one. And then because he's got, um, cause this is a UK tour at seven dates, then he has to go and do FIBO. Then he's got some obligations with his new sponsor, Cytec. Um, and then basically I'm going to fly him into, I'm going to fly him for another tour. Uh, and we're going to do, cause I've got two slash three countries on board so far. And I'd like to get, ideally I'd like to get five cause I've got two more on the hook interested. Um, and then it's, uh, cause he's given me the dates of the, the blocks of dates when he's available. I filled this first one with the UK dates. Um, he goes home and then he comes back and then we do the other countries, but, um, it's, it makes it so much easier when the athletes are easy to work with. I mean, long as you got it, long as you feed him, which is, which is, I mean, that is, that's, that's, that's a challenge in itself. Sure. Um, but the thing is I'm so rooting for Andrew to win everything this year. Like I'm going to make sure I'm going to, I'm going to have his like food, you know, I'm going to have his diet, like literally on a piece of paper in my hand laminated the whole tour. Cause I'm going to be making sure that he's eating on time and, you know, and making sure he gets his workouts in. Cause when I do the schedule, I'll leave him put on the schedule day by day. I'll say, okay, then we've got an opportunity before we get there or to train at the previous gym the next morning, the following morning before we leave, you know, cause I don't want him to miss a workout, a meal, anything, you know? So, cause then he's, then they're more relaxed, um, you know, and they get, you know, they're getting paid, they're meeting the fans, they're promoting the sport, promoting the Olympia title, you know, the, um, what it represents as a, as a, as a top Olympia athlete. And, um, and it's like, then it's no imposition. And then they're more likely to say yes, when they've got a spare week free or, and they think, oh, well, I may as well go do a tour with Giles, make some money and, you know, and, uh, and have some fun. Cause we did, we did have a lot of fun on that tour. I mean, it was really, um, I really, I really like him. He's a really, the thing is, and also the thing with, with Andrew is if you look at his Instagram, that's, that's all it is. It's just him training. You very rarely hear him speaking. So you don't get to know any of his personality. Um, I think it's spending time with him. He's a really funny, interesting, intelligent, like, you know, he's got a lot of thoughts on a lot of different subjects and he's, he's a smart guy and he's educated. He's a qualified guy. You know, he's an engineer. Yeah. He's an engineer. He's not a dummy. Do you know what I mean? The thing is no one knows whether he is or not, because he never hear him. He doesn't really do many podcasts. I went out to bloody twist his arm to get, to do like a 20 minute one here and a 30 minute one in here for the Olympia channel. Cause I, that's, that's the deal I have. I give him some content and then I look after the athletes and, um, and then they back me up with the Olympia name, you know, and, uh, back me up on social media. And that's, that's basically how we've gone along for the last, um, well, seven, six years now. So, um, and that's how we've, uh, that's how we've done it. But, um, have you seen him recently? Do you see that photo of a vice that we posted the other day? Uh, it wasn't really. So what do you post? That one? That one? It goes like, it clicks away immediately. Oh, Andrew. It's like, it's the thumbnail for the post. Like you can screen grab it if you're quick enough. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Is it not at the end or something or, oh, he's a bugger. Uh, maybe it is. I think he just does this drop set hat squats with Kamal. Kamal. Such a tease. Well, I mean, I did see that picture, like Nick strength and power use it in thumbnail, but he, yeah, he just screen grabbed that. Cause he would have paused it. You would have paused it. Andrew doesn't, uh, he doesn't post physique updates. I know. But, um, I mean, obviously I've been speaking to Kamal a lot and he said, um, yeah, I said, mate, he said, I'm so glad to see that Andrew's with you again in Tampa. And he said, yeah, he's, you know, cause, cause I've trained with Kamal. He's, um, he's old school. He's, he's, he's on it. He's, there's no, there's no messing around. There's no fancy. There's no rubber bands. There's no, you know, scientific or like, you know, like, uh, electrode pads. It's like, it's just proper old school training. You know, work for every work for, work for the old greats in the eighties. And the nineties and stuff, and it'll work for Andrew. So I think Andrew just, um, I think he knows, I think he feels this year that this year could be his year, probably like Derek did last year or in 2023. I feel like, I feel like Andrew knows now that he's, and he's got, and the thing is now, now he's got that team of him, Sito and Kamal. Um, cause, uh, cause Sito obviously used to work with Kamal when he was prepping him. So the three of them, there's clearly everything's just clicking into place. So, and I mean, what I saw in Romania, um, I mean, um, like Tarek said, he said another five, six pounds on top of that and, you know, brings the condition and he's dry and crispy and, you know, improved and everything. I mean, realistically, can anyone stop him? I mean, I don't, um, um, I, I, I just, I just, I just think it's his time. I think it's his time. What do you think, Ron? Yeah. Yeah. He's got, uh, he's got tools. He's got, he's got a unique look that nobody else has. Like I always say, there's very few bodybuilders that you could just, you could take the head out of the picture and you'd know in a split second, oh, that's so-and-so nobody looks like Andrew. He's got that small waist, the super wide clavicles, the shoulders, the back. Yeah. It's a phenomenal physique. I, I, I agree with you. He could very well win everything this year. Yeah. 200, 296 pounds on stage with a 29 inch waist. He was in Romania. Yeah. I mean, that is like, that's a, that's a superhero. That's the one of the places I'm taking it. I mean, that is a, that's a literal like cartoon superhero physique look. I mean, that, that's just, and the thing is I've seen him. And the thing is I never really got the hype until I saw him at the 22 Olympia. Do you remember? And I was like, oh shit, I get it now. Cause I saw him and my eyes were just drawn to him and he was sick and he wasn't in his best condition, but he just looked. He looked absolutely insane. I just, I just, something about his presence. And so, so to see, you know, obviously how he looked at the Olympia. And like I said, I've said in 31 years, I'm in 31 years of, you know, doing what I've been doing in the media and everything, bodybuilding. I've never, I've never seen anyone actually improve their physique, not their condition, but their physique as well. From an Olympia to a post Olympia show, you see guys get harder and drier and fuller, you know, you see them change in that respect, you know, because that's something that can be done over a few days. But to actually see someone gain muscle, I've never seen that before. So, and that's, that's basically whilst prepping and training, you know, and dieting and everything. So it tells me that, and the only, the only thing that changed was the fact that he was now training with, with Kamal. So now he's back training with Kamal. I just see only good things happening, mate. And he's, he's, he's a smart guy as well. He's very, you know, he's not, he's not, you know, he's got his head in the, in, in the sky. You know, he's very realistic and he's very humble as well. Very, very realistic guy. But yeah, I'm excited to be touring with him again. I was, like I said, messaging him before and stuff because the poster went out today. And now what I got to get working on now is finalizing this, this international one. So any, any overseas, I'm hoping there's two more countries. I want to get landed and maybe one more and then I'll shut that one down. And then I need to work on some other tours. So I'm, I've got, yeah, I want about, there's about four, four, five, six tours I want to do this year. So I need to, I need to pick up the pace. You're a busy tiger, Joss. Yeah, I want to be, I like being busy, you know, it's, um, the thing is, even with the tours and the life between commentary trips and stuff, there's still big gaps sometimes after a tour when I could be doing something productive, you know? So, and I do prefer to be, um, busy, you know, and, um, and I enjoy it. And the thing is every single tour as well, I learn how to make the next, make the future tours better. So, um, and now I've got Chris as well, collaborating with him, doing the merch and stuff like that. And he comes along and he, you know, he adds a lot of fun as well. Um, and the thing is, that's the thing is like, I genuinely enjoy doing these tours. I have a good time. And this time I'm definitely going to train with Andrew as well. Cause the last tour I didn't train. I was too busy doing social media and taking pictures of them when they're training. And, but this time, yeah, I'm going to get in, get a few sessions with Andrew. Show him how to get big arms like Tiger. Yeah, that's going to be exciting. And I'm, I'm, I'm happy you're doing another tour with them. The first one, I remember all the, the lion, I mean, there's some iconic moments. Oh yeah. He picked the baby up. Yeah. Yeah. The baby was a little lion outfit, a little lion, a lion, uh, like onesie. And he just did that. I said, Andrew, do that again. I filmed it and everyone was laughing. That was an Island. That was, that was good. That was awesome. That was, um, yeah, we had, um, yeah, we, um, cause that was, cause I was doing that 91 days, no alcohol. I think I was on day 87. Oh, and on the law and on the last night, Andrew and Chris, you went to this, uh, this, this steakhouse bar thing in, um, went to a bar in just in Belfast in Belfast on a Saturday night. So it was busy and on the Irish, they like to drink. And, um, and, uh, Chris and, uh, Andrew are both drinking cocktails and like, you know, just wafting it past my face. And it was like the last night and I was like, and Andrew's going, go on, Giles, go on. Chris is going, go on, Giles. And it's, you know, no one will know, you know, you've done 87 days. That's great. No alcohol. You know? And then, um, and Andrew was like, no, no, we should support Giles. We should support Giles, Chris. We, uh, he's only, he's going to regret this if he doesn't do these last four days. So basically I'm just sat there drinking my Diet Coke, you know, in a Saturday night in Belfast with, uh, Andrew and Chris. Couldn't bloody have a nice, a girly cocktail with them to celebrate the end of the tour. I'm glad Andrew was the voice of reason. Yeah. He's got, he's got my back. He's got my back. Thing is like, just even when like he messages, it's always polite and enthusiastic. And, and thing is, it makes a huge difference, you know, when you're putting these things together, because you want to, you want to please them. You want to, you want them to be happy, relaxed. You want them to be excited and looking forward to it. So you want every tiny little detail taken care of, you know, and like, it's like, um, you know, you want to get in a nice, a direct flight that's business class. You know, you want to, you want to make sure that they, they arrive happy and, you know, they've got their food. And so you're constantly paying attention and thinking about how you can, you know, and also so there's not too much traveling and they're not too tired and make sure they get the training in, you know, there's a lot of different elements that, um, to these tours, especially when you're doing them back to back, you know? Um, so we've got some new ones as well, going to as well. So, um, um, I'm looking forward to it. It's going to be good. And this, this tour is very, very well spread out as well, because sometimes if you have them too close together, the gym, some of the gyms can get a bit, uh, and the supplement stores, they get a bit whingy. Um, but, um, they're all happy because they're all spaced right out. And also it's not too much driving as well. So, um, yeah, it's going to be good. It's going to be good. I'm looking forward to it. And, um, because I've got nothing, no tours next month or March. Um, but after that, I want them to be consecutive. I want to be like, I want to do at least four, five, six tours. So I'm looking at Ruffin, LaVroni, Dennis Wolf, um, Phil Heath, I'd love to do another, another one with, um, Clarida, you know, I'm looking at a lot of names. Um, but, um, I messaged Nick Walker and he didn't respond twice. Yeah, but he doesn't like to travel. So just say, bro, I don't really like to travel. It's not really my thing, but thank you. But at least bloody messaged me back. Come on, Nick. Come on. I'll give him credit because I did ask him for an interview about a month ago or six weeks ago. Yeah. And he said, no, thank you. But he replied. Fine. Yeah. Just, yeah. That's great. I'd rather, rather you say no, thank you than nothing. Because the thing is, we put a lot of effort in and we were, we were established and it's like, just, just don't ignore us. Cause it's like, you know, the end of the day, we're trying, you know, you're trying to help them and promote them. And we're not going to put, I think is you, especially, you know, us two, we're very well, we're not going to put them on the spot and ask stupid questions and try and clickbait them and make them look stupid and get a, you know, to sort of, um, you know, like some of these people do, they'll ask them stupid questions and then they've got their clip and then it goes viral. And, you know, it's like, um, like somebody asked me once, he says, well, he says, next time you interview Dorian, you should ask about the Holocaust. And I'm like, cause he's supposed to be a Holocaust tonight at one point when he used to smoke a lot of weed. And I'm like, no, I'm not going to ask him that. It's because then I put him in an awkward spot where he feels he has to answer. He gets absolutely roasted online. And then the next time I ask him, he's going to say, nah, no, thanks, Charles. You put me in a bit of a bite. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Cause that's what I would do. I would be like, nah, sod you, mate. I'm, I'm, I'm, no, thanks. So, you know, you've got to think, think a little bit. And also when, like when I asked about the gear stack, it's like, when I see podcasters going, so what gear did you take for the 98 Mr. Olympia? And it's like, no, like don't do that. It's like, you don't, I've never seen you do anything stupid like that. You know, there are whole channels that are podcasts that that's what the focus is, is asking the guys what they ran, what they're running now. And they have huge, they do huge numbers, but I feel like that's not my business. I just don't, I don't want to put it out there. Cause then obviously if they say I use a small amount, people are going to call them liars. If they say, then people can say, well, okay, well that's what I need to use. I need to use two grams and four grams and 20 I use and all that, because that's what this, and I want to look like that guy. So there you go. I just feel it's for me. I'm not comfortable doing it. So yeah, I'm also one last thing is it, is it, I'm seeing things that it looks like Hadi might not be making the Arnold. Is that true? I don't know. I mean, he's in Dubai right now. Okay. So he's already out of Iran. So I think that's an, that's a really good forebode that forebodes well that he's going to make it because that's where he was last time. I think if he was in Iran, I'd be very worried because of what's going on with that country right now. I, I, there was, I was, somebody from Iran was messaging me actually. And they said, Oh, sorry, I, I, I dip in and out of checking your content because my internet in my country keeps going down. They keep stopped. They keep blocking it. Yeah. So like, you know, I mean, imagine, you know, somebody blocks like your internet access and, you know, and, and stuff like that means you can't, you know, you can't see what's going on with the world. You can't get the word out or message out if something bad's going on. So, I mean, that's a real, that's a really, real big concern, you know? So, at least if he's in Dubai, I would just, I would have like, I'd be like Sean Ray. I'd have like an apartment in America or something. I'd have, I'd have, I'd be going back and forth, you know, at this point, I know he's got his family and everything else, but at the end of the day, he's, he's a professional athlete for only so many years, which will set him up for the rest of his life. So, and to avoid all these pressures and all these stresses, I would be, I'd be having one foot in Iran, one foot in, in America if I was him. So, rather than this, this stress and having to sort of, oh shit, am I going to get there? Am I going to get there? Because, you know, it's, it's, it must be a nightmare for him. Well, the USA, they halted all visa applications to live here from like 70 countries and Iran was one of them. So, no one from Iran is, is going to be allowed in here to live for, probably until the next president that we have, not with, not with Trump. Have you seen the, the new He-Man trailer? What do you think? I haven't seen it. Like, obviously the guy's not going to be 280 jacked, which He-Man was. I mean, it's quite hard to find an actor that fits the bill. That works much. And is that actually that muscular? AI. Just use AI. Yeah. Well, yeah. That'll be the future, man. That'll be the future. There'll be entire films made with AI soon. You watch it. Oh yeah. We're, we're almost there now. So, all right. Well, I want to wrap it up. Cause we're exactly over an hour. And guys, if you have comments about heart attacks, how to prevent them, any experiences you've had, uh, anything, anything you want to comment on that, or if you want to talk about how great Andrew Jack is, and if you think he's going to win all, all the shows this year, like Giles does. And I'm kind of there. I'm not, I'm not a hundred percent, but I'm like 90, I'm like 98% there. But if, if say, Haddie does beat him at the Arnold and Haddie makes it to the Arnold and Haddie beats him, I still think Andrew will win the Olympia and beat Haddie at the Olympia. Because in that time from the Arnold to the Olympia, that's time that is more beneficial to an Andrew than it is to a Haddie or a Derek or, because he needs time to make those improvements. Whereas the other guys, they're kind of as good as they'll get really. So even if Haddie, um, does what he did to Samson in 24, I still feel it's kind of the situation that Samson was in because the improvement Samson made from the 24 Arnold when he got second and the LWK to the Olympia when he won it. Um, he, he needed that time to basically improve enough to beat Haddie, which he did. So I think the same, I think the same will happen to Andrew. And if obviously Haddie doesn't, can't make it or can't show up, which would be really, I'd be disappointed for him. Um, I think, I think Andrew is going to win the Olympia. You see people saying he's, um, that Nick Walker is going to win the Arnold. I just, I don't know about that. I don't know. He needs time to sort that way. No, I agree. But if you're a Nick Walker fan, you got to believe he can at least potentially win the Arnold. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we've seen stranger things happen. And I don't see it likely that Martin or Nick, I think it's going to be between, uh, we'll do, we'll do. We're going to be talking about this as we get closer to the Arnold, but I, most people do see this as between Andrew and Haddie, but we've all seen people come out of the people that we, we thought were going to be fourth to fifth place, win a show. We we've seen it so many times over the years. I, I think Martin will be a, with what Martin displayed at the proud show. I think he's going to be a problem for Haddie. Because right now I think he's actually more complete than Haddie. See, I can't tell. I can't look at his Instagram. He blocked me. But, uh, Oh, a long time. Martin, Martin, Martin Fitzwater blocked you. Why? Uh, I, it was shortly after the episode where we talked, where we finally showed that footage. Oh, from, you know, at the end of the day, this not, it's not AI. It happened. Oh, I know. Exactly. What a shame. What a shame. What a shame. Anyway. Well, Giles, thank you so much for sharing your story. I'm very, very happy that you are still with us here four years later. Yeah. I mean, the world, the world is a better place with the tiger in it. Maybe I'm AI. No, man. I know you're not. It's no AI could be this, this witty and come up with all the corny jokes that we get on the, on the group chat. So, that's it, guys. Thank you guys for watching Power Hour. Drop some comments in there and we will see you here next time on Power Hour. Thanks for watching.