Hey, what's up everybody? Ron Harris here and welcome to part two of my series on the best classic bodybuilders of all time. Make no mistake, this is a series. Some of you saw the first one and thought those are the only seven guys I consider to be the greatest classic bodybuilders of all time. No, there are many. in uh some that are in this episode would have been in the first episode if there was only one. Uh before I get started, if you like this video, please give it a like, a thumbs up, share it on your social medias, and of course, if you're not subscribed to the channel, please do so. Subscribe, doesn't cost you anything. So, let's get right to it. Of course, I skipped over the OG, the original classic bodybuilder, talking about Steve Reeves. Steve Reeves was the first guy that the general public knew as a bodybuilder. He was the first famous bodybuilder, I should say. He competed a very brief time um only from 1946 to 1950, ages 20 to 24. He's 22 years old in the footage you're looking at right here. Uh he was considered by many to be the the perfect male specimen. And that's re those are real weights, guys, that he's using right there with no belts, nothing like that. Back in those days, bodybuilders couldn't just show a physique. They were actually required to do weightlifting before they could do any type of posing because that was the AAU back then. They demanded that bodybuilders show athletic ability. So, they had to do either a gymnastics display or more commonly they would do some weightlifting. So, here's some other footage of Steve. I know this is pretty old, but this does get this shows you the the full routine that he put on back in the day. So, Steve was the uh 1947 AU Mr. America winner at age 21. 1950 he would win his biggest title, the Naba Mr. Universe. He also won the 1948 Mr. World. He was on over 70 magazine covers and starred in 19 films. In 1960, he was the number one box office star in 25 different countries. uh before he even started competing in bodybuilding as a teenager, he served in the US Army during World War II throughout the Pacific, which was absolutely one of the most brutal battleground areas of the the entire war for those of you who know your your history. But Steve Reeves was considered perfect male perfection, perfect face, perfect body, 6'1, 213, 215 pounds. His neck, arms, and calves were all exactly 18 inches. And that's what they strove for back then was perfect, perfectly proportionate development. Those were the Greek ideals. If you look at all the old Greek statues, uh, of muscular people from, you know, couple thousand years ago, they all followed those dimensions. So, Steve Reeves was the prototype for what we call classic bodybuilding, classic physique, all that. He was the original and he was extremely popular. Everyone in the general public knew who he was mainly because of the film work that he did later on. He starred as Hercules in a couple of movies. Most of the movies, if not all, he did show the physique and that's how people saw their first look at a bodybuilder was Steve Reeves. Now, if I was going to do just one video, I would have had this guy in it. Of course. Of course. Good friend of mine and still my favorite physique of all time. We're talking about Ken Flex Wheeler. And here is the show that most people consider his absolute best. It was a week after his pro debut at the 93 Pro Iron Man. It was the 1993 Arnold Classic Championships. The Arnold Classic. He was only 216 pounds here. Very, very light. Because later on, I'll show you some uh later footage. He got much bigger and heavier, but this was the most detailed he ever looked. There's Hunter Labrada as a baby backstage with with Lee and Robin Labrada. Lee took second in that show. But Flex Wheeler was considered by many and still considered by many the perfect physique, the best physique we have ever seen on a bodybuilding stage. The proportions, the shape, the balance, and this show was probably his best condition. As he got heavier and heavier and bigger and bigger, I didn't see the same level of detail in the muscle groups. And I'm I'm a bigger fan of Flex at a at a lower body weight, a little bit smaller, just like I am with Ronnie Coleman. I liked Ronnie a little bit smaller and more detailed. I liked Flex Wheeler a little bit smaller and he still had everything. The full round muscle bellies, the tiny joints, this impeccable presentation. He was a master poser. You could see just his command of the stage, every pose perfectly thought out, the transitions just leave people on edge waiting for that next pose. Flex was something else, man. Flex was incredible. And yes, this was his first year. He had a hell of a hell of a rookie year winning the Iron Man the week before this. He won this show. Then he won two Grand Prix shows in France and Germany. Went on to do his first Mr. Olympia that year and took second to Dorian Yates in Dorian's first title defense. Now I'm going to jump ahead six years to 1999 at the Mr. Olympia here where Flex took for the second year in a row second to Ronnie Coleman. very frustrating because a lot of us thought Flex was going to become Mr. Olympia. We thought he was certainly next in line after Dorian retired, but it wasn't to be. Was not meant to be. Ronnie won both of those years and would keep winning. But Flex Wheeler, there are a lot of people who prefer this bigger version of Flex, and I certainly appreciate it. The muscles are bigger. They're even rounder if that's possible. And he did manage to keep the small waist. He didn't get any kind of a bubble gut or anything like that. I just like the other the previous version because the level of detail was a lot better. The separation between muscle groups. I know the footage, this old footage, the resolution is nowhere as crystal clear as what we get to see today. When you're looking at footage, stage footage that companies like Gilo Productions put out. We obviously didn't have that level of resolution and clarity back then with the video cameras didn't exist yet. The technology wasn't there. However, you could still get an idea of how good these guys looked. And this was about a 250 pound version of Flex. So, it was a good 35 pounds or so heavier than the version we just saw winning the Arnold Classic. And in the comments, guys, let me know which version of Flex you preferred because you're not wrong. Whatever you prefer, whether it was the smaller version of Flex at 216 or this bigger version of Flex at about 250, maybe a little bit over 250. In fact, he did the English the British Grand Prix uh a week or two after this and I think he was bulked up I shouldn't say bulked up filled out to almost 260. So this was pretty pretty much the very tail end of Flex's career. He did make a comeback in classic uh you know as an older guy many many years later but this was this was the best flex wheeler in terms of size that we ever did see. And he could still do the splits. He still put a lot of time and effort into his presentation, which you know, you got to appreciate that because a lot of the guys these days, they don't put any time or effort into theirs. All right, let's move on to another guy. We're going to go back back to the 70s for this one. Talking about Serge Nubé. Serge Nubé was known as the Black Panther. And there's a lot of still photos in this one. Uh, all the footage I found of him posing, it was really grainy. It didn't do his physique any justice. So, you probably saw him in the movie Pumping Iron where he took second place behind Arnold and he beat Largno in third in the tall class that year. I don't know if it was tall or heavyweight, but anyway, you can see Sergio had more of a round full look to his muscles than Arnold did. Uh, his chest and his arms and his shoulders were just so round and he had a much smaller waist. I don't know what that waist measure, but it was small. Um he had a lot of issues with the IFBB. Um part of it was probably because he was the closest person for a couple years to beating Arnold. And in those days, you couldn't beat Arnold. Arnold was their golden boy. It was Joe Weider's golden boy. He was on all Joe's magazine covers, uh the boxes for his weight training equipment that he sold in stores, his supplement cans, everything like that. He was the golden boy. Just put it that way. So, nobody was going to be beating Arnold. And these were different days, guys. You guys who complain about the judging these days, you have no idea. You talk about corruption in politics now. Ha. You should have been around 40, 50 years ago. That's when the winners were picked based on who Joe Weider wanted to win sometimes. Uh, not necessarily the best guy. And we'll look at some sideby-sides of him and Arnold at the 75 Olympia. And you can be the judge. You let me know in the comments. But the Black Panther, so the reason they found to disqualify him after the 75 Olympia was they said he had appeared in a pornographic film or or films, which uh I haven't seen these films, but I've seen some some brief clips from them, and it looks to me it was not really porn, what like what we would call porn. It was more like regular regular movies that had some some sex scenes in them. So, I don't even know if there was full nudity in these movies, but that was enough excuse for them to ban new Bray. Uh, so he was gone after that. The last IFBB show he ever did was that 1975 Olympia where he took second place to Arnold. Uh, and after that, he formed his own his own organization called WABA, WABBA. Let's take a look at some shots of him and Arnold together while I keep talking. And you guys be the judge. You know, he he had a a different physique from Arnold. Arnold had a little bit better legs and better back. Uh, in terms of shape and structure and flow, I prefer Arnold in some poses, Sergio in some poses. Like Arnold in that side chest, his triceps completely went flat. Sergio still looked full and round and gone on. But in the comments, guys, you let me know what you think. So after his career with the IFBB was over, he went on and did other shows. WBBG had a show called the Olympus, which there was only one other guy in 1977 that he beat to win that. He was a 1976 Pro Naba Pro Universe winner. He won the Pro Universe. Uh, actually he got second, I'm sorry, in 78 the NABA Pro Universe. Lost that to Burle Fox. 81 he would win the Na Waba Pro World Cup, which was his own organization, interestingly enough. I'm sorry, no, 81, he took second to Sergio Leva Jr. 83. I'm sorry. Yes, 83 he would win the Wobba pro. Uh so he appeared in 15 to 17 films. Of course, Pumping Iron would be the most prominent of those films. He also appeared in a 1981 film called The Professional with uh Jean Paul Belondo in France, which is a critically acclaimed major major acting film. So he was known as a serious actor uh over in Europe especially. But the Black Panther Serge Nubé, let me know what you guys think. Um, some people think they really shafted him and that he should have won every time he was up against Arnold. Other people saw Arnold as the better physique. Now, I I I definitely agree. Arnold had him a little bit in the legs for sure. In the back shots, I think Arnold had him. Uh, but in terms of overall flow and shape and physique, I I prefer Serge Bray. Not to say that I'm not a big Arnold fan. Of course, I'm a huge Arnold fan. Which one of us isn't? All right, let's let's end this with uh gentleman we call the lion of Lebanon. We're talking about Samir Bonut. So the first footage we're going to look at is 1983 Mr. Olympia where he was the champion. He is a Mr. Olympia champion standing 5'7 competing about 205. He was born in Lebanon in 1955, moved to the USA later, and he started off his uh advanced bodybuilding career in Michigan, Detroit, Michigan, where he was one of the members of the original Powerhouse gym owned by Willanorm Davish, which was in a very, very rough part of Detroit. Detroit got some rough areas, I'm sure. Uh, but Sam had been competing for a while. In 1974, he competed in the Universe Championships at only 19 years old. So that was against grown ass men. He took seventh place. Turned pro in 1979 at the World Amateur Championships as a light heavyweight at just 22 years old. Made his Mr. Olympia debut in 1981 with ninth place. 82 he was fourth. We're looking at the 83 Olympia here where he was first place. Showing tremendous back development. First time we had ever seen such a crystal clear Christmas tree in the lower back. 84 Olympia he would come back and take sixth. 88 he would place eighth. 89, ninth, 1990, the Chicago Drug Test Olympia, eighth place, came back twice more, uh, actually three more. Yeah, two more times, 91 and 92, where he failed to make the top 15. Uh, so he only had a couple pro wins. He had this, the Olympia, and he won the 1990 Pittsburgh Pro. He also, uh, competed in that WAB organization and won their pro world in 1985. But for a guy with uh such a tremendous physique, he didn't win a lot of pro shows. And you'll notice that that's kind of a recurring pattern among the guys in this series about the greatest classic bodybuilders. Some of them did win a lot of pro shows like Flex Wheeler did. Uh some of them like Samir didn't. And it's just uh doesn't mean they weren't great bodybuilders, just they were up against some some very very tough competition in their day. So that was Samir when he won in 1983. And here's some footage of Samir Bonoot in 1989 at the first Arnold Classic. So this was six years later. He still looked fantastic. He made the top five here. I believe he was third place here. I should have looked that up. Uh Samir still looked up to by a lot of people as one of the most symmetrical bodybuilders of all time. Greatest shape, structure, symmetry, all those things. tremendous detail in certain areas like the chest, triceps, although you really can't see it because of this footage, but his triceps had dozens and dozens of these splintered cross striations. You can see the muscle quality even in this footage. And like I said, guys, we did not have access back then. We didn't have the technology, I should say, that exists now with the cameras are so high- res and you can you could see every pore in the in the skin of these guys, every hair follicle. Uh this is, you know, you could still see the definition of his lower back. Uh Samir is still very active in podcasts and things like that. Uh you've probably seen him a lot on RX Muscle. Uh appears on shows with John Hansen, the greatest historian in bodybuilding right now. But the Lion of Lebanon definitely uh as with all these guys we've talked about in this series, and I'm I'm going to do another couple videos, don't worry. tremendous inspiration for the formation of the classic physique division in 2016. Had there been no Samir Bonude or Steve Reeves or Flex Wheeler uh or these people that we've been talking about, there would be no classic physique division would not exist. So, uh, of course I have more names, guys like Terry Pastel, Charles Claremont. Uh there there's a bunch of guys I still want to cover, but if there are any you want me to cover in this series that you feel were classic bodybuilders that were inspirations for this classic physique division that we have now or just people who inspired millions of people around the world to start training because they they exemplify the artistry and the beauty of the physique. Not just raw raw rugged muscle mass but also sculpture makes you think of ancient Greek and Roman sculpture. perfect shape and proportions that the artists of those time would portray in their in their sculptures and later on years later in paintings. Anyway, that's this video uh continuing the series of the best classic bodybuilders of all time. These are in no particular order, but guys, in the comments, please let me know what you think, who you want to see in some upcoming episodes of this. and appreciate you watching of course as always and I'll see you next