What's up, guys? What's up, guys? Ron Harris here. Hope you're having a great Friday here. Talk today about the classic physique Mr. Olympia. Not as old a contest as the Mr. Olympia. There have been 60 editions of the Mr. Olympia since the Olympia started back in 1965. 18 men have won the Mr. Olympia title. Some of them multiple multiple times obviously or else we'd have 60. Classic physique Olympia much much newer. Did not begin until 2016. So far only three men have held that title. We're about to have a fourth this year because the sixtime champion Chris Bumstead did retire after the 2024 Classic Olympia and this leaves the door open. But let's take a look today at the three men who have held that title so far. Let's give them a little bit of love and appreciation. First up, this is Danny Hester. Danny I know very well. He's my age. He's actually a few months older. He's already 56. Little His birthday's a little earlier in the year. Danny started competing way back in '91. did not turn pro until 2013 at the age of 44 with a second place at the NPC nationals as a middleweight middleweight. Didn't think he was going to have any chance to compete as a pro. Didn't think he'd had the size, but then when classic physique was announced and came along, Danny was right there ready. Always felt he had a beautiful physique that was sort of a throwback. I I sort of compared him to guys like uh Muhammad Makawa, Francis Benfado, uh geez, Frank Zayn, you know, not massive, but just beautiful shape and proportions, like a living sculpture. You can see he had the trunks. This footage is actually from the 2018 Arnold Classic. I could not find any footage whatsoever of his 2016 Olympia win on YouTube, which is a shame. It's really strange, but I I searched and searched. So he was the oldest Olympia Class of Week Olympia champ. He was 47 years old when he won it. This was the first winner. So there's only one first winner of everything. Larry Scott was our first Mr. Olympia. Danny Hester, my man Danny from California, was the first classic physique Olympia champion. So from that, we went to Bion Ansley. Bion just like Danny turned pro as a bodybuilder because again until 2016 there was no classic physique. He turned pro at the same 2013 same year 2013 in the USA as a middleweight. Tried the 212 division a couple times didn't do very well but class of physique came along 2016 he did the first Olympia got fourth and then the next two years in a row he was our Olympia champion. Uh since then he dropped down after that. Bumpstead was runner up to him both times and he was runner up to Bumpstead in his first win. But he held on very very well, staying in the top four for years and years until he finally announced recently that he is moving to 212 at long last. Bion the black swan again, a master poser, crazy arm development, great legs, great back. You know, you don't you don't win the classic physique Olympia or any Classic physique title on a couple standout body parts. You need to have beautiful balance, proportions, flow, uh, and you have to be good at presentation and posing. Danny was very good at those things. Danny reminded me the old school bodybuilders and so does Bion in a way. Bion was in fact sponsored for a long time by old school labs because they saw him as a current link to that old school era of the 60s and 70s where I think he would have fit right into those days, those days of Muscle Beach in Venice. So, Bion, Bion, amazing champion for two years in a row and he still held on very, very well in the top spots for years after that. Again, this footage is from 2018 Classic. I couldn't find any footage from the Olympias that he won. I found footage from Olympias later, but I wanted to show you guys while he was a reigning champion. And again, he's also the only classic physique Olympia champion who entered the Arnold Classic ever. And he did win it 2018. Here he was with his winning routine. Uh he was 37 and 38 years old when he won the Class Physique titles. He's 43 now. He was born in November 79. So he'll be turning 43 later this year. And of course, this takes us to Seabbum, the man. Here's footage of Chris's first Olympia win in 2019. So Chris, like everyone else, Chris turned pro in bodybuilding at the North American in 2016 as a heavyweight winner at the age of 21. 21 years old was uh Chris Chris Bumstead's age when he turned pro. So amazing feat right there. He lost the overall at that North American to Justin Rodriguez who was known as Lewis Rodriguez at the time. So he made his debut at the 2017 Olympia. He he had won the Toronto Pro earlier in the year. I was there for that and the Pittsburgh pro as well. Uh second place in the first two Olympias 2017 and 18 which were the years that Brion Ansley was a champ. Uh so by the and he was let's see 22 years old, 23 years old. So by the time 2019 comes around, you're looking at it right here. He's 24 years old and this would be the first of six consecutive wins. He would retire 2024 at just 29 years old with six Olympia titles. amazing feet and he did set a brand new standard. The other the previous two winners were shorter guys. They were both around 5'6 about 180 lbs. Bumpstead over 6'1. As the weight caps changed, his weight went up from about 230 to a little over 240 lbs through the course of his Olympia reign. So that was his first Olympia win. We're looking at 2019. I'm going to take you to in a second his final win. But man, Bumstead uh also should be noted, as you guys know, he took the sport uh to a whole level of popularity that probably wouldn't have happened if it hadn't been for him, the individual. A lot of people came to Classic physique division as fans simply because they were following Chris Bumstead on social media. Good-looking guy, wellspoken, self-deprecating, humble, hardworking. You know that it it's hard not to like Chris Bumstead. So that was 2019. That was his first win. And here we can see the difference in his final win 2024. He had put on so much size even though it was only a matter of about 10 to 12 pounds that he was able to take a very close second to Martin Fitzwwater as an open bodybuilder at the EVLS Prague Pro. something, you know, uh you you don't think too many there's not many guys in classic that could step on an open bodybuilding stage and do any kind of damage unless they took a year or two off and put on more size. Chris didn't do that. He went straight from the Olympia couple weeks filled out only it was only a matter of a few pounds, something like five pounds, give or take a pound the difference. But we see he had really set this benchmark. Uh, and a lot of guys say a lot of people were thinking because Chris Bum said was the champion, now we're going to have taller guys dominating the sport, which I do not think so because we're going to take a look at the runner up to Chris at this show who was not a tall man, not a not a guy over six foot like Chris Bumpstead. We're talking about Germany's Mike Somerfeld. Yes. So, Mike was the runner up last year's Olympia to Chris Bumpstead. Just won the Arnold Classic. He's beaten almost everybody. We we'll talk about a couple people. He's he's already beaten almost everybody that could possibly have a chance of winning the Olympia this year, the classic Zeke Olympia. That's not to say nobody else has a chance or that he's a shoe in. It's a foregone conclusion. It's never a foreground conclusion, guys. Things happen in this sport. Uh physiques change and improve. We're going to take a look at a couple that I think have improved and then we see we see changing of the guards all the time. But regardless, this year we are going to have a brand new Classic Zeke Olympia champion. whether it's Mike or a couple of these other guys we're going to talk about in a moment. I want to get to Instagram. Okay, while we're looking at Mike there, Mike is about uh I believe he's about 57 195 pounds. Someone correct me. I know I'm not too far off. Not too far off, but I've been known to be off. So, Mike Summerrfeld likely to be our next Olympic champion. likely possibly I should say because as great as he looks there are other people that also look fantastic. Take a look at the miracle bear Urs Kachchinsky. He did not do the Arnold because he wanted to make sure he had an entire year to focus on putting on size for the Olympia. He's got a beautiful physique, great legs, great flow, balance, shape, proportions, all those things. Just needs a little more mass particularly in certain areas, the back and the arms. He's been working very very hard on those. We'll look at some updates. But Urs Kachchinsky, the miracle bear, definitely somebody somebody to watch out for at this Olympia. There's a couple more front runners we're going to talk about. Thing I like about Urs is not just the physique, it's the personality, his passion and his love for the sport, for competing, for being on stage. It exudes from him. You can tell he loves being up there. He loves the sport. He There's nothing else he'd rather be doing. He's living his dream. And that smile is just infectious. He just opened up his own private gym over there in Germany which is fully stocked. Samson's got a new gym. Everyone Derek's got a new gym. Everyone's getting everyone's opening up their own gyms lately. Huh. Sir Erus Kachkinsky the miracle bear. Tell me what you think guys. I mean uh in the comments in the chat who do you think's got the best chance of winning this year and why? Because there's no right or wrong answer. You could say Mike, you could say Urs. You could say Ramandino, say Terrence Ruffin. There's other names out there. Urs is Urs is very, very good. But let's take a look at some other people who are also also excellent and have a great chance. But one last look at Urs. So, the back has definitely come up since I saw him win his first pro show back in Tampa, I believe it was. Was it Chicago or Tampa? I get them confused. That was back in uh I want to say 2020 or 2021. He's another young guy still in his 20s. All right, let's go to who I think has the best couple guys. Couple guys. I'm not going to say one guy, but let me start with the person I think has the best chance this year. Based on his recent updates, we're talking about Terren Ruffin. Rough Diesel. Diesel is looking amazing. In terms of shape, a lot of people feel this is the ideal shape and structure for classic. Mike Mike Somerfeld has great shape, too. Terrence is just another level. That's an amazing physique. And you can tell now that he's six weeks out from Pittsburgh. Before, when he was just starting this prep for Pittsburgh Pro, the improvements he made weren't as obvious. Now that he's getting pretty lean, it's clear that he has improved a lot, especially areas like the arms. The arms are an area of his that were lagging pretty pretty significantly uh throughout his pro career, even though he was runner up to Bumstead a couple times. And he did win the Arnold Classic twice, I believe. The back has come up. Back was uh back was good. It's definitely even better now. There's his shirts there for sale. Rough diesel man. I mean that to me this is the guy who is going to be the biggest threat to Mike Somerfeld or I should say along with Mike has the very best chance of winning the classic Z Olympia title this year. He is looking crazy. Uh just another couple pictures of him. He's been posting these updates that are just mindboggling. So uh this is when he started competing as a pro versus now. And you could see the massive difference in size there. Huge improvements. The back has thicken. The back is really really apparent how much thicker and denser his back has become over his pro career. had his back remained the way it was on the left. Yeah, I wouldn't he wouldn't be in this conversation, but it's not. One more update I want to show you with with him because this is this was a crazy So, this was 18 weeks out. So, this was sort of start of the prep on the left versus seven and a half weeks. Uh 212, I believe, was his all-time high body weight. He's a shorter guy. He's about 5'6. So, the last time I competed was around 169. How much will I weigh this time? So, he's 192 right now. I believe his the weight cap for his height is 187. I bet he's going to be right around there. 187, maybe a little lighter, 8, 185 or 186, but wow. Tremendous. I I I think he's got a great chance of winning it this year. Another great shot there. Uh, if I'm being super super picky, I probably want to see some more Upper Peek, but I always want to see more upper pec with almost everybody. I say that all the time because I just don't see a lot of really thick thick upper pecs. Back is looking fantastic. I guess Jim Manion saw him and said, you know, bring the legs up a little. I think the legs look great. Uh maybe they could be a little bigger and fuller. I don't know. I mean, I think they're perfectly in proportion to everything else we're looking at to the whole physique. Side shots are great. Look at that ham drop. Rough diesel. Uh, I should go back to the back shot. So, these are 18 weeks out from Pittsburgh versus seven and a half weeks out. He's 212 in the uh shots on the left, 192 on the shots on in the shots on the right. So, that is Rough Diesel. Tremendous. And of course, we got to look at we got to look at Ramondino. We can't leave Ramondino out of this because Rammonino has been second place. He's an Arnold Classic champ. He's no slouch. So, Ramonino looking pretty damn great. Uh, as we know, shoulders, shoulders, chest, arms are strong points for Ramon, so I always expect those to look great. We go to some full body posing stuff. Yeah, we know he's got great arms. Doesn't post a lot of back shots. I think back is the one area uh on Ramon I'd like to see improve a lot more than it is right now. Here's some recent posing from last week with Ramon. Tiny little waist, crazy wide cap delts. Arms have always been amazing for Ramon. He's just got beautiful god-given shape. Such round full muscle bellies. Uh yeah, chest. I'd want to see more chest thickness. I don't like the way it flattens out there in that side relaxed pose. So I guess is he doing He must be doing Pittsburgh. He wouldn't be this lean unless this is old. I'm not sure. Uh, it says Las Vegas. So, maybe this was before the last Olympia. Maybe this isn't recent at all. He looked way too lean here for for this to be a current current progress update. Yeah. So, the he doesn't see he doesn't show a lot of back shots. And there's the reason is his back is it's a it's a weaker area on him. If his back was as good as the front, I I think he'd be a a very serious threat. He's still a serious threat for the Olympic title, but with a better back, a thicker back. Look at that. Look at those Look at that abs. How flat they are. So, when I saw him training back some footage a couple months ago, I was thinking it looks to me like he's using almost all biceps. I'm not his coach. I'm not his trainer obviously, but it didn't look like his lats were really being engaged that much. Um, if we can go to some posing stuff, maybe we'll see. No, they always get us with the the thumbnail is not the uh thumbnail is often not the actual what we see there. Even this, it's not. It's the montage. Oh, Ramon, I want you guys to just trust me on this. So, this was nine weeks ago. Why is he so lean? Tell me in the comments, guys. I know some of you guys follow him very closely and you know what he's doing this year. I assumed he was waiting for the Olympia, but it wasn't top three. He actually needs to re-qualify. Is he doing the Arnold Classic tomorrow in Brazil? I didn't even look at the I didn't even look at the uh I should look at that the list. My goodness, guys. I'm way I'm way behind here, aren't I? way behind uh Arnold competitor list. Oh, they only have men's open. They don't have classic physique, huh? Wow. Okay. Yeah, there is no classic physique at the Arnold, huh? Let's get to some of your comments, guys. What do we got, guys? What do we got? What do we got? Let's hear it from you. Well, you legit become my favorite fitness content creator. Wow, thank you. Appreciate that. You're on a flip-flop and there's a flip-flop in the Avatar. Haven't even been falling for long since then. So glad. Thank you, man. Appreciate that. Psionic. Time to delve into classic history. Three champs in nine years. True legends. Can't wait to hear your take. Who's next to claim the throne? Yeah. Oh, this these came in before we started. So, I honestly think the best the the best chance we have or the person who has the best chance, I should say, it's uh it's Somerfeld. It's Somerfeld. But Ruffin, if anyone's going to beat him, I think it's this year. I think it's going to be roughening. Yeah. Says probably going to be Somerfeld. Yeah. Again, in German, so I'm very hyped. It's finally coming home. My favorite to win. Urs still German. Roman also exists. Talk about Roman Fritz. He's good, but he hasn't done that well at the Olympia. Until somebody's been at least top five in the Olympia, I'm not putting them in the conversation to win. Um, just like, you know, Wesley hasn't been top five in the Olympia yet. I think if Wesley brings up his legs, he's a threat. uh with the legs he has now, particularly the hams and the glutes. I don't see him winning the Olympia title. Bion is pretty underrated. He doesn't get the love he deserves. Pretty obviously Sebum set the absolute standard. Yeah, you know, I think a lot of guys would have their stars would have shown more brightly if it hadn't been for Seabbum. Sebum Sebum kind of I don't say he stole their shine, but uh you know I'm going to show you uh Sebum from Prague. I have that somewhere, don't I? Unless I unless I erased it. I don't think I did. Oh, here we go. Prague. Here he was as an open bodybuilder. There was only a few more pounds, but it's pretty legit. Good afternoon, nonFBB Pro. See, when you look at his individual muscle groups, there are not standing. That's how it should be. Nothing should stand out. Everything should be perfectly proportioned. You shouldn't look at any of these guys in classic especially and say, "Wow, look at the arms. Look at the legs. Look at the back. Everything should be so good and so balanced that nothing catches your attention." It is. It's a total package. That's what you're supposed to have. Wesley Open would be a beast. I agree. he would need a lot more lower body and I don't know what it would take for him to get that. How much more weight he'd have to put on, how long it would take him to build his legs up to that point. Um, are we assuming that he's been hold that Wesley Vistor has been holding back on growing his legs because they would it would add to the body weight and and push him out of the class because of the weight limit. I don't know. I agree though. I'd like to see West I'd like, you know, just like we always want to see Bum I'd still like to see Bumstead filled out a little more than this. This was only a few pounds up from the way he looked winning the classic physique Olympia. I'm sure I'm very sure with the whole year offseason, he could come in much bigger and fuller than this. Ur and Raone also have their first proper offseason. Who knows how good they'll look next time. Yeah, I gonna be a great Olympia. Great Olympia all around. No doubt in my mind. Okay. Sim still calls his own gym. Oh, wow. Okay, good for him. And I mean, why not? I think everybody wants their own gym. Every bodybuilder I've me everyone I've ever talked to, that's like a fantasy. Have your own gym with all your own handpicked equipment. Maybe you want it to be only private. Only your friends and family can use it, you know, so you always have the place to yourself. Uh, Earth says, "I want Earth to win. German post like me would also be pretty glass." Somefeld one. Raone still is very dangerous. Yeah, that's not even the best. I wonder when this stuff I wonder if these are current. They're posted recently, but does he say in there? Does he say in the caption how old how recent this is? Not sure. Uh caption says there's always something beyond what we're looking for. Uh it doesn't tell you how old the how old the the video footage is. So, we don't know. We don't know. So, this was posted a week ago, and he just posted a bunch of emojis. There's his dinosaur emoji, which people always love to post the Brazilian fans for him. There's a flexing arm, there's a wolf, and there's an O. I guess the O is for Olympia. So, yeah, I don't know if these are if these are current. He's very, very lean. And again, he has to do something to qualify some show. He's not doing Arms South America because that doesn't have classics. So, I don't know where Ramon is qualifying. Some of you guys who follow him probably do know. Diesel also looks insane. Yeah, Ruffin is Ruffin's amazing. I I'm a big fan of Terrence from may a little bit size detail from the back. Yeah, God of Frogs. I'm really not sure where what the basis of that comment was about uh Ruffin's legs. I think his legs are pretty damn good. Seen Ruff Diesel laced up that he can win Pittsburgh. Oh, 100%. I mean, who else is doing Who else is doing that? We got uh Matt Grego, who just won the Arnold Classic. I'm sorry, Detroit Pro. Detroit Pro. West Urfell won the Arnold Classic. Um I know Josema Jose Manuel Moss from Spain is doing it. But yeah, Ramon is Ramon. I I wonder if he's doing it. If these are recent, I strongly suspect he's doing it. If this is recent, I I I wonder if he's competing soon. I wonder if there's another show coming up. You know, I should look. There are classic physique shows all the time. I'll show you the schedule, guys. They have a lot of shows. So, let's take a look at what's coming up in Classic Physique. Chances for people to uh qualify. Stop sharing. All right, let's go to this screen. So, where where can these guys qualify this year for the Olympia? Some of these have already happened. Most of them have not. Uh jeez, that's a Masters. That's an open show. And same day as Pittsburgh Pro in Georgia. Got one in China March 30th. Maybe Maria Ran's doing that. Detroit already happened. Uh Utah Cup that's open as well. Fibo. Maybe he's doing Fibo. Yeah, I wonder if he's doing Fibo. These are all classic physique shows. Fibo's got good prize money. I I would venture to say he's doing that. Let me know, guys. Some of you who follow Raone closely probably know exactly where he's competing and when. I have no idea. There's a California Supplement Spain pro. He could do any of these. Pittsburgh chi another China show. How many China shows? There's two China DMS pros. Didn't even bother to change the name of the show. New York Pro, Bullman Pro in Ireland. Look at all these shows, guys. Look at all these classic pro shows. So that's the Olympia October 9th. And look at all the post Olympia shows. So all these shows after the Olympia, all that's about 20 of them. Those will qualify guys for the 2026 Olympia. Yeah. Wow. Good stuff. Subscreen. Rowan is already qualified. Did he take third? Did he take third place? Oh, okay. My bad. Thank you, Goku. All right. So, he already corrected me, guys. You don't have to say it anymore. Was he third place? I thought he was fourth. Yeah, of course. I My memory is not the greatest. We don't know. Also, soon wasn't doing anything. We had to qualify. I guess he doesn't have to qualify. What were the results? Curious. Was he third place? Was he third place last year? He must have been. Yeah, I don't know. I remembered it was Let's go back to the Olympia because it was uh I don't know. I don't think unless he did he qualify after the Olympia because only top three I believe only top three from the Olympia qualified. Classic. Second call out that had Wesley, Ramon, Bion, Josema, and Michael Dabul. That was the second call out. Yeah, because for the Mr. Olympia, you have to place top three to qualify for the next year. So, I'm not 100% certain because he did not make top three. I am not certain that he's qualified. Just because somebody said it doesn't mean it's true. unless he won a post Olympia show. And again, I don't follow him as closely as some of you guys do. So, you tell me. You tell me. I do not know. I do not know. Uh trying to find trying to find the first call out. What I do with it? I have so many video clips loaded, guys. So many that I get I get lost trying to find them. Go back to Bumstead. Heck. All right, back to your comments, guys. There is a live Arnold going on right now on YouTube in it's in um Sapalo, Brazil. So, the bodybuilding is tomorrow and Good Veto is the heavy heavy favorite to win that. I won't be there because there is a posing workshop in Boston at the GymHub gym. Jose Raymond is going to be uh instructing as well as the owner Nate Tel 212 Pro Justin Randall. I'm going there with my son. and I will be live streaming that. So, I'm not going to be watching the Arnold South America tomorrow, but yes, you are correct. The uh bodybuilding portion goes on tomorrow. The men's open bodybuilding, which good veto is the heavy heavy favorite. Check out Justin Bina at 270. It was top 15 at the O. Yeah, I know. I'm He's very good. I know he is. It's just I don't put people in the conversation for winning until they're at least top five which you know sometimes people sneak in from the lower end like eighth, ninth, 10th place. It's rare. Usually the winners are in the top five and they move up. But yeah, Justin's very very good. I agree. Wesley really is trying to improve his legs which sucks at the arm like before he had a diarrhea or anything else. He was really sick. Yeah. I mean we've seen him look we've seen uh we've seen Wesley look much better than that. Um, let's see what I have of Wesley. I think I have the Arnold. You look better in Detroit. Yeah, we'll just put we'll just put Matt and Wesley up while we're talking. What the heck? Because those two both look fantastic. So, you still need more legs, though. Yeah, you know, the diarrhea, whatever. I've I've had it myself. It doesn't magically take away all your legs. His quads from the front, like I said before, they don't look awful. Gregoro had better has better sweep to him, but they it's not like his his quads look like chicken legs from the side. It's from the back that his legs look really weak. Even from the side, they don't look bad. I actually think they look much better from the side than they do from the back. Roman got Rammon got four. Yes. Yeah. Oh, here we go. Finally, an answer. Ramon won the Brazil show a week after Olympia. There you go. Yeah. So, all the shows that were held after the Olympia, every winner of those shows is already qualified. So, I think there were about eight or 10 shows following the Olympia where guys qualified for the 25 2025 Olympia while still in the year 2024. Thank you. Thank you, John. Appreciate that. Qualified a small show in Brazil after Olympia. And why not, you know? Why not? Why why bother to prep again? He's already in shape. There was a show right there in Brazil. I'm sure it was an easy easy win. Uh hey, Ron, what's up? What will be the new look in class physique? Well, see, that's the thing is I don't think there is a a new look that people go for or a standard. You know, every time a shorter guy wins, they say, "Oh, well, now that's the standard." They like shorter guys. Or if a taller guy wins, like Sebum, but if you look at how the Olympia placings were all those times, the heights are all over the place. It's classic. Shorter guys do well, taller guys do well. Average height guys do well. It's all about the shape, the build. Doesn't really matter how tall or short you are. You know, if it was about height, Wesley's 6'3, he'd be winning everything, right? But, you know, Bumstead did, but he just happened to be 6'1 and change. Used to look at all the shows. Okay, so that's ifpro.com. Uh, I'll show you that again. So, this is a really cool site because, you know, a lot of times I I use this as a as a resource all the time. So, it's called ifbbro.com. Um, so is this the homepage? The homepage has flyers for I'm on the results tab right now, but if you go to the schedule, the tab schedule on the left fpbro.com, you'll see all these tabs with different colors. You click on the tab and it gives you all the shows that feature that division. So, uh, like you want to see one that's got a million shows. I bet Bikini's got outrageous amounts of contests. Yes. So, let's look at all the pro bikini shows this year. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Going. Going. Going. I think I counted and it was in the 90s. Oh, no. It's 115. There are 115 pro bikini shows this year. Some of them, a couple of them are masters only, but not many. Most of those are qualifiers for the Olympia. I'd say only maybe five to 10 at most are masters only show shows. The others, they're all qualifiers. So, at the bottom, they'll tell you how many entries. There's 115 pro shows. So, I bet men's open has a lot less. So if you scroll down, it started with the Arnold, goes all the way to the Olympian beyond the final pro show November 24th. So there are 49 entries for open bodybuilding shows versus for bikini. I bet wheelchair has Yeah, wheelchair's only got seven pro shows. One, two, three, four, five. Yeah, seven. That's it. So if you're a wheelchair pro, you only have seven pro shows. And two of those should say three of two are Arnolds. One's the Arnold USA, one's South America, uh, and the other's Olympia. So, you don't have many chances to compete as a women's bodybuilding, I bet, is not many either. Oh, actually, wow. I'm really surprised it says 80. Uh, this does have more master shows. No, I say 80. What am I saying? There's 18. 80. 80 would have been ridiculous. Says only 18 women's bodybuilding shows this year. What do you think for men's physique? How many do you think? I'm gonna guess a hundred. I'm gonna guess at least 100. Go, go, go. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Oh, wow. 104. There's 104 men's physique pro shows this year. How about figure? What do you think? How many? I bet there's at least 100. Nope. Wow. Only 54. So, I guess figure is actually going down in participation. Women's physique. I bet there's not a whole lot. Women's physique. 32 women's physique shows, pro shows this year. Did I already do classic? Yeah, I did. 212. I bet there's not a ton of those. There's 26 212 pro shows this year. Women's fitness. Oh, that's got to be really small. 17 17 women's fitness pro shows this year. It's including the Arnold and the Olympia. Uh women's physique. We already Women's Wellness. I bet that's got a lot. I want to say at least 50, way more. 67. So yeah, ifbpro.com. So that's just one tab. That's the schedule tab. If you go to results, uh it can be kind of tricky because there's only so many loaded on a page. You can see it goes back to and then you have to go to the previous page. Oh, that's going back to 2024 anyway. I guess we haven't had that many shows. So it goes all the way back to the muscle contest fil. Oh, it keeps going and going. So you just hit the tab at the bottom and previous next. It keeps going back and back and back. And if you click on just say click on one of them, it gives you the results for scorecards for each division. It's got a competitor list and then the results tab. You click on that. That was the show Romania in 2024. Rafael Brando won. Akeem Amarajic, horse MD, Radislav won the 212. Richard Nai from Hungary won the classic. Uh Amil Walker from UK won the men's physique. Anastasia Cordobva from Romania won women's bodybuilding. All right, you get the idea. So that's another tab onpro.com results. Olympia, you can click on that. that it will give you the qualified athletes uh per division. So, right now for the 2025 Olympia, uh only nine men are qualified right now. Have they updated this? I think so. Yeah, because we've only had a couple pro shows. Who just won Detroit? Come on, Ron. Come on, Ron. It's what? Rake, Brandon, Bonak. Yeah, Bonak did. So, we've got nine guys qualified for the Olympia, the Mr. Olympia 212. There are 12 guys already qualified for that. Classic physique. Wow, they already have 32 guys qualified. It's only the beginning of April. Men's physique already has 30 men qualified for the Olympia and there's a lot of shows. Wheelchair, 11 guys qualified. Miz Olympia, there's only there are only four women qualified for the Miz Olympia right now because they don't have a lot of shows. Women's bodybuilding. Fitness Olympia, there's six women qualified. Figure Olympia, 12 women qualified. Bikini Olympia, we wow, they already have 37 women qualified. They still have like 90 shows to go. Women's physique Olympia has only eight women qualified for the Olympia. and wellness. 12 women qualified for that. Okay. All right. So, see Rough Diesel is going to bring. I'm I'm equally excited. I mean, I was AI was a a big fan of Terrence anyway, but I felt he needed more mass. Uh he took the he took all of last year off full season and he did what he needed to do. He put a It's only a few strategic pounds. Uh he said he was 169. Oh, actually it's a lot. He was 169 the last time he competed. I believe he's going to be closer to 190 this time. So yeah. Wow. 185. I'm not even sure what his weight cap is. He'll he'll be up at least 10 pounds of muscle. And that is a massive massive gain in muscle with the same tiny tiny waist. Rough diesel. 60-y old retired. Now he's body. That's you. Oh yeah. We we met you know a thousand years ago in Hawaii, right? We love modern building division. M around the Watsons of the world. Pittsburgh pro going to be bonkers. Yeah, it's going to be crazy. Pittsburgh. I don't know how to say thank you in Polish, but I know Dona Shane. Dona. Dona Shane. Dona. Get why the old guys say there's meaning to be a pro nowadays. Actually insane how many shoes there are now. Shows are uh I don't want to [\h__\h] I see this fit model division. I see the women that are turning pro in it. Beautiful, gorgeous faces. They're model. They have model faces. the bodies, they're in great shape, but it's they don't have much muscle and they're not very lean. It's a it's a type of body I see all the time at, you know, I'm going to this posing workshop tomorrow downtown Boston. I bet I would see there'd probably be about 10 to 20 young ladies there and I bet I bet most of them would be good enough to turn pro in that division, if not all of them. So, smoking again. No, I'm not smoking again. But my memory's never been great. Well, the problem is I don't follow all divisions equally and like I forgot I totally forgot that uh Ramon had done that show a week after because it was a very small show. I don't even remember what the name of the show was. I'm just wondering do they have if that show is happening again this year. Let's go. Let's share this page. curious to see if that if this show is even happening again. So, say Ramon doesn't win the Olympia, doesn't make top three. Let's just be crazy and say that. I wonder if he can do the same thing. Just curious. So, if we go to the classic physique shows for 2025, what happens after the Olympia? Okay, so where's the Olympia? It's in October. There we go. So, the Olympia is October 9th and 12th. anyone doesn't doesn't qualify, they could go, "Oh, oh, they have a natural pro show in Korea the same weekend as the Olympia." Wow, that's bold. That's very bold of them. Here we go. Yeah, look at that. Very next weekend in S. Paulo, Brazil, there's another It's probably the same show, MCI Brazil Pro. So, that must have been the show that Raone won last year. And if, god forbid, he does not win, doesn't make top three this year, which could happen. It's it's, you know, these are all fantastic competitors we're talking about, he could go and do the same thing again one week later, just go home to Brazil, win a show, and qualify. Not a bad strategy. I would do the same thing if I could. If I could, why not? Forgetting William said. Oh, yeah. I mean, my my I'm I I hate to say I'm horrible at multitasking. I'm looking at the comments. I'm looking at different things. I'm I'm trying to do too many things at once. I'm I'm not a good multitasker like most males. Women are much better at multitasking. But yeah, personally, I couldn't care less about women's vision since men's physique. 212. I don't follow massively. Still think they should get rid of 212. If they got rid of 212, there are some guys that would still do just fine, and there were some that would be screwed. Uh Keon, I think if he filled out a little more, he would do just fine. I mean, let's go to Keon. Keon just needs maybe 10 more pounds of muscle and he'd do very well in the open, I think, with another 15 pounds of muscle. He's only 200 lb here, guys. Keon, I think Keon at 215, 220 might he might not even need to be any heavier than 215. He could be the Olympia champ because we saw former 212 champ athletes Heidi Chupan and Derrick Lunford both do it. He's got way better shape than either one of them. He just doesn't have the mass yet. Still a young guy. He's in his late 20s. I think he's only 27 or 28. He's still got the plenty of time to add the mass. He's he's going to keep winning. So, he's got 12 more pounds to go before he's even outgrowing this division. So, I see Keon Pearson in the 212 probably winning for another, let's say, three, four years before his body is just growing and growing. And once it's by the time it's becoming very, very difficult for Keon to get down to 212. I think that's when he's going to make the switch. He'll start winning open shows. And I think he's fully capable, fully capable of winning the Olympia. So, he would do well in the open. Even right now, he wouldn't get destroyed in the open. He'd give up a lot of size, but he'd still do very well just because he's got that great shape. Very, very full round muscle bellies, tiny, tiny little waist. Uh, and this guy obviously we know Clarita has done well. He's won a couple open shows or he won the Legion Sports Open. Um, second, third place, I'm sorry, behind Fitzwater and Seabbum at the Prague show. That's what we're looking at here. He's done well. He's been top five at the Arnold a couple times. He would do well in the open. I He's never going to win the Open Mr. Olympia. I don't see that happening. No offense. I love Sean. He knows I I'm not putting him down when I say that. But uh yeah, he would do well, but a lot of the guys in 212 would not do very well. They would struggle and they would probably retire because they would fail to place. And who wants to keep competing when you're not going to place? I would. What else we got? 212 champs movement to open division. Uh they don't all I mean the best ones do just because you know they see there's more money there's more prestige there's more exposure in the open than any other division by far. By far. Look at the prize money difference. 600 was it 650 for the open Olympia. And what did they get like did they even get 50? I'm not even sure but it was it's a fraction. The other divisions get a fraction of what open. And it's because open is the main draw. It's the main appeal. It's the money maker. Most people who buy tickets to go to shows, most people who buy the pay-per-views, they buy it to watch the Open. The other divisions have plenty of fans. Sure, if you add them all up, but individually, none of them compare. None of them compare individually to the Open. Open by far so many more fans. I mean, even when they did this this thing at the I hope Let's see. Let me I want to show that pose down that they did in Detroit again, which I thought was really cool. Matt versus Wesley. No. Yeah, this was cool. This was the King of Detroit that they did after the Detroit Pro was over where they had Classic physique champ Matt Grego be compared on stage to open winner William Bonak. And he compared very favorably. He didn't he didn't look skinny or anything. Of course, William's much thicker, denser. He's a shorter, thicker guy. He's got a lot more muscle overall than Matt. In certain shots, this is a shot where Bonak looks so much bigger than him. Way bigger than him here. But other shots, the difference wasn't as pronounced. I actually like Matt's front latch spread better, even though Bonax's got more size. I actually like the the shoulder span on Matt, the Vtaper, the X frame better. Side shot. Yeah, that's Bonak all day. That's all day. Bonak kills him on that one. It's probably gonna happen on the back shot, too. Yeah, I only gave Matt one pose out here, but they did the voting and Bonak got about twothirds of the vote. I think only a little like 1,200 people voted. But, uh, the people who voted on it, they because this was, you know, which physique do you like better? Who's better? Who's the king of Detroit? It's kind of hard to it's kind of hard to describe what this what this was all about, but it was it was purely for the fans. It was just for fun. obviously had no bearing. The competition was all over. Everyone had already gotten their prizes, their trophies, their made their speeches. That was all over. It's insane. Classic. No should be saying honestly. Classic is popular. Well, they shouldn't. The prize money. It's not as popular in terms of ticket sales and things like that. It's popular because the guys are younger and good-looking and they have more social media following. Most of the guys in classic. It's not because they bring in more money to the actual promoters and the organization. They don't. In terms of participation at the amateur level, they sure do. There are a lot more guys at amateur level competing in classic than there are in bodybuilding. And there's a lot more guys in men's physique than there are in either one of those because it's a it's an entry level supposedly entry level division. Uh you you go to a local show, you know, I'll be going to some local shows soon. My son's competing. I'm certain certain there's gonna be a lot more guys in men's physique and classic physique than there are in the bodybuilding divisions. It's just the way it goes. Take my comes typing. Sean clear the most complete bodybuilder at the time. Yeah, Clear is great. I'm a huge fan of Detroit Open. What else we got? What else did I want to show you guys? Top four confirmation AC. We put uh who should we put up from Arnold? Jeez, I got almost all open, guys. I think I'll put up Logan versus uh Logan. You see classic first call out. Yeah, this is good because we're talking about we're talking about classic Zeke. This this fits into the fits into the theme here. Matt Grego, Logan Franklin, Mike Summerrfell, Wesley Visus, and Michael Debull. It's the top five top five classic physique athletes at the Arnold. Do you coach with people overseas? I coach doesn't matter. You know, we have because of our technology. I coach people from all over the place. Yeah. Hit me up on Instagram if you're interested. Well, I'll get back to you. My Instagram is the same as my uh YouTube. It's Ron Harris Muscle. What I do with it? I don't know where I put it. So, I have this already loaded. Yeah, hit me up on Instagram. I coach people from all over the place. Yeah. So, Classic Zeke. Yeah. I think I'm going to I'm going to put uh put this put this show to bed. We've already been going for closing in on an hour. So, who's going to win this year? We don't know. But I did want to show you guys who we've had so far. So far in the Olympia stage of the Olympia winners, I should say. We've had three champions in nine years of Classic Gaze Olympia. Chris Bumstead has been the winner for the last six years. He's retired for now. I think he'll be back one day. So, we're going to have a new champion. We're going to have a new Classic physique Olympia champion. Um, so in the comments, guys, let me know who has been your favorite Classic physique Olympia champion or just classic physique Olympia athlete. It might be somebody who hasn't won the Olympia. Who do you think has the best chance of winning the Olympia this year and why? Give me your top five, top three, whatever you want to do because who knows? One of you could be bang on right. Some of you could be exactly right with your predictions. Predictions are just speculation based on what we know to be true right now. Things can change. We've got a great group of guys in the classic physique uh Olympia shaping up for this year. Somerfeld, Urs, Ramon, Terrence Ruffin, uh, Greg Dabul, Wesley. We have a great crop of classic pros and that's just tip of the iceberg. There's going to be another 60 or 70 guys this year at the Classic Olympia. Mark my words and we'll see what happens. We'll see who will emerge victorious. But for now, I hope you enjoyed today's video. Please keep watching and I will see you all next time. Later.