Good. Hey everybody, welcome to Ron Line Report. Today's guest, you probably knew him as Andre Miller, the owner of the TRT Clinic Frontline Alternative, but he's got a whole new business, too. It's called American Jerky King. Please welcome Andre Miller, aka the Jerky King. Andre, Jerky King is in the house. Hey, guys. You know what, Ron? I started this company out of necessity because all the other jerky out there was garbage, loaded with sugar. Didn't have the things that I needed to help, you know, my body recover. I needed a a a wholesome snack that I could eat on a regular basis that would deter me from, you know, jumping into the sweets, you know, something with that was salty, something that would help with muscle recovery, um, help me hold on to more water, of course, you know, with the with the, you know, adding, you know, and the concept behind the creatine was was an accident. And I didn't even, you know, didn't even think about it. And then I started thinking about I was like, there's so many products out there that have creatine in them. Why not jerky? I mean, because it comes from meat anyway, right? So, why don't we just add just a little bit more? Not to make it uh ju just just to give you a little bit more creatine where you're micro doing it throughout the day. You know, you're getting a little bit in every bite. Um, you know, the whole concept is just to, you know, just to make something that was that you could snack on and not have to worry about it putting on on more pounds. You know, we wanted to a lean protein. I was tired of the shakes. I was tired of the the uh, you know, the the protein bars. So, driving all across the country with Front Line, going to visit our clients and things, when I would drive, you know, pull up into a gas station or to a truck stop, I would go in there and look for jerky. But every single one of them has had had sugar in them. And I was looking for something that had Sorry. And that was that was my biggest thing. I want to have that as as little sugar as possible to help to help me. I mean really make this transformation that I've made has the the the biggest most critical point was changing what I was eating and when I was snacking. And so when I started jerking, it was a it was a snack for me, right? I I I just wanted to be able to get jerky that was that was clean that that had that had good protein content that that I could snack on um and not have to worry about it. So I started introducing it to people. People would see it like the girls at my office would see it on my desk and they'd come try it and they'd be like, "Andre, this is amazing." And so I', you know, I'd be passing it out to people and people would ask to taste it. And finally, you know, uh enough people said, "Dude, you need to make this and sell it." um it kind of pushed me into that ring. So, so we started making it and started selling it and it started flying off the shelves, you know, people ordering, you know, four and five pounds at a time that were shipping across the United States, you know, it's freaking amazing. Yeah. Because I remember we did an interview with you and your wife Karen about Frontline about almost a year ago, I want to say now and um No, maybe it wasn't that long ago, but you were starting to eat a lot of jerky. I remember that was your thing was that you were starting you made your own jerky originally. Obviously, you can't make all this jerky to sell, but were you is that something you've known how to do your whole life? How to make jerky? No, it was a it was AI you know what what what really prompted it was I thought about the way the Indians and the and and the pioneers ate. You know, the pioneers and Indians did weren't able to to get fresh meat every day. The the only way they ate meat, well, for the most part, was dried. Um and you know, you started thinking about the physique of of of those those those people back then. And I was like, there's something to it. So, I started, you know, eating the jerky. Um, I I it's still today after almost nine months like my main source of food, nutrition. Um, I literally carry a bag with me everywhere I go. Everybody knows the gold bags. They see the gold bag, they know what I got. So, they they either ask me if I've got if if I've got something to sell, which I usually carry about, you know, five or six bags with me because I know that somebody's going to want to buy something. Yeah. Because I like I remember I told you we were talking right before we started recording when I met you a couple years ago. you know, you were very you've always I assume you've been a big stocky guy for your whole life, but you didn't look particularly bodybuilder-ish. You didn't have, you know, I could tell even with your shirt on, you had substantial body fat and you've made this transformation. Oh, yeah. What was, you know, you've gone, you went all those years without ever seeing abs or anything. What made you decide all of a sudden I'm going to get I'm going to get ripped and and I didn't I didn't even make a choice. It wasn't even a decision. it just started happening and I just uh and I tell people all the time like I never planned it so I didn't like do a staged uh uh follow through follow-up like like I didn't uh I didn't start posting about my abs until the abs were there already you know uh and then you know it was just it it snuck up on me and then I started seeing more you know I I honestly would catch pu uh images from either somebody's sunglasses or something I'd be like golly that's starting to look good and I was and you know really you know so we'd be out on the beach and I'd be talking to somebody I'd be looking at myself and their sunglasses And I was like, that's that's not I thought it was like the glasses or a different angle or whatever, but uh it was it it started it all these things started to happen and you know I the only thing the only thing that has changed and I'm I'm not going to be no liver king so I'll always be honest about protocol and what you know what did I do to to help achieve this? Well, of course you know there are you know def definitely different medications that I needed to jump on. I'll just throw this out there. My IGF-1 was 98. So it was super super low. I needed to do something about that. Um, and of course I've always been on TRT, but uh the biggest thing was was changing my food, right? Um, and then, you know, I I I wake up in the middle of the night and eat beef jerky. I mean, you talk about these bodybuilders eating at different hours of the night, I just if I wake up and I go pee, I, you know, eat three or four ounces and go back to bed. So, I mean, I've got a constant source of protein going in there. It's lean. Um, of course, there are fatty pieces because you have to have fat, too, anyway. Um, it's just, uh, it's got I can't even say enough about it. Like if there was something that that h had a huge impact on my transformation, it would be like more of that carnivore type of lifestyle, but I couldn't carry around a bag of pre-cooked steak, you know, and always have it ready to go. So, you know, I have a couple of people that that inspire me and they I see them eating, you know, food out of bags all the time, but but if you know, if I I have a thing with if I don't like it cold, you know, it can only eat hot, then there's a problem there. So, with the jerky, I can eat it at any temperature. It doesn't matter if it's warm or hot or cold, you know. True. I'm just curious what the weight the weight difference because like I said when I met you you were a big dude. You've you're a very thick you were power you were a powerlifter before. Correct. Well that was the that was I mean that was mostly what I did because I I couldn't I didn't have a the body of a bodybuilder so I I just ran with lifted heavy you know. Yeah. Yeah. And that and that was so what what I I I waited as as as much as 260 whenever I whenever we really started gauging the the transformation or not gauging whenever we started really uh dialing in the the the jerky and getting it to where we liked it. Um you know the other big thing about the jerky was we've we've gone through a bunch of different cuts of meat to get to the to where we're at. Um I didn't want something that you had to I didn't want something you had to jerk on, you literally didn't didn't that's why I always say we're you don't have to you know jerking our meat isn't a thing you know uh we we want you to be able to bite it and then chew it and then not end up with a bunch of stuff in between your teeth. Um you know I would rather people not have to walk around with toothpicks to to to to clean out their teeth. And the majority of the people that that buy our jerky that the reason they like it is because it's usually you know it's crispy, it's tender. I mean it's crispy and it it kind of like melts in your mouth. Um, it's the perfect thickness, consistency, and then of course this mango habanero thing. I mean, I don't I don't know how much to it there is, but it's a it's a thermogenic, right? So, the the the the habanero uh and the mango for whatever reason, I mean, literally, if I'm driving for a good ways and I'm chopping all that stuff on the way on the way there, if I stop to get out to use a restaurant or some something at a gas station, my whole midsection is just saturated with sweat from from the thermogenic effect from the habanero. Yeah, we we were talking also about uh I think I just passed it. This creatine is found is, you know, we we've been using it for years for building muscle, endurance, strength, things like that, improvements in those areas, but they're showing a lot more benefits for creatine lately. It's actually it's actually cool that it does it has these cognitive benefits. Uh Oh, yeah. I mean, yeah, this doctor is talking about it here. I don't know if where you put that up from. Yeah. Well, you know, like I said, that with the with the the way the algorithm works, the more you talk about something, the more the more information that pops up, especially on on Instagram. And so, all these uh these doctor's posts started popping up on my feed about creatine. So, what do I do? Of course, I want to be able to provide as much information. Why why you know, why would you put creatine in meat? Because it's already in there. Well, a little bit more is not going to hurt, you know. Uh, and so the idea is to is in eight each eight bag, we want to have around between five and seven grams of of creatine. So, you know, you'd have to eat the whole bag in one day to get your full dose. So, the idea isn't isn't to to replace what you would normally put in your body. It's really just to micro dose what you're what you're you're intaking. Right on. Yeah. Um, yeah. I'm just curious because you already have your hands full with running Frontline. It's it's a major company. I'm sure it's a lot of moving parts and people and customers, you know, what what made you I I know your wife is always supportive and encouraging, but were people around you like Andre, you're crazy for wanting to do this beef jerky company on top of a front line. Do you know that I get that, but you know what? At the end of the day, like if if you have a a great support system, like I couldn't I couldn't do it without my girls. my girls, you know, they they they they keep I mean, between, you know, Ashlin, Liz, and Karen, they they they the wheels are greased and the and and nobody goes, you know, gets neglected. I will say some of my social media stuff gets neglected, like, you know, we have another group called Planet CRT and HCA support, which is a is a is a group that just provides, you know, you know, information, help, you know, uh it's a place for peers to give each other advice, whether, you know, good, bad or indifferent. And you know, we try to moderate and make sure that, you know, nobody's giving out bad information. But it's a the idea is really for people to be able to to get together and talk about their protocols and what's working for them and what hasn't worked for them. Uh just to share information. Um and I have to be careful with that because I I get a little bit too eager to share and put out stuff that that gets me, you know, hate from from Instagram and Facebook. So, I have to use caution with the the terms that you It's funny there there's a uh these steroid dealers that can have pages and talk all about about whatever they want. But I I if I if I even post something about uh I I made a post about about uh uh ketamine helping with because ketamine is something we're going to be adding to the to the to a treatment plan when when when we get uh Dr. Glasser and everything set up at the at the new office because we want to do do more to help more veterans, right? Yeah. Uh, so, so I I it was uh he sent me a link about creatine or I'm sorry about um ketamine help people that have cocaine addiction. Anyway, long story short, I I made a post about it and I of course got shadowbanned. I couldn't, you know, I couldn't post, couldn't couldn't respond to groups. So, I have to be careful about how free how free I think my speech is. Well, I have to remind you about something for Planet TRT the group because today is Friday and traditionally you do a post saying it's big guns Friday, show us your guns. Yeah, I think you forgot to do it last week. I did. I did. I again, like I said, I I I've been I can't post on my p on in my own group right now. So, the shadow band until April 28th or something. I They banned me for a whole month. Wow. Can I I want to play the rap song. Can I do that? You had a rap song made for Jerky King. All right. So, let's take a listen, guys. We have a We have Chicking in those eight bags of games. Yeah. Yo, it's the African turkey king. Crown on the scene. Be so lean. It's the protein dream team. Rip that bag. 8 oz of pure gains. Fuel for the hustle. Power running through my veins. Creatine in the mix. Yeah, I'm stacking that mass. Lifting heavy in the gym. Watch the week get surpassed. Jerky so fire is a snack with a punch. Munching on the Gold King's feast for lunch. American jerky king, that's the name I sing. 8 oz bags of canes. Hear the power ring. Creatine loaded up. Muscles got a swing. From the streets to the waist, I'm the beefy bling king. Tried to perfection. Flavor hits the spot. Savory domination. No jerky comes close to this plot. Eight hours in my grip. I'm flexing on the grind. Creatine boosting webs. Leave the doubters behind. Taste the glory. You ain't made pride. Jerky Kings the check. Taking gains nationwide. No artificial junk. Just the real deal bite. Power up my hustle day turning and unite. American jerky king that's the name I sing. 8 oz bags of canes. Hear the power ring. Creatine loaded up. Muscles going to swing from the streets to the weights. I'm the beefy bling king. Unleash the beast inside. Jerky fueling warriors. Creatine's my ride. 8 o' stacking that stack. American jerky king. Ain't no turning back. So bow to the throne. Wow. Who is that? Andre. We got to give that rapper some credit. Hey, you know what? There is AI for everything. That was AI. That was all AI. Yep. Yep. Well, you just say, "Make me a rap about Jerky King." And and I give it the guidelines on what I want and then it it it just pops it out and it gives you multiple choices. Um we even did one uh uh doing a poke at the the the liver king. Wow. So that's not even real human voice. That's just completely Well, it's it's it's somebody's voice, but of course they they they you know, of course augmented with their their AI. That is amaz Gez. Mhm. It's kind of scary. Yeah. I mean, if you if you if I had hired a a company to do that by themselves and an artist, it probably would have cost me 10 or 15 grand for one song, you know. Sure. Yeah. I mean, I assume that's what you did is you found some It took me two three two three minutes, you know, and and no artist to pay. I have to ask you because you went to the Arnold Classic as the Jerky King. I did around like that. I mean that takes dude it takes balls to walk around the Arnold Classic. I use HCG. You know that, right? No, that gives you big balls. But geez. Yeah. I mean, were you were you were like, "Oh man, what am I doing here?" Or you just did to me to me it's do or die, you know, and and if I want something to succeed, I can't I can hire somebody to do do what I you know what I what I'm going to do, but instead, you know, nobody does it better than the person that's trying to, you know, promote the product. Yeah, I mean I give you so much credit because like I said, you're in Texas area. There's a there's a lot of big jacked up guys. You could have said, "Hey, bud. Uh, I'll pay you a couple grand to walk around as the jerky king at the Arnold Classic weekend, but and that's what most supplement company owners do and things is they just find somebody who already looks great, but you whipped yourself into this shape uh over the course of the past year. You've done I barely even recognize you anymore, you know." Yeah. No, that I mean honestly like that that was the thing was that you know my wife and I made a made a made a cognitive decision that we were going to be the faces of our company and we weren't going to hire anybody else to be the faces of our company. We used a lot of excuses, you know, as far as building building the brand, traveling, all the things that you can use excuses for to to justify our eating habits, right? We we we made we made bad choices. um you know and and there was a couple of motivating te text messages from some of the uh let's say influencers that I've used in the past and so rather than get you know burn bridges or get burned you know I would just rather do it myself you know um I probably got another couple you know good couple of years to do it on my own with the raise you know get Xander jacked so he can you know take over everything uh you know the the goal is you know we we we keep him we uh we we're we're coaching on coaching him on how to be an entrepreneur so that way when he grows up he can either make a choice to go work for somebody or work for himself. How old is he now? Uh, he'll be 10. Oh, boy. He got plenty of time to turn this game. Oh, yeah. But he's, you know, he's worked with us at every show. He's always, you know, helpful and I mean, everybody loves him because he's just so polite. Wow. So, the la the last thing I want to do is we discussed this and I could take the easy road or the hard road here. You sent me the two different flavors, mild teriyak, because you know, even though I'm married to a Latina for many years, I am not Latino. So, spicy foods, this is a real chance I'm taking here with mango habanero. Habanero. And I'll be honest with you, it's not as hot as the name sounds. And it may have a little bit of a lingering uh burn, but uh I you know I had I had some one person that uh that that told me before he ate it that he wasn't good with hot food. And so one of the videos I I as you know he he was eating it and I said, "So what do you think of the flavor?" And as I'm telling him asking him this, his face is turning red, you know, and I'm like his head's starting to sweat already. But it's not that bad. Okay. Well, here goes nothing, Andre. All right. Delicious, folks. Not killing me. No, it's the idea is is really just to have enough enough spice there to make things uh you know, interesting. And and honestly, I didn't even think about the the the the case in our uh I don't remember the name of the word, but um it's the the property inside the um the um habanero that that turns it into a into a thermogenic cap capsation, I think it And that's exactly what I was thinking. Yeah. Yeah. Because some people are so obsessed with finding like the hottest ghost pepper and this pepper and that pepper. I'm like, "No, dude. No. I don't want it I don't want it so hot that I have to, you know, freaking, you know, have to sign a waiver to eat it, right?" Uh the idea the idea was just, you know, just and people that don't like spicy even eat it and they're and they've they've said, "Oh, it's just it's just an amount of spice to where it's not uncomfortable." Cool. So you grew frontline from a small company to a very big successful company. I'm assuming you have grand designs for jerk American jerky king. What do you plan distribution? Is this something eventually we're going to see in like every 7-Eleven or Walmart? What are you thinking? It's going to be in every gas station, every grocery store. It's going to go we're going to go nationwide. Um I've got the right partners uh to to help me, you know. Um we're working with with Cameron Davies at Davies Entertainment. Um, a lot of the videos he'll be doing he'll be helping with. Uh, they'll we're they're we're doing the whole, you know, marketing plan. Um, uh, distribution will be be done from the from their warehouse in San downtown San Antonio, Texas. Manufacturing is going to be done there, too. Right now, we're in the process of getting that, uh, manufacturing facility set up so that we're ready to to to go into the big stores. Yeah, I would play up the creatine thing because I said you're the only the only jerky in the world that I know of that's got creatine monohydrate infused in it on top of what's already in the red meat. So Oh yeah. No, that's the that's the that's the hook really. I mean the creatine is the is the is the hook. I mean that's that's the you know I just not not not for it to be a gimmick but honestly for it to to to uh you can the the big thing also is the l the lack of sugar. One gram of sugar. Most have three to six. you know, they they use a lot of brown sugar in in in beef jerky in the in the uh in the process of of making it to where it lasts longer. Um, and then but the and then the other thing is is I add uh mineral salt to to the jerky also. So, it's not just sodium. It's got actual mineral salt in it to to help also. Yeah. I mean, this is like you said when when you told me a while ago you were eating mostly jerky, I was like, "Oh, boy. That doesn't sound like the more I thought about it, I'm like that's actually especially if you've got it lean and and very low in sugar, you know, that's probably almost close to the perfect protein source, especially for for bodybuilders, serious weight trainers. So, yeah. And and you know, and also your any of your endurance athletes, you know, the first thing we do when we're, you know, we're flushing water down our system when we're trying to train is we push out all of our electrolytes. You know, this replaces the electrolytes and helps with cramping. I mean, you you have enough enough salt there that that you you know can you knock out cramps pretty quick. Yeah. And finally, man, I have to thank you for totally committing to this interview with the throne, the outfit, everything, man. I mean, hey, Kelby Haynes helped me with all the graphics. She's here helping me, you know, with the with the throne and the, you know, making sure that I that that I look good, sound good, all that good stuff. So, I mean, that was a she she she does a lot of stuff with the the NPC and a lot of the other does a lot of the posters for a lot of the big shows. Um, she definitely needs to to to to get her props. So, I, you know, without her, I wouldn't have this badass freaking logo that she created. Uh, and I'm going to call it that because it is. Uh, and uh, you know, and and the work that she helps me with on on the back end as far as making sure that, you know, we have quality artwork for for where whatever we're putting out. The last thing I want to show is I got this shirt in the mail, too. Thank you. But the the front the front is cool, but the back the back I really want to show you. Can you read it? Oh, yeah. That's my favorite one of my favorite uh taglines as far as you know, everybody wants to be a a rock star in the bedroom and a beast in the gym. I'm wearing this tomorrow for leg day, dude. Let's see. Hey, you know the honest truth? I should have said the the the uh you know, the majority of our of our men at the clinic or and our females uh just want to want to look good naked and and and be better better performers for their spouses. Dude, if you can do that and be a little more jacked, you're golden. You know, life is good. Oh, it is. It is. You know, and then you just we we we Karen and I always share our stories with people because, you know, you you can get distant really really quick from your spouse because of work and family and and friends and just activities and we forget, you know, the importance of flirting and dating and all those things that that you know, just like you I mean, how do you stay married for as long as you do and keep the and keep the the the fire there? Well, when the fire starts to we got to find out why and then we got to re reignite that flame. Yeah. Yeah. I couldn't agree more. So many people find it so much easier to leave than than than just to fix what's what's there, you know. Oh, I mean, I'm blessed. It's it'll be 35 years for me in June that I've been married to Janet. And uh yeah, not easy not easy staying married these days in this industry, but boy, what a blessing she has been in my life. So, it's like I know Karen has been a a huge blessing in your life as well. She's the she she's the one that, you know, that that inspire, you know, she she keeps me inspired. She just says, you know, you can do anything you want. just go out there and do it and you got my back. I got your back. I mean, we literally sold our house, you know, to start front line and she never bought once, you know. Wow. That's that's a that's a ride or die, as they say. A ride or die. He is a definitely a ride or die. And and, you know, I'd like to grab her and bring her on the next interview because, you know, the her transformation from the beef jerky and and protocols, you know, is is is phenomenal. Also, I mean, she's she's starting to get to where she can see her abs and uh, you know, wow, she just follows suit like she sees what I'm doing. She checks to see how it's going to work and then if it works then she's then she's going to jump on board. So very very similar situation where you know she's in the best shape of her life and you know we're 47 and 51 so we guess we've matched that that that that uh president of ours. Who's 47? You or are you 51? I'm 51. She's 47. Ah you're kids, man. I'll be 56 in a few months. Your kids I got a long ways to go. I'm excited. Yeah. You're still you still got a lot of good years man. All right. Well appreciate it so much Andre. Thanks for the samples. The proof hurt. I got to show you how it all. Yeah. I mean, let me ask you this. Is did you have abs when you were younger and you just went years without ever seeing? No. No. I got abused. I got abused when I was younger and and and I turned to food to to and to to and and I got fatter to to to turn people away from me. Wow. Wow. And you know those things they you don't realize how much they resonate with you until things change. And so for me it's a you know uh this was this is all new. So I mean you know for me to to be running around without a shirt on is is is uh very uh different to me. You know it's like it was so funny at the at the uh America I mean at the Arnold was to have somebody's wife and husband and then her husband like sending sending her sending his wife over to get a picture with me you know and I was like I you know I'm not anybody. And so we had these these all these kids running up to me wanting to take pictures with me. And I I was like, "Chef, I didn't do it." But had I not been with with with uh with chef, Chef's always been, you know, super supportive. Uh he was the one that said, you know, I told him, I said, "I want to launch this jerky thing at the American I mean at the at I want to keep saying American FedEx, but at the at the Arnold." And he was like and I and I kind of sent him some pictures of the outfit. And he's like, you know, basically he said, you know, if uh if if you wear it, you better own it. No, that's amazing because, you know, you're you're 51 years old. You went 50 years without ever seeing your abs. Yeah. Most people would say, "Well, that's it. You know, life, it's all downhill from here." Oh, well. But, you know, talk about better late than never. Perfect. Perfect living proof right here. Oh, yeah. You know, we I've got some guys already that that have been on my program. Um, I have one that that lives lives in Washington and he's lost 140 pounds. Wow. since he started the the the jerky king or the jerky and and the and the protocol. He's I mean he's a consistent every every every week he orders four pounds of jerky. Yeah. Amazing. Wow. Well, you keep doing God's work, man. I mean, you're changing lives whether you uh whether you portray it that way or not. You're definitely improving improving lives and uplifting people's spirits and uh just making giving a lot of people a better quality of life through Front Line. And now, you know, Jerky King eating a bag of this instead of a bag of donuts. you know, come on. Exactly. I mean, this is the whole thing. Yeah. So, it's the the the just like you said, you know, our our one of our taglines is is is saving and changing lives one American at a time. You're doing it, man. So, appreciate what you're doing for everybody. Appreciate you coming on. And that's it, guys. It's been Ron L report. You can go to AmericanJ King on Instagram or, of course, Americanjerky King.com to try out this amazing product. Delicious. The habanero did not uh the mango habanero did not kill me. So my fellow greenos, you're okay. You're safe with that. It's all right. That's it. So thank you so much, Andre. I appreciate you doing this. Hey, Ron. We appreciate you, too. Thank you for giving me this opportunity. All right, that's it, guys. We'll see you right here.