Hey everybody. If you're a fan of the classic physique division, which began in 2016, you may know that it was inspired by previous bodybuilders going back decades who exemplified the ideals of what classic physique is supposed to represent. things like symmetry, proportion, balance, small waist, excellent presentation. Uh this episode, this video, I'd like to talk about some of the bodybuilders who were considered the best classic bodybuilders who exemplified those ideals and who did lead to eventually the formation of what is now the classic physique division. First up is a guy a lot of you younger people probably never heard of, maybe because he never turned pro. We're talking about Rory Llemmyer. So Rory Lemmeer was from California, Whittier, California. Uh most of these guys by today's standards would not be huge. He was 6 foot and he competed anywhere from 215 to 225. Best placing is what we're looking at here. 1983, which was only the second year that the NPC Nationals was ever held. He was a runner up to Bob Paris, who won the heavyweight and overall. We'll be getting to him in a while. He did the nationals again the next year and took fifth. In 8586 he took sixth and one last time he appeared at the 87 USA and got seventh place. Rory was someone who had just amazing presentation. You can see the effort he put into all the poses, the transitions. He could have been a lot bigger had he wanted to, but he was all about being a living sculpture. Looked up to guys of the past like Steve Reeves. considered himself a true physique artist, not just a bodybuilder. Everything he did in the gym had a purpose. Wasn't just putting on bulk. It was always about trying to get one body part in perfect proportion, balance to another. Always striving for better shape, symmetry, balance, or proportion. Rory was amazing. He is one of the guys you always hear brought up in the conversations about best guys who never turned pro. Rory Littlelemire is definitely one of the best physiques in bodybuilding history that never earned a pro card. He was sensational. And if you follow him, he's on Instagram. He's in his uh mid60s now, late 60s, and he still looks phenomenal. Beautiful head of long hair. Still has a small waist, huge huge muscles in the upper body. I'm sure his legs still look great, too. But Rory Little Meyer, guys, someone some some of you have never heard of. Definitely one of the greatest classic bodybuilders of all time. All right, that wraps up Rory. Let's move on to our next guy who I'm sure a lot more of you are familiar with. We're talking about Frank Zayn. Frank Zayn was a three-time Mr. Olympia in the 1970s, 77,78, and 79. He actually started competing long before that. He started competing in the early to mid60s. He won uh first big wins were in the IFBB in their Mr. America and Universe shows in ' 68, won their world championships in ' 69. He was competing against Franco Columbo trying to win the uh lightweight Mr. Olympia title because for a long time there was a lightweight and middleweight lightweight and heavyweight divisions at the Olympia. He took fourth in that in 75 the movie that's memorialized in the film Pumping uh the pumping iron the contest that's Pumping Iron is made about in 1974 he took second of Franco and again in 76 before he won it three years in a row. Now remember he had to beat the heavyweight three years in a row. 7778 that heavyweight winner was Robbie Robinson. 79 the heavyweight winner he beat for the overall was Mike Menser. Now, Frank Zayn was a true master of presentation. We still look back at these posing routines of his in wonder and a lot a lot of guys in the current classic physique division will look at these old videos of Frank for inspiration. He just was a master craftsman. He paid attention to every little detail from the conditioning to the grooming. He would do things like a thousand sit-ups a day. He was very much into nutrition and supplementation long before others were students of it. They called him the chemist, not because of uh drug use, but because he was so he had actually been a high school math teacher before becoming a pro bodybuilder. Uh this this footage is actually from a later Olympia. This is actually the 1983 Olympia where he took fourth place where Samir Bonut win won. But I picked it because it was it was really good footage. Frank Zayn truly has to always be in the conversation when you're talking about the best classic bodybuilders of all time. Again, not a huge guy. He was 5 foot n typically competed right around 185 pounds, which is [clears throat] even smaller than the weight aotment given to Classic Zeke pros. Now, in fact, I think that's right around what the NPC amateur division allows for classic physique at a guy who's 5 foot n. Next up after Frank, can't forget about Bob Paris. Bob Paris an amazing amazing physique in terms of shape, proportion, symmetry, and another master poser. Put a lot of effort and time into his posing routines. And again, he's somebody that the guys in Classic today draw a lot of inspiration from when they're putting together their routines. Came up with a lot of unique poses. Uh so Bob, let's see. He was uh compared compared to Steve Reeves and uh often called a modernized version, up-to-dated version of Steve, a larger version. He was 6' tall, 225 pounds. Of course, now we have guys who are like 5'4, 225 pounds, but back then 6'25 was not a small guy. He was the second overall national champion after Lee Haney. Lee Haney was the first, but in 1983, Bob Parish became the second NPC national champion. And in those days, that didn't turn you pro. You still had to go to the World Amateur Championships, also called the Universe, go up against all the other weight class winners from all around the world. And he did that. And he beat all the other heavyweights and earned his pro card. [snorts] Bob never won a pro show in his entire career, but at the 84 Olympia, he was seventh place. In 85, he was ninth. The 88 Olympia in Los Angeles, he was 10th. 89 Olympia in Reiny, Italy was 14th. and his final Olympia appearance was the first Olympia I ever went to 1991 in Orlando with 12th place. Now again, he never won a pro show, but he did place as highly as third on nine different occasions. So, he was very good. Uh he did suffer in terms of a little uh overall mass compared to some of the guys he was up against. [snorts] Uh therefore, it was it was tougher back then, guys, in some ways. But still, people talk about Bob to this very day in terms of the shape, proportion, symmetry, a perfect physique, a physique that a lot of people would aspire to. Nobody ever looked at that physique and said, "Ugh, disgusting." It was a living, breathing work of art. Uh, you might also know that Bob was one of the first openly gay bodybuilders ever, and that probably did hurt him. It was a time in the 80s when people were still a lot more homophobic, and his career did suffer from that. He didn't get didn't get the placings and the sponsorship opportunities I think he would have in today's age where we're not as homophobic. Now, let's move on to our next guy on the list. Talk about Francis Benfo. Originally from Morocco as a child, moved to France as a young child. Francis never won a pro show either. However, uh Mr. Olympia 1989 in Italy was 12th place. 1990 which we're looking at here which was drug tested in Chicago he was top six sixth place 1991 in Orlando seventh place and his final Olympia appearance was 1992 Dorian's first win we got 15th Francis was 5'5 and 170 pounds so not a huge guy uh he was a little bit fuller at other shows I do believe he actually went off drugs for this show at least for a brief time period but again just utter perfection uh no no muscle is overly developed or underdeveloped. Everything is in perfect harmony with everything else. Conditioning was always spectacular. You know, you could say, well, maybe a little bit light in the legs compared to the guys today. Obviously, the ideals that these classic that these classic bodybuilders subscribed to, a lot of them just did what they wanted to do and they presented the best physique that they wanted to and felt was their idea of perfect or as close to perfection as they could come without worrying so much about what other people thought or even what might be placing better. [snorts] His best placing ever was the 1989 German Grand Prix where he was fourth. So although he did make uh top sixth in the Olympia one time and seventh on another occasion the next year, he was never considered a top Olympian. However, to those who were fans of, you know, the the the Steve Reeves type of physique, the symmetry, the balance, the proportion, shape, and presentation, Francis Benfo was always somebody they looked up to. And to this day, uh he still this physique still holds up. uh a modern day version of this with a little more mass I'm sure would do very very well in classic physique but again there was no classic physique back then he was competing against guys like Lee Haney and Dorian Yates who are 250 pounds or more so not so easy now next guy uh here we go so now we come to the flexing Dutchman Barry Demay Barry Deay was an early inspiration for guys like Jay Cutler believe it or not [snorts] they called him flexing Dutchman because he was from Holland, the Netherlands. Barry 6' tall and 227 lbs. Again, that would be considered small today, even in classic physique at 6 foot. I believe you can be a little heavier than that, but he would fall perfectly actually into the parameters of today's classic physique for height and weight. Uh I often say that Chris Bumpstead is a is a more modern version of Barry Demay, you know, with the modern training and PEDs and everything that we have now. So Barry uh he turned pro at the 1985 World Games by winning the heavyweight and overall. Interestingly enough, that was Dorian Yates's first proqualifier. He had just won his first amateur contest a couple weeks before in the in England and they had talked him into doing that show. Uh Barry did do pretty well at the Olympia in ' 86 he was fifth place. 1987 he was sixth place and we're looking at the 1980 88 Olympia now on screen. That was at the Universal Amphitheater in Los Angeles. He was third place in the world that year behind Lee Haney and Rich Kaspari. Uh he was runner up once at a show, never won a pro show, but he was third place seven times. So you could see a lot of these classic bodybuilder guys never won a pro show, but they placed very highly. It it probably was just overall mass where they were giving up giving up size to the other guys. But in terms of proportion, symmetry, shape, condition, and certainly presentation, the men in this video were not we're not losing to anybody. Barry was amazing. Still looks phenomenal today at over 60 years of age. I think he's about 65. He's also become a photographer, but if you follow him, he's on Facebook, he's on Instagram, and yeah, he is still looking fantastic. So, that was Barry Demay, the flexing Dutchman. All right, speaking of Lee Haney, we'll get to Lee in a second. I want to finish out Barry. I don't want to I don't want to lose any of it. I only got two minutes of him up there. The flexing Dutchman. Imagine Barry today in classic physique with a little bit more fullness and size, which he would have, I'm sure. All right, Eighttime Mr. Olympia Lee Haney would be the biggest classic bodybuilder of all time. Here he is in 1991, his eighth and final Olympia appearance. Uh, I shouldn't say appearance, I should say win. This was in Orlando. He was 5'11 and right here, he was right around 255 pounds. So, he competed over those eight years as Mr. Olympia anywhere from the low 240s to this was the highest but he still maintained a 30inch waist even at that 255 pounds which is astonishing. Clearly he was also someone who put a lot of a lot of emphasis a lot of attention and time into his posing. Usually posed to the Excalibur uh 04una which was in the movie Excalibur. I just call it the Excalibur theme. and he uh it suited him so well that just really dramatic oporatic oporatic type of music. So Lee for someone who was so big he he kept a small waist, small joints. You know we do have guys today that are in that tradition like uh Andrew Jack and Samson Dada. Of course big guys who still have smaller waists, Andrew in particular, but none of them have a 30-inch waist like Lee Haney. Lee Haney was I want to say anomaly, but I say that in the best way possible. and he still talks about classic, the classic look because he came up uh inspired by guys of the past like Steve Reeves, uh Robbie Robinson, Arnold, Ed Corny, and uh as big as he was, he always respected the smaller guys with shape because he almost got he actually did get beat in his first season as a pro several times by Egyptian Muhammad Macawe, who was probably about 60 70 pounds lighter. and six or seven inches shorter than Lee was. So Lee never just got bigger for for size sake. He was uh like these every guy in this video put a lot of emphasis into perfect shape or proportion. Never wanted any body part to be too big or too small in proportion to the other ones. Last guy on our list here is the great Lee Labrada. Now Lee was known as mass with class and I think that's pretty obvious here. He was mass with class. Lee was 5 foot6 they say I think he was more like 5'5 185 at his best in this video which was from the 1993 Olympia one of which was toward the very end of his career. [snorts] He was 33 years old the same age his son Hunter Labata is right now. So Lee turned pro by winning the 85 nationals middleweight title. Then he went on to the world amateur championships also known as the universe and won the middleweight title there. It's where he earned his pro card. He won his pro debut in 1986 at the night of champions which is sort of mel became the New York pro now but it was the night of champions for many years. His first Mr. Olympia was in Gutenberg Sweden. The next year he took third place behind Lee Haney and Rich Gaspari 1988 [snorts] Olympia in Los Angeles fourth place for two years in a row 89 in Reiny Italy and 90 in Chicago he took second place. And in fact in 1990 in Chicago the year was drug tested. He was ahead of Lee Haney after the judging but Lee Haney made up the points in the finals and the pose down and the posing routine and all that and beat him. But posing is was a forte of Lee's Le always considered one of the greatest posers of all time. He's someone that almost everybody who wants to be a great poser will go to YouTube and search his old routines. Try to find some inspiration, some ideas. You could see every pose is unique. The transitions were smooth. Everything just flowed. Uh 1990, so the 1991 Olympia in Orlando, he was fourth. 92, which was Dorian's first win, he was third place behind Dorian and the new guy Kevin Leone. And in 1993, his final Olympia appearance, he was fourth place behind Dorian Yates, Flex Wheeler, and Shawn Ray. He competed just a couple more times in 9093. 1993 he came back and did the Iron Man Pro and the Arnold Classic. In both of those shows, Lee Labrada took second place to the rookie Flex Wheeler who was another guy. And yes, I'll probably be doing a part two to this with Flex Wheeler in there. Final appearance for Lee was the 1995 Arnold Classic where he was fifth place. And by then he saw the writing on the wall. The guys were just getting so much bigger. Dorian was Mr. Olympian. Everybody was trying to catch up to him at that point, getting bigger. So Lee had no interest in trying to become a mass monster. He liked the proportions, the beauty, the artistry of the physique, and that's what he So one out of the seven of these guys on video didn't turn pro. That was Rory. Three out of the six never won a pro show, [snorts] but they all were ideals of what we call classic bodybuilding, which was the beauty and art of bodybuilding before the emphasis turned to raw mass and you had to have 22 inch arms and you had to weigh 250 pounds. Uh it became more of a freak show at that point. But there's a lot of people that still really loved the idea of classic proportions and the body as living sculpture. And that's what eventually led to the formation of the classic physique division close to 10 years ago at this point. So if you like the video, please give it a thumbs up, subscribe to the channel, like, share, do all that crap, please. Helps me out. [snorts] And uh I will make a part two of this video if I get enough comments about people that I missed, guys who you really feel were uh missing from this video as being some of the best classic bodybuilders of all time. Already mentioned Flex Wheeler. If you guys have any ideas, anyone that you think deserves to be in another video like this, please drop it in the comments. Let me know what you think. And that's it. I want to thank you all for watching. It's been my honor and appreciate it. And I'll see right