Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour. Filling in this week for the great Charles Tiger Thomas is the one and only Big Mike Cox. Michigan Sucks. That's his name. Oh io go Bucks 78 days. So just How you doing Ryan? I'm good. But Michigan people don't get upset. It's a football rivalry thing. He's He's got nothing against the fine people of the state of Michigan, I'm sure. Just Ann Arbor, that's all. So, uh, two grumpy old men over 50, perfect people to debate this. And, uh, we're talking about the motorcycle stance. So, this came up. I'm not even sure who brought it up originally. I I it's it's been on every damn Instagram page and YouTube videos, so I don't know who started the the argument, but this is how guys stand now. And poor Derek. He's become like the poster child because this one picture has been used over and over and over again, which is why I didn't use this exact picture in any of my graphics. I want to give it a rest. And I don't want to pick on Derek, but they all stand like this now. Absolutely. Um, no doubt about that. So, uh, for let let's go to a little bit of judging footage from recent shows just to show you it's not just Derek because I don't want anyone to think we're picking on Derek. I like Derek. So Pittsburgh Pro eventually the video will start moving. So this was first call out. Martin Bonak, Derek, and Walker. And you'll see they all do. This is how everybody stands now with the legs sort of spread apart like they're riding a horse or a motorcycle. And the arms are way out like that. Uh one more look at the another bunch of guys so you don't just see. These were the second call out guys. Same thing. The reason you don't get to see much of this holding it is because they don't do the the symmetry round anymore. No. So, this is the 1991 Olympia. Ah, goosebumps. But this is I want you guys to see this was a round that we used to have called the symmetry round and it was purely the quarter turns. There was no posing. So, this is how they stood. So, what what's this? We got Gaspari Haney. Yeah, I have to go a little closer. And the side. from the side. You see they barely even twisted back then. Samir Bonoot, Dorian, I think Haney's going to be the last one. No, did we pass? That's not Haney. That's Terry Pastel or something there. But as you can see, they were they were tensing the muscles, but that's it. It was kept to a minimum on the twisting on the side from the front. They didn't have their elbows out wide and you can see how close their feet are. In fact, there's JJ Marsher. He had his feet completely together. Uh, so you started bodybuilding uh in the 80s, Mike. Is that how you learned how to do the quarter turns? It was monkey see monkey do run. I literally practice my opposing to the 88 Olympia prejudging. Um, that they they did about 13 13 comparisons. So that's what I did. And we all stood with our feet close together, arms not super exaggerated, but I only I flared my lats as wide as they would go. That's really as wide as my lats went is what I flared them. And you know what I mean? Because I wanted that my delts to kind of to show the cap to my delts. Um I kind of sucked up to keep my waist tight. I flexed my obliques just like this. Now I'm not sure where that transition happened, right? Even the quarter turns round. We It wasn't It was just like that. It wasn't super twisted, super exaggerated. And the judges also told you as well, arms to your side, face straight ahead. Don't bait. Don't twist. Put your arms down. Put your feet together. They were very And listen, there was no music back then the pre and so everybody heard it. It was loud and clear. But somewhere along the way, I know I remember Branch, he kind he did that. And I think maybe is it to take up space, but after Branch run Dexter didn't pose like that. I'm trying to think kind of where, you know, Ramy didn't, Brandon didn't. I don't know what I maybe it's to look bigger I guess but dude you don't really look bigger you just kind of look like um and also I do remember Milos he would say that on their podcast uh why is he why is he riding the horse and he kept going over and he he would go on Jay's podcast and say it was it's hilarious but and now what you can't unsee that kind of that that visual in your head But I don't know how we got there. And I don't know. It it it looks different. I know remember Men's Physique or Men's Physique, they start may start doing that cuz remember we see him at the shows, they were all like the elbows were up and then remember Tyler even said something about that. Yeah. Yeah. And I, you know, I I'm trying to think of it had to be like late 90s to early 2000s when it went from the old school style where your arms were pretty much down by your side and your feet were pretty close together. Uh because I remember Ronnie stood that way with very Samson doing this. Uh but toward the in the when they all started because I remember like Ronnie in his earlier shows I I remember pictures I couldn't find any. He was doing it the way it's just it was like you said monkey see monkey do. As soon as some guys started doing it and the judges weren't calling them on it they all said well [\h__\h] now I'm going to look narrow so I better open up like these guys and get my elbows out flare my put my feet a little bit further apart. I have AI have a pretty funny story. The first time I saw Raphael Santoa, whose name he's like Voldemort, you're not supposed to say his name because he runs the other IFBB elite over in in Europe, but uh I went to a show called the IFBB um Caribbean and Central American Championships back in 1997, I think it was. And it was wow San Salvador, El Salvador. Uh Gustavo Badell won the juniors. He was like 22 at the time. Uh, it's where I also saw Joe Stubs for the first time. But the the point is I I remember the lineups were huge because it was, you know, there's a lot of countries in Central America and a lot of Caribbean islands. So, there'd be like 30 middleweight guys, 30 or 40 light heavyweight guys all across the stage and they were, I remember distinctly, they didn't just put them in groups on the side like they do now. They had them all the way across. I don't know what they were thinking, but they were standing. So, this is like late 90s. They were sort of, some of them were standing like uh Samson is here. the motorcycle pose. And Raphael was walking down the line and I was up front so I could hear him. He's like, "No pose, no pose, no pose, no pose." And he he'd tell them he if if they didn't understand him, he'd he'd put his hands on their elbows and push them down. No pose, no pose. So he was trying to put an end to it, the IPB, because that that's when there was just one IPB. It was everybody was all all love and hugs that they they were not allowing that and at some point it became allowed. So, I don't think I don't I don't foresee actually. You know what? Tyler is very good with addressing things. Yeah. So, I I imagine he's going to come out with a video pretty soon with with the official statement, and I'm very curious as to what that's going to be. Listen, does I'm not Now, now that I'm thinking about it, do the um classic guys stand like this? What about the w the women? I I I don't recall seeing like the women's physique or the figure girls with their arms overly overly, you know, extended like that. Um, and bikini girls, they obviously got a totally separate way of posing along with wellness. But now that you when you start like really thinking about that, it's just everybody now. It's kind of like just infected the sport with that kind of post. Does anybody not do that? I I want to say it's less common in classic. I'm trying to pull up. Like I said, it's hard to find because they don't stay in that position very long anymore. Like they that round was gotten Was it Did Bob Chick is he personally the one that got rid of the symmetry round? Do you know for sure? You know, I there was a a heated debate on uh DJ's podcast about that. Then I kind of actually turned it off halfway through. It was a little uncomfortable. meals was heated with Bob, but I from what I deciphered it sounded like that. But um I don't know is it but is that even needed? Do we we actually practice our quarter turns, right? That was part of our our routine when we practice at home. Nowadays, you really don't need to practice that too much, do you? Just standing I guess I guess for hold it for a few seconds. But that was something we had to kind of nail and get get used to doing and it was always uncomfortable from the side cuz you'd cramp up and getting your glute right. Um but somewhere along the line this became the the norm. Branch Warren stood like that though Ron remembered to take up space but these guys are huge anyway. They take up space like Samson takes up a lot of space. I mean, right, it's it's hard for us to know if they'd look better doing it the old school way because we'd have to see them do it both ways to really to judge that. Um, I I do think it's a little exaggerated the way that we see the elbows up so high. I'd like to see them down a little bit. I'd like to just sort of split the difference between old school and this. I think somewhere in between would probably be best if I was the one making the call. And a lot of guys, too, there's a lot of shaky guys. Contrary to what a lot of people think, there's a lot of shaky guys now to where even if you brought your arm arms down a little bit, they still have small waists, right? I mean, for a 300 pound man, Samson's got a small ass waist with those crazy thighs, right? It's very similar to to and again is very similar to Lee that Lee Haney look standing there. But remember Sansa had a picture up to where he stood like that that and they kind of compared to Lee Haney and he he looked absolutely like um like a Greek statue when he he posed like that in the picture. Um but I would assume they may say something because this is what everybody's talking about now. And you what like said what's said what's seen can't be unseen. Yes. I can't it's hard and even you know the legs are are so wide apart. Um, but is that even needed too? Because it just it I don't know. It just looks different. It looks to me and again I'm 52. I'm gonna be 52 years old pretty soon. Yeah. So take you know take my opinion with a grain of salt. Um but you again you have to be very sensitive to to how you say things now as well because you know people people Yeah. Yeah. just but you know the way Bon Parish did it on the way you know Frank Hildbrand is doing it even a Keem Oen Albbright is a huge guy right there but it's not over exaggerated and not wide Tomiger great memories that's that even from the back because what what I try to do or what I think what I was taught is you flex your lats to show your detail right and your width but like kind of pose back a little bit but when your arms up like this wide. I mean, I kind of imagine like Derek doing a a back latch spread and then just holding it closer to the side would look absolutely ridiculous. But listen, again, we're grumpy old Benark back to the days of Lee Labrada, Lee Haney, and Dorian Yates, right? Yeah. But that just looks classical to me. I guess that's what he's talking about. It's maybe not the physiques, but just how they're being presented now. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the one I just never want to see I never want to see the elbows up that high. I don't want to see where they're like at a 90 degree angle. To me, that's ridiculous. Like, here's Milos. Milos is a great example here. He didn't The elbows here. I don't think they're all the way down. So, maybe this is like the best way. Elbows here aren't all the way down, but they're they're not flared up. You see, like riding a motorcycle. And that's I at all the local shows I've been to over the past couple years, there's always a couple guys in it's not always the noviceses, but way up high with the elbows like where the elbows are almost or the the the upper arm is almost parallel to the ground. And I'm like, "No, dude. No, you can't even flex your lats like that. Your lats with your arms that high." It could be nerves, too, right? I know what you mean by the the the novice guy. It could be nerves, right? Because you may practice it one way, you know, at home, but when those bright lights get to you and you got that cotton moth and you're you're in your underwear, you're pretty much naked on stage, right? So, you may forget, but I don't you I have seen those guys to where it's like them getting pat down a little bit to where they're, you know, getting kind of rested on top cop car. Um, but it's just I guess it's taught that way by coaches. I mean, you you go to some of those posting clinics. Is that kind of what what what they're doing there? What what what they're being taught? I see. Yeah, that's a good question. I've I've done some posing clinics uh the past few months and I I I push guys elbows down. I'm like, "No, no, no, no, no." And if their feet are too wide, I say, "Put your feet a little closer together because I I think when your legs are that far apart, it not only does it look odd, but it strikes me that you're trying to hide something. You're trying to make your legs look a lot bigger than they are." And that's fine to use your posing as a sort of form of illusion, but you have to do it in such a way that's not obvious. Or else you just defeated the whole purpose because now you're like, "Look, look, look at me. Look at my legs. They're so far apart." And you your feet are their feet are like pointed all the way out and they're, you know, they're trying to basically show their legs sideways from the front to to try to make up for a lack of actual thickness in the thighs. But, you know, Tan, like nowadays, man, there's I mean, it's good. There's so much information, but there's almost too much, right? We didn't have a lot of that information. So, we had to trial and error it. You know, I I didn't have a lot of times when I was when I'm, you know, I'm 16 years old. I'd have guys in the gym helping me, you know, pose. As I got older, you know, you know, God bless Jim M to Ohio. He lifesaver. Help me pose and training. But I didn't have before I got to Toledo, I didn't have that. So, it was like, does this look better? you know, you go on stage, you hope like your parents get some Polaroids of you or some digital just to get some feedback because you really didn't have that. You had your mirror, right? You know, as you got older and like I said to the gyms and you met some people, they helped you out with your posing a little bit, but you know, it's just when you have all that information and again, it's it's maybe they've never tried just keeping their elbows to the side. Maybe they said, "Hey, put them up." Because maybe that looks good, too. But you just don't know. You have to give it a chance. But when you have a co a posing coach, a prep coach, you don't have a chance to play with it. You don't have a chance to kind of do it on your own to kind of learn how this works for your body, how this looks for your body. So, you know what I mean? It's just like I said, sometimes too much information is not a good thing. You know, it's just too many too many cooks in the kitchen right now in in the sport, right? Posing coach, hypertrophy coach, um therapist, which is awesome. Listen, I wish I swear to God I'm at Hayden. I wish I had all this crap. I would have been like 285, right? Maybe, but you know, but you know, you know, Pab Ecobar and me, but it was meant to be. I'm where I'm supposed to be right now. Love you, Mandy. But it's just we didn't have I I think finding that journey on your own, Ron, like just finding your body, what works for your body, what poses work for your body is part of the experience. And maybe when you get older down the line, you get that help. But, you know, just do it on your own for a little bit, man. Just just learn what works. So, when you go to a coach and he says, "Do it that way." Say, "Hey, man. Listen, I've done it this way. Maybe let's try it." So, who knows? You know what I mean? Yeah. I want to read some comments here. Got uh post supposed to be relaxed. In what world is this relaxed? Yeah. So, it's not You're still even the old school ways they were they had everything tensed. Yeah, you never ever want to be on stage relaxed, especially if you have any kind of a belly or a gut. God, mine mine would be out to the freaking drop onto the floor if I really let it relax. But you still there's a fine line between making it look like you're not overly exerting yourself, not flexing too hard. Right. People like gritting their teeth and they look like they're in pain and they're shaking. I'm like, uh, it it makes me cringe because I'm I'm feeling their discomfort, their nerves, their, you know, their anxiety. And it's it's it's infectious. You want somebody to look really really poised, confident, relaxed. And Frank Zayn like he was he wasn't exa he was still flexing hard. It may not have looked like it, but he was, right? So, it's just I get I mean, you have to f pumping iron. They stayed flexed. They may not have looked like it, but they were they were flexing hard. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. And it's those days, the side poses were perfectly to the side. There was absolutely no twist at all. No. Uh, you know, I I wonder when that started happening, too, the first guy that twisted and didn't get called on it. Um, because the one thing, my pet peeve, I wish I had a picture, is the guys who from the side, they put the the rear arm like way up to their chest level. I'm like, "No, dude. What do you think you're doing there?" No. H. Okay. I'm g share this tab instead. Here's me in the perfect front relaxed pose. Beautiful. Amazing. Look at the sim. Wow. And that's how you do it, right? Relax. But you know, we pra we we practiced that as amateurs, Ron, over and over. Like we were taught like you p your hold your face a certain way, right? Like smile make kind. All that was taught to us like from magazines and from like the old school cast before us. Yeah. You know, so I wonder I I just Walter, what's up, my dude? Yeah, Walter. Walter's getting ready for the Masters Olympics. Yes, sir. Put me in your suitcase. Walter, I want to go to Tokyo. [\h__\h] His folks are hilarious. Good luck, brother. Yeah. Yeah, he he's got he's got a great gym there in Where is he? I don't remember what's Just outside of Cleveland, I think. Warren. Okay. Warren, Ohio. Okay. Okay. You would know. You have the uh Show it. Show it. Oh, oh h I o go Bucks. That's the state of Ohio on his form and 216 is an area code for Michigan still sucks. Buy your muscle says Davey new new client I'm work with. What's up Ryan? Just got through eating my chicken and rice. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Keep eating. He's going to get in great shape for the summer. Your mom flip-flop is only 17. So this anyone who thinks this is like a generational argument like all the old crusty guys like us, we we want to see it go back to this style. Some of the younger guys when they look at the older pictures and footage they're like, "Oh, I actually like the way that looks better." So, it's it's just a preference. It's not, you know, it's not us saying the old the old bodybuilders were great and these new guys are all [\h__\h] No, not at all. Of course not. There's there's some guys now who I think would have held their own quite quite well in the 90s. Quite well. Ron, you know who looks good in that in that crazy like motorcycle pose? Beeruse. He looks like an absolute freak of nature. For some reason, it works. I don't know because he's just got that crazy taper and quads, but he looks absolutely ridiculous in that pose. I find it, you know, because Yeah. You know, I don't think it's necessarily that everyone looks bad in it. It's a matter of some people exaggerate it. Oh, here we go. I'm going to show it. Share this tab. Okay. Can you see Beerus's page now? Yes. All right. So, yeah, he starts off every uh posing video with that very wide stance. Looks good. Looks Yeah, he does pull it off pretty well. It doesn't look He off good. It's just like, dude, that dude's a freak, man. That that I hope to God he gets here, bro. Cuz he just would just wreck some [\h__\h] at the Olympia. Oh, didn't we just go to war? No. Uh, Israel just went to war. Yeah. I don't know. I don't I get confused. But it's not looking good for Iranian Iranian. No. No. That's That's all I thought of sadly. And I apologize, but I'm like, Barus and Hottie son [\h__\h] I think Hottie will be okay. I do too. I think Hottie's got the hookup thanks to Hani. Yes. They worked so hard to build the exact right connections and channels to work through. I don't think Hottie's gonna have a problem getting here at all. I I hope I hope not because come on. I want I want to see him battle. I want to see him, Samson, Derek, and Nick just tearing at each other's throats basically. I think and I think Hottie would actually win. I think it would be his year once again to win that damn show, bro. Well, I tell you, he's nobody nobody's as gonna be as well rested and ready to cheer [\h__\h] up as he is. Yeah, there's another one. Damn. Yeah. See, it doesn't look bad on him. Maybe. You know what? I think it's guys with higher lats. And you know what too, I think now, if we had an actual symmetry round and we kept seeing them doing it over and over and over again, they hit it and then hit the pose. Maybe if they if we saw them do it for a full five, six, seven, eight comparisons. Yeah. Right. Because they don't have to hold that pose that long. Like if you have to hold that pole over and over, you don't tell them how your delts are going to feel, right? But it's not Well, even with the men's physique, they they transition from it as well. So, I don't know. I just don't I don't know, man. Like, I'm I'm trying to think I'm And when we talk about it, I'm I play in my head like, "Okay, when did this?" I go, "Okay, 2005." you start picturing these guys in your head posing like when it transition. Yeah. So, this is an interesting thing Matt brought up. Should the front relax pose become a mandatory pose? Well, obviously not. It's it's part of the the quarter turns, which they sort of fly right through these days. Yeah, there still are quarter turns uh in the judging, but they they go very very quickly. The only time you really see them is when the guys come out in groups before they do the first call out. You know, they'll bring out like competitors number one through six and then seven through 12 and they usually will do turn them around a couple times if that and then they have them hit like two or three of the mandatory poses and they then they bring out the next group. But it's it's it doesn't need to be a mandatory pose. I don't want to see anything added to anything anymore. Just put it that way. Shows are freaking long enough. No, dude. No, no, no, no. You listen, you got you we you know which guys have good symmetry, right? But I don't think you need to make this an actual round, right? Just because there's so many guys now, you can't, you know, unfortunately you can't make this an actual round anymore. I don't I think we're past the point of actually making this, you know, a four, you know, quarter turn, quarter turn, quarter turn. Okay, move on. Right. So, um I don't know. But does it does it if the judges know which guys have good shape and which guys don't, right? Yeah. So, they have they got a good eye for this. Um, but it it's just it's a funky Yeah. I just see a Harley. I just picture Harley-Davidson. You can see someone has a good point. Benji Perez says Samson doesn't have his legs apart because Samson's got huge legs. Derek Derek doesn't have small legs by any means. They Derek has huge legs. So, I I don't think Derek needs to have his legs as far apart as he has them. That's how that's how he was taught. That's, you know, and nobody until until or unless Tyler makes a video and says, "All right, guys. Listen up. From now on, nobody's arm should be higher than this." And he's he'll have like video demonstrations. But it was Didn't they tell men physique that though a couple years ago? They told them to bring the arms down in a video. Yeah. I think the men physique guys are the only ones that got any kind of, you know, but they went right back to to where they're at. I mean, I I with them, I kind of get it because they don't even get to pose. Yeah, I feel bad. I get to feel bad because when I see him like, damn, that dude's shreddy. I'm like, he know he wants to some front double bicep. Sometimes they do. Sometimes they pose in. They're not supposed to, but they do. But it doesn't stick. It doesn't stick, man. Like, you know what are you gonna do when like you know, you can't really you gota if you're gonna force you gonna enforce it. But, you know, with all the hub up now. But it's funny, man. Ron Mos has been like screaming about this for a couple years now. Yeah. Like he like in every video. It's funny. He said he says it every time every time he um you know reviews even with you when he's talking talking with you. Yeah. You know he mentioned that. Yeah. He's uh he's a stickler for that. I want to show the there was one good post one good picture here on Lee Haney's Lee Hanees. It was him. I used part of this for the thumb but this is a good one. I like this picture. This picture is not doing Dorian any favors. He look he actually he looked a lot better than what that picture would indicate if that makes sense. But like Sean I couldn't imagine Shawn with his arms way up. I think it would look stupid on him. I mean that's that's like perfection right there. The way he's hitting it and it and you know what Bob Chick says he had a thumb rule like as far your thumb should probably kind of touch your where your thighs are when you're relaxed. Maybe a little bit further than that but you know your lats only go so far. I would think, man, holding Have you ever tried posing like this for a long time? Like even just right now, that just doesn't feel good at all. Maybe because I'm old, my shoulders are jacked up. Yeah. Well, I don't know. But this is this right here to me, this is just how a classic how classic physique should look. And the classic guys, they they pull it off so well, right? And you not to digress, but it's not about, you know, the the open physique guys suck. It's just the classic guys kind of represent what the sport was, right? You know, I mean, they they're it's extreme extreme level, but it's it does represent what, you know, the smaller waist, the the flow, the the transition poses, the small it just what we came up on. But don't get me wrong, the freak show is what pays the bills, right? So that's my that's my off topic rant for a minute. Sorry. No, no worries. I'm I'm actually trying to find some some footage of the classic ice. Okay, that was actually a good one right there. I'll pause if I can get to that again. Come on, Ron. You can do it. I know you can do it. Got this, bro. I can do it. I just have to Yes. No. No. Commodore 64. One, two. Commodore 64. Okay, there we go. All right, so I'm gonna do full screen. This will show. All right, so this was this was a last class Olympia. You can see it on the screen now, right? Yeah. Yeah. So, we got Ramon, Bion, and Josema. And they don't have their arms up that No, I would say Ramon, if anyone has his arms up pretty high. Boy, he didn't look he didn't look that good at this last Olympia. Maybe this is a bad Maybe this is a bad pose for him. Yeah, he looks he looks small there compared to I know he's not that small. No, that's my best pose. Bion's arms are down. Yeah, Josema's arms are down. And both Josema especially has got a great back. So yeah, I I've heard some of the guys argue, well these guys backs are so big they can't put their arms down. Get shut up. Like Dorian and Dorian and Lee Haney didn't have huge backs. Come on, don't be That's as far as their lats went. that there. When you're standing like that, you're flexing your lats, right? That's that's you flex your lats as far as they go, right? They're up a little bit like how Brian's doing that to me like that. That's actually absolutely perfect. Yeah. How he's doing that. Yeah, I agreed. I mean, Brienne's a master poser and he's an old school. He certainly is an old school guy. He's he's not as I think you should and you should know how to pose like that, right? Guess even though he may not have the smallest waist, but even how he's standing like that, he hides his flaws. Like that's actually it hearkens back. Let me here we go again. Itarkens back to what we were just looking at with Lee Haney, right? That and and Shawn Ray and even Dorian like that that classical beauty to his physique. Not that open again, not the open guys aren't pretty, right? They're pretty in a different E look at Somerfeld though there. Yeah, he's doing he's got his arms down. And the way Urs are doing that it to me the urge looks phenomenal. He he pulls that off with his physique. Yeah. Like that's a very It makes his waist look absolutely tiny. How his his arms are a little bit higher, but he's sucking his waist in in the vacuum. See, that's what I'm talking about splitting the difference. His arms aren't by his side, but they're not high either. So, I think some guys will probably look better the way Ursa is doing it with their elbows up a little bit. Some guys will look better like we saw Bion with their arms down more, with their elbows down more. It's probably just an individual thing that they need to play with, but I don't think anybody looks their best with the elbows way up high. Look at Bumpstead. Looks Damn, he looks absolutely great, doesn't he? Dude, I mean, people say, "Who which which pro bodybuilder would you like to look like?" I said, "None of them. I want to be Bumpstead." Like that's that's you know these guys are awesome but that's going to be missed man. That's that was a hell of physique. That's a that's a beautiful physique bro. That's a generational physique. Yeah. Yeah. That's Yep. That's in that you kind of Ronnie Lee Haney type that type of like say generational look man. But again look at look where his arms are. Yeah. But it's just weird how the how the differences in the classes, you know, I mean, classic guys do it like this, you know, open. I would think most all open guys probably do that now, don't they? Now that I'm thinking about it, yeah, you got me pondering on some [\h__\h] bro. No, I'm pretty sure all almost all the open guys have their have their elbows up. Damn. Classic to miss. Yeah, I'm going to look mostly most recent Olympia judging. Every every clip I had already had them posing. We're live. I wish my memory was better. Don't we all? I can't remember. Jack, now I got to watch a Limu emu commercial. Yeah. Do do you do you you have so many people at the gym and everywhere just coming up and saying, "Hey, Mike." And you're like, "Hey, you. Hey, buddy." I can't. Everybody, everybody's dude. Everybody's always dude. There's There are guys, dude, there are guys at the gym I've seen for 15 years to I have no idea what his name is. I would me and Mandy was sitting the gym all the time. I like, "Hey, what's up, man?" But what I do is whenever we go somewhere, say, "Man, if if I don't introduce you, introduce yourself because I don't know who the hell it is." Oh man. So, I want to see if they leave these guys looking like that even for a second. Hide. No. Hunter. No. Is this 2024? Yeah, I guess it is. And again, it's just started to take run. I swear to God. Look at that. They're not like that. This is just happening. This is just taking over the sport. Yeah. So, but look at Yeah, he's got I mean, his arms his arms are up, but they're not they're not up super high. The elbows aren't up high. Raphael's got his elbows a little higher than I would like to see. It could, you know, sometimes, man, maybe just in an excitement of I want to look big as hell on stage and wide as possible. You come out and just do one of those. But I would think that but if again if you're not train not trained to bring bring it down, you just leave it up. But how you're not there long, you're just kind of in that pose long enough to get a couple pictures because they're not in those poses that long, right? individually when they're compared they get destroyed. Absolutely destroyed. Right. Here's Derek Samson and Andrew. Yeah, they all have Well, Derek's not really hitting it right there, but we know he does. We know he does the motorcycle. Yeah, I think I think Samson would look a little better with his arms down because he's got he's got the structure, the symmetry, the shape, everything. Same with Jacked. See, I think they feel like they're going to lose width if they put their elbows down. But they're not gonna lose they're not going to lose anything if they put down a bit. Those two are the biggest men in bodybuilding. But there's nobody's gonna outmuscle either one of them, period. True. There's there there's nobody. They're like they're they're the Tyrannosaurus Rex of the sport. Nobody's going to out eat them, right? So it would just I think even with Andrew like he has such a unicorn type physique to me such a unique look to him that even if his arms were down just a little bit a little bit more he would look absolutely stunning and I'm not trying to call another man I'm not saying another man is absolutely stunning his physique would look stunning. Stunning is not but you could say stunning if you said gorgeous maybe we'd have okay good stunning. Here's a good point. So Kandiocope says, "Isn't this what judges want to see?" So the athletes do what the judge 100%. If the judges, like if Tyler's the head, what he says goes as far as how to pose. If he tells everyone, "This is what I want you to do for your side chest from now on. That's how they're all going to do it." If he says, "From now on, this is how you're going to hit your ab and thigh shot." You know, he's he's uh he's the one to listen to. So, if he comes out with a video, and I can't imagine he's going to go much longer without some sort of response to this because it's been it's been talked about for so long now, like the the last week. That's how you know it's a slow week in bodybuilding. That's talking about a freaking the motorcycle pose. But he'll come out with something and he'll address it and he'll either say, "Do what do what you want and you know, whatever you think suits your physique best or he'll say, I don't want to see any more elbows way up high." And then people are going to get the memo and you know once they start realizing uh this is gonna affect my scoring of course change. But the thing again too, it's just awesome that we're at a point in sport where a judge, a head judge would actually come out and address something, right? Like there was so much tr like non-transparency before, but say I'm sure something will come out, but what if you ask something if they actually added a symmetry round just hypothetically speaking? Yeah. Do you think that would affect the score? Did the symmetry round before affect the scores of of any bodybuilding show when they had it? I don't know. Yeah. Did did somebody dramatically move up? I don't know Gustavo Bedell, you know, Olympia, he kind he moved up because of muscularity that one year, right? But, you know, does somebody come out in the symmetry round and you go, "Oh my god, look at him. Let's compare him." Right. Yeah. Probably not. Probably not. I mean, it's like I said, they they needed to get rid of rounds. I think as they start adding to more divisions because they couldn't have judging go till 3 in the morning, although there was that one Olympia, we were there till like two in the morning. But, uh, I don't think we need to bring back the symmetry round. I just want to point out this is the shed. I am very very grateful to have James calling shed. Shed. Oh my god. I even say shed in the middle of his name there. Uh, so James the old showcases natural structure which Brent's being manipulated had structural flaws. Yeah, it's but I I agree with that. I don't think any of these guys we're looking at here really have any structural flaws to hide. No, I I saw somebody make a comment that, you know, Derek and Hottie, the shorter guys, they don't have the the wide structure, so they need to do this. I'm like, are you kidding me? They're very wide. They're just shorter. I mean, look at the width on Hottie and Derek. They're every bit as wide frame-wise as as Samson and Andrew are. I think too, Ryan, you know what's funny? when you when you're there up close and you see Dererick and Hott and you see all those guys actually that close. They got good structures. Dererick's got a great structure when he poses, right? I think when you move further back it just kind of a different look to them as when you're up close because when you're up close you're you're it's you're splitting hairs. Right. Right. Um I can think I I can think if it's close maybe maybe the structure may may make a difference but these guys all have great structure at this point. There's nobody really anymore I'd say that it's got a bad structure. Even like like said Nick Walker has a good structure, right? His front relaxed pose is a damn good pose, right? Like he actually he Nick actually owns that pose when he comes out. That that's his oh my god. When he walked out in New York, I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] that that was the look at me, I'm back pose, right?" So certain guys own that pose. I think, you know, if nowadays if somebody came out, you know, hit that front relaxing individual, you'll pay you'll pay notice right away. Obviously, you have to have a good physique to follow, but like a good structure is just kind of what draws your eye. Yeah. I mean, it draws your eye to Bob Parish. It draws your eye to leave. It draws your eye to those guys. I'm trying to find Nick. Oh, here we go. Here's a good shot of Nick. Share this one. Share this tab. Yeah. So yeah, for those who don't, you know, I don't think he has the prettiest physique, but structurally it's it's actually better than guys a lot of like that's a better structure I think than even Gaspari had to be honest with you. Oh yeah, way better than that. Right. He's wider shoulders. He's got the width the waist, you know, he's gets [\h__\h] on for his obliques if he relaxes his belly and everything. Does have a little thick, but it doesn't look thick at all there. And see, he doesn't look his elbows aren't up high at all there at all. No. That's more like the old school style of hitting that shot. And I think and I think if they were it would totally throw that physique off. Yeah. Right. Like that's AI said that's a holy [\h__\h] pose for Nick. Like he's looking dude I hope he I hope he gets like top three just so Bob could announce him third place. If his elbows are up high Nick in this in this front relax shot I think it would make his waist look larger look wider. Exactly. Exactly. There. People like to [\h__\h] on Nick, right? And it's just just because just it's the thing to do, right? It's easy. He's an easy target. I mean, there's there's a few guys like that. So, Kian says, "Posing has become an Lost Art." One of those young guys who referring to moments ago. Yeah, we got a couple. He's a young guy. Your mom's flip-flop is only 17. Wow. So, it is some of these. Yes, they youth is wasted on the old, as they say. No, no. Youth is wasted on the young. Damn. That's what preacher tell us. Youth is wasting young. You [\h__\h] So true though. Yeah. See, look at those quads. Even if the pose like I guess when you watch them not pose, they don't hold the again another gripe. It's you're not holding the poses that long. And prejuding. Yes. Right. But as a fan, I want to see the freak show for as long as I can. Right. The pose routine. But again, it's just it's just where we're at now. It's I think with posing especially the routines if if you can pose you can pose I don't think you can kind of you can't make yourself Melvin Anthony or Darren Charles right you have to kind of just kind of be I think you got to be born like that you could be a great poser a serviceable poser to kind of just like wow the crowd that just insanity wow yeah I mean that that's that is shape and structure personified right there that to me that's Mr. Olympia to me. Yeah, he's got a few flaws, but that kind of physique is what a Mr. Olympia should look like. Again, not to I'm a sure guy around. I love Derek and Hottie, but right to Samson and Andrew are the physiques to me. Like that that's bodybuilding right now. Yeah. People go, "Oh, the physique sucks." No, the physiques now don't suck. I again I don't think they're as great as they were when we were young, but I think these two like that's just bodybuilding, man. Like that's like look at that. You don't you can't that's you can build that to a certain extent, but that's just God saying you're the one, you know? Oh, I mean he was when he was in Dubai and Larry Wheels was putting up videos of him like few years ago, I was like damn this guy's better than most of the pros and he's never even competed. Yeah. and and the mayor of bodybuilding. We I remember he would like talk about this guy. I'm like, "Ah, Dan's crazy. What's Dan talking about?" And I saw that that Arnold Classic and I was like, "Yep, I'm going to the jungle. I'm grabbing that Kool-Aid right now. What'sever left over." Taking a big gulp. Ever since then, man. Like that's just to me and I'm always hoping that he do Tampa ever would do Tampa, but you know, no such luck. But that to me is body him and Samson. That is bodybuilding at its finest. Yeah. Trying to find a shot of him in the f relax. Good luck, Ron. Good luck. No, I agree. I mean, it as far as becoming Mr. Olympia, you know, we thought that about Flex, we thought that about Kevin, we thought that about Shawn. So, you never you never know. You know, no, but again, the judging now is, shall I say, fair. So, on any given Saturday in October, one of the any of those guys be Mr. Olympia. Not so much in 2000 and 2001, especially 2001, you know what I mean? So, everybody now's got a shot. And that's that's what the I think the fun part of bodybuilding now. Oh, and I I think we're going to see that in classic. I think we're going to see different different champions every year or two. I don't think we're going to have a run of six titles in Rolex Bumpstead. Maybe ever again. Maybe there's some kid right now that's like eight. Yeah. That's see see Andrew Jack and pick him wait or some kid Nigeria that's Andrew is Nigeria yeah you know what I mean just it's just not maybe not in our lifetime right I think classic and men's physique stole a lot of our bodybuilders they stole a lot of talent Dorian said that exact same thing he said the talent pool has been diluted we have we have guys who are in classic and men physique now that would have amazing bodybuilders, but for whatever reason, they chose those divisions. Whereas back in the day, everybody with awesome genetics, they ended up in bodybuilding because that was the only place to go. Yeah. I mean, you could see some of these guys in classic would be damn good open guys if they put on, you know, another 20, 30, whatever pounds. And it's you see a lot of guys that place like seventh, eighth, ninth that would make awesome bodybuilders that are in classic. Not just some of the top guys, but even in Tampa, I see some dudes. I'm like, man, that dude would make a great bodybuilder. I don't know why he's in his class. Just eat a little bit, you know? But again, it's just that the selfish meat said, "Man, I wish Bumpstead would have went to Kuwait back when it was popping." You know what I mean? Came back a monster. I've seen guys in Men's Physique. Uh there was a show, the Rhode Island show a couple weeks ago. I was at the guy that won the men's physique probably would have won the bodybuilding. you know, he had these monstrous arms, shoulders, chest, back, little tiny tiny waist. Uh, you could see he had some legs. The board shorts weren't weren't tight enough, but he would have won. But for whatever reason, he's probably has no interest in bodybuilding. And I don't understand that. I don't I get I'm old. I don't get it, but I don't understand how you just don't gravitate towards bodybuilding, right? I just, you know, it just to me I I always wanted to just be a freaking, you know, people go, "Oh my god, you look disgusting." That's what that was what the goal always was. Not to get like to pick up girls, but just have a girl go, "Oh my god, you look absolutely disgusting." You want to walk in your room and people would say to themselves, run their breath, "Holy shit." Yes. What if you want people to like just go, "Oh my god, just to shake their head." But I guess now, you know, you want the the pretty abs and you know, the nice hair. And I just wanted to look gnarly and look big in a t-shirt. There's a good point. Uh they're nonfb bro says he's trying to show his his back from the front. But even with your elbows down like we were showing these guys, you could see you could see all their lats from the front. These this is 1991. This is 10,000 years ago when dinosaurs roam the earth. But uh you know Haney Samir had a good really good back obviously. Uh look at Samir. You can see Dorian. Dorian, you can see their lats perfectly from the front. Yeah, Rich actually looked really good at that show. Yeah, but that was that was the kind of the downfall. Got what? He get like 10th that year. Let's do what was his name? Joe Dawson. That's who that was. Joe Dawson. Forgot about him. That's that was my first Olympia. There was like 31 guys in it that year. It was huge. Ridiculous. I said, "This English guy is not that good." And then I saw him like, "Okay, I guess he's pretty good." Robbie Robbie Robinson was in pumping iron. That's right. He's throwing the football around in that completely madeup scene where they were talking I they that was Ken Ken Waller talking about how he was going to hide Mike Catz's t-shirt and I'm pretty sure they filmed that after the whole you know two after that was all done. So commentary not really a good documentary. Yeah. But so yeah I you could see all the laps from the front. I don't think the lats and again too like with your front double bicep you you see your lats. That's what that's what's called immediately after that front relax. So I mean I mean you don't really see the lats from the front in in a front relax again. Front relax. You're looking at that structure like who has that that great structure. Yeah. Nick at the Pittsburgh Pro hit the front relax. Perfect. Yeah. Nick is actually he's he's actually a better poser than I give him credit for sometimes. Nick's a solid poser. And think about Nick. He can pose and pose and pose like he just hit round after round after round. Listen, people don't get it. I think Nick, he's gonna be a problem for people, you know, at the Olympia. You know, that dude agree because some guys aren't some guys won't be in shape, but he'll be in shape. And we've seen now if if you're in shape, you're gonna place high. Oh, it's it's now we're getting political up. We're getting world event updates. Iran just launched missiles at Tel Aviv. It's not, man. Like I said, I think hottie's going to be okay. I think he's going to skate skate by all this political stuff. You hope so. I hope so, man. I hope I hope so. I'd be very one of the best athletes. You you know I mean it sucks that they get caught up in all kind of [\h__\h] when they have no you know I mean it's because the governments hate each other the people like suffer. You know what I'm saying? Like you know how I'm sure I don't know how thinks but I don't care. He's a great bodybuilder. That's all that matters. Yeah. I mean, I don't I don't want to know his I don't know his politics and I don't want to know his politics. No interest in in hearing what he has to say about Israel or any of that stuff. I don't want to know. Yeah, we're good on that. Hopefully somebody in his camper is just kind of keeping them off the internet. Yeah, there's a good shot. I couldn't find a full p I wanted that picture on the right to use and I couldn't find it uh like the full picture. It was always cropped out. But that's Haney outside in the front relax shot. That's a and that's that's a cl that's that's a Mr. Olympia that's a classic physique. And again people I don't think he he's not [\h__\h] on these guys now. It's just there's a certain look they had back then that you know that we don't have now. You bodybuilding it's just it's a different sport. And I get again I don't get how guys won't go into it but you know classic has is just taken is popular is very popular. Right. So, we're and we're not going to go back in open bodybuilding to that classic look because this this look at that. And that's Lee. Lee posted that. He's a huge Samson fan. He said, "The return of Excalibur." Jesus. See, to me, he looks so much more impressive with his arms down like that than when he has his elbows flared up. Like, that is how Mr. Olympia should be. Yeah. I mean, if he comes in shredded this year like we've never seen, nobody's touching Samson. Come on. And it's funny in person, man. He's he's a giant of a man. Yeah. He's just a big dude. 100%. I mean, 305 in shape. Yeah. Lee never had those elbows up. No. And that and to me that again that that's my goat. That's the greatest to me of all time, period. I know Ronnie was awesome. Everybody loves Ronnie. But that's the guy I came up with and that's the guy I I can still get fanboy moments around certain people. Emanuel attest to this like Lee Haney I still get that kind of 16 year old boy meeting his like rogue idol again you know just as a 52 year old man you know so it's just is the kind of respect and admiration that you have for him you know because he just he did everything the right way in our sport you know you know he's he's just he's not he's older but he's just of a different generation man yeah it's it's I I really get uh bummed when I hear so many young people calling him, oh, he's he thinks all the the guys now suck and not at all. Like we said, he's a huge Samson fan. He likes Andrew Jack. He's just he he's more into the classic type of shape and structure. He doesn't doesn't like the blockier physiques. That's it. You know, he's not a fan of of the Nick Walker, Derek Lunsford, the shorter, stockier guys. And that's, you know, that's his opinion. It's all li Exactly. He is 5'11. But again, you know what too, though? It's an opinion, right? It's his it's Lee Hy's opinion. And I think we're at we're at a place in the world where having an opinion is just frowned upon. It's not a person a personal attack is different. You feel I hate him because whoa whoa slow down Karen, right? But saying I'm not a fan of his physique, you know, it's that's okay. You don't have to be. You know what I mean? I wasn't a fan of Ed Kwok, right? No big deal. You know, I was a fan of Bob Perry, Shandre, those guys. There's guys not I'm not a fan of their physiques, but I love seeing them compete. They may have the physique that I I like I had or wish I had. Right. There's no Dexter's gone, but there's some guys now that, you know, I think like Keon is has the best physique in bodybuilding. Oh, yeah. By far. You know what I mean? So, it's just, you know, you can have an opinion about someone and and someone still shouldn't get upset or or butt hurt about it. Yeah. Yeah, we have this argument all the time when when I'm talking about physiques, I'm not talking about the person. There's there are people that I have so much respect and admiration for, but if they have big flaws in their physique, I have to I have to comment on that. And likewise, there's pe there occasionally through the years, there have been people I knew were not good people for whatever reason. I won't I won't even get into any details. I just knew they were not good human beings, but they had fantastic physiques and I praised the hell out of physiques because it's like music. Yeah, maybe some musicians freaking I don't Some of them have been like pedophiles, murderers, whatever they but they had great some of these people still had amazing music. I don't I don't hate their music just because I know they were not good human beings appreciate the music or movie director's work or something. So, same thing here. But something again, some people some people can't separate the two and a lot of people react and comment on emotion, right? And not and not like don't think it through. You know what I just I don't know, man. It's it's a different era. It's a different the social media thing. It's a whole different era where you have instant access to these guys. We had to write a letter, right, to and I'm not going to sit down and write a letter just saying, "Hey, so and so, you suck." And then stamp it and mail it. You know what I mean? So, I think there's also a lack of appreciation for like the level of work that these guys have put in. Um, especially the old guys. Listen, these guys don't know Lee. They don't know Lee Haney's story. They don't know Barry Demay, right? They're And they're not They know Chris Bumpstead. They know Sam Sulic. Yeah. Right. The the dinosaurs like us, like we know these guys. We, you know, we idolize these guys. We still we appreciate these guys. These kids now, man. Again, anyway. Yeah. Well, here's a kid right here, 17. Who do you think Who do you guys think from Classic would do the best in open? A lot of people say Urs should switch over. I say it's this. To me, it's this guy Somerfeld. Yes. I don't think Urs is wide enough um to be open guy. This dude, look at that. Yeah. I mean, he I don't think he'd even need to be much bigger to to do a damage like a 212. Not in this era. And I think it would be also seeing him a little bit fuller what he look like. And also seeing a 212 guy posed like this, right? We don't see that like this. I don't know, man. These guys are great. All of them are good posers. Oh, the classic guys in general are much better posers in the open. They they clearly put a lot more time and effort into the posing practice. I know, man. I don't I get that's your one time to kind of show off what you got. Entertain the crowd. I would remember we used to get 90 seconds for a posing routine. I'd use them all in 90 seconds. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I mean. 60 if you're lucky. Jesus, that's crazy. I think the reason I don't see him doing well in open is those arms. Trust me, I'm I know all about being limited by arms that aren't great. And he's he's somebody that would he would suffer. That would be a he the front double people would he he'd compare badly to guys with huge arms. The side try. He's got a beautiful physique. It's just, you know, luckily in classic, you can get away with not having spectacular. It's really the triceps that he needs. His buys aren't bad. Tries that need to be fuller and round. And you classic about the overall structure, the the classical look to the physique, right? So, um, you don't need like Michael Mal's type arms, but doesn't get up to like 275. Yeah. Why? Because he needs to be he can't be any heavier than 220 on stage. 222. large. I don't know why he gets so heavy. But that's why you keep hearing about should do classic. It's because he does get so big and heavy, but he diets down. He doesn't look any bigger to me. So, I don't know why he's getting so big. I I've heard that. I think it was uh an old coach of his said he loves to eat and he gains weight pretty easily. It's just, you know, it's not going to the arms. He's got That's a man. Listen, if you got a diet as much as he does, en or enjoy that [\h__\h] bro. Enjoy that muffin or cheeseburger in the offseason. Heidi is in the military. Like he's actively in the military. I don't know about that, dude. I don't know, dude. First of all, he's he's I think he's legally can you even say deaf? What do you have to say? Like heart of hearing impaired or I don't know where we're at. I don't know where we're at in this world. Whatever the whatever the politically correct term is. He has massive uh the hell they call them hearing aids. Yeah. that because you know Iran probably doesn't have little tiny ones like we Oh, right. So, he can't be in the military. So, you can't be in the military if you can barely hear anything. Even with hearing aids, I think he can he he still has to kind of read your lips because every interview he does, you could see him really staring hard at the uh at the at the guy talking to him. Even in Farsy internet undefeated still. Paul Delet standing there between poses. Look like he'd win the Oh, yeah. From the front. Absolutely. In fact, I I was at his pro debut. Tim and Flex. No, you were then on Iron Man, right? Yeah. They both made their debut at that show and when they came out it was like at the top of the stairs like a silhouette and Delet You're like, "Oh my god, what is that?" The shoulders was just like four feet wide and big as freaking basketballs. At the Arnold class, the crowd gasped when he came out. It was like Simpson's never his midsection. He doesn't have the greatest abs. That's true. Who's this Mandy person? Which statement is I'm so far behind. I don't know what statement you're confirming. You said something about Mandy. What did she say? I can't read it. I confirmed this statement. Whatever. We're a little behind, honey. We're We're so far past it. I'm sorry. Alon Powers and Shitley's comments reference the younger generation PED. Mrs. Talk about PD misuse. Yeah. Hers's arms are his detriment. Look, if you can ever build to be frank, I mean, he's still a young guy, so I don't want to say never, but I mean, if they haven't really improved much in all this time, what did she tell you what it was in reference to? She No, she didn't. She said, Manny can attest to that. I I'll find out. Okay, very well. Uh, we're still talking about a lot of times, bro, if you have a weaker body part, it's it is what it is, right? Nasser never brought us back up, right? Sometimes, you know, you're not going to go from, you know, crappy arm, I'm not saying got crappy arms, but small arms to huge arms, right? It's just my calves were never going to be like Mike Morazzo. It is what it is. No matter how big, you know, which no matter what you do, right? So, even, you know, at a bigger and maybe some guys may may want to be open bodybuilders. Um, but I think if Erge was going to do open show, the hype would kind of be kind of like what it was with Bumstead. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Well, so if this guy if he's in Germany, so he would he would he follows it pretty closely. He says he's still pretty lean at 275. Well, if that's the case, um I don't know why he doesn't do a pull a bumpstead and after the Olympia, hit the Prague show or hit one of those. There's a few shows. Got nothing to lose at that point. Just try. No, you know, make make some cash, maybe make some money. If he really is fairly lean at 270 or whatever and he drops 50 pounds, I bet he would still look pretty damn good at, you know, 15 pounds or more over whatever the classic limit is for him. I dropped 50 pounds and look like that was awful. I thought I was like shredded at 250. Surprise, surprise. Oh, dude. I used to because when I was natty, I would bulk up to 230. It was a very, very not a pretty 230 as you might imagine. And every time I diet down, I was exactly the same. I'd be I' I'd lose Yeah. like 50 pounds, man. Well, what happened? I must have died to weigh all my muscle, right? No. No. Awful man. Be Ruse is the one that serves in the military, not hottie. That makes more sense. Oh, damn. I have heard that. Different ethnicities have different strengths to weaknesses. Sure. Are we going to go there? Let's start with the Asian our Asian brothers. Uh, amazing legs. All quads. I've never seen one with weak calves ever. No. Like Chinese, Korean. There's a ton of Chinese and Korean bodybuilders and classic guys and 212 guys. Uh, I I haven't seen many of them with really great backs. No, no, no. That and that's just a genetic thing. It's just not It's nothing racily. I don't know. because there and it's not just the shorter ones because I have seen some of this uh I can't remember his name right now but there's a Korean guy he's not short he's like six foot he's play place top six in a few pro shows I know what you're talking about I can't think of his name right now but he's got great legs and he's not because I've heard other people say it's because they're short uh let's see and the sweep is awesome too teardrop is very pronounced and big yeah uh ethnicities you can go all across the board but I'd say like the white bodybuilders, maybe they get the the grainier skin a little bit easier. Maybe they have thinner skin. That would be uh and I'd say with you can't say African-Americans. That would that would exclude all the ones all the black guys that weren't in America. But I mean uh rounder muscle rounder fuller muscle belly see a black thing. Uh I've never you don't see too many black body with weak arms. No. And you don't see many of them with great calves. No. Chris Dickerson the exception, right? And this sailor that's about really, you know, you also too, the muscle insertions are a little bit higher as well, right? No, I mean that's there's you'll see guys walking around. I don't want to get off on a tangent, but the we all see like fat middle-aged guys walking around with these monster calves, you know, they've never done a calf raise in their life. It's not like they were cyclists or something that would have given them the calves. Just that you could see where the inserts down by the ankle. Yeah. If you have low calf insertions, you'll never need to do a single calf raise in your life. Just like forearms. You see the guys with these Popeye forearms like Lee Priest, the late Mike Mensler. They did. They weren't sitting there doing wrist curls all day. That was just from grabbing dumbbells. They just had forearms inserted. Flex Lewis. Another one. Their forearms insert all the way down at the damn wrist. Yeah. And when you see Flex Lewis's calves, it looks like it just doesn't look it doesn't look real, right? Like even Mandy's calves, she never trained her calves before, but they're humongous. You know what? It's just it's a genetic thing. I can attest to that. Mandy's calves are pretty damn big. Uh, so he says Urs teases about do never going open, but I wouldn't believe that. He'll he'll do that. He will. My shoes. Be Ruse vers Antonio Tonio. We forgot about Nathan. Come on. Don't forget about Nathan. Oh, yeah. He looks pretty good, too. We think about the motorcycle pose. Lol. Like I said, Maros, uh, I don't want to see ar anyone's arms way up here. I don't think they need to bring them all the way down like we see Lee Haney doing there. I think somewhere somewhere between there is probably optimal and it's going to vary a little bit. Some guys probably will look a little bit better with the elbows tilted up a little higher, others down. Everyone's got to figure it out for themselves. I bet you could fit more men's physique guys on stage if their elbows were like closer together. Well, that's why you see they space that's the whole job of that guy on stage is to space them apart so they're not banging in each other. But they they literally run went right back to super wide elbows. the I think the one Olympia or Arnold they had they were down and it looked good because remember even that's what it started off as they their arms were kind of it was like a it was a beach body look remember that it was that didn't was Mark Anthony was Mark Anthony he was the first Olympian wasn't he yep that's right yeah damn he wouldn't you know the way he looked back then it's like the bikini the whoever was winning the winning the bikini Olympia Nicole Wilkins or something that was figure that was figure I can't was it I can't remember who was winning the bikini back in the early early days, but Courtney Court Seven's wife won one. You remember she won one. Yeah, she was one of the early winners. You're right. Yeah, bikini is not. But they wouldn't they wouldn't place these days. Oh, no. They would they their physique. She would literally be the new fit model. It would be the fit model division. True. Boosting folks says, "So all these Asian people have to take a lot of steroids to gain weight. They're naturally rather skinny." I don't think that's true. I've seen plenty of like Japanese guys that are pretty stocky. Uh if you want to talk about the Pacific Islanders, like Samoans and Tongans, some of them are jacked without even lifting weights. They're just big, bulky. They get fat easily, too. But man, they they carry a lot of natural bulk. So, I I don't I've never seen an Asian guy who who looked to me like toxic, like he was taking massive massive doses. But, who knows? But even if if you're a pro bodybuilder too, Ryan, like you're you're genetic you're a genetic freak. So even if you're an Asian guy, you're still Asian pro bodybuilder, you're still one of the genetic elite. So you respond pretty well to whatever, you know. Yeah. I mean, every every ethnic group, every whatever race, ethnic group, whatever you want to call it, has genetic elite that are just meant to be bodybuilders. Exactly. Look at you. every every interview I've done with I always ask like how did you one of the question I always ask these guys is when did you know that you were a little different that you had some somewhat of a gift for this you weren't like every other schmuck in the gym and most of them will say it was pretty fast like within a couple months I was already bigger than almost everyone else at the gym who've been doing it for years and within a year they look like another species and some of and this a lot of times this is before they even touch gear just their bodies were meant to look a certain way what Lee Haney called the genetic blueprint That was my Lee Haney impersonation. Uh yeah, that is a it is a West Africans are much larger than East Africans. Absolutely. Y and I realize why do we have so many people with Western African genetics in the USA? What do you think, Mike? What's your theory? School? No, I'm talking about like like if you if you did DNA tests on on most African-Americans, I bet most of them are Oh, yeah. That was that was from the slave trade, bro. That was the East West Coast because the East Coast Africa, they would had to go all the way around to bring them. It was just convenient. It was a shorter boat ride. Yeah, that's exactly. You know what I mean? It's just it's just a genetic blueprint, bro. It's a genetic, you know, some like I remember being in high school with some kids to where like you they didn't touch away. They ate the the high school pizza every day. Yeah. Did the chocolate milk where they were shredded like abs everything. So it's just so you know when you have that it right like some guys are just have elite elite genetics and it's like the real tall kid in high school that's got the full mustache you know. Well we had a kid uh in 13 so 13 we would have been seventh grade first Cuban ever long before I knew I was going to marry a Cuban George Ora. He was so stocky. He He was not He was not using gear. He was lifting, but he looked so much bigger than all of us. We called him Conan because I think Conan had just come out a year or two before that. You can't you can't you can't discount genetics. They're they play a massive massive role. People don't get that. I mean, I saw a comment like, "Genetics don't matter. It's all drugs." I'm like, "Oh, dude." I say to that, I say, "Take all the drugs you you can. Take 20 grams of steroids a week. take a 100 IUs of growth hormone a day, you know, if you could theoretically have the money. Tell me when you look like one of these guys and you're not going to look like one of these guys. But I think people cuz people think they see these guys in shape all the time. They don't see the hard work and the food that they're eating. You look like this, you know, like they don't see they don't see the the buildup to it. It's just right. Especially right now, it's just the instant picture that's on Instagram. You see what I look like here? Here I am. But the listen, these guys, they're they're great. They're great when they're young. Shawn Ray was great when he was like a kid. He like a grown man. Oh, 100%. All right, so we've been going for over an hour. I think it's time to wrap it up. Good lord, we've been going a long time. So, yeah. Uh, next week, uh, hopefully Giles, he was he was a little bit under the weather. I'm hoping he'll be good next week for the Dubai. Dubai. Take a look at that prize for Dubai. Away some good money for this. Dubai. Dubai. Dubai. Is that they they having a webcast, you think? I imagine so. They're like eight hours ahead of us. So, how that work? We'll be up to like No. Well, no, they're ahead. So, we'll wake up and it'll like be over. Oh, damn. Well, I'm up at like two o'clock in the morning, so I may I may get it. Yeah. Dubai Pro. I'm trying to find the They did have a post with the cash prizes. I think 100 is Was it 140 G's for first place? Yeah. Where'd it go? That wasn't Maybe it was a story. It's already gone. Yeah, they're giving away great money that and you know, it's good because like Beirus, I don't know if Beirus is ever going to get over here. Honestly, I I I don't have any confidence that he's going to get no uh a visa to the USA. So, I'm glad he's able to Oh, here it is. I got it. Here you go. Is it on screen now? Yeah. No, I can't see. I see my pretty face. No. Okay. I gota make that smaller. You're good with techn You're like your own IT department, dude. Yeah. Unfortunately, I am it. So, you know, AJ AJ used to have he hired these people. He called them nerds. So, you need a nerd to do all this for you. I'm like, yeah, that'd be great. Okay, now I can see it, right? Yes. So, first prize 140. Wow. Oh, classic physique is 70 grand. Damn. Physique 50 grand and 212 gets 40. So, that's a that's I think that's the biggest payday for 212 out of anybody. It is. That's That's the same amount as the Olympia. Yeah. So, great job for these promoters. That's a lot for Classic Physique, too. That's a good payday. Yeah. Nice stuff. So, I think we're almost done. It's a lot of money in this fort, man. Uh, dad and son are tall and so G. Well, yeah. I mean, unfortunately, not every tall skinny guy has athletic ability, so they're not very true. Some of them have absolutely no coordination. And uh they are not going to play any basketball or any other game. No, that again, that's genetic as well. Yeah. I mean, Phil Heath was 5 foot nine. He was a Was he a point guard? Yeah, he could dunk too. Well, he some get up. Was it a division? Was his school division one? Division one. Yes. University of Denver division one. So yeah, that's pretty rare. So that's athleticism right there to be able to play at that level at 5 foot n. Yes. To us that's me and you. That's how I'd like to be 5'9, but Right. That's a very good You're very good at basketball to get a division one scholarship. Yeah, he was there. Was he there on a on a athletic scholarship? Yeah, basketball scholarship. Oh wow. Okay. Didn't even Didn't even remember that. Not bad. forgotten more than I remember these days. So, yeah, dude. I understand. So, we're gonna wrap it up. Uh, I want to say thank you to Big Mike Cox, Michigan. No, the Michigan Socks. He's out. When do they play again? When's your When's your next Well, the season starts in 83 days. 83 days. You got it down. I got it down. 83 days. College football starts that soon. Yes, sir. Oh, yeah. I guess we're already We're already halfway through July. It's almost July. You know I mean what how I do is when the little league world series starts in August that means college football is right around the corner. So World Series that's where like the 21-y old Dominican kids are in their 13. Yeah. They're like 35 when I guess 12 year old. There's always some scandal with that little so bad. They like got beard and [\h__\h] Boy. Anyway. So yeah. Thank you Mike. Appreciate that. Yes sir. Yeah. Guys let me know what you think about the motorcycle stance. Leave it as is. Does it need to be toned down a little? Do we need to go back to the old school style of hitting it? Tell me what you think, guys, in your comments or if you want to comment anything at all in the comments about any of the other random [\h__\h] we talked about. Love to get your feedback and it's good for the algorithm. So, drop us a comment. That's it. So, for Big Mike Cox, this is Ron Harris and the Power Hour signing out. See you.