What's up guys? Ron Harris here and I saw a video today from a channel called Muscle Central. It's a smaller channel like mine. Guy named Mike. Uh very passionate about the sport and uh he has a source somewhere in that part of the world he says. So I don't know if he means Iran or the Middle East in general that has put out what they believe is the reason Beirus Tobani has not been granted a visa. Remember this is the fourth year in a row that he's qualified for the Mr. Olympia. We're still holding out hope. I'm a big Beirus Tobani fan. I really want to see him on that Olympia stage just like so many of you guys do. He's a fantastic athlete. Definitely has earned his way up there many times. Deserves to be on the Olympia stage. Why? Why does Hottie keep getting in and he doesn't? Well, it's been said the Beirus was in the army. Well, turns out every Iranian has to serve in the army. It's been that way for hundred years. The only exemptions are uh at 18 months, you have to do 24 month service unless there's a health reason why you can't serve. You're the sole male child in the family, or you're pursuing higher education, college, university, something like that. Uh and many many countries have mandatory military service including Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Norway, Denmark, Greece, Cyprus, Turkey, Ukraine, Austria, Switzerland, North Korea, South Korea, Israel, Syria, Taiwan, Benian, Cape Verdie, Entreia, Mali, Brazil, Venezuela, Bolivia, Chile, Singapore, Kuwait. So, military service very very common in many many countries. Uh, and according to this guy's source, Hadti did serve in the military. So, it's not the fact that he was in the military. I want to play his video, portions of his video. Anyway, and this will this will give his explanation. This is not 100% confirmed. It is not 100% confirmed. I'm not saying this is fact. This is what his source tells him. If it's true, it does make a lot of sense. So, let's take a listen, shall we? Here we go. >> You understand it a little better? Like I said, Hadi Chup was in the military. They're all required. Beirus was also, but not in the same capacity. Beirus, it it seems, was part of the uh Iran Iran Iranian Revolutionary Guard uh the IRGC. I I Islamic re revolutionary guard core. Let me just read a little description of them. Does the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Cause is Iran's most powerful instrument for a aggression and regional destabilization. Reporting directly to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Kamini, the IRGC operates independently of Iran's regular military and has built a vast net network of proxy militias you're following, including Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Palestine. Uh, you see what's going where I'm going with this? Then a little further down, it says, "Not to be confused with Iran's traditional armed forces, the IRGC is a parallel military body formed during the Islamic Revolution in 1979. It ma it maintains its own air, land, naval branches and protects Iran's fundamentalist regime. Okay, that's quite a difference than uh that's quite a difference from Iran's traditional military which had served in. So that changes the whole picture completely. Now I don't know how things work out there. I don't know if these people are pulled into this branch, if you would. I guess that's the only way to uh label it. It's a separate branch. I don't know if they get pulled in there not of their own will or they uh apply they seek it out. I don't know what the deal is but obviously if you you listen to what I just said over there what I just read there is a big big difference. Does this necessarily make Beirus a bad person, a terrorist, a threat to our country? No. Okay. So, I need to stop sharing it. So, some of you are already saying there's there's a there's a an error there because Heidi Chupan is completely deaf, heart of hearing, or hearing impaired. he wouldn't be required to serve in the military. So, what's this say? He applied for the visa four years ago. Problem the embassy still has kept that first visa application open. Why would why would they be so incompetent that they can't they can't fix that situation out? That is awful. Get Milos on here. Let him respond. This is inflammatory. I mean, I I I it could be completely false info. All right. So, he was in the army. Again, I said this this is just a video that came out. I'm I'm reacting to the video. I'm not agreeing with it. I'm not saying this is definitely the truth, saying this is put out. I don't know where the the info came from. Uh again, I want this guy on the Olympia stage. Even if it was just regular army that he served in, and that's the reason that we're not allowing any Iranian former military members into the United States. That could very well be the case. He has applied a first time working cases be closed. Uh it it's a shame. It is awful because this guy is fantastic. He is one of the best bodybuilders in the world. Where would he place? He's definitely a top 10 guy. That's that's minimum top 10. Um geez, probably top six, maybe top five, you know. And and I feel awful that this guy has prepared for the Olympia. This will be the fourth year in a row that he was qualified. And he kept preparing all the way up until the show, hoping and praying that he got that visa and could get on that plane to Las Vegas and be here to prove to the world he is one of the best to stand next to guys like Hottie, like Samson, Derek, Nick Walker, Martin, Andrew Jack, Brennan Curry. He should be on that stage. And um I I don't know if there's a policy or if it's just a paperwork problem that they're I don't know which government, the Iranian government, the US government. I don't know who's to blame for this grievous error that this guy should be totally should be on that Olympia stage. Lee Priest says people say was some special part of the army. Yeah, Lee, that's what the video started off with. And I'm already hearing it wasn't 100% confirmed. This guy didn't have any proof. Mike from Muscle Central channel, but he had a source over there that said he was part of this special group that, you know, that the US government must consider them more extremist with ties to Hamas and Hezbollah. And I'm not saying he was I'm not saying that at all. I don't even know for sure if he was in the military. I have no idea. I mean, I've never seen an interview with him. That's just that's just what's been said over and over again. I don't know if that's even true. Muscle Machine says Shawn Ray Bob everyone have at least top four. I mean, wherever he plays, he'd be a top he'd be a top six, top seven guy for sure. I mean, we have this this top five is very, very crowded. You got three Olympia champs straight off the bat. Samson, Derek, and Nick. Uh, I'm sorry, Nick hasn't won the Olympia yet. Samson, Derek, and Hottie. Then you have Nick. You have Andrew Jack, Martin Fitzwwater. Um, geez, Brandon Curry, William Bonak, Rubiel. Um, good veto. It's a stacked stack lineup. Please don't tell me Bay Ruse is prepping for the Olympia every year, right? Till he gets He has been doing that. Yes, Dave. He has been doing that. That's why I feel I know he doesn't want Nobody wants pity, right? And I I'm not I'm not pitying the guy, but I do feel terrible that he keeps training. I mean, he he uh he he qualified back at the Dubai Pro. When was that? Which means he's been in preps. Yeah, June 21st was the Dubai Pro. So, we just said that was over three months ago. Three months ago he qualified and he's been on his prep this whole time, staying on the diet, staying lean. You know, it's it's one thing. It's hard enough to prepare for a show when you're have no worries about getting to the show, but this guy has the added stress of never knowing if he's going to get here or not. And I mean, every year it must be I'm sure he's trying to remain optimistic. So is Milos. Uh, and I feel I feel for them both because it's awful that this is one of the best athletes in the world and just because of political differences between his nation and our n and the USA, he hasn't been allowed. I mean, he's not a he's not a politician. If he was in the military, he hasn't been in the military for many years. He's a pro bodybuilder. He's an athlete, a professional athlete who's not allowed to compete in all the shows. This guy should be in the Arnold every year. This guy should be in the Mr. Olympia every year. It shouldn't even be a question. He deserves to be. He's one of the greatest in the world. Every professional in Iran knows they shouldn't be in IGRC and air travel. Well, we don't know if he ever was or was not in the IRGC. And if he was, uh, I'm guessing that would have been long before he was thinking about being a bodybuilder. You know, he was if if he was in the I what is it? IRGC. If he wasn't that, he was a young young man and he was probably just, you know, doing what he probably just doing what he thought he should as a as a proud citizen to serve his country. It's like, you know, guys in the USA, a lot of patriotic young men enlist in the army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, uh because they want to serve their country. Um there's nothing wrong with that. It's national pride and just wanting to wanting to to to provide that service, the ultimate service. Kalian surround the armed forces which beusa are notorious for being mercenaries to see so well we don't know Kian it is not confirmed that he was in this IRGC that's the rumor that uh this this gentleman um Mike from muscle central he has a source so he didn't name and he says it's not 100% confirmed there's no paperwork there's no there's no proof anywhere that this was an actual thing he might have just been in the regular army I don't know and that might that in itself might be enough to keep him out of the USA just being in the regular army if he was in this other branch that you know the United States government would consider more extremist and more of a threat even though he's been he would have been out of any military service that he did serve in long long ago. He's he's in his early 30s now. So this would have been when he was a very young man probably like 18 or 19 years old. Lee says I know he might not be but after four years of playing because he's a professional body or else be stopping you after all this time. Well, one thing I saw that there are exemptions uh they said for major sporting events such as the Olympics or the World Cup that was an exemption where even athletes from Iran can get here. So, I don't know if they don't consider the Olympia the Mr. Olympia to be a major sporting event. Maybe they're unaware of it. You know, I don't I don't know the whole process. I've I can only imagine the stress him and Milos, especially Beirus, have been going through. Uh he should do every show overseas. Oh, 100%. If I was if I were Beirus, I would do all these shows. I would do British Grand Prix if he can get there, Prague Pro, Romania Muscle Fest, Poland Pro, Big Man Pro Show in Spain, and the Japan Pro. He could probably win most if not all of those shows. Just clean up, get all the money. uh qualifications, you know, again, and this also starts to beg the question, why don't why don't they bring the uh Olympia why don't they bring the Olympia outside the USA again? Because they used to have it outside the USA. The Olympia used to be in let's stop sharing. I don't want to share that. Yeah, the Mr. Olympia I'm going to go back to his Instagram. Sorry, guys. The Mr. Olympia used to be in the US one year and then the next year it would go to a different country. I remember just in my lifetime it was in places like Finland, Sweden, uh Germany, France, UK. It's it's been all over Europe. Uh I don't think it's ever been to the Middle East. It was, you know, in the movie Pumping Iron, it was in Ptoria, South Africa. So the Olympia used the Olympia used to be a more international event as far as location. once they uh I don't think it's the last year it was held outside the US was Helsinki Finland 1992. Ever since then it was Atlanta, Chicago uh and Vegas. Once they got to Vegas, uh it seems like that's it. They were done. That's that's where they want to keep it. Good thing I'm glad that he uh got this nice contract. I mean, I'm glad good things are happening for the guy, but we really need this guy on the Olympia stage. He is one of the best in the world. Larry's with Andrew Jack in Dubai. Clearly, he has no problem getting into Dubai. Why can't we get this guy in the US? I don't know. It's This is the one time where I I have to shake my head at the US government, which, you know, I don't agree with the US government all the time anyway. But in this case, this is an athlete that is one of the very best in the world, who has never had that chance to prove. He's never had the opportunity to stand next to all the best men in the world. This will be the fourth year in a row that he should have been up there with. Let's see. So, this is 2025, which means he could he qualified in 24, 23, and 22 as well. So, yeah, he would have been up there with even Rammy who got up there. What was there? Random off compression sock. Uh, I don't know about the compression socks. That's usually if people have blood flow issues. It's so they don't get a blood clot. It's got nothing to do with helping the squat. Where is your proof? Yeah, Aruse even tried to go through a rather large business, at least at one point, for type of sponsorship or something. Yeah, you know, I've speculated that one of the main reasons Hottie keeps getting in here is because of Hani Rambod employing him uh as where'd it go? as part as a an athlete for Evogen Nutrition. He technically is Honey Chupan is an employee of United States company, US-based company, which I imagine that has to help. It can't be it can't hurt. Um I don't know what has to be done to get the Sidel reason. I mean, Heidi got the visa at three weeks out. It took hottidi up until then. So, it's a slow slow process. special services for tea to compete in the Olympics. Yeah. I mean I I don't think I don't know who it is. The state department customs and immate department that would be the one who approves or denies these visas. Is that who's on the I think on my passport. I think that's who issues our passport. It's the US state department. I don't think they recognize pro bodybuilding in the same capacity or the same equal uh prominence as something like the Olympics. I mean, the Olympics is the Olympics. I mean, we're never going to have that much prestige as the Olympics. The Olympics is considered the greatest sporting event in the world. It's it's an amateur event, but it's every athlete. It's athletes from every single country are represented there every year. Dan Dylan, top six. You only have one. How many guys you have here? One, two, three, four, five, six. Okay, so your top six is Derek, Samson, Hottie, Andrew, Martin, Nick. You have Nick all the way down to sixth place. Wow. It's Olympia, man. Like the best bodies from the planet. 100%. You know, I wish it was as simple as uh we could all sign a petition, send it to the State Department, and that would help. I wish it was that easy. Uh if so, you know, this guy has so many fans around the world. I'm sure that would uh that would not be a problem to get like a million signatures, digital signatures for this guy, but I don't know if that would make a difference to the US State Department. Um again, I don't know if he was a part of this other branch of the Iranian military or just a regular regular soldier in the basic army. Uh and that could be the only that could be the reason. Again, I I only pointed out this video because no one else has come out with that theory yet, and we're all scratching our heads wondering why can't Be Ruse get into the USA. That might be the reason. It might not be. We don't know. We don't It's not confirmed. And um for those who think I'm like snitching, I mean, let's face it, if he was in that branch of the military, the US government wouldn't would have known about it four years ago. They're not stupid. They have the CIA, the uh the State Department, whatever, who whatever bodies these are, they have access to all that information if they want it. So, it's not like I'm putting on blast. Uh let's keep in mind that he's been allowed to come for the last five years. So, I don't think it's the USA government doing. I do think it's the US government that's stopping him. I do think that because they're the ones that issued the visa. Uh and you know, I don't think it's like a he's not filling out I don't think it's an issue of Beirus isn't filling out the paperwork or something like that. I'm sure this is the fourth year in a row. I'm sure he's got it down to a science. Again, I don't know if it's a red tape, a bureaucratic issue that's that's screwing this up. You know, it it is a shame. Um how do you I don't know if we can blame Dan. I don't know if we can blame Be. I would imagine that Beirus is doing everything humanly possible. Um you know, some people say, "Why doesn't the Olympia promoters I don't know what they could do either. I don't know if they could if they could make a difference. I really don't. All men are made to serve in Iran." Yeah. So, unless he was had a medical exemption, he was the only male child in the family or he was in uh it said pursuing higher education. So, that's college, university, maybe trade schools, I don't know. He could have been in one of those and exempt. But, I we keep hearing, we've been hearing for years that he was in the military. I'm just going to accept that he was in the Iranian military. I don't know if he was in just regular army or this other branch that seems like it would be even tougher to get in. It was part of our energies. Okay. So, you know, again, I I didn't I wasn't confirming that. I was just saying this is a theory that was put out there. I know the only reason I shared it because his he's got a small channel and not many people knew about this. Cedric McMillan. Yeah. Cedric was in the army. All right. So, I mean, I wish we could get this confirmed that he was never part of but doesn't even it doesn't matter. It could be just the fact that he was in the regular army, but this gentleman did put out a video today saying that he heard he was in IRGC. His source over there in that part of the world told him that information. I was not confirmed. I'm not stating that as a fact whatsoever. Yes, he probably s Yeah, but I mean that might be that might be enough. Maybe we have a policy where people who served in the Iranian military can't ever come here, which is crazy. I mean, the regular army, it's not like they're mastermind super soldiers or spies or something like that. They're just regular army guys, you know. I don't think I don't think Bez was a, you know, like a secret agent or anything like that. I think he was just a regular army guy. Certain countries, something that will limit him access. We have no information to go on. I mean, I again, I've never seen an interview with Beirus. He speaks Farsy. He doesn't speak English, so I couldn't interview him. Uh, I've never heard any explanation as to why he can't get in. I've never heard Serene. It's been such a long time since Olympia left USA. Yeah, people talk about places it could go. And one one country that keeps coming up over and over again is Dubai. Um, the only problem with that is a lot of the Americans wouldn't go to Dubai. Um, a lot of Middle Eastern fans do come to the USA to watch the to to see the Olympia. They'll go to Las Vegas. Uh, Americans are not as uh eager to travel for whatever reasons. We're xenophobic. I don't know. Iranian people. Yes. The actual people love Americans. Everyone else is BS. Yeah. It's it's unfortunate because people in in all the in all nations get caught up in the politics between their leaders, the leadership of their countries. It has nothing to do with them. Yeah. We elect these leaders, but you know, even then it's a popular vote thing. So 50, you know, uh 49% of people didn't vote for the president and 51% did. That means 49% of the people didn't even want this person as president. Uh so yeah, I think it's some kind of Felicia Riyad season of Saudi show. Be nice. Yeah, need to move the Olympia around. And now Jim Lmer has passed. Arnold should move the classic at California. I don't think it's ever going to leave Columbus. I don't think I don't think it'll leave Columbus because it's it's one of those shows. It's it's I know it's Jim Lurmer's not the promoter anymore. Um but it still has that long-standing tradition there. It's always been in Columbus since it began 1989. Not to say that it couldn't move. And they do have entirely new promoters now, Brian Powers. So, it's it's it's possible. I don't I don't see it happening, but it it's possible. You know, they they did have Arnold Classics all around the world. They're still having the Arnold UK, but you'll remember they had Arnold Classic in places like uh South Africa. Uh in Spain it was a couple times. Where' they have it elsewhere? Arnold Europe. It's been it's been around the world. It's just the main Arnold Classic is always going to be the one in Ohio. Imagine you have made NBA your dream. You can't get a visa. Yeah. And again, Beirus keeps prepping. This guy stays on prep. Can you imagine? Now he better. He I I hope to God he can get visas for some of these other shows, these European shows that are after the Olympia because it's it's such a waste that this amazing physique is only posing for us on Instagram. He's not allowed in any of these other shows. Obviously, he went to the Dubai show. He did win that show. He won the Romania show, so he was able to get to Romania. So, I'm imagining he can get to most if not all parts of Europe to compete. And we do have all these post Olympia shows coming up. Um depending on who shows up. Um he could probably win win most if not all those shows. Pick up some really good prize money. Uh some more stuff. Yeah. So this is like I said he's one of the greatest athletes, one of the one of the greatest pros in the sport and four years in a row he has earned his right to be on the Olympia stage. But unfortunately due to politics, there's Somerfeld. Where was this? Oh, Bino's gym in Dubai again. Is he in Is he in Dubai now? Does he live in Dubai? See, I wonder if he could get a a Dubai citizenship, maybe, you know. I don't know. I'm just I'm just throwing stuff stuff out there. If he could get a citizenship for Dubai, maybe that would help. I have no idea. I have no idea. High time organized. Mr. Yeah, London, Berlin, or Dubai would be awesome cities. The Olympia would sell out no matter where it goes. Uh, I don't know if maybe the main issue is because we have such a large production team for the Olympia based in the US, it would require a lot of traveling back and forth to do all the planning and everything instead of just flying out to Las Vegas like they do. He was a sponsor with Evagen. Yeah, I bet you Trump is Olympia fan. Well, Trump had Phil Heath at the uh White House a few months ago. Do you guys remember that? There was a bunch of people there and he pointed out and he said something about Phil Heath and Phil Heath stood up. So, Donald Trump is AI don't know if he's a bodybuilding fan, but he's well aware of bodybuilding. We know that. I mean, he was he used to go on uh WWE with the Vince he was in Wrestlemania once with a a hair match. He would have had to shave his head if his guy lost. Why not just come over for a visa for the >> Well, if he he can't get a visa for the US, period. So, of course, he should be in the Arnold Classic every year. Big money show. He should be in the Olympia every year. Dubai is a big money show, so it's good that he won that. He got 140,000 for that. I don't think Dubai would allow women competing. Someone said they did. I I I s I saw where someone said that that wouldn't be a problem. It's not an elite sport, sadly. By the Olympics will never happen. They have this Yeah. It's not that. I mean, Ben, the late Ben Weider, Joe Weider's brother, he made it his life's mission. He founded the IFBB way back in the I think the late 40s, early 50s. Anyway, his life's mission was to get bodybuilding into the Olympics. And he met with Olympic committees from every country for years and years. He put so much time and effort and money into trying to get bodybuilding Olympics. And if Ben Weeder couldn't do it, because he was a diplomatic guy. I mean, he was a brilliant man. He was an expert on Napoleon. Um, if Ben Weider couldn't do it, nobody could do it. Arshie says, "I heard the Beirut trying to get UAE citizenship there." Yeah. See, that is I wonder if that could be that could be the ticket to get a citizenship for United Arab Emirates and then he's would he have to renounce his Iranian citizenship? I don't know. But maybe naturally it could. Olympics. Wrong, Harris. No, Don, because I was only I'm just reporting on another video. I'm not I'm not claiming it was true. Department of Homeland Security US Customs Border Protection responsible for making the final decision. Okay. Thank you, Kenne. You would know because you need to get a visa to come over here, right? So, Homeland Security and US Customs of Border Protection. As good as uh that guy looks, I don't see him getting top 10. Oh, he would be top 10 there. He would be top 10. I have I have no doubt in my mind Beir Ruse would be a top 10 guy. Top 10 at the minimum. I think it's it's safer to say he would be I want to get to some video of him. I think he'd be a top top I'll say top six. Top six. I don't think that's unreasonable at all. What's this? This is him winning the Dubai Pro back in June. He beat Rubiel and all these other guys. Bonac. I want to go to some individual posing because Is this it? Why is that so blurry? Come into focus. Focus. Ah, there we go. That's better. Okay. Olympia opponents can do nothing but provide a letter for visa applications which they have done. from gain access. Yeah. Too bad Biden's not president. Yeah. Well, it has happened. We've had we've had a few people walk over the border from Mexico. Let's say a few million people. There's a great shot. Yeah, he would definitely this this would definitely be a top six Olympia guy. He's he's a fantastic athlete. He's excellent. to get Hani on. Yeah, especially Iranian military. Yeah, like I said, this video said speculated a source in the Middle East had told um Mike from the Muscle Central channel that Beirus had been part of this IRGC, which is um a separate branch of the military that's it serves the fundamentalist Islamic government uh of Iran. There's no confirmation. There's no proof of that at all. That was just it's a theory that he put out there in a video. And I just thought it was interesting because maybe maybe the being in the regular army is enough to keep him out. Uh but if he was in this other branch, if if I don't I'm not saying he was that would probably be make it almost impossible. Time to hold the Olympia weren't worldwide. See, I don't know if he'd be able to get into all those countries. We know he can get into Dubai. We know he can get into Romania. I don't know what the restrictions other countries have. I think USA is the only country that has a major major beef with Iran. We haven't had diplomatic relations with Iran since 1979 when uh Ayatollah Kmeni overthrew uh the sha uh the sha was you know that was just a regular it was a non-religious government. It was just a regular he was a sha like a king I guess basically. Um, but we had good relations with Iran for many, many years. And then once that happened, it was all over. It's been done before. Elite priest, why didn't somebody just ask him on an interview was in the military branch? I think it's cuz we don't speak Farsy. I guess he could find a translator. Say he's not the same country. Oh, dude. I was born in 1969. Trust me, believe me when I say the USA that I grew up in the 1970s and 80s bears only a passing resemblance to the USA of today. Iranian army are terrorists. So yeah, Beirus is not a terrorist regardless of whether he was in the military or not. Regular army isn't terrorists, you know. He didn't he did nothing to deserve this. All men are made, too, though. back. He he unless he had some u medical reason an exemption or he was the only male child that could have gotten him out of military service or if he was in uh college or university that was also a way to get exempt. But I keep hearing he was in the army again. Yeah, maybe we should try to get an interview with him. It's confirmed when they ask him this exact question. What's confirmed Arshie? What's confirmed? Uh that he was not in the other the IRGC. Okay. Well, thank you for clearing that up. Because you know some of you guys are in Iran or you speak Farsy. I don't. So I've never seen I'm sure there are interviews with him out there but they're all in Farsy which wouldn't do me any good. I couldn't follow what's going on. People have denied acts for having JD Vance memes on their phone. Is that true? Is that true? Don't. Another way south is probably won't be any Iran. Well that's not a place we would have it. I could see Dubai. Dubai is a very international country. A lot of people go there. um for vacations or just to check the place out. You know, they got all those crazy skyscrapers and luxury and a lot of wealth in that city of Dubai. Uh so yeah, I could see I could see it going to Dubai. The only thing they would lose is the US fans. Um but maybe they could get bigger sponsors if they held it over there anyway. Maybe it would be worth their while. You know, I'm sure I'm sure uh Dan Solomon and his crew sure they're thinking of all these things that when they have their meetings, they probably throw these ideas around. You know, I would I I'm imagining that they they talk about holding the Olympia outside the US every year at their meetings at some point. I don't know what the you know, I should get Dan Solomon on and see what he can see what he has to say. I'll give my first lawn more question. Personally, I don't think he'll get a visa with that current climate politics Middle East has a work visa. Yeah. I mean, if he could only get a sponsor, an American sponsor. I don't know if that would help. Happen with a lot of different Russian athletes that got banned from traveling, competing. H Olympia will not leave the US. It's a US-based company. LLC, the corporate side we never allow. It's not like it used to be. Yeah. I mean, it's it's they have such a huge staff. The staff that works putting this Olympia production together every year, I don't know. It's it's it's a good amount of people. I want to say it's between 20 and 40 people. Um, so they're constantly flying out to Las Vegas and having meetings and, you know, checking out the venues and making all kinds of plans. It would be so much harder for them if they had to keep going back and forth to Europe or Middle East. Freedom Fighter. Where do you think Beirus would place Olympia? I'd say top six. Can he beat Hottie? Can he beat Samson, Derek, or Nick? I don't think he can beat those guys. Could he beat Martin? Maybe. Could he beat Andrew? Maybe. Maybe. Um, William, Brendan, Rubiel. Jeez, who else we got? Big Olympia. Got my list of Olympia competitors here because I keep forgetting. Brett, Hottie, Derek, Martin, Aim, Brandon, William, Bonak, Goodto, Andrew Jack, Nick Walker, Regan Grimes, Tonio Burton, Sassan, Herat, Beirus is qualified. I wrote down Chang Wong Chen, Rubio Moscara, Jordan Hutchinson, Dorian Haywood, Erskinsky. He would beat most of those guys. He would beat most of those guys. Shame with Olympia's become uh I mean it's it's a great production. If you've been to Olympia in Las Vegas, they do a fantastic job. They make it like a it's a production scale of like a major rock concert or something. Well, you know, except it goes on and on for days and days and nights. You know, classic is a better show now. I love the Olympia to be in the US, but imagine if every couple years it be a different country like World Cup. Yeah, World Cup moves to a different country all the time. Olympics, the Olympics is in a different country all the time. We could do it. I just don't know if the Olympic Olympia committee would feel it's worth their while. Obviously, a lot of fans outside the US would appreciate it. Uh, and bodybuilding is a sport with fans all over the world. I I don't even know what the breakdown is as far as if we have a lot more fans that are American at the show. It's probably just because the show is in America, it's so much easier for us to get there. So, Mr. Olympia on a boat. That's a good idea. Huge moneymaker at City of Columbus. I'm sure the city gives them lots of breaks to come see it. Oh, yeah. I mean, the city would hate to see the Arnold leave. They get they make so much money every March. Uh the hotels, every hotel is sold out. The restaurants are packed. The bars are packed at night. Oh yeah. I mean the the Airbnbs for like you know 10 10 square mile radius around the the convention center. They're all booked. The city of Columbus would hate to see the Arnold Classic leave. It is a massive massive source of revenue. Why didn't Milos ask Connie about what we did with Hottie and do the same get the visa? Yeah. I don't know what Milos has done. I don't know what Milos can do. You know we we keep saying why doesn't Milos do more? Why doesn't the Olympia do more? Why doesn't someone this person or that person do more? In the end, I don't know if anyone can do anything. I mentioned a number of years ago he served in the Iranian military. So has deep ties in the Okay. So you're saying it's verified. The other guy says some people are saying it's [\h__\h] He was never in this IRGC. Don't know. I don't know. What if what if just bought the visa on? And if he was in the IRGC, um would he would he admit to it? I mean I wouldn't but again uh if the US the Department of Homeland Security they have access they can get all that information as far as who was in the military what countries and what branches you know with computers these days and databases it's there's there's very little that the US government can't find out if they want to verify be a reason why not getting visa. Well the other guy said it's not verified. How do you always gets a working visa? Oh he is in Dubai. Yeah. I mean, all these videos I've seen, he's in Dubai, so maybe he lives there. What if he has a double citizenship? What if he has a double citizenship? I don't know. Maybe he does. American Iranian. Oh, it's longer to Olympia. The Olympia will be over. So, today's Sunday. Yesterday was two weeks. So, we have uh 12 days until the judging for the Mr. Olympia, which is Friday night. All the divisions for the Mr. for the Olympia are judged Friday and Saturday. Uh Mr. Olympia is going to be Friday night. So it's it's only 12 days away. We're almost there. Look for Phil. That's true. The only person that mentioned bodybuilding. Yeah. Since Dubai is hardly get a US visa. Wow. India would be a good place. You got a ton of chicken rice. They don't have the vision to move the Olympia worldwide. Stuck playing the same card every year instead of going truly global. I said the only way as of now is if Dana White, which is close to me sucks to people. I mean, Dana White must have some incredible international contacts like in I imagine there's a lot of people in governments around the world that are UFC fans. So yeah, maybe and I know Milos has trained Dana White. I know he's a friend of Dana Whites. Maybe Dana could pull some strings as they say, make some phone calls. It's not too late. I mean, the Olympia is it's coming up. It's less than two weeks away. the fact that he hasn't got a visa yet. It It doesn't look good, but it's not impossible. It could happen. We don't know. We don't know. It could happen. And we're, you know, we're all optimistically holding out hope because again, this guy is an incredible athlete. It is ridiculous that we have never seen him on the Olympia stage. What's this footage? There's some There's some footage from a a live stream somewhere, I guess. Condition is always fantastic. He's got size, shape, proportion, great structure. Yeah, he's he's he's not missing anything in this guy. He's fantastic. Don't bump. Someone should have told Ben we been to his sport. He would save a lot of time, money. Well, it was his life's mission. I guess he had two things. He was he was fascinated with Napoleon Bonapart. He wrote a couple books, a few books I think about Napoleon. He was a he was a very astute historian. He had a collection of Napoleon's a lot of his belongings and things from the Napoleonic Empire. And his other passion was, of course, getting bodybuilding into the Olympics. That's what he really wanted to do. Only Dana could help maybe talk to Trump. Yeah, Dana White is a powerful guy. I mean, money talks and Dana White's got a lot of money. It was a US problem. Heidi wouldn't be allowed in the US a lot of things. his travel history. Perhaps he visited country shouldn't have visited. Yeah, we're all just speculating. Without Debbani Ursil place higher. Well, I mean, everybody everybody after the top five or six moves up a spot without Beir there. Without Bay Ruse, we have 19 men in the show. Is that right? Yeah. We had 21 with Raphael Bendo who dropped out in Beir. If neither of them are in there, we only have 19 guys in the Olympia. Thing is, you can count on Beu showing up in shape. Oh, 100%. He's very consistent. He's very consistent bodybuilder. I've never seen this guy even close to off. Not even close. He's some great shots from uh Dubai. We already saw that one. Look at that. That is fantastic. You know, I mean, Milos does a fantastic job, but he's clearly this guy is a he's a workhorse. He works very hard cuz coach is only as good as a client. If the client doesn't listen, if the client doesn't do what the coach says, it doesn't matter. I know. Why am I leaving this up? His butt. Because I I'm I'm I'm so impressed with his condition. It's a booty show. I know. How many times were we disappointed how people show up the Olympia? Oh, many times. Many times. Kalian, no wonder Ben Weider organized 1990 Mr. Olympia here. Yeah, he wanted that was uh that was Ben Weider's idea in 1990. He had the Arnold Classic drug tested for steroids. He had the Olympia drug tested. He wanted the sport to go natural because he knew that that was a big stumbling block in as far as getting bodybuilding accepted as an Olympic sport, getting it Olympic recognition was it had the stigma of steroid use. Now, we all know plenty of Olympic athletes use steroids. they just have they go off in time to clear the test or they have team doctors that help them pass the test. Whatever the case may be, he still wanted to show the Olympic committee that bodybuilding was a a valid sport. It was drug tested. Uh and all along it was if you look in the uh the art the IFBB rules, I think it's drug testing is is part of it. It's just not enforced. Dean's too wide to get to a whole May the US stocking the same time as pushing it one. No, I mean hottie's just one guy. Tobani will do the Arnolds. If he can get If he can't get in the US, period, then he can't do the Arnolds. He should do the Arnold in the UK. If he can get into the UK, uh I don't think they'll have as much prize money, $750,000. No. But still a nice title. I mean, if Beirus can't get in the US, he should do every big money show, every great prize great great prize money show that's that's available to him. If Kamla would have been invited, she would Yeah. Oh, I think uh Kamla would have kept the borders wide open just like Biden did. Trump is obviously one of the one of the platforms he ran on as president, presidential candidate was closing the borders because a lot of a lot of uh US citizens were very upset at the amount of illegal aliens pouring through the borders. So, it's virtually impossible visa if speculation correct. Yeah, we don't know. We don't know. Frank was the Yeah, there's We'd have We've never seen any proof either way. Audi came in Beir Rouge. It's always confusing. Imagine having it in Iran and Audi didn't win. It' be a war. You know, they'd be upset. Um it's like if we had it in Brazil and uh Ramon didn't Rammon, what do we call Ramon Dino didn't win classic and Rafael Bondo didn't win the Open, they'd be hell to pay. They'd be hell to pay. Going to Dubai would make them lose a lot of international fans as well. Not everyone's happy about Dubai. Some of the body wound fans. I know Sergio Oliva wasn't too keen on that place. Olympia was in Iran one year they would shut down the entire city of Iran. I mean Iran they they definitely support their athletes a lot better than we do. I've you've seen the videos of Hadti Chupan coming back to Iran after the Olympia. Especially the year when he came back as a champion. There was like there were like 50 100,000 people there waiting at the airport to greet him. They've got a statue of him in his hometown. So they certainly appreciate their their body boss. Dubai is exactly 11 ch I didn't know that he probably got out of mandatory service. Yeah, I I I didn't even think of that when this gentleman said was in the army. There's no way you could serve in the army if he's almost 100% deaf or heart of heart of hearing impaired. He's got these massive hearing aids at Beiru's fourth. Beiru smokes Martin. Not in close. I mean I think he would beat Martin. Uh the Martin the Martin fans would say I'm on crack. How dare you say that about Martin. Martin wins everything. You know, I admire the I'm glad these these guys have such great fans that support them and believe they're the very best. You know, that's awesome. Sometimes they can be a little delusional and they don't see any of the flaws of their favorite guy. Who knows? Maybe I'll push Olympia to bankruptcy. I don't think they would raise the prize money if they didn't have the money to do it with. I don't think they would do that. went to Brazil in 23. Can't go to USA where well the USA is a like I said the USA has had no diplomatic relations with Iran since 1979. So that's 20 46 years. 46 years we've had no relations with that country. Uh I think Mr. Olympia should take place at max. Uh I would have known that I I actually would have known that was Woodstock because I was born in I was born in uh the very end of that summer of love 1969 12 days only. It's coming right up. We need to beat UFC if you can place the White House. White Bible in the White House. It's not too late to get Conor McGregor. He's got pretty good physique. Napoleon would not have been allowed to compete in the 12. I've heard that he wasn't as short. I I think I've heard that that was a myth that Napoleon was supposedly he was average height and somehow uh over the years there was this myth that he was very short that got pushed and it wasn't even true. Probably never see him. I you know it's a shame. I I wish I had some some better something better to report. Uh like you know I would love to be I would love to do a video that his visa was approved. That would be that would be fantastic. I wish I could give you that video, guys, cuz like I said, this guy is a great champion bodybuilder. [\h__\h] Not like Iran. Look at the breath threats. Death threats that Flex and Lewis and Derk got when they beat. Imagine that being there in person that happening. Yeah, I wouldn't want to be there if Hottie Tupine lost the Olympia. I would not want to be in Tan. Crazy how time flam France in the Olympia. That was Yeah, that was a year ago. How dare you say that about Martin? I yeah I I think I think Be Ruse would beat Martin. If you think that Martin would beat Beay Ruse, that's you know, who knows? We've never We've never had the chance to see them next to each other. I'd like to say that we would. I hope we do get to see them next to each other someday. It's a shame. It's It's a huge shame that we have never seen them. We've never seen any of these any of the top guys next to Barry. He's never had that chance. Was Napoleon told Priest? I don't know. Lee, do you know? I don't know. What was height of Lee? If he beats Martin, he beats Nick. No, I think Nick I think Nick's beating Martin this year. I mean, I think Nick could be the winner this year. It's It's I know it's He's a dark horse. He's not a favorite, but it could happen. You know, you check out Creo's. H We'll wait on that. But I'm gonna wait till Cruz till after the Olympics. He's not competing until then. Beerus beats everyone except Samson Nick, I think. Yeah, Beirus is an amazing amazing bodybuilder. He's fantastic. I don't know exactly why he hasn't been able to get a visa. I hope to God he gets a visa. It's not too late. Not a Ciso hater black patron. It's just we're doing a video about Beirus. So, we're not I'll do a whole video about Ciso at some point. Olympia predictions. This guy Olympia either hottie or Nick wins this year. I'll be happy. Nick is number eight. Oh no. Well, that's what Bob Chick said. Anyway, guys, it's getting late. I've been I've been yapping for a long time. Appreciate you all there. So, drop a comment below, guys. I know very few of you would have access to any way to confirm or deny if he was even in the military. Uh, if you've seen interviews in Farsy and you speak Farsy, you would know more than all of us. Uh, I'd appreciate some actual information. I don't know if he was in the JC. I don't know if he was in the I don't even know if he was in the army. Supposedly that was confirmed on an interview someone said that he was in the army. Uh thank you Ron. So thanks for watching guys. Say weeks ahead of us. All right guys. So I'm going to take off. I'm going to take off. And again um I don't know if any of the information on that video was true. I was just sharing another theory that was out there because that's what we do. We speculate and we we try to figure out why these guys are not in the in the show when they should be. Um, so let's hope for the best, guys. Fingers crossed. Fingers crossed that we do see Beirus Tobani getting that visa. There's still almost two weeks left. He would have to fly in. You know, they have to meet the Olympians on Thursday. So, he's really the travel. He's only got like about nine days to make this happen. If the visa doesn't come through, it's going to be too late. Uh, but there is still time. It's not over yet. Hold out hope, guys. Uh, I'm a fan of Beirus. I want to see him on the 8 Olympia stage. I know a lot of you guys, you all want to see him in the Mr. Olympia this year. So, let's all send out some positive vibes. Um, praying, I don't know if praying helps, but it couldn't hurt. Say a prayer to whoever or whatever you believe in. Who knows, man, maybe all our positive vibes and energy could make a difference. You never know. It certainly couldn't hurt. Put it that way. So, that's it, guys. Thank you so much for watching. appreciate it and I'll see you next time.