Well, guys, the fans, you guys spoke and the Olympia listened. We did not want the uh Olympia to go on till 2 in the morning. We didn't want to see classes with 60, 70 athletes in one division. something had to be done and the IPB Pro League has made the changes. They put it out today in an official notice posted on their website on their socials and let's take a look at what's going to have to be done from now on to get to the Olympia. All right, so it's going to be different for different divisions for classic physique, men's physique, bikini and wellness. So remember, these are the divisions that had way more shows, far more shows, which means everybody that won a show. And in some of these divisions, there were more than 100 Olympia qualifiers in a given season. Those people all qualified to go to the Olympia. And that's why we were getting 50, 60, 70 athletes in one division, which takes a long time to judge. So for those divisions for classic physique, men's physique, bikini and wellness, now only the top 25 in the point settings qualify for the Olympia, automatic qualification for the Olympia if you win two contests. Uh, of course, the top three at the Olympia in all those divisions, they automatically qualify for next year. That's fair. Fourth place gets 12 points toward the next season. Fifth place gets 10 points. So they're going to have to keep competing. Arnold Classic, USA, not the other Arnold. Pittsburgh Pro, New York Pro, Romanian Muscle Fest, and Dubai Pro. So, these are all going to be considered tier one shows. Uh, some people might argue New York Pro and Dubai Pro. I mean, New York Pro doesn't give out the huge money that those other shows, and neither does Romania. Uh, but Romania is uh Jake's Jake's show, New York Pro, Steve show. I get it. So, those are your tier tier one shows. If you win those shows, Arnold, Muscle Fest or Dubai Pro in those divisions, automatic qualification for the Olympia, and then you see these point the point breakdown for second, third, fourth. You get and we won't know until you're getting close to the Olympia exactly who the top 25 and the point standings are going to be. All of the pro shows, winning only gets you 10 points. Wow. So, they're going to have to they're gonna have to try to win multiple shows. So these other divisions on the right side of the uh edict here these are men's bodybuilding open we call it men's 212 212 women's bodybuilding fitness figure women's physique and fit model which are going to have less less chances to qualify. So we're not going to end up there's no way we would end up with 60 70 athletes because there won't be that many that many events to qualify. So top three from the Olympia again that's across the board for everything. top three in women's body move from the re rising phoenix. Women's bodybuilding does not have a lot of shows. They don't have much turnout either. And the winner of each open show. So you win any open show in these divisions. Uh open bodybuilding 212, women's bodybuilding, fitness figure, women's physique, fit model. You win a show, that's your ticket to Olympia. Uh and top five in the point standings. So wow. So only five people are going to get to the uh to those divisions get to the Olympia on points. uh and you can see the the point breakdown on the right hand side of the screen there. So, it's a lot of math here. So, for those of us who are mathematically challenged like me, uh some of you guys maybe as well, you can see what's going on. So, I just wanted to take a quick look at the way the point system was implemented or how long it was around. It really wasn't around that long. It was it was implemented in 2018, so seven years ago. So for the 2018 19 21 and two for five seasons we had a point system uh and you had to either win a show or you had to get accumulate enough points to get to Olympia. The winner of each pro show qualified. Yeah. 2023 they got rid of the point system. So for the last two seasons, I'm sorry, f three seasons. 2023, four and five, we had no point system uh except for wheelchair. You had to win a show to qualify. But again, that led to the issue that we saw with all these athletes in the Olympia because everyone that won a show and some of these divisions had 80 80 to 100 contests during the season. So, that ended up being a too many athletes on stage. Judging was dragging on. We're talking about having like a a preliminaries day or a cut round or something. We we're all trying to figure out a way to fix this. uh the system that's just been announced today, myself, a lot of other YouTubers, a lot of other industry people suggested similar things. Uh Leo Marhoffer from Overcome Podcast, uh he did point out to me and he's got a Instagram story up now that shows the way he had suggested it while talking to Bob Chicarella on his podcast is almost identical to to the way it came out today. So, we had no point system for these past three seasons. this season uh 2025 as well as 23 and 24 uh and we got this we have the point system back. So it's curious I just did this live to know uh to ask the question what do you guys think? You happy it's back? Did you like do you like no point system? You think this is going to solve all our problems? What do you think's going to happen? Guys, tell me in the comments. We've only got two comments. That's okay. So Giddy says, "Pretty crazy to think that they've just made the change now. I've been watching a lot of Backsters podcast. Yeah. I mean, I I I think they had to really take their time and think this through and try to come up with a system that was fair and fair felt fair to all the divisions so that no divisions felt they were being slighted. Uh you know that they had to work that much harder. And I do think it makes sense that in these divisions that have so many more shows, you can't just have every winner qualify for Olympia because then you get this this problem that we've seen the last couple years where the stage is just packed. There just need enough room on there like six, seven athletes deep on both sides of the stage. These packs of athletes in one division that no one is, you know, what are you going to do? They all earned their way there. But now it's going to be more difficult to earn your way to the Olympia for athletes who compete in those divisions, which is good because a lot of us feel I feel the Olympia should be an elite contest. It's for the best of the best. If you're one of 70 people in your division, you're one of the 70 best bikini girls in the world, that's great, but you really think that warrants being on the Olympia stage? I don't know. I I personally I would like to see the Olympia divisions capped out. It's not going to happen. and they've already made their they've already made up their minds here, but I'd like to see them capped out at like 20 max per division. That would be elite. That would be best of the best. Uh so Giddy continues, "The obvious downside to this, it'll make it more difficult for those up and coming to plan their season out, trying to make maximum progress as we just choose." Yeah, agreed. Agreed. Um, but in the divisions on the right side of the screen, uh, bodybuilding 212, women's bodybuilding, fitness figure, women's physique, and the new one fit model, they can do that. They can figure out this is the show that I'm going to win and I win that and I get to Olympia and maybe they have a backup plan. But you could see how this season we saw guys like Sasan Harat because there was no point system. It took him five shows and he got second place I think at three of them. So that would have he would have gotten the Olympia on points, but he had to keep going until he finally won that that last show that he did. Can't quite remember which one it was now. Is it France? I don't know. But he won a show. He finally did go get get to the Olympia. And uh he's the last one to have to really struggle like that. Uh he was a great example. A lot of people pointed out like let's we should bring back the point system. So someone like Sassan who was so good and was consistently placing very very high at multiple shows in a row he would get to Olympian this year if there had been a point system he would have gotten the Olymp points he would not have had to do that final show if you do the math point systems back yeah that's that's the question is it a good thing or a bad thing that's what I'm asking here true okay big Mike Cox something had to be done saves money for Jake makes more prestigious yeah so when he says saves money I don't know if you has realize this a lot of you do and maybe some of you don't is the Olympia is the one event uh maybe the Arnold does this too but I know for sure the Olympia the Arnold probably does it because it's invite only all the travel and hotel expenses are paid for by the uh the Mr. or the not the Mr. Olympia Olympia. The Olympia company pays for their airfare from whether they're flying into into Vegas from uh Florida or whether they're flying from Kuwait or South Africa or Taiwan, wherever they are in the world, IFBB or I should say the Olympia, the Olympia has to pay all that airfare and put them up in the hotel for I think five nights, maybe six nights. It's multiple nights. They have to be there for a while and they have to give them a pdeium for food. These people eat. People like to eat. You know that bodybuilders, especially at the Olympia level. So, the pros, rewards, consistency, keeps more shows relevant. Cons: Overcrowded Olympia, less exclusivity. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's going to be pros and cons to anything, of course. But let's think about that. Uh, overcrowded Olympia. Well, the the overcrowd Olympia, I think that's what they're trying they're hoping to eliminate here. They're they're trying to get less bodies on stage at the Olympian. That's what this is going to accomplish. Um, so the top 25 in the points things. So look at the the for classic, for men's physique, for bikini and wellness. Uh, top 25 in the points. So that's 25 people. If you win two contests, so maybe a couple more people, let's say two more people, 27, 29 people now that have won two contests. I'm just being ridiculous here, but uh and you get the the last three for the Olympia. So now we're up to 32 in that uh and the winners of the Arnold, Pittsburgh, New York Pro, Romanian Muscle Fest, Dubai. That's five more people. So it's going to be somewhere between 35 and 38 people in those divisions, which is good. I mean, it's not great. I'd still like to see a bit less, but we're not going to have that situation ever again. This makes that impossible. We can't have you're not going to have 70 60 70 athletes on stage ever again as long as they or I should say as long as they keep this new point system in place. Uh how do they fit Mike says how do they fit fit model fit fit fit model into the O weekend? It's a longer weekend next year. Well, I was talking with Jimmy Menus and Dr. Tulattos on Sunday about bringing the Masters into the Olympia weekend, which would be even longer weekend. But we all felt, you know, Jimmy especially, he was trying to get into the Masters Olympia. We felt it it's prestigious enough that it warrants being part of the Olympia weekend instead of being held only every other year and in far-flung places. It was in Romania two years ago. It was in Tokyo couple weeks back. And in two years, I think they're they are talking about bringing it back to Maryland. I think Baltimore, Maryland for 2027. But um you know, like I said, I don't want to all over Fit Model, even though it seems like I do it a lot. If you're going to allow these Fit Model women to be part of the Olympia weekend, and let's be real, a lot of them have only been training for anywhere between a year to three years, it it's very obvious looking at them, they haven't been training that long. A lot of them are very young. We had one turn pro a couple weeks ago, Generation Iron, did a post, 18 years old. How long can an 18-year-old have been training? Whereas the guys in the masters, some of these guys have been training for 40, 50 years. Um, you know, I know their their bodies are showing wear and tear. A lot of them at that at that age. They're not they're not as great as they were in their 20s and 30s. A lot of them aren't. Some of them are some of them are actually really at their best in their 40s. But suffice to say that if if fit model can be part of the Olympic weekend, I think Masters deserve to be part of it, too. Do I want the Olympia weekend to go on for like two weeks? No, of course not. But it's just an idea. I don't I don't think they're No one's listening to that anyway. It's a bad thing we're going to be a lot of guys. This show will take forever. I mean, it's it's at this point. Does it even matter? I mean, they just added a whole other division for next year's Olympia fit model. So, that's another gosh, you know, figure an hour for the judging, an hour for the finals. you just added like another hour to each day of judging and finals. Um, so what are you gonna do? I mean, but they're not going to take any divisions away. That's not going to happen. This sucks for wins by because there not too many shows for them. Well, at least Mike, they're making it so that uh all the show winners get there. The top three from the Olympia get there and the top three from Rising Phoenix. So, six. Yeah, you're still only gonna get about probably 10 or 12 women in the Miz Olympia, but there's not how many great women bodybuilders are there. I mean, Olympia level people that women that are, you know, capable of winning the Miss Olympia title, you know, I don't think there's more than say 15 in the world right now. Blue, these are just some uh some emojis. Okay. Sean Hector, Fit Mod Olympia. Sean coaches, she's a bikini pro. She coaches a lot of fit model girls. She herself is already too developed for a fit model division. Sean Carla, they need to separate the women and men to two separate events like in the past. There are enough women's division now to make money Olympia. It was barely the old way. Well, in the old days, uh, Michael, if you recall, the MO Olympia was held in a different city in a different month. It was completely separate from the Mr. Olympia. And I I remember going to it was sold out. I remember the 91 Olympia whereas Linda and Bev were fighting it out for the win. Shriner's Auditorium in Los Angeles was packed. The next year I think I went to was either Michigan or Illinois Linda won again. Linda won many years, several years in a row. Obviously, it was packed and it was held again like AI think it was like a month after the Mr. Olympia, totally different city and it sold out. But I don't think the Miz Olympia could possibly do as well today. I don't think there is many there's as much support. I don't think the fan base is there for women's bodybuilding to stand on its own. And you say the women all the women's divisions. I don't even think that would happen. I don't think all the women's divisions could sustain itself if they had like the men's divisions Olympia, you know, one weekend and then another weekend the women's divisions Olympia. It's it's it's not a horrible idea. I just the logistics and I just don't think financially it would make any sense. Baby Rage, Daniel Baby are useless moves NPC are so hungry for money. I Well, you know, I I wouldn't really argue that normally, but in this case, I don't see how this makes them any more money. Um, does it make people compete more? Uh, I think people were competing more just trying to win shows anyway. So, I don't think it affects really anything in the aspect of the athletes competing more or less. It just makes it a little more difficult for those divisions on the left, classic, men's physique, bikini, and wellness. it them to get to the Olympia and something had to be done because those were the divisions that were clogging up the weekend in terms of an abundance of competitors on stage that we had to get through judging and finals. Uh, and everything takes time. You know, every athlete deserves a fair look. If you get to the Olympia, you earned your way there legitimately. You deserve a fair look. It's it's only right. So, this is going to be a little more elite for those divisions. There will be less bodies on stage and you know they will have to have either won a major show people men and women those divisions or they'll have to accumulate enough points in multiple shows by placing high. So yeah Paul Bartlett he's not surprised bros how's shoulder recovering very well. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not not doing anything crazy yet with the pushing the push days but I'm on my way. Good change should be retroactive. That's funny. Retroactive. Yeah, we can't go back and dish. Time travel, as far as I know, is still not a real thing. Uh, if you haven't watched the Italy Pro preview on this channel, me and Giles, it's really good. Check it out. So, I just want to look at this again. The the point system because I know we didn't obviously I know we didn't always have a point system. It was a fairly new development. It came around in 2018. It lasted for five seasons and a lot of people did like it because they were following the the leaders in the points as they changed because after every show, you know, if you went to the Olympia Olympia.com website, there was a a pointstanding section where you could check and see which athletes uh which athletes were at the top of the the list and had the most points and which ones had the least. And it changed every week after every contest. Somebody would be higher or lower down the list. Some people really like that. They thought it was exciting. It was kind of like, you know, NASCAR or golf or any of these sports where there's a whole series and they have to accumulate points toward a final end game or god I'm talking out of my ass now. I don't even know. So 2023 that was the season two years ago where they decided ah this point system what for whatever reason they decided to get rid of it. And now I believe the main reason they brought it back was simply because the Olympia weekend the the stage was getting too crowded. There were too many too many athletes on stage. They had to be judged and something had to be done or else the show is just going to go on and on and on. This way there won't be an expectation where the top two guys do three shows and like ah well they're going to give it to the guy who played second last time. Yeah. I mean, that's I've even said if I was a judge and I'm judging a show where the first place guy is already qualified for Olympia and the second place guy is excellent and it's it's to the point where they're so equally matched you could flip a coin. Neither guy really is dominating the other and you could argue the win for both guys. If I was in a situation like that and I was a judge, and I'm not, don't worry, I would give it to the guy who needs to get to Olympia. I would do that. Um, if neither guy really deserved because look at like Nick and Nick and uh Derek at the at the Pittsburgh. They both deserved that win. They both Dererick ended up walking away with it. A lot of people felt Nick deserved the win. A lot of people felt Derrick deserved In truth they both were good enough to win. They were both equally good. Different different physiques, different strong points, different weak points, but they were both worthy of the win. But something had to be done. Steve Weinberger came up with the sudden death match at the end. Uh, and in the end, Dererick walked away with the win. But we won't have that worry like, uh, oh, they're going to give it to this guy just because so and so's already qualified for the Olympia. How many times have we said that as fans just watching a show or predicting it or whatever? We've all said that because it's it's something that that runs across your mind. It has to. For Mr. O's approval, it's been five years. It was Ramy's last show. Ramy's last show was two Olympia, I believe. Is that right? When he went moved down to fifth. Yeah, cuz he was the winner in 2020. The winner in 2021, and then in 2022, he dropped all the way down to fifth place. He came back and did the Arnold in spring of 2023, and that's the last time we saw Rammy on stage. But it hasn't been five years yet since he uh since he was Mr. Olympia. Next year it would be. It polluted the judging just on that alone. Yeah, I mean judges are only human. I can't imagine that the thoughts I was just expressing didn't go through some judges heads at times. Sassan Herat gets second three times. Sorry. This guy should be qualified. Yeah. And with this point system, Paul Sassan would have made it on those points. Those three second places would have given him Yeah. Like how many points would that have been? Let's do the math. I know I'm not good at math, but I'm going to try. So, open bodybuilding top three. So, second place gets 10 points. He would have gotten 30 points for that. Uh, I think 30 30 points would have been enough to make him top three. Top three. Top three. So, how many points? Top five in the point. I think that would have been enough probably to give him the top five in the point standings. You know, obviously we can't say that for certain, but I think it's I think it's likely. It's very likely someone curious to see what Hunter does next year if he can win or have. Well, I mean, Hunter, a really good Hunter would probably win the Texas Pro. I mean, a really good Hunter, I think, would have beaten Jordan this year. Jordan's excellent. This is not a put, it's not a knock on Jordan, but I mean, Hunter's been what was he fourth place at the Olympia one year? Yeah. I mean, Hunter's Hunter is a very very good bodybuilder. So, I think he could save his save his prep uh for the Texas. And, you know, unless Andrew Jack jumps in again or something, I think Hunter could could win there, which will need to be tightened a bit. Not really good, actually. Yeah. I mean, I I I didn't I didn't mind it at all and when it was gone, I kind of missed it. Points will be giving it this. Uh, so this Olympia, that's a good question, Mike. That is a good question. So I guess you get top three qualify. Uh h top five in the point standings. Yeah, that's that's a good question. Arnold Classic Pittsburgh Pro. Well, they must get points. I mean, I I can't imagine they only get So, the top three qualify automatically, but I can't imagine fourth place at the Olympia gets you eight points just like fourth place at like the Chicago Pro or Tampa Pro or something. Chicago Pro didn't have open. That's a good question, Mike. That is a good question. I don't know the answer to that. Change would make the top shows for automatic qualification go based on prize money. Uh, I mean, a lot of these promoters, they just don't have the money. They they come up with the biggest prize packages they can based on how much money the sponsors are willing to give them. You know, I think a lot of fans have this exaggerated idea of how much money these pro shows make. Most pro pro shows do not make a big profit. That's why the vast majority of them are held along with an amateur event. It's the amateur event that really pays for everything with the athlete registration, the athlete entry fees, the tickets, tickets from the the the friends and family of those amateur athletes competing. Uh those are the ones that that pay for the pro shows really because the pros they don't pay to compete and they get prize money that the promoters come up with. If you get fourth alone, get points on the Arnold Pittsburgh, you'll be good. Agreed. That's how I interpret. There's no threshold of points just compared against other point holders. really smart system. Also, levels of playing field you can measure that if you're weak shows because points are the same. Yeah, I mean I I I guess that's because I the way I interpret that is that the points uh are the same at every show regardless of whether it's a tier one show or not. It's just that the tier one shows get you in uh we're talking about the other divisions on the left side of the screen. They get the the tier one shows get you in automatically with a win. Otherwise, you have to get in on points or you have to get two pro wins, two contests, which I like. I was talking about the idea of these people in these divisions having to win two pro shows, two shows to get to the Olympia for quite a while. I'm very glad that they're doing that because some of those shows were very weak. Uh let's be real. If you look at the IFBB Pro schedule, every weekend there are two, three, four men's physique shows, two, three, four classic shows, two, three, four bikini wellness because a lot of these amateur shows, they don't have open men's bodybuilding or 212, but they will throw in like classic or bikini. they'll just have like two or three pro divisions and it's typically those ones on the left because the uh sanction fees that the the promoter has to pay to IPB pro league are are more or less expensive than the ones on the right. Open bodybuilding is the most expensive sanction fee of all. I mean that shouldn't come as a surprise to anybody. It's only it's only fair. Uh let's see. Why bother holding a show if you're not going to add a qualification makes hard promoter raise money? Well, I mean these people, they still have to win two shows. We're talking about the shows that aren't tier one, which only a few are. It still gives people incentive because they have to win two shows. They're still going to go out and do show after show after show. And even if they win, this is good. Even the winners of all these shows in those divisions, they're still going to have to keep going and win another show. So, I think this helps out the promoters. It's going to make stronger lineups. You're going to have a lot of people who just won a pro show or have already won a pro show this season in your event, which makes the quality of the lineup better. A fit model on a Thursday. Okay. I mean, the the the you guys got to remember they also have the amateur Olympia happening in Vegas. Same week. Uh amateur usually goes Thursday and Friday. Uh I mean, they could start on Wednesday. I guess it's a long week. So, it's not Olympia weekend. It's like Olympia week basically. Glad they're bringing back the point system. Welcome change fit model every day. Do a show for points if winning doesn't qualify you. Why do a show for points if winning doesn't qualify you? Well, winning two shows qualifies you. So if you win one, then you just got to win one more. I think winning qualifies points for secondary. Winners qualify. The points are for second, third. Yeah. Yeah. Winners. Well, the winners on this on the left um classic men's physique, bikini, and wellness. They don't automatically go to the Olympia on a win unless it is the Arnold Classic USA, the Pittsburgh Pro, the New York Pro, Romania Muscle Fest or Dubai Pro. If they win one of those shows, it's automatic in all the other shows. They have to win two shows to to qualify automatically or gain enough points by placing highly enough in all these other shows. And you know, they didn't say, you know what's odd is they should have a points. Oh, yeah. Okay. It's true. So, you get 10 points for winning any show. Yeah, it's it's it's kind of it's a lot of math. It's a lot of math. I could get I could get confused very very quickly doing that. Uh so, some shows. Yeah. Yeah, Mike. So only in open if if it's open bodybuilding 212 women's bodybuilding fitness figure women's physique fit model every show qualifies you for the Olympia with a win. You win any show as as an athlete in those divisions you are qualified automatically for the Olympia. It's over on the left side where you got classic men's physique bikini and wellness. The divisions that have a lot more shows happening throughout the year. Those are the ones where it gets a little more complicated and they have to do more achieve more in in a given season to get to the Olympia. Speaking of Hunter and Andrew, do you think Olympia Hunter could have beaten Andrew? What? God, I don't know. I'd have to see I'd have to see video, Dan. Yeah, I don't want to speculate. Why are the Saints fees different? Yeah, I I that's a good question. I don't know. If I was to guess, which is all I can do, I think it's a prestige thing. Um, open bodybuilding is the most open men's is the most prestigious division. It's the most coveted one. It gets the most attention, has the biggest prize money. So, yeah, it's the biggest draw. I mean, if you have an open bodybuilding division at your contest, you're probably going to get a lot more pay-per-view buys. You're going to get a lot more ticket sales. It's still the division that has the most interest and and and support among the fans. So, it's garbage. I ain't ch winners should qualify. Think it would be hard to get people to do a show if not no qualifier. Well, every I mean there's only going to be a few there are only a few shows for those divisions that are Olympia qualifiers with Olympic with an with a first place win. These are all qualifiers in a way. Yeah, it's hard. Mike, I don't know. Muscle Central, I made a video about it and years ago CS video. You know how many people have taken credit for this today already? I saw muscle discord. I saw Leo from overcome podcast and those are just two I'm sure because I was even talking about something similar to this uh a lot of people because we were trying to come up with solutions. The Olympia was too many people on stage, too many people competing, the the show was running too long, something had to be done and we were just throwing ideas around. But a few people have been taking credit for it. That's not Matt Mike. Muscle central is is not muscle discord. It's pretty gay though. Uh oh, you can't say gay if the IF gets decide tiers for the show. It was a show for why it was the best but that probably a third tier show. Well, there's only there's only it looks like here they've only they didn't say tier one and tier two, but they just said these shows these shows are the tier one shows and everything else is not. So, tier one shows are Where'd I go? Where the hell did it go? Geez. Uh oh yeah, it's right there. It's right in front of me. Yeah. So, obviously Olympia, that's, you know, tier one. Arnold Classic USA, Pittsburgh Pro, New York Pro, Romania Muscle Fest. I find that kind of an odd choice, honestly. And Dubai Pro, because Romania doesn't have a huge prize prize prize money for that show. I'm not sure why other than it's it's Jake and Alina's show. I mean, he owns the Olympia, so he can do whatever the hell he wants. No point system, says Chris. I am responsible for this. See, everyone's taking credit. Sense of humor. Oh, well, I think Muscle Central, I think I think Mike was uh confusing you with Muscle Discord because your logo doesn't look that different. Let's see. Uh yeah, seeing less figure out a way to have all these classes and have it not run all night. Well, I think that's what they're trying to accomplish here. I think they're trying to bring the numbers down for the Olympia. So, is Ryan Terry not qualified even if he wins again? Uh I believe every Olympia winner is qualified for life. Uh or at least for five years. I don't know if that's a thing. So, Ryan Terry doesn't have to worry about he's he's good. He's safe. Arnold UK won't count. uh not as an automatic win. It just counts as any other show. Uh which means if you win it uh in these divisions on the right, you're qualified for the Olympia automatically. Any any contest for those divisions uh if you win, you go to the Olympia. The divisions on the left, it would only be one of they would they would get uh one of two wins needed or they would get the points for it. But no, it would not it would not be a win. It would not be a qualification winning the Arnold UK uh as a classic physique competitor, men's physique, bikini, or wellness. Case of mistaken identity. It's fair. All right. Uh uh guys, I do have to run because Branch Branch needs his walk and he's got to do a big poop somewhere. So, that's it, guys. So, leave your comments below. Uh if you watching this on the replay, let me know what you think. Do you believe the uh point system needed to come back? Are you happy about this? Are you angry about this? Are you indifferent? Let me know what you think in the comments and we will talk later.