What's up, guys? The Legion Sportsfest just concluded in Reno, Nevada. Tonio Burton is the winner. No surprise there. What was a surprise, especially the past couple outings, Patrick Moore did not look very good. Arnold Classic, he was either last or next to last. This was a different Patrick Moore. This was the Patrick Moore that was winning shows a few years ago, that won the Cali Pro, that was top 10 in the Olympia. Uh, he's on his way back. So, just like I said, do don't write people off. Don't say people should quit unless there's something gravely gravely wrong. Take a look at some of the footage. I don't want to copy that. I want to go. Yeah. So, uh, the rest of the top five, not too many surprised. Bruno Santos third, Florian Pson on fourth. Kennedy Anymu uh looked fantastic. Was not in the first call out, but they took a good look at him and he worked his way up there and he rightfully was fourth place. Uh fifth place. I could have had him maybe a little a little higher than that, honestly. So, this was the pose down. So, this is from uh the video Legion Sportsfest 2025 and Portuguese by Arita Labs. This is not the live stream. So, the quality not fantastic with the video, obviously, but uh if you go to Gilko Productions IG page, they do have just a few pictures. I imagine he's going to put some more pictures up tomorrow. Uh the high-res images really show the condition of these guys much much more clearly than what we're seeing in this video. But, uh props to Patrick. You know, congrats to Tonio, the winner. Uh but Patrick really really surprised us at this show. I I I didn't see it coming. I didn't think he was going to be in the running for the win, but he was definitely pushing Antonio. I think I would have had Bruno s Patrick's back. Well, we're going to take a look at them. We're going to take a look at uh the last comparison was for second place and it was a direct comparison between Patrick and uh Bruno because it was pretty clear in the judge's minds. I'm guessing that uh Antonio was the winner. But Patrick Patrick looked fantastic. He's certainly not uh done or re washed up or he doesn't need to quit. Put it that way. He's he's on his way back and I hope this is just the beginning of of him getting better and better and becoming one of the top men as I was hoping he would be when he turned pro all those years eight years ago at the USA with Lunford 2017 USA. So go straight to the go right to the awards. Yeah, Antonio's back was just lights out. Look at that. Fantastic. Congrats to him. So this was the final placings. All right. So this is the this is just the awards ceremony. Kennedy's already got his fifth place. Florian Porson from France getting his fourth place medallion there. Sometimes they give him the check on stage. Sometimes not. I heard what show was it last year? They they got a bag of cash with the was it Toronto Pro last year? I think when they won they got a bag of cash backstage instead of a check which is pretty damn cool. Who doesn't who doesn't like cash? So there you see uh Bruno Santos getting his third place going around and congratulating everybody, shaking hands. Bruno looked very good. Uh when we see the comparison with Patrick uh momentarily, you'll understand how Patrick how Patrick was able to beat him. And it was mainly a structural thing, bone structure. He's just so much wider. He's got so much so much more of an X-frame compared to Bruno who's a little more on the narrow side, which is just genetics. It's just his bone structure. Nothing he can do about it. He's built a great great physique on top of that bone structure. But structure, structure matters. Everything matters. They're looking for the the best total packages. The best total package is what wins. So there's Patrick runner up. Congratulations. You know, to me, this is almost like a win because everyone's going to be talking. I guarantee you it's probably already happening on social media, but everyone's gonna be talking more about Patrick. The two things I've already been seeing are Patrick looking so good, which we didn't expect, and blessing being a disappointment. Blessing of Woody Boo was I had him in all my thumbnails and everything as somebody who was potentially going to win this show because he has won shows before. He won the Indie Pro. He won the New York Pro. I think he had one other pro win. Regardless, you know, he's won shows before and um at his best, he probably could have been pushing for this win, too. but was not at his best. We'll take a look at that. I don't like to just talk crap. So, congratulations, Tonio. There's Chris Menace, the promoter, and on one side, Kai Green, of course, on the other side. See that backdrop? That's all comic book art. The Legion show always has real uh cool comic comic book theme to it. Uh if you walked around the expo, you see a lot of these images and stuff. And yeah, Antonio, look at those shoulders. And I don't think they're fake, guys. I don't think his shoulders are fake. They're so round, so bubbly. Some of the best shoulders in bodybuilding today, bar none. He's 200 He's like 220, 222 lbs. You know, there's guys that have 50 60 lbs on them don't have shoulders like that. So, he looked amazing. Amazing. This I'll go back to the confirmation round. We'll let Tonio hit a couple victory poses, though. Yeah, look at that. He's just stacked. I know people people think he's got oil in his quads. I don't see it. I don't see it. I just think they don't have the greatest separation and that's something he can improve on. Everyone up there on stage had strong points and things they can improve on. Look at that nice trophy. The superhero with the cape flying in the wind. I bet that weighs a ton. Don't break it, dude. Don't break it. But it's it's a nice touch when they make these custom custom trophies that are very very different from what you'd normally see. Uh think I'll just leave some of the routines on. That's Tim Wilkins. First routine was Kennedy. Fantastic rookie season so far for Kennedy. Sixth place New York Pro. Fifth place here. I I definitely could have had him ahead of Florian. Uh no offense to Florian. I just like Kennedy's structure better, the shape, the overall shape. This guy's going places. All he really needs to do condition could be a little bit better. And the lower lats, when you turn around, see his back, you'll see that could be a little better. When he gets those things in place, when he makes those improvements, he'll be winning shows. He'll be winning shows. Full in detail. Lack of calves. Run back. Like, well, calves are nice if you have them. I think that's the attitude. I've never seen a show come down to just calves where two guys were totally equal, but one had better calves. I've never really seen it make a difference. And most of the guys with the best calves, the late Mike Modazzo had the best calves of all time. I think they were they were legit like 22, 23 inches, diamond shaped. He never won a pro show. Eric Fanhauser, awesome calves, never won a pro show. Ben Pakowski, did Ben ever win a pro show? I don't think he did. What did he win for this show? I believe it was 25,000. I could be wrong. I didn't really pay attention. Yeah, Kennedy should do Well, let's see. That's it for He just hit New York. There's nothing the next show we have. Yeah, he should do Toronto next week for sure. He's going to have to go up against Rean, but you know, who's to say? I like this guy's physique a lot. He's got things Rean doesn't have. He's got way better quads than Rean. Rean's a little wider up top. Uh Kennedy's got better arms. Rean's got a better back, but he would compare well with them. I'm not saying he would win necessarily, but he'd he'd be he'd be in that top top three at top five at the very worst in Toronto and that's a week from tomorrow. That's a Sunday show. Nothing after that until Dubai Pro June 21st, which is a big money show. Got Martin Fitzwire doing that. Bar Tabani. I can't remember who else was doing it. Boss finally missed. Yeah, you know, boss is a great coach, but there's not there's not one coach out there who hasn't screwed up or I don't know if we can blame the coach in this case. Here's Blessing right now. So, Blessing, yeah, this is not the best blessing I've ever seen. This is not the blessing I saw win the New York Pro uh just looked a little watery. He didn't he didn't get lean enough. I just don't think he got lean enough. And I I I don't think uh Stefan is to blame. I don't know if blessing I don't know what the reason is, but he was not at his best. The waist, the midsection has gotten thicker. I see the obliques in particular have grown. I don't know why that happened. Has he maybe started doing like deadlifts or something? I don't know. But I just know what I see. I know. We We'll look at some of the uh the images, the Gilo images once I get through all the video because that tells that tells a really good story. This is obviously the camera's set a little a little ways back from the stage. It's showing the whole stage whereas the Gilko stuff is nice up close and sharp. Uh but yeah, I don't know who's to blame for for Blessing. Still has some some things going for him. Beautiful structure, great back, really good arms, small waist, you know, relative to how wide he is up top. Midsection does need to watch it. It is starting to get a little bit thicker. Uh the legs need to be better. The condition needs to be better. But I hope he keeps going. I hope he does Toronto. I hope he keeps going in diets. I think he would need up until, you know, 3 weeks from now the Dubai. I think that would be perfect. He looks like three weeks out to me. Yeah. So RG, every show qualifies for the if you win any pro show, you're qualified for the Olympia, any of them. Cody Jo Cody Marcado. So there's another guy in Cody Jolly. So what do you think of Blessing's chest? Let's take a look. I wasn't really paying too much attention to his chest. Is there something there a hole in it or something? Is there a tear? I'll have to take a look. Yeah. Not letting know the hate blessing is good. Oh, I mean it's it's He's still got He doesn't need to retire. He doesn't need to hang it up. I don't know what you're talking about with his chest. Chest looks pretty good to me there. Maybe if we go closer up, I could see if there's something wrong that you might be referencing. But looks good to me. Yeah, it's it's it's sad because I hate to see anybody getting [\h__\h] on and people are [\h__\h] all over Blessing and I don't remember him, you know, in the past he's been very vocal and outspoken and kind of like that WWE type of gonna I'm gonna blow this guy out of the like the rivalry with him and Nick Walker back in was it 2020 or 2021? I think it was 2021. It was like the most exciting thing of that spring because it was we were in lockdown and not much COVID was still going on. There wasn't a whole lot to be uh distracted by and that helped us that helped distract us. That was the backstage crew. He's definitely bringing many watery guys lately. Maybe he has too many athletes. It's a very real possibility. You You can only focus on so many people at once and boss has been it's like every every time I turn turn to social media and start scrolling through I see somebody else. Oh, here's Ton right here. I want to be quiet. I want to watch Tonio. This is kind of far back, but I just think he's got he had the best overall package size, shape, structure. You know, he's only I say only 222, but he's got very small joints, very full muscle bellies. It gives the illusion of a lot more actual size. Someone else could have, you know, different thicker joints, different not as not as pleasing shape to the muscles with that round look, and they could be 20 pounds heavier and look smaller than him. It's it's all an illusion. You say watery, how to fix it. So Darren, if it's water, these he's talking about boss outlaws guys, some of them aren't coming in shape. If it's water, that's something that a diuretic could remedy because they would just piss out all the water. But if it's body fat, you know, if you're if you're like a day, two, three days out, even if you're a week out from the show and you still have body fat to lose, it's too late. You need to be in shape a week out, you know, at least three or four days out. You need to be ready. After that, it's just sort of resting, carbing up. You know, you you can't be trying to lose fat at the last minute. So, these guys aren't losing enough fat. Okay, so that was Tonio. Now, we have Olu Watabi Isola along with Kennedy. He is another IFBB North American overall champ. I don't know if he's from Nigeria or of Nigerian ancestry, but the Nigerians are kicking ass. Uh blessing is Nigerian. Uh he's he's not he's not doing well now, but he's there's hope for the future. Andrew Jack obviously was the original. Not the original. The original was Victor Richards. That was the original Nigerian freak back in the 80s. What's up, Cal? You started my previous comment. Oh, sorry, man. Let me go back. No, I said that. You said sloppy. Thanks for the donation. And yeah, I he's hit they're hit and miss. Some of them look really good. Some of them don't. Does he have too many clients? I guess he could be the only one to make that determination. you know, maybe maybe some coaches can handle a hundred clients and no problem and be able to stay in touch with everybody and keep everyone uh you know on track and giving them the necessary adjustments every day they need to make to their diet, cardio, PD, stuff like that. But other, you know, I I would I'm not great at multitasking. I'm a coach, but I don't I even as much as I would love the money from coaching 100 people, I know in my heart of hearts, I couldn't really give proper attention to a hundred people. So, Watabi looks really good, too. Very small joints, nice full round muscle. Look at those quads are impressive. Yeah, I think he just kind of got overshadowed by Kennedy because Kennedy, a lot of people were making posts. A lot of media channels. Well, these are the two North American champs who want to see them side by side. Already said that dieting more. Yeah, water buffaloos. I don't think it's water. So, this is Adam Millage. He is a chef. I do know that. How are you? Where's Giles? Yeah, Arnold. It is. So, if it's almost 11 o'clock at night for me, it'S4 in the morning for Giles. So, unless it's like the Olympia or the Arnold, I would never ever ask him to stay up or or stay up that late or get up that early. Oh, diuretic is a it's just a a drug, a pharmaceutical drug that people use to flush out water. They're weaker uh over-the-counter versions. And then there's the more powerful pharmaceutical versions which they give, you know, in medical the medical world, it's used for things like edema when people have conditions where they're holding too much water, which can cause high blood pressure. So, it keeps them from retaining a lot of fluid, a lot of water in their body. Uh keeps their blood pressure down. uh but bodybuilders use it to flush out the water at the end. Uh the unfortunate thing about diuretics is they are not selective. You you excrete or expel water from all the all parts and all cells of the body. Muscle cells uh the water under the the wonder water under your skin goes, but the water inside your muscle cells also goes. So you're going to flatten out on diuretics. Crazy Sergio didn't do this show. Yeah. Or the Cal. I I think he was just determined. him and his coach, they made a a decision to hold off until later in the season. There's there's some things they want to work on. I'm not sure what they are. Tony was going to bust these dudes ass. Yeah. I mean, when I saw the lineup, you I know how good Tony is, and I know what everyone else looks like, and I can sort of in my mind already judge in the previews. I had him winning. Everyone had him winning. Uh, some people thought Victor Bruno was going to I I thought Blessing might be the one to push him and possibly beat him. The blessing that I saw a few years ago, would have had a good chance of beating him today. This was not that blessing. Derek doesn't fix extra fat. Yeah. I I always see guys that aren't in shape, you know, a week or two off the show, they go, I'm just holding water. I'm like, dude, that's not water. It's not water. And then they drop the diuretic and they get rid of all the water and they're flat and you still see the body fat, but now the muscles are smaller because they're they're not uh full of glycogen and water like they should be and it's just a bad overall look. Okay, here we go with Patrick Moore. Patrick was a surprise of the show. This was a redemption for Patrick. Patrick hasn't looked this good in a very long time. A lot of people have written him off. I I made a point of saying several times I I I'm not writing I wasn't writing him off. I don't write people off. you know, unless they come down with like stage four cancer or something and they have to leave health reasons, uh, if it's an injury, and he did tear his Achilles tendon a couple years back, which hampered his leg training, but he's got his legs back. I'd like to see more legs, but you know what? Everyone's got something you can pick on. He's got some really good body parts. He's got a great structure and shape, and this was the best condition I've seen Patrick, I want to say, in three, four years. Yeah, no problem, Darren. That's what I'm here for. Think Antonio can beat Keon to 212 weight. No. And I don't think you're talking about Tonio, not Antonio. I don't think Antonio has any interest in trying to drop down to 212. But no, I don't think he could beat Keon. Keon is damn good. I think Keon will be Mr. Olympia within I'm going to say two years. It's not going to be this year. He's going to stay 212 this year. That's where we start to wonder, will it be 2026 Keon makes the move to open 2027? I don't see it happening any later than 2027. He's growing. He was only 205 at this last Olympia though, so he still has a lot of room to grow. Don't want to take away from Patrick Moore on screen right now. Patrick looked phenomenal. Look at that X-frame. Look at the tiny waist, a super wide shoulders, nice capped, round side delts. So, blessing. We know that he didn't make top five. Uh, do I still have it up? There's the There's the top five results. Felix Norman on stage now. Yeah. So, uh, when they put the scores up and last last week at the Cali Pro, it took it didn't they didn't put the scores out until like 3:00 in the afternoon my time, Eastern Standard Time, the next day. So, I don't know if the results are out for this. If they are, I'd be pretty surprised because they took a long time last week to put the results up. So, I think Blessing's probably sixth or seventh. I don't think he's bought him. You know, he was in the first call out. He still got some strong points to his physique. It wasn't the best blessing, but he's he wasn't horrible. Why people want to go to coach 100 athletes? Oh, I I mean, I I I was just I was just throwing that number out there. I don't know how many people Stefan Keynes, boss of Outlaw coaches. I I do hear his name a lot. A lot of people are working with Stefan because he's good. He's very good at what he does. He's brought a few people in looking fantastic. Most of his guys end up looking great, but nobody bats a thousand is a that's a baseball term from the USA for people who don't know baseball. I don't know much about it. But no coach bats a thousand. No coach brings every client in looking perfect every time. It's impossible. There are too many variables that go into what the physique is going to look like on on stage. And things can change so rapidly. People can get flat really quick. We saw that with Rean at the Cali, not the Cali Pro, at the New York Pro. He went flat so fast up there. And I've seen that before. People can get uh start holding water uh and spill over as we call it and they look all watery and lose their their cuts. I've seen that happen. Um and you know, a coach usually if they work with an athlete uh more than two or three times, they know how to peak them more or less, but still things happen. Something they ate didn't agree with them and they had an allergic reaction or you there's all kinds of things that can happen. Jonathan Padilla from Mexico. I'm guessing he wasn't too far out of the top five either based on the call outs. I'm going to take a while. I bet he was probably around seventh, eighth at the worst. I don't know. I don't I still would probably have blessing ahead of him. I don't know. It's condition didn't thrill me. Maybe once I see the high-res images, he'll impress me more. If it's fat or water, it's not a dumb question. I mean, looking at people, it's very hard to tell, but most guys shouldn't be holding water. I mean the the main reasons bodybuilders hold water are certain certain steroids that they use that cause water retention. Test will do that. Um debball anadrol a lot of the orals like that. Uh the high the androgens the the drugs that are the best for putting on deca makes you do that. The the drugs that are great offseason drugs for adding size and strength uh typically aren't used in a contest prep. Usually they use what they call drier drugs like Tren, Masteron, Winstrol, Anavar Tabs, things that don't cause any I agents that don't cause any water retention. So there's really no reason for these guys to be holding a lot of water. And if you have all the body fat gone, I've never seen anyone who was super shredded and then all of a sudden held water. I've just never seen it. It's usually just it's either an excuse, they think they're holding water or they're just delusional. They think it's water and it's actually body fat. Who is a pretty lady at the bottom right? Okay, so that is Artha Lu. This is her channel, Arita Lab. I don't know if she has a sewing company. I know she's a journalist. She actually helped me out with a translation for a a video interview I did for MD. Here's Florian Parson from France. Uh an interview we did for the MHP athletes Olivea. He was a he's a UFC fighter from Brazil that MHP sponsored. Sorry, I don't I don't follow UFC, so I you know, I didn't even know who the guy was. I looked I did some research and so I could ask the right questions, but I'm not I'm not an MMA fan. I I can watch it, but Florian really good structure and shape. Could be a little wider across the shoulders. If I was going to give him like a perfect structure, he'd have a little wider clavicles. It's a very compact physique, but he's got a lot of muscle. The back is what I do see needs the most improvement. It's a great physique, guys. He wouldn't be in the top five without a great physique. He ended up in fourth. I believe he was fifth in Cali. Or was he fourth there, too? No, he was fifth in Cali. Um, he's got a lot of things going for him. The the the overall thickness with the with the shape. Very, very tough tough to beat. I pointed out before, I don't know why he doesn't lock out his arm straight in that side try. I think that would look What is up with Blessings conditioning? Well, I don't know what happened. I don't know why he's not super shredded. I don't know. See, not a good bodybuilder. Well, well, Barry George is a benefit cheat. Barry George is a benefit cheat. You don't like Barry George. Um, he is a good bodybuilder. Um, I've seen him look a lot better. I was there when he won New York Pro. I I was there when he won the Indie Pro. He was very, very good at those shows. This is not that blessing. Um, this is his first show back in almost two years. He competed, I want to say it was August of 2023, uh, Flex Pro weekend in Italy, and he looked a little better than this, but I haven't seen him looking great in a couple years. So, here's Bruno Santos from Brazil. Pretty sure the reason she's covering uh, Arita's covering is for the Brazilian athletes because it's a it's in Portuguese. You know, Brazil is a huge bodybuilding country and, uh, they really support their athletes and they're very very passionate fans of the sport. Uh so Kayana is explaining diuretics. Uh which class of diuretics you use abundantly among Bibles? Thioide. I would say the most common one is thioide which the one I've used. I've only used one type. I use it's called dioide and it is that type of thazide. Uh loop is like lasix. That's a that's a stronger diuretic. You know, you you you basically go you base which one you take on how much water you think you need to lose. And Lasix is like the nuclear bomb. Just get rid of all your water. But we've had deaths in bodybuilding. It was typically diuretics. And I venture to say nine times out of 10 the diuretic that was used by the people that unfortunately passed away was uh Lasix because it is it's injectable and it's very very strong very potent and your body uh if you expel too much water it throws your electrolytes out of balance and you have a heart attack so you don't die of dehydration. I believe you die of a heart attack. What's up with Hunter? Is he competing this year? No, he's he's taking the year off. He said Antonio will beat Regan from Cal H I think so. I think he's more complete. I think he's more complete. They both have great backs. Rean usually kills people from the back. Uh he's got better better quads than Rean. Better biceps for sure than Rean. Rean's got a better structure. He is wider across the clavicles. He's a taller guy. He's got more of an X-frame. Um, I'd still think I it would be a tough battle. I would give it to uh to Tonio, but maybe it would be Rean. I'd have to see them side by side. Jason should have competed. Antonio beats Rean. Well, yeah. I'm I'm curious to see who shows up for Toronto next weekend. Very curious. Jason could have beat Patrick. No. No. Jason's amazing. Okay. Patrick Blackberry. Okay. These are all troll comments. Palumbo coaches a lot. Yeah. I mean, Dave's been coaching for well over 20 years. Dave's been doing this quite a while. Are they already doing Oh, they do the pose down first. No, I'm sorry. This is going to be the confirmation round. Confirmation round. Typically, I'm curious because I've seen them do it both ways where they start with the second call out guys first, then do the first call out guys as the second call out. So, it's sort of reverse order from what they do in the actual judging during the day. them. The judging starts with uh you know the first call outs typically your top five top six guys. Okay. So that's what they did this time. But I've seen it done the other way much more often where the the first the initial initial call out in the confirmation round is often with guys who are not in the top top running. It's the the third the second or third call out guys. So this was a big call out there. Geez. You got Bruno, Patrick, Tonio, Kennedy. Uh, I have to look at this guy's name all the time. Olo Watabi. Olaw Watabi. Uh, Florian and Jonathan. That was a big group they called out there. Antonio. And they put Kennedy right next to him. Was Blessing even. Is that Blessing? Yeah, they moved Blessing. Did I just confuse him with the uh the other guy? I did, didn't I? My bad. That's how small they are on my screen. Who won top three? Who won top three? Here's your results right there. Sean Antonio first, Patrick Moore second, Bruno Santos third, Florian Porson fourth, Kennedy Onanu fifth. So this was the confirmation round. Jason Govia. I I know Jason. Jason, I've met him. I've trained him. Jonio Burton, Rio Mascara, that's Nexzilla. They'll be competing in Dubai in three weeks. Pat second Pink Trunks. These are These are everyone's names. Floren Parson is Pink Trunks. He's from France, so that's why you might not know him. Bubble gut. Who's got the bubble gut? Then blessing fourth. No, he didn't get blessing didn't make top five. Keon is overrated. Mr. Olympia next few years. I don't see it. Well, Mr. Jinx, look at him now and try to imagine that with, let's say, 15 more pounds, but the same exact proportions, meaning his waist doesn't get any bigger. I mean, that's all you would have to worry about. Everything else gets bigger proportionally, but 15 pounds up from 215 from 205, which he won the last Olympia. Keon as a 212, that would put him at 220, which is what Tonio is here, but he's shorter than Tonio. Keon's probably like five 5'5, maybe 5'6. I want to say 5'5. Whatever he is, he he's got just beautiful god-given shape. Some of the best genetics I've ever seen in all my years. 30 years in the 34 years in the industry now covering the sport. So, yeah, I do see it and you know, we'll see. Olympia 25. I'm not showing all the Jason Genova. How did Morg get second place? Uh, we're going to look gonna look at the the call outs with him and Victor Bruno. I keep calling him Victor Bruno. Bruno Santos. Is there somebody named Victor Bruno? I don't even know. Obviously, I took some melatonin with my last uh meal like an hour ago. I think it's kicking in. I'm getting getting dopey melatonin. With all the success form 212 athletes, do you think 212 needs to go back to 202? No, you can't go back. There's too many guys who are already struggling to make 212. And if they had to get down to 202, I think they would leave. What would they do? Or they would try to downsize to classic. It was a good call out. So this was Kennedy Blessing, Florian, and uh Jonathan. So this was probably third. This is the call out for third through fifth. No, I'm sorry. Fourth. Fourth through seventh because we we I think they already had it locked up in their minds. The judges already had Tonio in first at this point. Uh, and Bruno, Bruno and Patrick second and third. I don't think they had quite figured out which which way that was going to go because there is going to be a call out. We'll see with just those two. But Kennedy here impressing me the most as far as potential. I mean that look at how wide. Look at that black spread. So wide. He's a work in progress and he's he doesn't need that much more work. He's almost there. This was just his rookie season. So, you know, you can imagine the best is yet to come with this guy Kennedy. That that's one to watch. Yeah, I'd say Antonio winning obviously the sto big story. Patrick Moore redeeming himself and looking great and getting runner up also damn good and people are going to be talking about that. And I think Kennedy is going to be a talking point. In fact, I'm going to try to get a hold of Kennedy for an interview because I don't know much about him, but this guy's he's he's going places. You'll see him winning shows. J from Who is Jay from Jenov? Yeah. So, Jason Darren was AI don't I don't know if you'd call him autistic. I don't know what his diagnosis was. Um but he was somehow mentally impaired because he was like on disability. Um but he was like putting out YouTube videos for a couple years, maybe about three or four years. He had a crew of weird guys around him. They called him the Delray Misfits. Delray Beach, Florida. Uh, so his videos were were like comical. He was he's just uh he was a character. He wasn't trying to be funny. He just was. Um, yeah. I mean, just Google him or something. His videos are still all up, but he doesn't make videos anymore. He got forbidden. I think his mother actually forbade him, so you can't He lives with his mom. Can't make any videos anymore. So, he shut it all down. But Jason Gova, he he competed. He would get really fat, bulking. I don't even want I don't want to make this about Jason. We're talking about the Legion. Just Google him. You'll find all kinds of stuff. Or go to search on YouTube. You'll find all stuff. Tony got so much oil. No, I don't think I don't think so. Doesn't know how Jewish Jason. Imagine that. Just throw on a personal question. Besides only line, share the internet sports. I don't follow any sports. I don't I'm not even American. I've been called unamerican because I don't watch football, which is like the big pass. Everybody watches football, especially around here, you know. I drove by Gillette Stadium twice today on the highway. It's only like 15 15 miles away, 10 15 miles away where the New England Patriots play. I don't even I never even went to one of their games once. The only time I watched them play was at Super Bowls and I was watching more for the commercials. So, this call out was everybody else basically. That's Felix Norman. Felix is on the right. So, I'm sorry. No, that's Felix on the left. Right in the middle is Olutabi Isola. And then we have Adam Millage. I hope I'm not mixing this up. I There was a little joke earlier. I said all these bald white guys look alike. But those two do these two guys do kind of look alike. Don't tell me they don't. If I did, I wouldn't have asked. Uh yeah, Darren, I mean, he's been off YouTube. He he was he had his 15 minutes. He was pretty famous considering, you know, he never won anything. He was an awful bodybuilder. He would compete fat. He would jump into shows, you know, looking like 20% body fat. Um, most of the time was underrated bodybuilder. People Google him. Yeah, just Google him. Open 212. He's a very amateur. He never even won an a local show. TN is the best. It's also very dangerous. Abdel Abdel Torres. Very dangerous. Muell leave it alone. I wrote a joke just you want to be bodybuilder. Uh he collects coins now. Yeah, he's his Instagram page is all about coins and he he he messaged me on Instagram and he wanted my phone number because he lost it and I don't want to go down that rabbit hole again. Smacked around with Rich Peon at one point. True. Rich did slap him. Okay, so this was Okay, so this looks like uh a call out for fifth, sixth, seventh right here because and Kennedy ended up getting fifth. No, I'm sorry. So Florian was fourth. So this is four, five. The call out for the fourth through six to determine that because yeah, they already had Patrick and Bruno Santos. Patrick Moore, Bruno Santos established as their second and third place guys. They didn't know the order yet, but then they were really, this is the call out here where they had to figure out who we went for fourth, fifth, and sixth. Florian came out ahead of Kennedy. I personally would have had Kennedy ahead of Florian. I just like his overall shape better. He does need more of a back. Florian has a better back than him, no doubt. So, I I imagine I imagine that was the deciding factor. The condition on the two guys here looks pretty comparable. I don't see either one of the ones. Blessing on the right is the worst condition out of these three obviously. Uh the high-res images show his legs were really blurry and I didn't see any back shots. I'm guessing the back the glutes and everything had to be pretty soft. So Heisenberg looks insane HD footage. Yeah. Is that on is that on Gilo yet? Let me check while I'm here if they have any high-res images on. I want to take a look at that. The Gilo stuff always looks so much better. Search Gilko Productions. Searching for you guys. They have no video routines up from the bodybuilders. They do have some high-res images of Blessing Tonio. uh blessing by himself, Tonio by himself, and a couple of Tonio with uh Patrick. We'll look at that later. Let's get through. So, this was the this was the last this was the call out for second and third place. Place seven of the 2020 Olympia. Oh, yeah. So, Antonio was seventh. That's even better. Yeah, he probably would beat him. He probably would beat him. So, I was trying to figure out looking at this and why did Patrick beat Bruno here? Um, neither one of them have great legs, so it wasn't really the lower body. I'd say Patrick's are as good, maybe actually better. A little more meat to the quads. Yeah, Patrick's actually got better legs than Bruno. And if you want to talk about structure across the shoulders, Patrick is just so much wider. It's It's a bone structure. He's born with those bones. Um, you know, both of these guys have put a lot of muscle on top of the frames that they were given, but Patrick just was given a wider frame to build on. And, you know, you can't you can't overlook that. It's it's one of the factors. Good back. Uh, Bruno's Victor Victor's back's a little thicker. I like his back a little bit better. Not a troll. Well, when you keep talking about Jason Genova, I think you're a troll. Antonio had it, but I still say Floren in top three. No, I mean it's all opinion. That's your opinion. You're entitled to it. I I would have had Kennedy ahead of him. Yeah, maybe even ahead of maybe not ahead of Bruno. Kennedy's condition still needs still needs to come up a little bit better, but he's on his way. Florida had way better legs than Patrick. They weren't way better. They weren't way better. Who'll be in Toronto next week? No, Darren. Now, the list isn't out. The only ones I know off top of my head, Dura, Mahmud Al Dura, uh, Rean Grimes is going to be the heavy favorite. I don't know. So, the list will come out Monday, like late afternoon on ifbbro.com. Then we'll find out results. Who is Keon's coach? Isn't he with boss, too? Isn't he with boss of Outlaw? Yeah, he is. Right. I'll confirm that. I don't like being inaccurate. I do not. So, is that it? They went straight to awards. If that's case, I'm going to go to the Gil Co stuff for some high-res images. Yeah, but I believe it's Stefan Keynes. Boss of Outlaw. Oh, no. It's Patrick Tour. You're right. You're right. Told you I was getting loopy. Patrick Tour. Patrick Tor is his coach. Thank you, Fresh Prince. Appreciate This is why I like you guys in the chat because some of you guys really follow certain athletes and certain coaches better than I do. I try to do a good job of following everybody, but clearly I don't do the best job. Blessing wastes what? Run ketamine. No, I don't want to be up all night to watch over the open 212 Olympia. Oh, hell yeah, Fran. I would love to see that. Will it ever happen? Doubtful. What happened to Smoke King? Who was the Smoke King again? I don't know. Kenny's a great kid versus my name. my stock on. Yeah, that stock's going to going to earn some dividends. His stock is is going to rise. Do early fitness YouTubers. Victor Bruno was a legendary comedian. Oh, is maybe that's why. No, I don't know why I I the name's not even familiar. I don't know that actor, but for some reason, I keep calling Bruno Santos Victor Bruno. Tonio has so much oil in his body. You said that before. Does this Tonio beat Rafa? I don't know. Rafa beat him very very narrowly last year at the Arnold Classic South America in Sapalo Brazil very narrow win and you know I I Tonio could have had it I could have seen Tonio for the win there do black men put muscle on the easiest only if they're from Nigeria one particular country in Africa of the whole continent only Nigerians seem to have this massive advantage where they can add muscle tissue like at will like think about training and they get bigger. No, honestly, it's um there's some regions there's some regions of the world where we seem to see more great bodybuilders coming from. Uh but we have seen a lot of great people, great I can't say African-American because if you're African, you're not American. Uh a lot of either ancestry like Samson Dada, our current Mr. Olympia is Nigerian ancestry, raised in the UK, but he's he's of Nigerian heritage. Um, blessing Andrew Jacked, Dr. Richards back in the day, like I said. No, man. No, we're staying on topic. We're staying on Legion. Bible has never seen focus on their calves. No, I don't think that's the case, Barry. I think is a lot of them just can't build calves. If you don't have low calf muscle insertions, it doesn't matter. You're never going to be able. The muscle tissue is just not there. You don't have enough muscle cells to build to ever have really big calves. All these guys you see with the crazy massive calves like Morazzo, Dorian Yates, Jay Cutler, Flex Lewis, look at how low their calves inserted in the ankle. Cares about 212. Some people still do like Bruno Moore. That's okay. Where does Blessing go from here? I think he should just keep stay on his diet and do Dubai. He looks like he needs another three weeks and Dubai would give him three weeks. Blessing should get a full-time job. Oh boy, guys are awful. Uh, let's share this tab instead. So, these are pictures from Gilo. So, the pictures from Gilo, they're kind of like being there because they're just so crystal clear. That's when you can really appreciate the condition. Let's just go get a full-time job here. Here's the worst. Just want to show you a couple uh good shots. Look at that back. Look at the back. Look how thick that back is. That is crazy. There's a good shot of uh Patrick Antonio side by side again. Patrick really he made a transformation because he was looking it must have been mostly water. There's no way he could have lost that much fat in one week. He tightened up significantly since the cal pro last weekend. Definitely he looked nothing like this a week ago. So everyone's going to be talking about that. What a transformation. I rarely I I can't even tell you the last time I've seen I recall seeing somebody get that much better in one week from one show to the next that quickly. So, and he's coached by himself, Patrick Moore. Let me point that out. Give him credit for that, too. He's one of the only He's probably the only guy up there that did it without a coach in the open. I'm guessing Tony or Martin? I think Martin right now is uh ahead of him. I think Martin would beat Tonio. I mean, Martin just got fourth at the Olympia. Antonio has had seventh at the Olympia before, but Martin was fourth place last year at the Olympia. He won the Prague Pro, beating a great Chris Bumpstead. Uh, yeah, I I I think Martin is still a little a little slightly higher level above Tonio at this point. Lim should be the tan guy. Puts tans on people. Now, you make me want to show his pictures. Go to that. Yeah. So, yeah, his waist looks like it's getting thicker. Those obliques, they're starting to bulge out to the side. This was not the best blessing. Yeah, that's that's like a troll shot there from Gilo. Really focusing on the midsection, but it's it's not good. He's just look blurry and watery and look he's sweating bullets up there with this logic you see of not being American and the biggest American huge NBA and pro wrestling guys starting sports too. Wow, that's a lot to keep up with. How could you even watch all those games? I mean that's that's like 20 30 40 hours of games a week if you followed all those sports. I mean, wrestling alone, it's not really a sport. Sport sports entertainment, but yeah, I just never never Smoke King is Alawutabi. Well, that's probably easier to pronounce AJ than Alwatabi because I'm Alolo Toby. Every time I say it, I pronounce it differently. Didn't know that about Cavs. Yeah, Barry, you'll pay attention like when in this hot weather when people walk around in shorts, you'll see a lot of older guys like they're not all necessarily older, but you'll see like dadbod guys walking around with a belly and these massive diamond shaped calves. And you could tell by how flabby the body is that they've never set foot in a gym in their life, or at least not for many, many years. And they have better calves, a lot of these guys, than most pro bodybuilders, guys in classic physique, men's physique. It's it's so much. And they got those calves just purely by walking around. They didn't do a single rep or calf raises in their lives, these guys. Old school wrestler. Do you know of any pros past when they had arms dwarfing shoulder size? I don't know anyone that had arms that dwarf their shoulders. That would be a really ugly look. I've seen some of the synthol guys in, you know, mainly Brazil. That's where they seem to go nuts with the synthol, the sight injections, sight enhancement oil, I should say, but no, I don't I can't think of one guy. I've I've seen some guys had shoulders that dwarf their arms. I mean, that was me when I was a bodybuilder. And I've seen a few other guys with that situation. Patrick needs more deca. Whatever works. Martin is overrated. Okay. Does Tonio have a little extended gut? So the word you want there is distended distended. And I don't think so. I want to I don't want to keep that shot of blessing up. That's mean. That's a little better shot. But still he was not not dialed in. He has he needs another three weeks. Three weeks. I think three four weeks at the most. So if I were him, if his sponsor's going to pay for it, send me to Dubai. I don't I don't know how well he would do, but he could look a lot better. He He's capable of looking a lot better than this. I've seen him look a lot better than this. His body is not blessing. Blessing needs DNP. Antonio, stop the SEO on the adults. Pin them on your calves. So, he's suggesting he start pinning his calf. Uh, top five. Ding tweet. Here you go. I know I'm a little behind. I'm a couple minutes behind. Antonio, Patrick, Bruno, Florian, Parson, Kendi, Bruno 3. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I mean I left it up there. That's your top five. Would Synthol Nell blessing's legs would it make his legs bigger? I think you're trying to say. Yeah, but they'd look all they'd lose their separation. Would it help? Taurus, calm down. What does it make pin on the glutes for shoulders or any other spots in the body? Well, typically the glutes, the part that's uh not if you're wearing little trunks, but usually it's it's not exposed. The trunks are covering it. So, if you end up getting like lumps and scar tissue, typically your your trunks will cover it. Um, but the problem is if you're using a good amount of steroids and you have to inject, you know, 12, 20, 30 cc's of oil every week, you're not going to put it all on the your glutes. Your glutes would end up having these huge lumps that you that would stick out to the side. So, they rotate typically glute, glute, delt, delt. Um, some guys pin their lats. You can pin anywhere. The thigh is typically not a good idea because there too many nerve endings in there. I'm just curious if there's any any shots if Gilo's upload anything better. He's who I No, because he's who I always who I always turn to for the best stage shots. Mitch Gilbert. You know, he's he's does some outstanding work. There's a good shot of Antonio. Look at that. Looking like a cartoon character. Blessings should go with the camel crew. No. No. What's the camel crew going to do for him? What are they going to do for him? Uh, do you know what Roly did to shrink his waist? Don't know what he did. I don't know if he ever actually came out and said he was a man of few words. Roll. He still is. Doesn't speak. Doesn't like to talk a lot. Uh, so I don't know what he did. But if it was compounds he was using perhaps insulin and GH maybe he cut way back on those. Uh I don't think it was like a waist trainer like bless you men's physique. Os aren't that bad guys. Come on. Was it a waist trainer? Yeah. A waist I've seen I've seen what waist trainers do for people. All they really do is make you conscious of keeping your gut sucked in. You can't shrink your waist, guys. What are you going to do? Make your internal organs smaller? What do you what would you be shrinking? Think about it. Your abdominal muscles. We going to make them more shallow. What are you shrinking with a waist trainer? It doesn't even make sense. Think about it, though. Tell me how a waist trainer can actually make your waist smaller. By keeping your waist bound up tight, you know, for hours and hours every day, once you take the trainer off, it's just going to go back to where it was. You don't think it's going to bounce back? That's like, you know, squeeze a skin. Squeeze the skin somewhere. It's going to come right back when you take your fingers away. Gilko should be awarded with an honorary academy award. I don't know about that. More asking for compounds waist train. Yeah, I I don't buy the waist trainer. I don't buy waist trainers as being an effective tool at all personally. Uh I know these people like to swear by them, but usually when they do, they're they're selling them. So, it's kind of hard to say. Susty Olympia. What do you think? He didn't beat Rean last week. I know Regan's tan sucked. Sasha had a way better tan. Sasha was in better condition. Uh Rean had him on the back shots. He had him on structure. He had him on overall upper body size. I I don't have a problem. I'm I'm not like a Rean, you know, uh I'm not a fanboy of Rean or a fanboy of Cassan. I just call it like I see it. And uh it was it was a clear win to me. Cassan looked good, but he's structurally he's got some issues. Rean has was blessed. He was just given. It's not like Regan worked harder. I seriously doubt Regan worked harder than Sassan did for that show. U but in the end structure which is a God-given thing or genetic just genetically given thing from your from your parents goes a long way. Filipino boxer many paka had huge cast for under 30 pounder. I've noted before that um there's a good amount of Korean pros now. I'm sure you're aware of that. 212 division. There's there's a good amount in classic. It's not so many in open. There's a few, but they all have tremendous calves, huge quads and huge calves. I've yet to see uh a Korean bodybuilder or classic physique competitor with bad bad lower body. They always have they always have the the quads and the calves. Do you really think Martin should have beat Andrew Jack uh at what the Olympia last year? Uh it was close, but yeah. I was watching Tony Andrew. He says that have fun when you as he was going to stop a re. Uh yeah, he's Oh, I don't know if he's I don't think he will do Toronto. No, I think they'll just shut it down. He just needed his qualification and he saw there was going to be a pro show in Reno in May at the end of May. I'm sure when he saw the schedule, he goes, "Oh, there you go." I mean, if you have a pro show in your own hometown, why wouldn't you just do that? It's just it's just so simple. Or you can only do the pro stay relevant like Kai does. Well, I don't know about that. Cena had huge cast. He started the buy billion project from your home state. I think Cena. Yeah, he is from Massachusetts. You're right. Yeah, I competed with his brother Matt at the team universe in 2009. We're both light heavies. Matt Cena, I heard he passed away. Uh I don't know if that's true, but I had heard that. Not John Cena's brother Matt. Antoine has great calves. Yeah. Oh, there's some there's some people out there with great calves. I didn't say there weren't. There wasn't. Sassan had better shape. Sentry overall pops back qualification. No, he doesn't have better shape than Symmetry. Veran's got very pretty shape. Sassan's frontal bicep is really wonky looking. Don't get me wrong, he's got a tremendous physique. I'm not putting him down, but I I totally saw why the judges gave it to uh to Rean. I'll talk about Pittsburgh Pro. Samson Derek Person made a sword believe Samson. Yeah, Samson is he's six foot and he's, you know, 340 in the offseason, 305 on stage, great shape, structure, symmetry, very hard to beat. I I hope he shows up at this Olympia just shredded beyond belief. I would love to see that. Waist trainers are pointless. I mean, that that's my feeling. I never never tried one. Uh I did know a guy, a men's physique competitor, local guy, a friend of mine who tried it. didn't see any difference because he had wide hip bones. He had wide waist. Just the b the structure. The waist trainer is not going to change his bones. There's nothing you can do about that. What do I think about him? I think he's got a lot of potential. I want to see how he looks in Dubai. Right now, he looks like he's way behind. Olympia qualifier shower area. Well, we had Fresh Prince. We had the Boston Pro once 2022. William Bonak won the bodybuilding. Urs Kachchinsky the miracle bear won the uh classic physique. I think Morin Blancisco who won the Olympia later that year I think she won bikini. I can't remember any of the other winners. Lola Montes won figure. It was a really good show but the promoter kind of sketchy things we heard people didn't get paid after the show or they it took him a while to get paid. Uh it was a great production. It really was. I was very impressed with the job. Gentleman's name was David. He put on a great show uh but for whatever reason just couldn't do it again. It's unfortunate because it was great to have a pro show right there in my back literally right in my home you know not my backyard but a 30 minute drive away Zeke. Yeah I don't want to talk about that. Good interaction. Thank you. All right guys so I'm g make sure there are no new photos up. No new photos. Who would have new photos anyway? It's hard to say. Maybe who was the best bodybuilder was up order on stage TV. No, that's just a victory shot there. All right, guys. Yeah, no new footage out. There's nothing new out. All right, cool, guys. All right. So, it's late. It's uh past 11:30 at night for me. I'm old and I need my beauty sleep. I need all the beauty sleep I can get. So, appreciate all you guys. What's this? SP without borders. Well, I guess I'll check one more time. I would hate to miss splinters. What do they have that we haven't seen yet? Oh, these are go pictures anyway. We've already seen these pictures, but Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're just sharing the Gilo stuff. All right. So, that's it. Just really hover does. I don't know what he really is. He looks He's a big dude. He's a big dude. So, probably. All right. So, guys, that's it. Uh there's your top five one last time. Antonio, your champion. Patrick Moore, great comeback. Really redeemed himself. Looking fantastic in second. Bruno Santos from Brazil in third. Francis Florian Parson in fourth and fifth. The rookie Kennedy Anyw continuing to impress us in his rookie season. So that is it guys. I will check you all out later. Stop that. Appreciate you all watching and I'll see you right here next time. He's got