Hey everybody, welcome to Ron Line Report. Great guest today. Great physique and a great guy. Love talking to him. Please welcome Tonio the Predator Burton. What's up, man? Hey, I appreciate you having me on. You must be so happy all this Predator stuff. There's a new Predator movie coming out. There's a Predator animated thing coming out this year. I don't know if you follow. I'm just Yeah. because yeah, it's a cool series. But uh let's let's talk. Uh so uh 2023 was a real breakout year for you. I remember let me let me show this clip. I was here at this show when you won the New York Pro and this is a great great look for you. This is uh two years ago now because the past two winners have been Nick Walker, but before Nick, there was Tonio. Yeah. Shape was fantastic. And then this same year, you would go on to place eighth in your very first Mr. Olympia, which is outstanding, right? Most guys never the Olympia. If they get to the Olympia, they're just like one of those happy to be there guys, right? Yeah. I I mean, I'm doubted by a lot. But I definitely know what we're capable of. Yeah. I mean, who doubts you? Come on now. Let's be real. You'll be surprised. It's a lot. Well, I mean, I I see people talking [\h__\h] every day about Samson, Hottie, Nick, Derek. So, it doesn't matter. No matter how good you are, they're going to talk [\h__\h] regardless. Oh, yeah. They'll find something. So, that was 2023. 2024, I'll show the clip in a second. But, uh, yeah, we'll get to the motorcycle accident after that. Why don't we go in chronological order of what happened? So, 2024 season had a really good start, uh, in Brazil. Very, very close second to Raphael uh, Brundal, and you beat Good Veto there. Yeah, it was a very, very close show. Were the Were you guys just a point or two apart in the final tally? Yeah. Um Yeah, I believe it was a a point. We were separated and um talking to the judges for their feedback and it went to Rafa for his size. Yeah, because which he's a big dude. Like uh this video doesn't do justice how big he actually is. Fair enough. But I mean he's a he's a guy with good shape, but your shape is like next level. people. You've been compared to guys like Dexter, like Flex Wheeler. Just it's a different look. It's it's that round bubbly muscle that looks like something a Marvel comics artist would draw. But so I remember there was a little bit of fallout after the show because the Brazilians were mad that you weren't like respectful to their country or something or anyway. Have you put it all behind you now? Have you been to Brazil because I think your was your sponsor at the time was from Brazil. Yeah. So they're well they're actually located in Miami, but they have a branch out in Brazil. Okay. Um yeah, that that whole understanding came from who I did a podcast with that made it seem that way. But a few of the Brazilians, you know, they reached out and uh we were talking and you know, through DMs or whatnot and uh when I say Brazil was wild, like it's crazy out there. They took wild as his wild animals, you know, instead of the atmosphere was dope. So, it was like a language barrier type of thing and went to explaining it to him, then it was like, "Ah, we thought you were calling us like caged animals." Yeah. My god. So, yeah, definitely definitely a misunderstanding there. But, I mean, you got to hand it to them. I've I've never been there, but uh you know, they go to the Olympia every year to support their athletes and they are so vocal, so passionate. You know, I wish our I wish American fans were as passionate as they were and as like the Middle Eastern fans are, right? And and they're very proud of their athletes from their country, which I get that. Um to the point where you I think you said something like you wonder you were worried like if you had beat Raphael, how would they have responded? How would they have reacted to that? You know, it's funny. So before when we were doing uh what is it called? the press conference, certain someone came up and was like, "I hope you got your security with you because if you win, you're going to need it." And in that moment, I didn't think he was talking about like, "Oh, they're going to come after you like that." But more so like fans are going to come rushing you for, you know, pictures and whatever, what not. Oh, okay. You know what I mean? Again, the way I explained it, someone switched it around through their podcast. Yeah. But anyway, um when I uh was leaving from backstage at the show, so many people wanted to come up and do interviews and take pictures and I actually stayed like the show ended. We're probably there for another hour and a half, two hours just doing interviews with people, talking to people, taking pictures and everything. Awesome. So, there's a lot of fans who obviously are more fans of Rafa and you know don't want to give me the credit, but then there's a lot of love out there too where they're like, "Yo, come back." Not all of us are like that, right? Because I mean, I got a lot of DMs, too, like if you come back this and come back that. But, you know, all Mark no bite. Were um you know, there were some like weird exchanges at Raphael and you guys were you and Raphael were going back for a Are you cool? Are you and Raphael cool now? you guys talk and everything's fine. Um, we actually follow each other on Instagram. I have nothing against him. Um, the whole joke thing he made, I honestly knew nothing about until finally someone from Brazil reaches out and they're like, "Why'd you disrespect this gym?" Yeah. So, me personally, I'm big on respect. Like huge on that, which is why you don't see me talking mess on Instagram. You know, I don't play with anyone like that. Yeah. So then when I'm uh hearing that he's telling people I disrespected his gym, it was kind of like, "All right, I'm cool for jokes. You can talk as much as you want, but when you lie on my name to make me sound like a bad person to whatever because you selling shirts or product or something like that off of Yeah. Oh, really? I didn't know that. Wow. Yeah. Like I don't know. Just throw someone's name through the mud, you know, for your own laughter, whatever is disrespectful." Yeah. And I'm the type where if you disrespect me, I'm gonna address it right then and there. I'm not going to wait till you leave back home and then have my fans go and do my work for me. I'm a man of my own. I stand on my own team. So, that right there is kind of more like, okay, like I'm cool with you, but that's all it is. Cool. Because we're professional about it. But as far as like going on the internet being disrespectful or lying on someone or dragging a name through the mud, I've never been that type of person. Fair enough. So, yeah, you continued on. you did uh New York Pro got third place behind a couple guys who are no slouches. Nick Nick Walker and Martin Fitzwwater and you were right there hanging up there in every you know every call out with those guys. Uh and Cali pros usually a week later and you won that. So you got two pro wins now. No. So there's more. There's more. Yeah. So when well when I did 212 I got the my pro debut which was Indie. That's right. And then after Indie we did the Olympia 212. Yeah. That same year we switched into open. Um and it was funny because I actually beat Martin my first open show. Wow. Which was which was Legion. Oh wow. Yeah. And then I won Legion the following year. Then I won New York. I won Cal. And yeah. So was that three? That's it's good enough. Yeah. I apologize to your fans for not knowing all those wins. I really should know these things. Uh but here we are. I forget, too. Yeah. I mean, you've educated me on it. So, uh were you planning on doing the Olympia for 2024 or was the plan just to sit that out and prove? Not. So, um after New York, um and I got my feedback. Um because I asked all the judges for feedback, you know, um because they all see something different. Yeah. And when I asked Tyler, he said, "I want you to get more to your hamstrings." I knew from New York to Olympia that wasn't going to happen. So that right there was like, "Okay, that's it." Even though other judges were saying, you know, um come into conditioning that, you know, you can bring, I still wanted that size because we heard size was always a thing every year. Size, size, size. So took uh what Tyler was saying and um he told me too, he was like, cuz I told him, I was like, "All right, we're going to go offseason." Um and he was like, "Well, what are you trying to do?" And I was like, I don't know, get it, you know, 275 offseason and, you know, see what happens. And, uh, he goes, don't chase a number on a scale. He goes, you're good where you're at. Um, I think he was also saying, don't get too big to where you blow out your lines and you know what you look like, right? So, he was just saying compliment what you already have. And I think uh, no, I'm gu I'm for sure I'm positive that we did did just that. So, cuz I mean, you were never going to be as big as like a big run. those guys who are the big freaks anyway. That's not right. Play your strong points. You're that what you have over those guys is those lines, the shape, the structure that most guys they're never going to have that. So if you can get a little bigger, I'm just curious when you like when you won the cow last year, what'd you weigh there? Oh, we were what, 220 if that. So you're not that dramatically heavier than you were as a 212, but you're you look a lot bigger to me. Yeah, it's crazy. I think with 212 it was just hard to fill out. Um after because to make weigh-ins we would eat our last would be six around 6 p.m. the day before check-ins. Wow. And I wouldn't eat again until after that. Yeah. And then the sauna. You know how that goes when you know you get too depleted it's hard to fill back out. So I think that's what played a huge part in that. Um but with the open and not worrying about the scale and we just focus on what we look like. I think that's been all the difference because even now with what my weight has been um I would text Justin I'm like yo something isn't right. He goes why? I was like because I'm heavy and you know he's like um I'll tell him like yo I've never been this heavy but this lean before and uh he goes this is a good thing that means we put on size. Yeah. And then he was like no more looking at the scale. We're just going off of what you look like. So I even stepped on the scale. You know, I think your name should be coming up more often because we talk about guys who went successfully from 212 to open and your name doesn't come up as often as it should and I I'm guilty of that, too, because we know Derek was a 212. He was the Olympia champ. Hottie was a 212. William Barnac was a 212. Sean Clarita still is a 212 and he crosses over and does open shows and does very well. But man, you've done damn and the fact that you're not that much heavier really that that's mind-blowing that you're doing as well as you are. I can imagine you're like I'll ask I would ask would have asked later, but I'm gonna ask what do you think you're going to be around this season if you could guess because you're you're like 10 or 11 days out from your next show. Yeah, we'll So, right now um we're in the upper two 230s, low 240s. Okay. um with being depleted um cuz I eat what 100 grams of carbs a day give or take now and our weight's just sitting um hasn't been changing as much since I've checked it um but we're getting tighter we're staying I guess looking full but I think once we actually start bringing food back in and you know pulling the water I think we could be on stage around high 220s low 230s that's that's a hell of an improvement for one season, especially in light of this. It's time to show. So, this happened last November. Uh, you're a motorcycle rider. At least you were. I don't know if you still are. So, you posted this back in November 22nd of last year. I assume it was a day or two after the incident. So, your bike, you were on this. There's a good view of the bike there. You know, not like total collision. It's not like flattening like a pancake or anything, but it looks pretty jacked up. And there's your Is that your shin? I can't even tell what that is. Yeah, that was my right leg. O, so that's road rash in a bad very bad way. And then what's this? That's my left calves. Okay, we don't have any more pictures of carnage. So tell me what happened. What what what how the how' the accident happen? So I was actually leaving um Legion's Sports Fest check-ins of last year of that year. Wow. and um turning out the intersection. So, I wasn't even going fast. And normally I drive fast. Yeah. And had I been driving like I normally do, I wouldn't have got, you know, caught by this car. But, um, as I'm riding, I see the car getting ready to pull out of the parking lot. And so, I, you know, go on my brakes and he stops. So, I start to speed up again. And he tried to beat traffic and he turned too early and his front bumper hit the front of the bike. And um I seen it coming so I tried to like grab the wheel well of his car so I didn't go flying but I missed that and I had wings for a little bit. So what was it mostly just like flesh wounds or what were the what was the extent of your injuries? Uh just all third degree um third degree burns no breaks, fracture tears or anything. Just thirdderee burns. That's the worst time you can have, you know. I mean, it could have been like breaks and tears or something that happened, you know, but Yeah. So, I'd rather have the burdens than not. So, I didn't realize that you were uh you were competing at the Legion. You were supposed to compete. No, so I just went to check-ins. Oh, you just went to checkins. You weren't checking in yourself. Okay. That sounded really terrible if you had missed if you had It's terrible it happened anyway, but if it happened like right literally right before a show, that would have been the worst. Oh, yeah. Look at that back. Quick question. How many How many uh questions you get every day about back training? Oh, it's non-stop. Every day I'll get something about back. Yeah, I remember you did a video. I don't know how far back it is. I doubt I'll be able to find it. It was just your your camera guy following you walking through the gym. That was when I was in Brazil. Okay. And that that was Brazil, dude. That was one of the most you know the only the only one I've seen that's like freaky like that was uh when they've done the same thing with Derek. Yeah. You know I remember your name because we were we were talk we've been talking about like who the greatest backs are in the IPB right now. Your name should be in there. Oh you know what I wanted to post uh this video I have but Justin was like no more of these. Yeah. He's like only the stuff in the gym. no more of what we look like in the mornings cuz you know that's more likely what you're going to look like on stage, right? And he's just like, "These look, you know, so crazy." He's like, "So just just hold off on it." So I'm like, "All right." But my back looks way better than what you know it did before. Justin Compton we're talking about, right? No. Uh Jacobe. Jacobe. Okay. Even better. I mean, they're both coaches, so it's hard to say. Yeah. Okay. That was a flashback to 2020. Or was that last year's? That was 2024 New York Pro right there. Uh, it was Oh, yeah. I mean, I wore red trims both years, so Yeah, it's hard to say. You know, you don't change your hairstyle or anything like that. So, um, but yeah, so the injuries, the thirdderee burns, how did that hamper your training? How long did it did it affect everything or were there certain things you could still do just fine? No, I was out for So, when I posted those Yeah. It was like um probably three weeks later after the crash. Okay. Um it was it was depressing like cuz I couldn't do nothing by myself. Um my little dude was around me a lot so he helped but uh there was no gym. Eating was hard. Sitting down was hard cuz my left glute also got burned. I couldn't post that. Um but once they gave me my pain meds is when it really got bad. Wow. cuz uh they gave me forget what it was called. I don't remember now. Yeah. But uh very addicting because I was doing one a day, then it turned to two a day, then it turned to two a day with Tylenol, then it turned to four a day with Tylenol, and then wasn't even in pain and I was taking them. And uh I don't know what happened, but I was like I went to use the bathroom and uh it's like I seen myself in the mirror and I was just like, "Dude, you're taking these. you don't have to like you're getting addicted. And I just went and I recycled them. I took them back to the pharmacy. Wow. Uh to get rid of them. And then that same day I went to the gym and I was still bandaged up on my legs. My arm was still bandaged up, but I was like, I'm not sitting no more. Wow. Yeah. I mean, that's, you know, most of these pain pills are opiates and that they're just so hard to so many people I I've known personally many people who had a legitimate injury or something where they got them prescribed and dude once once you've felt that way. It's hard not to want to keep feeling that way, right? Good on you for just quitting that e that I'm sure wasn't easy. I'm sure you still missed them, but man, it's God God bless. That couldn't have been that couldn't have been easy now that I think about it. Yeah. I was like, I I understand, you know, people's addictions. um like that feeling. But I think at that point you just got to have a bigger reason to why you know you don't want don't need it or don't want to do it. I think those you know you get because I had a lot of friends who were addicted to stuff like that and uh these are the same friends that don't have motivation to do anything else. You know they they'll let me know too if I die this is how I want it to go. Wow. You know so it's kind of like you got to find a a reason to move forward. Right. Wow. So, you are currently preparing for Legion. So, this will be your first show since you won the CowPro uh last year, right? Right. So, you really didn't miss too much. You missed you were going to miss sit out for an offseason anyway. So, I guess the accident sucks, but it didn't really didn't really affect your timeline too much, right? No. Okay, perfect. Perfect. Uh so, why this show again? Uh why Legion Sports? Because you've won it before. love, you know, Chris M Chris Men and his his crew. I've been to it a couple times. Fantastic job. They treat the athletes very well. They put on very well produced show. Was was that mainly why you do Is it also in Is it in Reno? Yeah. Are you still in Reno? Yep. Well, there you go. Yeah. Did Did he come out the first show you ever competed in? Is what did did Chris Mace and I can't remember. Is it center podium? Did they Did they produce put on the first show you competed in years ago? Yeah. Um the NPC Motherload was the first show I've ever done. Wow. Okay. Yeah. I mean they, like I said, they I've never been to a show where I said, "Ah, these promoters suck." But these people went above and beyond. I was very very pleased with the the way they ran everything. Oh, yeah. Chris is always doing something different. So, you know, people will say, "Why didn't you do Pittsburgh? Why didn't you do New York Pro?" But now this makes so much sense. It's right there. It's probably like a 20 30 minute drive from where you're talking to me right now. Oh, not even that. Not even that. U did you think about Pittsburgh because what a you know just the fact that it's it's Jim Manion show. It's their their first year. Very big prize money. Uh yeah, we had Derek Lensford in there and Nick Walker and Martin and Bon Ax. So some guys that would have probably given you a lot of trouble. But did you think about it anyway? Oh yeah. Um because they sent out emails to people about the show. Yeah. And right when I got the email I sent it to Justin and um you know we were talking about doing the offseason and so that's where Justin's mind was at was well let's we always do this we get ready you know earlier and he goes because we could get ready for the show he was like but like what what if we just complete what we set out to do and see what happens. So that you know took Pittsburgh out that took Arnold out that took takes New York out and uh which was cool. Um I trust Justin and I know he uh has you know my best interest. So yeah. Um, as far as the lineup being wide, nuh-uh. I was like, uh, you know, none of them scared me to where it's like, oh no, let's not do it. If anything, it'll be more fun to go do it, you know. Um, because I think I'd have been just I mean, I know I would have been up there with them, you know. Um, Pittsburgh, same thing with New York, too. Um, would have been right in the mix with them as well. We had this like this whole mel this whole big argument that Milos and Giles it was over good veto uh and some comments made online on Instagram a little while ago couple month it was about a month ago you know there's the argument on Giles's side was there really wasn't a point for veto to do Pittsburgh because he was already qualified for the Olympia and there was no way he was beating he was probably going to be fifth at the very best but likely likely was had a strong chance of not making top six but he would get to stand next to these guys who are the top guys, which he's never done before, right? And I mean, it would have been good. Go ahead. So, it would have been good because I mean, he sees where he stacks up at. Yeah. He gets more feedback, you know, he could use those comparisons of how he looked next to Derek and Nick and, you know, see what he needs to correct and work on, too. Yeah. So, I wouldn't have said it would be pointless for him to do. Yeah. Um, by all means, if you're going to do a show, you should go in believing that you're going to win, but at the same time to be qualified. And he had the injury, right? Yeah. He tore his lat. I think it was two or three days out from the show. Yeah. I would I mean, he did the right thing by just chilling too instead of trying to, you know, push through that. Yeah. I think Milos if he was my guy, I would have made him compete anyway. Nos is crazy. Yeah. I mean, how you going to come? You can't hit a back shot. What are you supposed to do? You look like you put on some some definitely some size since the last time I've seen you. Oh, yeah. A guy with your frame, you know, you have small joints and everything. An extra 10 pounds on you is like 25 pounds on a on a bigger boned, taller guy. So, it was it's funny because uh we were doing comparisons of what I looked like before and now and like getting on stage. When I got the eighth place finish at Olympia, I was what two I think I was like 213 in the morning. Wow. Yeah. And um when we filled out it was just with rice and bacon. So, we didn't do much, you know, fill out or anything. Love it. Yeah. So this year, I mean, like I said, upper 220s, low 230s is where I think we'll be at. Justin says 10, 12 pounds heavier. Yeah. What What was your highest off seasonason weight? Uh, we got up to 265. Wow. Yeah. Want to say 5'8? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's like I said, the weight 5'8, 265 for someone with smaller waist, small joints, it's it looks a lot bigger than it would on another guy, right? So, wow. Good job, man. Because I because it's cra I remember seeing the shots and you look big but you never look like you're out of shape even even in the deepest darkest off seasonason when you're I guess about 40 40 plus pounds over your stage weight. You still still keep things pretty tight, huh? I you know what Justin He was saying to all this time we're going to try to lose our abs. Like it's okay to lose them but they don't go away. Um cardio is at a minimal to where I'll probably walk the treadmill 10 minutes after a workout. Wow. Yeah. And it just I don't know. Thanks to my mom. Well, I mean, you know, someone like you, I could imagine Justin knows your body very well by now, but somebody like you, if you did too much cardio, it would be disastrous, I bet. Um, so it's it's one of those things where like when I'm getting ready for a show, um, I do stairs. Um, I think it's a mental thing as well. Yeah, because I know I can get lean with treadmill, but I just feel like it's not enough work for me. So, I I Yeah, I like the stairs. And we got up to about was it 80 minutes of cardio during prep? Yeah. Well, nobody likes the stairs, Jonio. Come on. Yeah. You know what? The only other person I heard that likes the stairs is Nick Walker. Wow. Yeah. I don't get it, man. Five minutes on the thing. I'm ready to like ah I'm I'm done. That's how it starts off. So, it looks like you get, you know, you're right. You get in shape pretty pretty quickly here. Oh, yeah. And what I think around this video, we were still doing our high days, which would be um I order six French toast from Denny's with four eggs, um eight strips of bacon, couple of potatoes. Um, I'll eat chicken, rice, then I'll do a burrito before working out. And then after my workout, we do two burgers, two fries, and then we do a steak and rice meal. Yeah, that was at this point we're looking at right now. Yeah. Wow. That's a fast metabolism. So, yeah, two high days a week we were doing. Yeah. People are going to be mad at you, but you know, I bet if you didn't do that, you'd probably flatten out and start losing muscle bad. Like, it comes and it happens quick, too. um my recent updates where I'm in like the the stalls or whatever. Yeah, those are uh like that one right there with the bag. Um those ones are uh on 100 grams of carbs a day. Jeez. Yeah. So like there's no way this is flat. I'm like trust me. That's this right here is very flat for you, huh? Yeah. So this is all low like low food intake, everything. Just a nice pump though. Yeah. I mean, so when you load up, I mean, you must see a tremendous difference once you put the carbs back in. Oh, yeah. So, 100 grams. I mean, how does that break How does that break down? Like just just a pre-workout carb and a post-workout carb, right? Huh. Yeah. I mean, that's that's like bikini girl carb numbers right there. Yeah. He's So, right now, like I said, the last check-ins I did, um, we what we looked like at the 23 Olympia, we've passed that already. Wow. Yeah. Yeah, I mean that's a great place to be. The fact that I I I love hearing that when someone says, you know, this was a look that got me top 10th Olympian. I'm already I'm two weeks out or three weeks out for my next show and I already look better than that or I'm at that level already. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, and that's why the food has been low because that's, you know, what we've been pushing for. I feel like at my best there's if it's not a top five Olympian coming, then there's no one that can give me a run for that money. Yeah. Well, I mean, as the weeks go by, I mean, Derek got the Pittsburgh win. Nick got the New York win. He's done this weekend. Um, what's this weekend? Is it Cal? It's Cal again, right? Uh, it's Cassan and I'm sorry, who are the front runners for that? I should know this. Rean? Yeah. Patrick Moore going. Oh, that's right. Yeah, but Regan's probably Is No, Bon's not in it. No, Bonnik didn't come. Um there's I think his name is like Florian. Um that dude looks good. Yeah. Oh, it's like Leandro Perez. There's some very good guys from out of But you know I think you would you know I I know what you're capable of. So but one of those guys is going to win that and they won't they won't be at your show. It's probably going to be Rean, I'm guessing. Yeah. Well, Regan said he'll do Cal and he's doing Toronto. Toronto. Yeah. Okay. because he I imagine he lives in in that area. I believe he's lives in Canada. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I Canada is a big place but I think he lives Yeah. just assume it's Toronto but I think a large amount of Canadians live near in or around Toronto right like they're New York City basically. But geez. So this was yesterday this update we're looking at. Yeah. So size you're up overall. Uh did the Are you happy with how your hamstrings improved? Yeah. Um so it's crazy. So when I did college football, I actually tore both hamstrings. Oh my gosh. Yeah. And my left one, they were giving me cortisol shots and it doesn't fix it. It just puts a band-aid on it pretty much. It numbs it. Yeah. So that's why it's hard. It was hard to bring those lines out, but the more we digged and prep with lowering their food, the more the lines start to show. And now I'm getting body work done on it as well, too. So, that should uh also help bring out those lines. I'm trying to find a a post here. Oh, here we here's a side shot right there. Oh, yeah. They definitely pop out more than they did before. Oh, yeah. Things be fat. You're not even You're not even squishing them like crouching down in a side pose there, right? You must get a lot of delt training questions, too. Oh, gosh. Oh, the delts. You know that I like the the fact that see all those little lines the striations call those stripey delts. I don't know if you've heard that phrase. We like that because you can't have a bunch of [\h__\h] in there and still see the striation. So it tells me that's what the you know whole drama is being well there's a couple guys. Yeah. I don't want to point I don't want to make anyone uh to be the only perpetrator but yeah we like to see real muscle you know it's built in the gym not injected right so that's what you know I kept saying sento this s that and I'm like dude I've never even touched that stuff before yeah I mean pictures of you when you were 20 pounds lighter than this your delts were very slightly smaller versions of what we're looking at I don't know what it is I mean my uncles all of them have uh bigger chest and shoulders. Like that's just something that runs in my family. Even pictures with my videos with my little dude, you can see his shoulders are already developed. Yeah. Well, you ever seen Brandon Curry's kids? Yeah, they have little abs, right? They got the abs. They got little biceps. Yeah. Good stuff. For you, where did it come from? Your mom's side, your dad's side? Both? Uh my older brother says uh my dad's side. Okay. Yeah. Sometimes you're lucky. It's like two jack parents are are the potential. Like they're right. Both my parents are short. I'm taller than both of them. Oh, really? Wow. Okay. Good on you because that's rare, right? Got lucky. Yeah. And you don't have to you you know a lot of times if you're shorter than your parents, you kind of resent them for it, right? Or or if you're short like they are, you resent them like why'd you do this to me? It's all your fault. But man, yeah, you're looking fantastic. Um, so I assume after this if you get the win, which I don't foresee being a huge problem, would you shut it down for Olympia or maybe hit a couple more shows? Nah, you know me. I like to have a little fun. There's the So yeah, I mean, I'm I'm really looking forward to seeing you back again. I I was panicking. Not panicking, but when I saw the motorcycle accident, I like, "Oh, no." Because you were you were making such good progress with your career. Physique was getting better. I hate to see setbacks. I hate to see injuries in the gym, which some of those can be devastating, but this this one was completely beyond your control with the motorcycle and the car being an awful driver. So, I'm glad you're I don't think anybody would even know was just like a real If you look up close, you can see maybe where the skin was scarred. Yeah. I mean, so like my hand it you can't even see where it was. It was actually my whole palm right there. Oh, wow. And that was just that little spot and then the arm right there. Yeah. But this you can still see. Oh, well, I mean, you know, you're all That's like a It's not like that's like the middle of your chest or something where everyone's going to be looking. Plus, you know, the ink I think all your tattoos kind of help hide the scars, too. Yeah. Which is crazy because I thought my tattoos would have been gone, but Yeah, I would. They held in there. That's That is really surprising because thirdderee burn, I think that's that's like all the layers of the epidermis are gone, right? Right. Huh. Did Yeah. Because even the doctors were like, "Yes, dude. Your tattoos are going to be gone." Wow. I I should have asked, but did you need like skin graphs or anything? Nothing. Um they gave me some cream. Uh I they gave me a pain specialist or a burn specialist and then he sent me like these big ass tubs of cream. Oh wow. And uh just first thing in the morning I'll put it on and before I go to bed I put it on and like week day by day it was like every time I change it it was getting better. So I'm like okay like I'm I'll be back to normal soon. Awesome man. I'm happy I'm happy it worked out so well. No complications or anything. Yeah. The burns are no good. It could have been worse. Oh, every I think anything that happens could always be worse, right? Yeah. So, uh, man, it's been great catching up and I'm very much looking forward to seeing you win that show, Legion Sports. Hopefully again, you're past champ and then, uh, back to Olympia where, you know, you're a solid already top eight guy from the one time you've been up on the open Mr. Olympia stage. So, it's nowhere to go but up, right? Yeah. Toughest. It's the toughest show in the world, the biggest stage in the world, but you're pretty damn good, Tonio. I appreciate you. So, man. All right, guys. Follow him on his Instagram right there. Tonio_Burton. He's got a YouTube channel with his name, Tonio Burton. Check that out. He's gonna start putting new content up soon. Aren't you, Tonio? Oh, yeah. Yeah. I got a video guy again. I mean, God, there's there's so much opportunity. There's there's people that don't compete that have like millions of millions of views on YouTube. So, all right. Uh, good luck. Best of luck. I'll be watching uh remotely from across the country. But rooting for you as always, Predator. I appreciate you. Thank you. All right, everybody. Thanks for watching online Report with the Predator, Tony Burton. We'll see you next time. Thanks for watching.