Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour with me and the one and only GTT Charles Tiger Thomas. Last week we gave you the first half of the biggest stories of the year 2025 in bodybuilding. Now we're going to wrap it up and get into all the other big stories. I saved the best for last. Giles, where to begin? Where to begin? I think I'm going to begin with our boy Derek Lunchford. He did something uh he did several things that have never been done. Well, no one's ever won a triple crown because we didn't have a triple crown before. Um it's a horse racing term. It refers to like the three biggest races in horse the horse racing industry. That's where they got it from. >> I wonder where that came from actually. >> Yeah. I don't know the three races. It's Kentucky Derby and then that's the only one I know. Um, so he won the Arnold Classic, uh, the Pittsburgh Pro and the Mr. Olympia in the same year, $1.2 million in prize money alone. That's before whatever Eva pays him, whatever his YouTube channel makes, his other sponsors. So, >> Joo, Joo, >> Joo Fuel. That's right. They must Yeah, they must be paying him pretty well, too. So, uh, this was a great year for Derek. Uh he gets a lot of a lot of hate online and I I don't quite get it but people got to give him respect. He also did something that only Jay Cutler had done before which was to lose the Mr. Olympia title and regain it win it back. Only Jay did that in 60 well this was the 60th Olympia Mr. Olympia and now Derek is the second man in 60 years to have done that. So this you got to give him his props. I think >> I um I've been getting a lot of um flack in the last week because I've been I know it's not it seems to be I've never been one to follow trends or to follow the the the group or the mob when it comes to sort of going after certain people for certain reasons and because I was reading and and every day in day out day in day out I'm looking at all these comments and I'm looking at all these and uh and I just I got I think it was what day is it now? What day were Wednesday? I think it was Monday and I just Yeah, I think it was Monday and I was like, "Okay, I've had enough. I've got to have I've got I can't keep it in anymore." So, I just basically had my say and I just said, "Look guys, you know, if you Okay, so um the problem is right, we're in an era where we don't have any dominant champions. You know, we've got Samsung winning one, you've got Hadi winning one. Uh and now we've got new guys like Martin and Andrew coming up who look like they could potentially win one. So we've got like um you know sort of five six guys that depending on who brings it and who's on who's off you know there's no um it's difficult to try and pick a winner because there is no peak Ronnie there is no peak Dorian no peak um Phil Heath you know that you know unless they come in off it's pretty much likely to go to them. So um you know um yes uh Derek has his strengths and weaknesses to his physique but then so do the other guys. Um but um I was just kind of getting a bit like look guys and in the end of the day if you are say you are going to direct it at someone you're directing it the wrong guy because Derek just does his job as best he can. He shows up as best he can and then it's in the hands of the judges. So the judges decide who wins and who doesn't. >> So but it's getting to the point now where it's like it's getting like it's getting to me and I'm thinking what's it like for Derek? I mean, because I was thinking I actually actually said put a comment. I said, "Do you know what?" I said, "It's at the point now where guys like Derek Lungsford, um, who really should be riding high and, you know, feeling the love and, you know, because thing is he didn't just win the Olympia. He didn't just sit it out and get his because he, yes, he he won his title back, but he also on the back of that did, you know, because really it was almost like two and a half preps. It wasn't two preps because Pittsburgh was so long after after the Arnold. It's almost like because I said remember I said I said I think this is going to cost in the Olympia that that extended prep. I thought it was crazy to go and do Pittsburgh. >> Um obviously it worked out but it was a huge gamble. >> So I was like um um you know I think this is going to um I just I felt like you know what he was doing with the with with the prep and everything. I just felt really bad for him because I just thought, you know, he's he's not just won his title back, but he's won the Ars, he's won Pittsburgh. It's like he's really um and I just I I So anyway, my point is uh sorry, I've lost my train of thought there. It's at the point now where I'm thinking guys like that, is it worth them just paying someone to basically manage their social media and they just stay off it completely? Because if I woke up every morning, you know, and uh and I'm at the top of my game and I've got all this, you know, I've got a decent amount of money, you know, my, you know, my bank account's doing well and things are looking good, you got a second baby on the way, and you're just reading these comments, these comments, these comments and comments because the end of the day, let's let's let's be honest, right? It was all the comments that lost Samson, the the the Olympia, because all that he'd won the Olympia and yet people are just constantly berating him for his conditioning. yet the conditioning he had good enough to the conditioning he had was good enough to win the Olympia. So he allowed that to get to him to affect how he prepped. So basically that effectively those comments that you know Derek is now seeing Samson was seeing every single day and effectively that lost him Olympia because I think it got to him. I think there's no arguing that. Um but with Derek um I would I don't know it's I feel bad for him. But thing is I mean what's the tax situation in America? What would he be left with after 1.2 2 million in prize money. >> Uh probably about $600,000. >> Wow. Yeah. So, and I mean I've I've heard what he's getting from Joo and it's um it's it's a decent amount of money. Do you know what I mean? Jo Willink. Um so it's Yeah. So I'm happy for him. I'm really happy for him. I think it's great. But the the the the relentless hate I think is getting too much. And I feel I feel like, you know, he, you know, he's he put so much work and effort into getting those three shows. And he could have just sat on his ass and just come back and just, you know, just tried to get the Olympic title back. But he he didn't and he didn't just win the Arnold. He beat 90 90% Samson, you know, who's the defending reigning Mr. Olympia. >> And um I just think it's got I think it's got out of hand now, mate. The thing is people sort of it's like a mob mentality. It's like a pack mentality. you know, one one starts up and then everyone and if you dare to sort of um argue against it, that's it. Then they come after you. And I've had them coming after me for days, you know. So, I mean, it doesn't bother me. It's it's um water for ducks back to me. But um but yeah, it's uh it's getting a bit much and I just um and I also um I mean bodybuilding fans as you know I mean I use the word fans quite loosely as well because if they were true fans would they really you know feel the need to put comments like that because people get so angry about it like the fact that what the guy just showed up with the best physique it could bring a show and yet they they get personal they get you know they get aggressive they get really um they say some really really nasty things And I just think I just think uh I mean to be honest, when have you ever seen this amount of hate from towards any Olympic champion? The only one I can think of was 2008J Cutler. >> Uh I'd say toward the end, Phil was getting some some hate, I think. >> Oh, yeah. >> But not not to this level. It wasn't It seems like this is more personal that the hatred directed toward Derek >> and saying he's like the worst Mr. Olympia and, you know, crappy arms and it's it's just relentless. I've I've never even even Jay at the end, I don't remember him being picked apart to the degree that Derek has been. >> Derek's been raked over the hot coals by by the I like how you say so-called fans because if you're a real fan of the sport, you wouldn't really you wouldn't go after people on such a deeply personal level this way. >> I think it's sad, mate. I think it's really sad. Um, and like I said, if you are if you are feeling that strongly about it, I mean, I don't know what difference it makes to you in your own life, but who wins the Olympia? Um, but but then again, there's there's a it's a double-edged sword when you have dominant champions because like we've said many times, once you get past that third win, Dorian, um, Ronny, you know, they all start to get the hate from the fans of I think people just get bored and they just want to see a shakeup. And I remember when, um, Shawn Rhoden won the Olympia and I mean, you remember I got a video of it. You remember that? you remember the response from that crowd and it wasn't that they hated Phil um I mean maybe like 10% was >> um because he used to you know he used to rub fans up because he used to go back at them because if he was one of the first Mr. Olympia in the social media era where he could actually respond you know because if he said something in a magazine and comes out months later he's not going to hear the response because he's unless he goes on a forum and tries to connect with those fans or or speaks to them at an expo or something he's never going to hear how they feel. >> Right. But um but uh but with um yeah, I mean, like I said, when Shawn Rowden won, I mean, my god, I was I was shocked at how and I think it was just the surprise of seeing a new champion. Um but um I mean, it must be must be hard for people like Phil and these other bike guys like, you know, Cutler and Lunsford to see this because um you know how fickle the fans I mean look at how the Nick Walker fans have gone back and forth. They hate him, they love him, they hate him. Nick Talker, now he's great, now he's this, now he was, you know, it's now let's blame it on the coach because he was actually he wasn't brought in right and you know the back and forth back and forth. But um I think we're in an era now where um the social media chatter is getting a bit too much and like you know like what happened in Prague. It's like and then all that [\h__\h] kind of gets trigger they see someone physical and then they try to channel it all into that's why I got so upset because I was like hang on a minute you know you're are you are you grouping me in with these group of people that are you know the ones being personal and being you know really vindictive and nasty and not just talking about someone's body because that's all I do you know but is are we in an era where you know that um the athletes now are deciding um how how like like Samson you know if you'd have just played the same game that he did the the year before at the Olympia, he would have won his second Olympia, >> right? >> So, um but now it feels like the the the the fans are actually having too much say. Um and they're actually getting to these athletes. So, um but I just I'm I never see Derek. Have you noticed you never see Derek really respond? He never he never seems to >> seems you you said that you know some people do have people run their social media like Ronnie Ronnie Ronnie has someone handle all his social media, doesn't he? I mean, who's to say Derek might do the same thing already? Might he might have someone that would save him [clears throat] >> saves him a lot of work. You know, here just I need you to post every day for Joo. I need you to post every day for this. >> You know, that's somebody's job is they they do the social media, maybe they work with the YouTube, but I could see I could see him doing that. >> But it's a mentally tough sport as it is. So to have that on top after you've, you know, you've basically done everything like like like going back to Samson, like I mean that guy probably worked harder than he's ever worked to get how he looked at the Olympia, which wasn't a successful look, but he probably worked harder and did more cardio and and went lower on the food than he's ever gone before. And uh and sometimes, you know, sometimes you've just got to, you know, like Sean Roden used to say, says like stay in your own lane, block out the noise, you know, don't worry about what the person to the left and to the right is doing. You've got no control over that. just focus on you, internalize and uh and just just do what you need to do. But I tell you what, it must be very um must be very distracting for these athletes to constantly you know you know um you know I mean I can when Ramy was was uh kind of working his way up. I mean could you imagine the amount of opinion he had and all the different coaches were saying work with me and I'll do it this like I bet he was being pulled in all directions. I mean it's um I think you know Dorian had the right approach you know just have everybody else blocked out you know from the outside world just have your small team that you trust those you know half a dozen people uh that you trust and respect and you know have got your back and are going to say well in well-intentioned things and going to be you know want the best for you and and as far as everybody else's opinion goes just just just get rid of it. >> Yeah. What's the old phrase that I used to hear all the time? It's uh uh it's about the money if they're not giving you money or something. >> Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. >> Pay them no mind. Something like that. Anyway, I can't remember what it was exactly. Next one is Jordan Hutchinson and Joe Palasios. They had an excellent summer. And here's a good look at them from the Texas Pro. So Jordan Hutchinson won two shows in a row. He won the Tampa Pro and the Texas Pro. Uh he was he was pretty good. We we didn't we didn't he wasn't a total surprise, I should say, but Joe Palasios, >> Joe the Machine, >> uh I I had never even heard of him. I know he did it he made his pro debut in 2024 at the CalPro. Didn't do well. I didn't even notice him, but when he showed up this year uh in Tampa where he took uh third behind behind Jordan [snorts] and Quint and then second second show the Texas Pro, he moved ahead of Quint and got second to Jordan. And I think they were neck andneck. Either one of them could have won that show. And um so two two new rising stars that we we got out of the uh the US pro bodybuilding scene this summer. >> I know you're very American centric in that you focus more on the American guys. I suppose that's why it works with you and me. Um, but I think you should um you should throw Damian Cuffle and also the big Russian Sergey >> because for me they're like the European or whatever this part of the world version of of what those guys achieved in that they're not newcomers. They have competed before but they would did not even register on our radar, right? >> Because um they just they just they they weren't placed, you know, they weren't very good. They didn't stick in our minds. But now they have because they've come back and they've those all four of those gentlemen have really really you know just pulled miracles out of their asses. I mean I thought Jordan Hutchinson was very very good before but what he did this year I mean was it was it 10 kilos or something you added something? >> I don't much it was significant. It was at least 10 10 or 15 pounds of muscle. >> Yeah. Yeah. And thing is if you look at the guys um like if you look at say 2018 to 21 Samson like he those guys that kind of got everything there in balance but just need size you know the genetic shape is there the flow is there the symmetry is there they've got no lagging body parts there's no there's no tears nothing everything looks like like Jordan he looks everything looks clean and separated you know that once they just evenly put on another 5 10 15 20 pounds you know that those are the guys that are going move up because, you know, there's there's nothing else they need to improve on other than overall size. So, um Jordan Jordan was one of those guys that I did rate, but I just thought if he breaks like Quinton, if he breaks through to the next ceiling, he's going to go he's going to go through three ceilings because everything is every like Quint is one of those guys. Everything is there. He just needs more. >> Yeah. Um but because the end of the day if you if you haven't if you've got a shitty genetic shape or you've got missing body parts or you've got a torn pec or you know or you've got really bad asymmetry um there's not much you can do really other than just try and get as big as possible and just hope you beat guys or and come in the best condition and hope you beat guys that are more genetically gifted but not uh not haven't worked as hard with their conditioning and their and their prep and their overall polish. But um but Jordan um Jordan was a was a what it wasn't a surprise to me because all I >> once I heard that he put on that added size and I saw the leadup I mean even at six to eight weeks out he was looking like rock hard like granite hard. He was lean. >> So I just thought if he unless he does something to mess up he's going to do really really well. But Joe Palasios that was the guy that came from nowhere as far as I'm concerned. I mean, I was just like, to me, he looks um I mean, I'd love to go back in time and stick him next to a 2021 Nick Walker because I can't I can't say who would win out of those two, but this guy this guy is actually uh he's blown my mind this year. I think he's absolutely phenomenal. Um and um he brings something unique. He brings something quite different and um I think we're going to be seeing a lot more of him. So, I hope he stays healthy. I hope he stays motivated and also keeps working on those um those physique imbalances like the legs because his upper body is slightly better than his lower body. But if he balances everything out and just keeps, you know, chipping away and steadily improving um I think we've got a a legit like top top superstar on our hands. >> Yeah, he's uh currently in an offseason mode, so he'll be bigger. >> He looks It looks It doesn't even look real. Some of these pictures look >> like they've been altered, but they haven't. He really is this big. I I I have you ever spoke to him? >> Yeah, I interviewed him a couple times. >> Is he cool? >> Oh, yeah. He's very cool guy. >> But what's his um not just his personal, but what's his mindset like? What's his um is he is do you think he's got one of those, you know, he's one of those guys that seems to have a good head on his shoulders? >> Oh, absolutely. He seems very grounded. Uh got a just got married. He's got this >> beautiful young a Oh, it's a son. His boy. Okay. So, he's uh yeah, he's he's someone that I think mentally he has it from the conversations I've had with him because >> we've we've talked about this before. There's a lot of guys who physically they have all the tools, but they just don't have >> what it takes inside in the in the >> the attitude and the perseverance. >> So, we can go in any gym and see guys with genetic potential and if they ain't got it up here. And also, there's not just um it's not just having that drive or that, you know, that sort of hunger. It's about having the intelligence to know when to pull back, when to push. Um, you know, uh, it's there's a lot of there's a lot of aspects in in the whole mental aspect of it's like when um, like there I've I've asked you more about his mental side rather than, you know, the I'm more interested in his mind than his body because his mind is is is basically is what going to drive him forward. Looks like Art Atwood there, doesn't he? >> Look at that. Look at that back. >> Looks Art Atwood, remember? >> Oh, yeah. Art Atwood, >> doesn't he? Yeah. Yeah, he looks like uh cross between Art Atwood and Nick Walker. I mean, which is >> which is But honestly, I think um I I'm I'm actually quite disappointed he's not doing the Arnold Classic because I think if he'd have done like a really good offseason and just got ready for the Arnold, I think uh I think he could have been one that could have really come in and shook things up like kind like like kind of how we expected Carlos to at the Arnold Classic. Carlos Thomas Jr. like I kind of expected if he really nails it, he's going to be the one that could slip into the top five, maybe even to the top three. And of course it didn't work out the way we expected or sorry I hoped it would. But um yeah, here's a guy that um I think next year I think um I think this is going to be a year uh a good year for him where he's really going to rise and also um and like I said also Damian and that Sergey more so Damian because I haven't seen Sergey in the flesh but I have seen Damian Cuffle in the in the flesh and mate that guy is that guy is phenomenal and um now he's qualified for the Olympia. uh he's going to go quiet for a bit, but I don't want people to forget about him because I think I think next year he's going to be another one like, you know, the the uncertainty of of what he's going to bring. Uh is he going to bring it? Is he gonna is he not? Is this going to guy who's going to storm into the top 10 at the Olympia and shake everything up? Um and uh yeah, so yeah, Damian's um you got to see this guy in the flesh. That readable bicep on the on the on the bloody um the live stream was going bonkers, mate. It's just like somebody that even when I saw him backstage because I'm having a little mooch around backstage and you know seeing who I recognize, he who I don't, who's new and I saw him and this other guy and um he stood out and I was kind of like walking around because you're trying to look at you know, okay, he looks good from the front. Oh, he look good from the side. Oh, he's got good arms. Oh, he's got good back. Oh [\h__\h] he's got good hamstring. Is his are his glutes and his his hamstrings a condition? So you're kind of like subtly looking. And I was just like, this guy's ticking every single box. So, um yeah, and and when he won that pro show in, um in Spain the other week, that wasn't even at his best. He was kind of just hanging on there, but um I honestly I just another another 5 to10 pound and at the Olympia next year. And I think I think I could see him top 10. >> Wow. Well, do you get the uh do you see the Gunter Slair camp resemblance? >> Yeah. >> Yeah, sort of. But thing is like he was classic. I mean, the fact that there's a mass monster that only like a year or two ago was classic. Um, and thing is the guys that are fresh out of classic like that um Mattius Hullwick, you know, they're still they're still half classic in the way that they think and they pose and they present themselves. So, when you get a mass monster that's kind of coming out the classic and he's he knows how to present his physique. He knows it because the classic is more about symmetry, conditioning, um, presentation, you know, which are all qualities that, you know, do are appreciated in the open. So um and then when he come you know when these guys come back and they are much much bigger because they've outgrown the classic um it's it's impressive to see and I like to see those um because the end of the day you know Shawn Road and Samson you know these are quint these are kind of like open guys with with with the attributes of a of a very very good classic but just obviously a lot lot bigger. >> Yeah. So this is uh the Russian Sergey Dunelov beast. He is not as up on his Instagram as some of these guys are, let me tell you, because he has not updated. There's like there's very few show pictures from that show. So, I don't know who's running your social media guy, but you need to uh step up your game, Sergey, because you're good. >> I want to see more. I want to see more of him because I don't I feel like I'm not that familiar with his physique because he's not coming up on my feed that much. and the guy's qualified for the Olympia. So, I hope um I hope he uses this year to not just, you know, put on a ton of muscle and kind of go go quiet. I hope he, you know, because the end of the day, he's qualified for the Olympia now. So, it's that's kind of out of the way. So, he could really now focus on, you know, putting out some YouTube content, social media, let us let us get to know a bit about who he is. um because otherwise he's just going to go to the Olympia and he's going to be last call out and it's he's going to be on stage two minutes and he's not going to maximize the opportunities um there is you know to to be like an Olympia competitor. So and um he's got he's one of the he's one of the lucky ones. He got the early qual early early qualification. So I mean look at him there. He's big. He's dry. He's he's a freak. I like him. >> I think he's only 28 or 29 years old too. [laughter] >> Veto. Um, who else we got in the top in the in the in the young guys that are doing well? How old was Palacio? >> Uh, he's I believe he's late 20s as well. 28. >> The guys like that that are winning pro shows and and you know doing the Olympia and they're in their 20s. You know, these are the guys that are going to be filling up the top spots in the next three to five years. So, you got Vito. Who's the other one? >> Vto. There's another one in their 20s. Beto. There's one other There's one other in that three that I've mentioned several times. I can't think now. they'll come to me. But um you know guys like this that uh you know these these these guys are basically the future. So these are the ones I keep a closer eye on because these are the ones that can also make more improvements. Um you know these are the ones that haven't maxed out their physiques yet. So, um, these, like I said, I follow these guys just as much as the the new guys who like Hadtie who, you know, are always going to show up in shape and always going to look incredible, but, you know, maybe they've done more with their physiques potentially potential wise, they've maxed out more than say guys like this guy. [snorts] >> Yeah. So, good thing you reminded me because I only talk about the American bodybuilders. I'm awful. [laughter] >> That's why that's why you bring me in, mate. That's the whole point. That's the whole point of this. >> Exactly. >> That's why it works. Let's go on to our next story of the year. >> Hang on. Three. It's three [laughter] o'clock and it's getting dark. >> Yeah, that's uh that's winter. Well, it's going to be changing soon. So, uh not all the stories are happy stories. The Mast's Olympia was held in Japan. I believe was August whenever it was. It was over the summer. And >> sadly, the competitors were not paid. Uh Jake Wood said he was going to pay them out of his own money many like eight weeks later. Here's a prize money notice. They had to post it. Uh, yeah. Masters Olympia official. Yeah. Jake Wood posted that he would personally pay out of his own pocket because the Yeah. And I I don't understand how it happened because prize money, from what I understand, is supposed to be set aside >> in some sort of escrow type account, >> correct? So that it's guaranteed so things like this do not ever happen. >> Do do you know do you know why that happened? Because remember the Toronto the Toronto show and it was that the one where they had the motorbike and the motorbike wasn't even given. They the motorbike in $10,000 and apparently the prize money was never paid and it was I wouldn't even say the promoter's name because he was a he was a good professional bodybuilder back in the day and I don't want to tarnish his name >> if it wasn't if it wasn't you know if it wasn't him or it was I got it you know I've got it wrong. So um but um yeah I heard that that that's what happened and of course there's a lot of hassle trying to sort it out chase money you know so they they then brought in this you know okay 50% of the money has to be because I was I was involved with the the Grand Prix originally you know and um the deal was 50% of the prize money immediately which is a lot of money to find you know especially when you're early stages of bringing in sponsors and selling tickets and then I think the other 50% has to be uh I mean I do something similar with the tours actually I have um you know I have Uh because I've been I've been stung. I've been stung a few times um sadly um with payments, you know, and or someone you trust and you think ah it's so and so. I've known him 30 years. It happened last year with Andrew Jack. One of the the guys didn't pay the remaining 50%. >> And um yeah, this happened, you know, you're talking like, you know, thousands, you know, which is then it's coming out of my profit because you've still got to pay the guys. But with the pro shows, I believe that um the whole escrow thing is a is a way of mitigating that ever happening because it might not even be intentional. It might not be malicious, but you know the thing is I tell you what the thing is if you're a new promoter um the costs the costs you know like Matthew with the with um you know especially like ex like Matthew Pierce from the expo like he's like I've worked with um you know with the Olympia Allstar Tours I collaborate with all these different um expo promoters and and if they're new I always try and say to them look you know just to give you a warning you know these these expo halls if they they're charging you this for the hall there's going to they're going to charge you for this this this and stuff that would make you actually made me laugh, you know, oh, for keeping the exit sign on, they'll charge you another €3,000 or for this cable, this cable to go to that stage so you can have the the the lighting rig, that's another €5,000. I mean, it is it sounds it sounds like I'm joking, but I'm or I'm exaggerating, but I'm actually not because it's actually ludicrous the costings, but in this instance, you know, um that money should have been paid in escrow. So, what what's the what's the situation now with it? Has it been paid? >> I'm not sure. I mean, I uh He who shall not be named was posting as recently as a week and a half or two weeks ago that they still haven't gotten paid. >> Wow. >> Even though Jake had made that post. So, I don't know. I can tell you that I interviewed Sean Clarita, who won the Japan Pro, which is the same promoter, and he said he got paid no problem. So, >> okay, >> it's good to know that at least he got paid and those athletes got paid. But, yeah, the National Come on, guys. You talk about the other guy that's bringing that up. Well, it's kind of it's kind of good that he is. If they haven't genuinely haven't been paid and he's actually done the research to find out if they've been paid or not, it's good that actually someone is actually speaking up because otherwise the athletes are probably too afraid to speak up because they might, you know, they they think they might get their place sings or they might get black bold or whatever. I don't know what goes on in a competitor's mind, but you know, this is why Lee Priest used to struggle because he like, "Come on, guys. We need to come together and and speak up about things like prize money and and stuff like that." You know, different different examples of uh of these kinds of things when it comes to finances. you know, we need to come together because otherwise I'm putting my neck on the firing line here um you know, on the line here because uh you know, it's you don't want to be the one that they then come after or think even if you think that and you get paranoid. It's like you don't want to be the one to put your you know, you put your your neck above the parapit and um you know got uh being like I said being the firing net. >> Oh, I mean you know I don't know if there would be any backlash or Yeah, but I'm sure they are afraid. They are afraid. >> Yeah, you would be though. You would be. And thing is in a subjective sport as well where you know you think well they could uh they could they could screw me over my placing and there's no way that I can retaliate because it's so well that's what the judges think it's a subjective sport and you know so I I I I do get it. I do get it. But um it's a shame that um you know that someone uh uh you know you know the guy you've mentioned before um it's a shame that someone like that has to speak up on behalf of the athletes and and also put himself in the firing line as well because you know he probably I mean he doesn't care about being targeted as like a troublemaker because of the stuff he's put out but [laughter] which is you know but in this instance uh it's good that actually somebody is looking into it and uh and uh but if thing is if Jake has said he's going to sort it, then Jake's the sort of person that I think would sort it. Um because he's um yeah, it's it's his name. It's his Olympian name. He's the co-promoter. Um because before the one in Romania, that was purely Jake, wasn't it? He wasn't collab he was obviously it was um was it Stressa and Alina who he teams up with the Romania Muscle Fest. Um I think it was that same team because it was in Cluge in Romania, the same town. But I believe this one he's teamed up with this co-promoter and I imagine it's just split down the middle. Um that's that's my that's my assumption anyway. Um but um thing is Jake's name's attached to this and I'm sure he doesn't want and thing is not we're not talking a massive amount of money here because the prize money wasn't huge for the Masters Olympia but then again there was a lot of divisions so I suppose it I suppose it does add up. But surely you would have had this in place before the bloody show. And um I mean like I said I'm sure there was this is why these rules are brought in to mit against against against these kinds of uh things from even happening in the first place. >> Yeah. That whole time I was talking I thought I was showing all these pictures and I wasn't. So that's why I've been showing them now. >> Yeah. Have you spoke to Phil? >> Uh no I have not. No >> play. Okay. Well yeah um I might ask him actually ask put it on and maybe after this before this goes out and you you post it. I might um ask him and say, "Look, have you been paid?" Because, you know, you were the number two in the open. It's uh he's going to give me a straight answer and then I can put it in the comments uh when you do the live later. >> Yeah, I would be curious to know if he if he did that. So, >> me too. Me too. >> Move on to more hap happier. I try to do a happy story, sad story, [laughter] happy story. So, got to keep the balance going. So, uh we saw some guys, a couple guys really banging out the shows and grinding it out this year. First of all, let's talk about Sas Herati. >> Oh, >> the UK. This guy did seven shows this year. >> Good lord. So, just to give a a breakdown, he started off in Detroit with a fourth place, went to the FIBO, took second to Andrew Jack. New York Pro, he got fifth place. CalPro, second place. He won the Toronto show, he won the Empro. And then he went to the Mr. Olympia where he did not do so well, but it took him so he did it took him five shows to get a win and then he won uh the sixth show was another win, but this was spread out over the course of all the way from Detroit, which I think was April, all the way through October. So, he had a long long year sass. And do you think is do you think that um I I'm amazed at how he managed to hold such a good peak because it wasn't like he was off at the first two and then I remember like Tony Freeman he would do like four, five, six shows and he'd start off kind of looking like he was four weeks out and then as the shows went on by the third, fourth show he'd start hitting his stride. But like Sass brought it every single show. I didn't see one show where he wasn't where he was super flat or he was off. It just shows you he knows what he's do what he's doing when it comes to sort of prepping because some of these guys, you know, like Nathan's told me like, you know, I'll do I'll he'll bring he'll specifically go for different looks if he knows he's doing several shows in a row. Um and uh like he'll try I'm going to come in big and full for this one. I'm going to come in a bit leaner and whatever and you know and sort of more streamlined and more dry for this one. and and then you know the the fact that they've got that much knowledge over the control of their own bodies that they can bring these different looks but Sassan was like really consistently bringing good look after good look in fact I think um some of the shots I saw from the Olympia I know he didn't make top 15 but you know it's the Olympia I think this was his best look so to bring that you know when he's done was it seven six seven shows >> it was eight I screwed up I forgot about the British Grand Prix so it was eight shows >> so so this was his so the Olympia was his final one right >> yeah yeah >> yeah so that was final eighth show and if anything he looks his best. So that shows I I to be honest I'd be interested to know like be uh more thoughts behind the actual being able to pace himself because many guys I mean um I did four shows in five weeks once and like by the third one I was really starting to struggle you know visually physically mentally I was getting sick I was my hearing was going I was losing my voice you know my body was just basically like really fighting against me and saying please just back off but these guys you know they're spreading it out over months. So, I wonder um I'd love to know how he how he managed to sort of um pace himself because to do this this is, you know, then you get guys, you know, that are doing one show a year. Uh, I know Derek Derek Lunford's kind of stepped his game up now and he's do he did the Arnold and Pittsburgh and other ones, but um, some guys, you know, it's it's a struggle for them to do more than like two shows, but and to do this and uh, and also and also get two wins and an Olympia appearance and also um, like I said, bring a good look to every single one. I think that is um that's a really that's really that's a really noteworthy achievement and um he should be proud but also give him a lot of experience as well because he's going to be going into next year um having learned a lot about his body. So um yeah, I'm really um I'm excited to see what he'll bring next year because I still don't think he's brought back the upper body thickness he had in 2018 yet. The legs are, but I still think I still think there's a bit more left in the tank. Um, so a good offseason now, you know, riding high, two wins. You know, he's his his career has kind of taken off. His coaching and stuff has probably took a real upturn. So, he's going to be confidence-wise and um, you know, everything he put into it was kind of this year kind of paid off for him. Um, so it'll be interesting to see if he can come back with that uh, that upper body really popping because I still don't think this is the this I still think Sassan's capable of more. Um, I still think he's um I still think he can be better than this and I think a good offseason as well as the success of this year. I think we'll see it next year. >> Now, he had he was away from competition for a few years too, right? >> 2018. Uh, he did his last one and then he didn't he started competing in 2024 because he was his first one back was the empro last year when he got fifth. Wow. >> I was there I was there doing the commentary. So, it was six years he had off. >> Wow. Wow. That's not easy to come back after all that time. But he he he told me he never stopped training. It was like Lewis Breed. He said Charles he said I never stopped training and he says and he told me I mean Lewis Breed told me about like like gearwise. He said I was just doing like 500 MIG test and a little bit of you know it was a tiny amount but he said with the years of heavy training, hard training, consistent training and eating he managed to improve. So when he came back it looked like he'd he'd he'd improved several years rather than just kind of taking time off. So when these guys are taking these these years off, they're not they're bodybuilders. They they you know they're they love to train. So um but um yeah, so so Sassan, he was he never stopped training. He just basically stopped competing. >> Got it. All right. Great job, Sass. The other guy want to talk about >> legs. Legs are amazing. >> Yeah, he's got phen I love those qu I like to see the sweep and the uh the cross durations, all that good stuff. But he he could be full on offseason and his his quads are all still like straighted to hell. >> It's a good way to be. [laughter] >> Yeah. >> So Quint Beastwood, Quinton Aria, he did five shows this year and the worst he did was third. He took second. >> Wow. >> Tampa, he was second. Texas third. So that was uh Tampa was won by Jordan. Texas was Jordan and Joe beat him. Italy and Germany. Two weekends in a row he took second place to Urskinsky and then he wrapped it up with Tsunami Pro in France where Sergey Dinov pops up out of nowhere. >> [laughter] >> called you >> in a different lifetime when there was uh the confirmation I'm not the confirmation round [laughter] the point system he easily would have got to the Olympia on points but this was not that era so he had to finish off the season without an Olympia but um he did this all without a coach too coached himself for all these shows >> so I think he deserves a lot of credit aside from he he did have that experience of going over to the UK and staying with Samson training with Samson for a few weeks as well. So, >> I think I think we're seeing him moving forward the way we were hoping he would because you said, you've said this before. We see him sort of in the position where Samson was a few years ago. >> I I just hope him not making it to the Olympia this year has not discouraged him, but I hope it's fired him up because he was so close more than once. So it's not like there's a guy I know that the qualification is like okay you win or you're not in you know but this is a guy that you know kind of deserves to be on the Olympia stage and you know if that if I know it's a lot of ifs but if that point system had been in place 100% we'd have seen him on stage at the Olympia and and who knows maybe he would have um maybe he would have squeezed in the top 15 but um I hope that it's uh it's just this this this year you know because he didn't just get one second he got multiple seconds and thirds like you said you know five top threes. That's um that's that's basically like the last show where Sergey turned up. That's basically just unlucky that some guy, you know, basically popped up out of nowhere and nailed it and and looked good because it was it was debatable. He could have, you know, it could have gone either way in a couple of the shows that he did and he was just basically um you know, like Levrone and Shawn Ray and stuff and all those legends and flex. They were just unlucky that they had to go up against Ronny and guys like Ronnie and Dorian otherwise we'd have had multiple Mr. Olympias. Um but um but with with Quint um yeah, he's one of those guys that he's just he's just nearly there, isn't he? And I really really hope that he's working hard right now and he's fired up and he's excited for next year because he was so close um to um to making it to the Olympia. And um I mean genetically, I mean he's he's one of the best guys we've got. I mean, you know, you look at his shape, his structure. I mean, for a black guy to have calves like that, too, is, you know, that's that basically means, you know, God likes him. So, you know, it's true though, is it? because he is really he's just I mean everything the flow he I mean there's another guy that um brings classic to the open and um like you said he's he's kind of reminds me of where not even 2021 but 2022 where Samson was just starting to you know you look at it and you just think oh if you just put on another you know if you if you sort of close you squint your eyes and and imagine him with another 105 20 pound you just think my god I mean how how could that not be in a first call out at the Olympia so he's he's he's someone that um he's He's knocking on the door and um I just hope um I really really hope we see him next year, you know, come back and you know, we walk out and everyone's just so excited and so happy because he's made those improvements because uh I mean he's got he's got a god-given structure there. Beautiful shape. He's tall. Um and also he's a cool guy as well and we're always rooting for the good guys. So um I mean look at that. Look at the tiny look at his waist in his radarable bicep. He's he is sensational. So, I just I really really hope he's working hard right now and he's got that self-belief that he does, you know, deserve to win pro shows and he does he is uh worthy of being like a top Olympia guy because someone like Quint really at this point now, he deserves to be in the top 10 Olympia. So, it's just up to him with how much he wants to improve and how much work he wants to put in. But, um if if he comes back improve next year, watch out. I I interviewed him last month and I can tell you he does seem to be in a great space uh psychologically not discouraged at all by taking second place four times this year. >> Yeah. Cuz some people it messes them up, you know. Some people are like it's just they they start getting paranoid. They think that the system or whatever is against them. They think there's things, you know, there's forces conspiring against them and it's just not. It's just you just happen to go up against guys that were just that 1% better on the day. So, I mean, look at him there. I mean I mean even if you saw him posing next to Samson there, you wouldn't think that there was a huge difference in levels >> because look how good he looks there. I mean he just I mean he he looks like he be he could be Samson's little brother. [snorts] >> I think it's almost kind of like he is Sam's little brother. >> Yeah. [laughter] Maybe they find out they do some DNA test and they find out there's some uh there's some link there from back in because they're both Nigerian, aren't they? >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. Well, you never know. just, you know, it's I mean there obviously Nigeria's got some good genetics because you got Andrew Jack as well. >> So um but you know and thing is I you know me I'm I'm not even I'm not even frightened to say that I am biased because I like the tall guys. I'm tall myself. I'm six foot tall. So, and you know, we've had a a really good run of these shorter guys getting a great look in like Haddie, Bonac, um Derek, you know, guys like Nick Walker even, you like 5'6 and under, but you know, there's there's still there's still a part of me that really really wants to see like a six foot plus, you know, like seeing Samson win the I mean, look at the thing is imagine if Quint brought that to the stage. >> I mean that because a side chest, he always seems to flatten out in his side chest. go back and show that side chest. Like he doesn't bring that to the st. I know the lighting's really good and it's nicely but he never he never brings that kind of fullness and pop to the to to the stage. I mean he always looks like flats. I I don't know whether it's obviously the taller guys they they flatten out super quick and it's peing a guy that size with that kind of structure and that kind of um and those kind of crazy muscle bellies. It is hard. Um as Samson has proven, you know, like look at the difference he he made uh from Prague to the Olympia. I mean, the Olympia was a disaster, but I mean, he looked sensational just two weeks later. So, it shows you the timing for these tall guys is um I wouldn't to be honest, even if I was a coach, I would not I would not want to coach these tall guys because um it must be it must be bloody hard. It must be frustrating as well. So, um I mean like Quint there, that to me looks like a Mr. Olympia. >> Oh, that that front front bicep is amazing. That's his best. If you if you told somebody on the street that that's the number one bodybuilder in the world, they'd be like, "Yeah, I can see why." >> Of course. Yeah. Oh, he's phenomenal. So, yeah, we're hoping uh we're hoping for great things for Quint in 2026. >> Fingers crossed. >> Very cool downear guy. And he doesn't let the he doesn't let the negative comments get to him because everyone every bodybuilder now you unless you block every troll immediately, you're going to you're going to be reading some things that aren't nice about you. Well, he he messaged me because he wasn't happy because I mentioned about the the pin in the shoulders and he said, "Bro," he said, "I don't pin my shoulders." And he was he seemed quite upset actually. >> Um and I and I said to him, "Look, I'm just, you know, I can't remember what I said actually now." >> Um but um yeah, he was like, you know, can you and obviously that he felt the need to reach out to me to sort of express that he wasn't happy about that. Um and and obviously I I put my standpoint as well saying like, you know, if I see it, then the judges are going to see it. I'm doing it to make you better, blah blah blah, etc., etc. But um so you can imagine the the constant comments. But um yeah, I mean who wouldn't want to see Quint, Andrew, and Samson the top three at the Olympia three six foot plus, you know? I mean I mean I know it's never going to happen, but it's it would be kind of cool. >> A short guys would be very upset about that. I'll tell you. >> Yeah. Bugger off to the 212 shorties. >> You got your own category. Come on. >> All right. So that was a happy story. So now we go to one that's not so happy. >> Told you. I told you I was going to keep going back and forth like that. Try to keep it balanced. So, >> uh, we saw the Olympia title change hands in the women's physique division. Sarah has Sarah Viegas has won it four times. Uh, Natalya Quao had won it once in the past, I think 2021. And she's [clears throat] been losing to Sarah for the past few years. And this year, she turned the tables and beat Sarah. And Sarah immediately posted the next day I think it was on her Instagram um accusing Natalia of she didn't say where but she called her Miss Oil Olympia um you know and and you know it was just AI thought it was a bad look for a champion you know be gracious in losing and to call someone out and and accuse him of cheating like that it just it it sort of tarnished the women's physique Olympia outcome for this year because it's like now you can't even be happy you can't even enjoy her victory without this kind of this backlash. So, I don't know. It was just it was just unfortunate. I I wish I wish it didn't happen. But I'm sure Sarah in her heart of hearts believes Natalya was up to uh and then it's come out supposedly there's this PMMA uh controversy going in Brazil now where they say not only uh Natalia but Dark Lungsford went down there >> to get this stuff injected. And you know, I I I haven't commented because it's all hearsay. Until all the facts are out, I'm not going to make any comments or or uh opinion on it because I I don't know what's been going on that. But this was just a sad state of affairs all around, I think. >> Well, you know me, I've got like I'm like a a beagle, a bloody sniffer dog when it comes to, you know, pointing out the the old suspicious lumps and bumps. And like I was shocked when Sarah said that because I didn't like for her to say that she must have been quite certain. And even if I I look I I didn't see anything on Sarah on um Natalya's physique and I don't really I haven't really studied that closely because nothing popped out to me as looking suspicious. And even if it did, I feel like Natalyia's physique has gone to such another level this year. like like literally it was um you know it was u like a lot of these Clarita and Keon and um Samson Andrew like Haddie and Derek you know there was a lot of like it was like a back and forth thing you could see it changing swift you know flip-fpping between the two of them for for several years but when I saw even the first initial videos of an Italian I was like holy [\h__\h] I was like like because I always felt like her arms lacked a bit and there was you know there's a couple of um but I think the way she flows now I think she's She's really like jumped ahead. I mean, look at that. To me, that's that is the criteria for women's physique. I feel like she was always she's always been very very good. For the last seven, eight years, she's been amazing. But I feel like she's whatever she's done to her physique. I don't know whether she's heavier, lighter, but like everything the tie-ins. I mean, look at that. I mean, if you really zoom in and and and look at every single pose, she doesn't have a weak shot anymore. >> I'm zooming in. I'm not zooming in on her ass, guys. Just so you know, I'm really going in on the legs because that's what she's been accused of. This was this was a day ago. So, I'm >> not being a creep. I'm really trying to check out the quads and see if I see anything weird. >> Yeah, but yeah, but I don't know. I mean, you know me, I hate the sight injection thing, but it doesn't I don't see anything that looks obvious there. Um, plus if there was anything being injected, surely uh it would blur blur the area you because she like if anything, she's she's took a step forward in like a separation of detail. She's like everything just seems to flow now. So, whatever she's done, I mean, it looks I I don't see it. I just don't see it. Um, and you know me, the main thing is the shoulders. I mean, I hate that because the guys put all the gear in their shoulders and >> yeah, >> you know, not stopping their shots too far out from the show. They're probably putting probe in there two days before the bloody show. You know, some guys, you know, some of these guys probably are doing that. >> Um, but I I I think she's so far ahead. I just like I have seen it go back and forth between Nataly and Sarah. Like I think Sarah was wrong to do that. But at the end of the day, look at it from look at it from Sarah's point of view. If she feels that somebody has won based upon something that is not, you know, it's not really welcomed, you know, the whole site injecting thing. Uh I mean, I don't know anything about this PMA or whatever it is, but I have heard a few things that yeah, you know, Derek and other ones are all doing, but but like I don't I don't know. I suppose it opens up a whole debate of is it an unfair advantage because I think when bodybuilders pin their shoulders I think it makes their physique look worse not better. So it's not like oh I'm going to pin my shoulders and I'm going to look and I'm going to I'm going to get an advantage over the competition by doing so. Like to me it's if I was a judge I would be marking you down for it. I would be you know that would be that would be a strike against you not for you. >> Yeah. >> So but Natalyia I think is so far ahead now. Um I think um I think it was um it was wrong for I don't know. I don't know. I see I see I I do see the other side and like I said it's this PMA is such a new thing. Um I remember when bodybuilders were all putting in their biceps and arms and one of the reasons that they did it. Um I remember a friend of mine came up from Birmingham to temp used to train at Temple Gym and a friend of mine says oh I've got this new stuff but you know he says I can't tell you what it is. He says um but I'll sell it to you. So, so he goes in the kitchen and he says, "Give me give me one of your arms." >> So, basically got you got a 5 mil amp of Nolitol. Um, it's bought in um in Spanishies. I knew the kid he got it off as well. And basically he he just sticks it in his outer head, his tricep. And he says like he says, "Now I'm only going to do one arm." He says, "Because in in 30 minutes I want you to compare the other arm." So anyway, looks so he shows us both. He pulls his sleeves up >> and like his triceps like like literally the outer tricep looks beautiful. It looks it it it didn't look like it had been injected basically and filled with something. It looked like he had more tricep development. And the thing is it didn't blur. So it didn't blur the surface area, which is kind of the the downside of sight injecting things, you know, like with their probe or equi delts or whatever to give them more width in the front relaxed or front lat spread or, you know, they want a bit more peak on their biceps when they lift their arms up. Um, but thing is it would take the detail up, but this nonl it didn't. >> So, honestly, the comparisons between the arms was shocking, you know, and I says, "Wow, it looks like you just literally just put like an inch on one of your arms there and it looks like proper detailed muscle." So, maybe with this PMMA it lifts the muscle out somehow or I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. But, um, it's uh it's tricky. Um, but um I mean what what do you think? What do you what's your feeling? Are you are you picking a side or are you just >> I I like you know I'm I like Natalya a lot. Uh so much respect for her. I don't know and I'm not gonna I'm not going to say she is or she isn't because I don't know. So I just don't I don't want to make an uninformed opinion when I don't know. I mean I've seen like the the people compare her thighs from last year to this year. >> Yeah. >> But they're screenshots from video and stuff. It's not exactly all the same. I I don't know. But uh >> the thing is is a visual sport and if nothing looks funky to me and nothing's blurry and looking like you know your eyes are drawn to something for not the right reasons then for me she's she's the clear winner mate. She's like Andrea Shaw in my eyes in the women's physique now. I think she's you know uh I think she's pulled ahead mate. I think she's pulled ahead. I think she's I think she's pretty much with that look. I think with the women's physique criteria I think it pretty makes pretty much makes her in my eyes unbeatable. I mean, so I think the accusation is it's supposed to be it gave her a quad sweep that she didn't have. I think that I think that's the basis of what what Sarah and her supporters are claiming. But so you're telling me the only difference >> the only thing she needed to beat Sarah was a was more quad sweep. That was the only improvement she made. I I thought she was improved overall. I mean, look at the conditioning, the balance. >> She's she's on another level now, mate. >> Yeah. So, all right, enough of that. Let's move on. >> Happy story. >> Let's see if I have a happy story next. I hope >> Oh, no, I don't. We're going to end with a happy story, though. [laughter] So yeah, this is it's it's this happened with uh about two weeks before the Olympia. the classic physique division had a big upheaval because there were accusations that uh Mike Somerfeld and others had been I I can't say they're the ones cheating because they weren't the ones doing the measuring, but having their hair poofed up and gelled to give themselves another half inch inch of height, which would put them into another weight class. Uh, and there you can see the difference between him being on the left that was 25 Olympia on the right I think was 24. So you could see his hair is a lot his his hair poofed up higher with gel in it. You can't really push it down to the cranium. So he ended up losing 14 pounds. uh him and his coach Neil Hill had to really prepare for the worst case scenario and get him into that lower I guess you can call it a weight class because these guys do have to be in lighter weights for their for their height. Um and they did it. They got him down and I I think it cost him title. This was an old video of him talking to Dennis James that came up where he was telling Dennis that they have me listed at this height but I'm actually shorter. So that didn't look good. I don't know why he would say that with a camera on him. Um, >> and that and that meant so he was I believe he was being heighted at over 5 foot n which meant he could be up to 212 and they got him down to being able to compete at 19. What was he? No, was it 204? Whatever it was. He ended up losing a lot at the last minute and I think it it cost him the title. >> Yeah, this one was dodgy, mate. This one was really dodgy. I did none of this sat right with me. Um the whole like I remember that week when it happened and it was all kicking off. Um and then the way that um there was something not right. There was something fishy going on here, mate. I'll be honest. I like Mike. I like I like all these guys. Um but there was something um there was something that didn't add up here. Um I don't know. God, it opens up so many conversations for past wins. Um, you know, because the end of the day, if you're going to have, you know, you got women's, we've just been talking there about women's physique. Now, women's physique is arguably the classic version for the women compared to female bodybuilding. Like classic is how it compares to open, you know, that's the reason it was brought in. So, God looks, see, look, he looks so different there without with the different weight cap. I mean, he looks he looks he looks like a bloody 212 there. Looks incredible. [snorts] >> Doesn't look like a he looks huge there. He Yeah. I mean, look at his legs. I mean, he lost all those legs for the Olympia. Um, but um, yeah, but and the women's physique doesn't have a weight cap and they don't have any of these issues. So, but when you do have a weight cap and you have these rules, then they kind of have to be enforced. Otherwise, it just makes a mockery of the entire thing. >> So, for me, I I didn't like any of this. the way that all the you know we were all paying attention to the height and when they were measured and stuff and then they were coming back and and all the and all the you know everyone was unhappy and people were going crazy and I was messaging Neil Hill and he was sending me these seven minute bloody voice notes and I mean Neil was upset and you know and there was I mean god he looks so different he doesn't look doesn't even look like the same guy there does it >> he definitely definitely don't >> yeah that's that's not the same that's not the same that's not the physique that he was in intending and hoping to bring uh which probably would have won him the title, but you know, if he wasn't I I don't know. I don't I want to say much more to be honest, but the whole thing did not sit right with me. And I think there was I do think there was some shenanigans going on there. And I think that I feel like this all got brushed under the carpet a bit as well. Um and I'm and I'm not saying I'm glad that Mike Somerfield didn't win. Um, but when there's there's a huge question mark over all of this and no one's really bringing it up, um, I feel like, uh, for me there's there's there's a bit of, um, something smells a bit there, mate. >> Yeah. And I mean, they they're they rehided everyone at the Olympia. It was done behind a curtain, but they did release the photos the photos later of everyone's height and weight to to let us know. I just don't know why they didn't why couldn't they have just done it in the open so everyone could have seen it as it was happening. That would have put my mind at ease. >> But yeah, I mean like Logan Franklin has come out came out later and said, "Well, I should be the Arnold Classic champ." >> Yeah. Do you know what? I I'm completely with him on that because if like if I'm sort of questioning things and I'm seeing things that aren't quite adding up, then you know this is what happened. Like I said, you know, you can have someone like Logan or you know, like say Terrence Ruffin that is playing by the rules. Um, you know, and he's and he's he's not trying any things with haircuts and, you know, whatever. It's uh it's Yeah, because I I it's something I didn't even really think about until it became that huge issue that week before the Olympia. Um, and when it all it was all any of us could like think and talk about, like I was really like I was I was quite concerned and I'm not a classic competitor. I've got no horse in the race. And I was just thinking like imagine if you're the guy like say Terrence, you know, that's thinking this guy next to me is is literally in my eyes, he's cheating. He's cheating the system. He's he's doing things that are giving him an unfair advantage. You like how like like Sarah Vieas is thinking that Natalyia is doing things to give her an advant unfair advantage. And you know, these are your direct close competition that are basically standing between you and a freaking Olympia title. So, yeah, I can imagine they would be pissed off. So, um I was I kind of I can't I'll be honest. I've got to say it out loud. I kind of did punch the air when I saw that Mike got second. >> I did. I did because I thought, okay, I I feel like my in my my gut my gut feeling is my gut instincts here are telling me that something's not right. Um something that was known about that uh is not right. And I feel like this was the this was the universe correcting um the the the wrongdoing if that makes sense. Um because but who's to blame? Who was do we blame? Do we blame the people that were measuring them? See, it's >> Yeah, it's tricky, isn't it? >> It's tricky. It does. And I've heard of other things like uh guys would put layers of glue on the bottom of their feet >> to give them an extra bit of height. I mean, apparently it's it's not isolated incident. Mike was not not the only one by >> a and also wrong. Hang on a minute. Hang on a minute. What about the guys that were not allowed to compete because let's forget about I know they weren't the top six Olympia guys but they you know they prepped just as hard you know they probably didn't have as many good sponsors so they probably had to put more into it financially from their own pocket but yet I feel like they were the scapegoats that was thrown under the bus to say look we are doing something about it but then these other guys were allowed to come back and come back and then oh and then you know then then it's um there was a few things that just weren't adding up and also and then thing is they kind of they, whoever they is, they're kind of relying on things getting swallowed up in the the the enormity of the Olympia. So, because like obviously as soon as that was done and they were all on stage, we kind of forgot about this this this situation, >> right? >> You know, we were all focusing on the Open and the 212 and the Olympia, you know, it's the biggest it's bodybuilder's biggest event of the year. >> Um, so I felt like it was um and like no one's really talked about it since. And I think I think maybe if if Mike had won the Olympia, I feel like we would still be talking about it because I feel like I mean certainly just Brazil would be uh would be going absolutely crazy about this. They would not. They was no way they would let this go and why should they, >> So, but uh yeah, I just um the whole thing is um the whole thing's fishy to me, mate. >> Yeah. Well, I mean it brought it put it brought a brought attention to the matter. You getting up? Okay, I'll keep talking. >> So, I'm literally just going to turn the light on because it's dark in here. >> Yeah. So, I One thing that was good was it brought attention to [clears throat] this matter. >> Um, so we're not going to see any weird shenanigans again. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So, sorry. >> No, I was just saying moving moving forward, no one's going to be pulling any fast ones. We're not going to be seeing guys on stage, you know, 8, 10, 12 pounds heavier than they're supposed to be. So all eyes are going to be on all the weights and measures from now on. >> Yeah, but >> sorry. Sorry. What about just doing what they do with women's physique and just getting rid of the weight cap and just judging it on classic criteria and not a height and weight thing? Because some people argue that it's just they're judged as B just like they do bodybuilding and it's just got a height and weight cap, but they're not judging. Maybe they need to reaffirm what judging a classic physique actually is. Because I actually don't judge classic like I do bodybuilding. So, but I feel like some of the judges just judge like they would a bodybuilding class, just basically a load of guys that have had the height and weight taken in front of them. So, maybe they need to scrap, maybe it's caused so much trouble and may the thing is it might cause even more trouble in the future because if this is happening, um I don't feel like this problem is going to go away unless they address it. Maybe the only way to address it is to scrap the height and weight and just say, "Okay, then guys, you know, just come on um with the the criteria and know that we're going to judge you uh with the classic criteria and not the bodybuilding criteria." So, it's not a case of just coming in as big and lean as possible. um you've got to bring maybe they need to stipulate like the real you know what we expect from a classic physique and you know to really show that there's a difference between classic and body bone but I mean that's the only way I can see them fixing this problem otherwise it's um I think is it undermines um it undermines the whole the whole um the idea of what this category was brought in for and um it's uh yeah and also what about those guys that then you know all the prep's going to waste and then they're just worried you know but the guys that didn't get to make it on stage and you know Michael Dull was bloody practically killing himself to get that 10 pound off um to get on stage you know so um and now he's having cardiac issues as well so you know maybe that might have been part of that you know what if he'd have bloody had a heart attack in the sauna or something you know because he pushed his body too hard trying to drop those that that weight because when I hear guys having like four hours to drop 10 pound my my heart literally sinks for because that is not that is as dangerous as it gets because once you rip those electrolytes out the system, mate, you know, that quickly and you know what you have to do to drop that much water, um it's uh it's it's it's it's very very dangerous. >> Yeah. So, I've actually I've had that conversation with so many of these classic pros about eliminating the weight caps and most of them have said they're afraid two things are going to happen. guys are just going to get bigger and bigger and classic's not going to be as as distinct from the other divisions. >> Yeah. >> At 212 and open. I could see that happening. Another thing is they saying we won't see the level of conditioning, the consistent level that we've been seeing classic because getting to that weight cap is what forces most of these guys. Most of them most of them have a lot of trouble getting to that weight and by the time they get to that weight, they're they're peeled inside out. So you don't see it's very rare you see a classic pro come in off and that's probably why >> no what they have to do is they have to establish what the criteria is and say look guys don't think that just coming back 20 pounds heavier is going to get you a win here because what we want to see is we and also maybe they put more emphasis on the presentation the posing >> and and also say to them look if you're classic okay we've done away with the height and weight but we expect you to be shredded if you're not shredded then you ain't you ain't going to you ain't yeah bye-bye exactly So, um, and you know, if you come in too big, that's going to work against you, whereas in bodybuilding, you know, nine times out of 10, it's going to work for you. >> Sure. >> So, you know, don't blow the waistline. Don't It's like I mean, um, I don't know. I just I I I mean, like I said, they've done it with women's physique. I mean, there is I mean, there's less of a disparity between top women's physique and top female bodybuilding because guys can be, you know, what's the difference in body weight on average of a female bodybuilder to women's physique? What, 10 pounds or something? >> Yeah. Whereas open and classic, it could be 30, 40, 50 pounds. So um it would you would have to have very very um well-trained and really uh like with the judges, you'd have to really lay it onto them and say, "Look, this is the difference between judging classic and this is the difference between judging uh bodybuilding. The two are not the same." Because otherwise I think sometimes people just um some of the judges I'm sure they just judge it like basically what they're seeing as in you know these are guys that have made the height and weight and they were just going to judge it like a bodybuilding show and and and that's and we're just going to use the same old criteria we've always used and and that's that. But uh maybe this could be an opportunity to reestablish what classic was uh was really introduced for. >> True. All right. Let's end on a high note. Andrew Jack on the rise. Yes. >> Oh yes. This was a great year for Andrew Jacked. >> I've got to message him after. I've got to speak to him today. >> Oh, okay. So, he had been seventh place in his first Olympia 2022. Fifth place, 23. >> Is he eighth? Okay. So, eighth fifth place uh 23 and fifth fifth third. >> Okay. So, this was a a heck of a year for for Andrew. He moved up and he compared very very well. uh third place. He beat Samson, the the defending Mr. Olympia, which you know, I you know, you you've been saying for a while that that was a that was a very likely scenario that one day Andrew might get past Samson >> because they have they have a lot of similarities, but Andrew is a unique specimen. Nobody nobody in Pro Body looks quite like Andrew. >> Yeah. Uh, and he made the improvements this year in large part probably because he trained in Florida with Kamal Algar and Kamal went out to Dubai and trained with him. Uh, Chris Aceto's been his coach this whole time. So, it wasn't a different coaching situation, but he leveled up. His back was better, his hamstrings were better, the condition was better, and he was third in the world behind uh, M two Mr. Olympia champions, Derek and Hottie. It doesn't it go to show that um you just can't be old school basic training. I mean I've trained with Kamal twice. I've photographed him and filmed him several times and it's very it's almost like something out of the 80s like watching him train. It's like you know with triceps it's like line extension skull crushers. It's push down. It's very basic. It's very it's the kind of things that work for Arnold Lee Haney Dorian Ronny. Thing is what are those guys got in in common? These were the guys that were the top of the game that constantly kept improving that didn't have any missing bits in their physique because you know it just shows that you can try and reinvent the wheel with training and you can have these because there's a lot of new equipment companies popping up all over the place and these athletes aligning themselves with them and you know they're they're they're sort of um being involved in the R&D of these product of these these new bits of equipment to hit this part of the back and that part of it and they all have their use and they all have their value and I think they're all amazing but there's no escaping old school basic hard heavy training. Um I mean like with um with with Kamal sometimes he wasn't even training that heavy but it was just like like Jay Cutler be like 45 second rest. It was high pace, lots of reps, lots of sets um and like training for like two hours, you know, um and just um and just basic barbells, dumbbells, you know, basic machines, pulleys, nothing fancy or maybe, you know, some of that stuff thrown in at the end. But um look, I mean I I'll be honest. I think I think one of them actually one of the talking points for me actually has been uh one of the things that like like that really shocked me was the was how Andrew managed to put on muscle from the Olympia to the to the Romania because the end of the day he's prepping he's pre you know he's prepping for the Olympia and obviously you know forget the Arnold stuff he's prepping for the Olympia and then all of a sudden he's having to extend his prep. He's not coming off prep for a month. He's and then, you know, jumping on stage. He's basically, you know, the day after the Olympia, he knows he's doing Romania probably and then he's getting ready and he's prepping for Romania. So, you know, you just you're just expecting more of the same, maybe slightly tighter condition, but look, he I mean, look at that. He actually put on muscle. Like >> I mean, was he 296 here, I believe? >> That's what I heard. Yeah. >> Gee, I mean, he's like he's literally he's one he's two roast dinners away from being 300 pounds on stage. And thing is, I know his waist is 29. >> What? >> Like he is he is just I mean he's just I mean like I said I tou with him last year and you know sometimes I just be sat next to him in the car or he'd be out chilling or you know and I just I'd be like you sat there in a vest and we're training to we're all training and stuff and I'd look at I just think you don't even look real mate. I mean he looks like a he literally looks like a living breathing superhero. >> Yeah. >> You know which which I really dig you know. Um but for me he's um he's he's I think he's starting to hit his stride now. I feel like everything is falling into place. Um cuz let's not forget he was, you know, very very new to the sport. Um I mean like literally five years ago he was like Ronnie when um Brian offered him the free membership, you know, he was just he looked like he compete. He looked like a like a top competitive bodybuilder. And this was a guy that was just going to the gym running his business and he had no he wanted to be an action star in films, you know. He was like he said he'd um like he said he can run up a 20 foot wall and stuff like that and he does he can do all these crazy things but these are things he's trained for like going to the gym. It was like going to the gym was just part of that you know for for him wanting to to break into films. So this was a guy that never set out like Dorian like pretty much in the first the first day he was like I'm going to be a bodybuilder. I'm going to be a professional body. I'm going to be Mr. Olympia. That is my goal. Whereas like you know like the Andrews and the Ronnies kind of just fell into it. you know, Larry Will says, "Oh, why don't you compete? Why don't you, you know, and then next thing you know, they're they're they're cracking top 10 in their first Olympia and winning pro shows and, you know, it's I think this is also why Andrew is still so kind of humble and grounded because it's it has happened so fast for him. He's not left his his old life. He's still like like Ronnie when he was a cop. Like he's still kept in that grounded, you know, hard work ethic kind of routine of his life, you know. He's um he's not really he's not moved to California. He's not moved here or moved there. You know, he trains by himself most of the time. He's just he's just in his own little bubble and just doing his thing. And um I mean you know I mean I'm doing another tour with Andrew and um I love Andrew and to be honest with me he's um especially with what's happened [laughter] in recent months you know I'm I am so rooting for Andrew to win the Olympia next year because for me he's he's what I want to see from Mr. Olympia in terms of his attitude his um just everything about him. I love the guy. I think he's absolutely amazing. And it's funny, you know, because you know, like all this, you know, um I'm a hater and all this of so and so and that person and if you say so and so should place ahead of that guy, that means you're a hater of the other guy. And you know how it works. >> It goes on and on. It goes on and on and on and on. Um and uh I was was doing the tour and I said I said, "Hey, Andrew," I said, you know, "Can you believe?" I said, "Here we are on this tour." I said, "It's going great. We're having a lot of fun, you know." I says, "And like six months ago, I said I was literally referred to by a lot of people as an Andrew Jack hater." >> That's right. and and me and Andrew just literally it was just yeah remember we're having a coffee and he just burst out laughing and he just like rolled his eyes you know like a lot of these guys do because all these people get all head up online and stuff like that you know it's you know the people that ad are actually talking about they it doesn't even register stuff like this with them well most of them it doesn't it does as you know but um but like Andrew he's just he's just he's just grounded he's cool he's um he was born to do this and um and I do think I mean Jay I funny enough you >> [laughter] >> I was speaking to Jay Cutley the other week and we were chatting about Andrew and I said I said Jay I said you know you do know that I said I think I think Andrew is going to win everything next year. I think he's going to do what Derek did this year and obviously Samson did you know from the Arnold to winning the Arnold then straight into the Olympia the next year. I says I genuinely think I says I think he's going to win everything next year mate. And it's funny then Jay did a jaywalking video about five days later and he says yeah I think I think Andrew is going to win everything next year. [laughter] I was like I was like but uh you know but but Jay Jay agreed you know so um because I think I think what we saw I think one of the main reasons is what we saw from the Olympia to Romania that was it six or what whatever he put on I mean he looked considerably bigger I think if people are people in their minds are thinking if they can do that in six weeks what could he do another full prep and offseason you know going into the Arnold because imagine I mean say he's 296 at Romania I mean if he's 300 302 to um at the um at the Arnold in the AL UK. Um and here's a guy with a frame that could hold 310 315 probably no problem before even before the waistline even starts to show any signs of uh growth. But um I do I I I I'll put it out there. I think um I think if everything goes right for him and and he keeps his focus and he you know he stays on with Kamal and like I said it's about finding the right people you know um in your corner. But um even just speaking to Andrew, he seems more he seems more content, more happy, hungrier. I feel like he believes it now. I feel like he believes that he can do this. So, uh 100%. I think he can win everything next year. What do you think? >> Yeah. Well, why not? I mean, a lot of people thought he could have won this Olympia and we're looking at the Arnold lineup and maybe that'll be another show, but it's going to be hard for him to beat Hottie. That's that's goes without saying. Um, but I think Andrew has a has a good good a chance of anybody. >> You know, I'm not h Yeah, he's going to be the one the one thing standing in his way. But, you know, look what happened to Samson when Samson got beat by Hadtie at the Arnold Classic. He still ended up winning the Olympia that year. So, uh I mean mainly if I had to choose, obviously I would want Andrew to win the Olympia next year. I am not so bothered about the Arnold Classic. But if he beats I mean if he beats Hadti at both then uh which I which I think is possible then I think more people are then going to be behind him in terms of believing that he can win the Olympia. Um but um it's going to be it's going to be interesting because like I said there's no D there's no dominant champs at the moment. Um, but uh because all of them have their their flaws and their and their good points, but with Andrew, he seems to be addressing those weak points now. I mean, and the thing is once you've shown that you can address those weak points and improve them, then more people are sort of going to be looking to you as like the guy that if that continues um is going to be um he's, you know, he's the one to watch basically. Um I mean thing is you don't know what Samson's going to do. Samson could pull. I don't know whether he can pull what Ronny did in 2003, but kind of cuz kind of all he has to do is kind of bring what he brought to 24. I mean, is a 24 Olympia winning Samson going to be enough to to beat Andrew? Quite possibly. But we don't know what Andrew is going to bring. So, I mean, is I mean, Samson kind of stepped back. He looked worse than he did at the Olympia and the Arnold. But, you know, with a full year off, is he going to come back as good as he was when he won the Olympia or is he going to be better? We don't know. Or is he going to be worse? You know, so um it's there's a lot of there's a lot of things to weigh up here, mate. >> Um I am I am I am rooting for Andrew. I mean, I'm I'm not even going to make a secret of it. >> No, I mean it's I don't think anyone would believe you if you if you said you weren't rooting for Andrew. So >> No, I think I think I think the top I do believe the top three is actually going to be Martin, Andrew, and Samson next year. >> Yeah, that's very likely. >> I do. I've just for some reason that's what I've got in my head, mate. No. Hottie. Hottie won't be top three. >> No. >> Wow. >> Derek or Derek? [snorts] >> I think it'll be Derek. Hadti then. I think Veto I think Veto could move up into the top six. I think he's that good. >> We'll have to do a prediction show before the year is up. >> Yeah. I'm kind of losing faith a little bit in Nick. I I'll tell you, I'm waiting to see. I know the Arnold's still 11 10 or 11 weeks away, but if he can bring a package that's similar to when he won the Arnold Classic and when he tookia, >> then I'm going to have all my faith restored to Nick. But, you know, >> I'm I'm not expecting him to bring to go back in time. I don't think that's possible. I know I know bodybuilders over the years have tried to go back to a they think it's about body weight and and then they end up kind of slipping. [snorts] Um, but I think uh I think if he can address the midsection and also like not worry so much about the scale and being the mutant and being as heavy and as big as freak as possible because he was 10 pounds bigger at the Olympia than he was. Remember we discussed it last week which was better Pittsburgh or the Olympia and you know we kind of had a different opinion. If you can just if you can just address those imbalances like Ramy did in 2020, um like if you can bring the chest and the legs up and bring the midsection in, then to me that's a better version of what you brought in 2021 because it's bigger, it's freakier, the back shots are gone to another level. >> So if he can address that because thing is otherwise he's just going to be a bigger same version, you know, like Ramy was all those years. So, I just hope he's got it in him to to um to to try a different approach because at the moment, you know, you'd have thought if he'd come if you' said, "Oh, Nick Walker is going to be 10 pounds heavier than Pittsburgh and in better condition, which I think he was." You'd think that would be a better physique, but it wasn't. It was worse. So I think it gets to a point where past the point of diminishing returns or whatever where as they say when you know sometimes it's uh well basically bigger isn't always better when you reach a certain point of development. In fact in fact it can be the opposite. So, I just hope he's got I hope he's got it in him to be able to formulate a plan and execute it and have the confidence to do so because if like I said, I think the Arnold Classic is going to be make or break for Nick. Um because the fans are doing this a lot at the moment that you know, a lot of his loyal fans are turning on him and you know, he's it's there's a lot of um there's a lot of ifs and buts over Nick. So, I think the Arnold Classic is very important for him. >> Indeed. Well, we'll talk more about the Arnold in the weeks coming up, I'm sure. It's a big big deal in our sport because we have nothing else. No more shows, no more open shows. So, early March 2026 be a long winter. [laughter] >> How's your um how's your training going now with your shoulder? >> Oh, very well. Thank you. Very well. Yeah. I mean, >> the range of motion is just >> it's it's better than it's been in 15 years. >> Fantastic. That's good to hear, mate. It's good because thing is that's what I like about you, mate. never ever lost your passion for training or you know your your your pride in being a bodybuilder and looking like a bodybuilder, feeling like a bodybuilder. Uh I mean I still train like four or five days a week as hard as I ever have but I'm not willing to eat six, seven times a day anymore. Like I've got it down to three or four now because I'm just not willing I'm just not willing to put the money because it's pointless for me. But everything else I am basically still still a bodybuilder at heart. Um I just you know but um I like the fact that you've you know you've still you know I've just started some BPC as well in TV. >> Yeah I got I had some anyway I just had some then it was all premixed and I thought well what if it's just sat there I may as well use it. So I'm doing 500 microgram a day of each subcutaneous. So um it's just more for prevention and thing is my shoulder isn't 100% well both of them aren't. So I was just thinking well it's good for gut health and and good for tendons and stuff like that because I got a bit of a pull on my Achilles. Um, I woke up with it. I didn't even do it in the gym or running or whatever on the treadmill. I just did it. I just woke up and it was sore. I don't know what maybe I've been out fighting as Batman or something in the night and I didn't know. >> But um, yes. But no, so I just thought sometimes things are if things sometimes maybe the time to take these preventative or healing type peptides and things like that is when things are going well, not when you know prevention rather than cure. It's better to have a strong tendons or stronger joints than trying to fix them after they've been torn, you know, because then it's not after the horse is bolted or whatever they say. >> I never thought about that way. Cool. >> Yeah. No, it's uh Yeah, just it's just smart, isn't it? Smart. >> Well, we've had almost a power hour and a half so far, so I'm going to wrap it up. >> We had a lot of uh we went over a lot of different subjects today, guys. I'm sure you have some opinions that agree with Giles and myself, and some I'm sure you think we're idiots or full of crap or Let me know in the comments. blast away. Good stuff, bad stuff, whatever it is, it's all good to have many, many comments. So, fire away, guys. We're here for it. And uh it's December. I'm going to put this out tomorrow. So, we still have one more show for the year. I think we'll do some kind of prediction show. That sound sounds something you might be interested in. Giles, >> we have to wear Santa hats. >> I think I have one somewhere. [laughter] We'll talk about it. Anyway, so that's it, guys. Uh Giles, thank you as always taking the time and lending your expertise. Appreciate it very much. Appreciate you guys watching Power Hour with myself and the one and only Giles Tiger Thomas. And we will see you right here next