Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour with me, Ron Harris, and of course the one and only the inimitable inimitable Giles Tiger Thomas from all the way over in the UK. Giles, we're going to be talking about the top stories of 202025. Had to break this up into two parts. So much happened this year, Giles. Uh, you know, it's never a dull moment in bodybuilding. Um, I almost don't know where to begin, but let's start with Pittsburgh, Giles. This was a big big story. Uh, I was going to start with the Arnold because, you know, Samson lost to Derek, but n this was the real story, I'd say, that that kicked off the year. uh was Pittsburgh Pro and Derek taking the win over over uh Nick Walker. I had the clip all lined up, but you can talk about it for a second while I find it. >> Uh are you on your correct mic? It sounds a bit echoey. >> Yes. >> Yes, I am on my correct mic. >> Okay. Okay. Sorry. Just double checking. Um yeah. Well, I thought Derek was crazy to continue his prep after the Armor Classic. Um but obviously he was committed to Pittsburgh. Um so like I thought okay another was another six weeks on top of the Arnold prep. >> Yeah. It wasn't it wasn't right after. It was a while. >> Yeah. It was a good few weeks and I was thinking he's this is going to cost him the remember I said it I said it quite clearly and I was really certain of what I was saying. I said I think doing Pittsburgh will cost him the Olympia because that extra prep was cutting into his offseason. It was cutting into him sort of taking a few weeks off and I thought he was absolutely crazy for doing this. Um, and I think I still to be honest though, the funny thing is I still think it was a mistake him doing the show even though he won it. I know it sounds like a bit of a ridiculous thing to say because he had a good outcome. He won 100k. Um, but um I I just I wouldn't have taken this uh I wouldn't have taken this risk. I think it was too I mean obviously the best case scenario was he did win the Olympia. He did win all three shows. He won the Arnold Classic, Pittsburgh and the Olympia. But I think um I I think there was nothing really to prove other than supporting a new show that obviously is run by the Manions. Um but um I think he um he really gambled here and it nearly it nearly didn't pay off. And I know kind of the end result is kind of all that matters. But um uh I don't know. I suppose it sounds a bit silly really because he won 100K and he won all three shows. So really what is the what is the gamble? But um I mean I I think I think what would you say the consensus were? I think about 75% of people thought that Nick should have won this. And I know it doesn't really count because all that counts is those seven eight judges on the judging panel. I think I mean we've seen how much um there's certain certain cases where you know like with people going on about Samson's conditioning and all that. It's like it does get to them. Um and I know it doesn't really matter but um I still think it was a mistake him doing this one. I think it was an unnecessary gamble. Um but um good on him. He won it. But I did have I did have Nick winning this. Remember we took it down pose by pose and we all agreed pretty much that Nick was winning most of the poses. So um and I think something now, Ron, do you think Pittsburgh for Nick was a better look than the Olympia? >> Yes, 100%. 100%. And it's weird that he doesn't think so. I don't >> He stated that >> Sorry. Sorry. Was that >> No, I said Nick I I thought Pittsburgh was a better look, but it's ironic that Nick doesn't think that was a good look. Nick himself doesn't think that. And I don't know why you're looking at looking at those pictures and videos. >> Yeah. Go ahead. >> Go ahead, Charles. >> I think he looked better at the Olympia. I do. I think he look better. Yeah, I do. I do. I mean, look at Especially [clears throat] his back shots. We look at his back shots at the Olympia. his back shots at the Olympia were absolutely sensational. And you know what? I've been going back and forth, back and forth, arguing with all these um you know, fans and you know, supporters of Nick who were saying that Nick was off at the Olympia. And I'm like, no, he wasn't. He was not off at the Olympia. I mean, I think you you said to me actually on the last power we did, we said that um he was a little bit flat and he looked better at the finals and if he looked like he did at the finals, the prejudging, things would have been different. I don't think they would have been different. I think they'd have been exactly the same. Um uh but I thought I thought he looked really good at the Olympia. I know he was bigger. Um but um I Yeah, I thought he looked Is this the Olympia now? >> Yeah, the bald head. >> That's the Olympia. >> Oh yeah, the bald. Yeah. Yeah, I think he um I think he looked um I think he looked even more impressive at the Olympia. Uh yeah, I'm gonna stick with that. I'm gonna stick with that. I think his back shots were I thought his back shots were absolutely fantastic at the Olympia. >> Yeah. Well, I mean, you you talked about, you know, who thought Tyler Manion in his breakdown video said he had Nick winning and, you know, he's third in command basically in this whole organization. Uh, it came down to it was so close that that they couldn't decide. Steve Weinber, the head judge at uh Pittsburgh Pro, had to come up with this extra lightning round or sudden death round and it it came down to Nick not keeping his >> midsection sucked in uh fully during the those final few poses. That's how close it was. Uh but it wasn't close. You know, a lot of people had him as low as eighth at the Olympia. He ended up in sixth. Um, so >> he goes from almost beating Derek Lunsford, the Olympia champion, who had just won the Arnold a few weeks before, to being trailing behind significantly behind Derek, uh, Hottie, Andrew, you know, the the the top few guys. So, I don't know. I I did prefer the Pittsburgh look, but, you know, that's why this is subjective and we all have our opinions. Uh, I just don't understand why Nick didn't like the Pittsburgh look. Like, what was wrong with his Pittsburgh look? So, he prefers the Olympia lookup to the Pittsburgh like I do. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Um I think the only thing, you've said it there. I think the only thing that really was the it was the midsection of the Olympia. That was the only thing really that for me wasn't as good as it was at Pittsburgh because if you look, people are now saying like Nick's physique peaked at the 2021 Arnold Classic. And the only I mean, I know he was a well, it wasn't much smaller. I mean, he was still huge then, but the thing that really stands out in 21 is his midsection was in check and he because he's got those really nice thick bumpy abs and like they're getting that the abs now are looking quite shallow because everything's pushing. >> Do you know what I mean? It's like stretching the abs out and it's not looking his abs because he's he had a really he's never had the smallest waist. He's I mean he's I mean there that's 20 that's a 22 Olympia. >> Um you can already see that's quite a difference there between the 22 Olympia and the 21 Arnold Classic. But look there, the abs look I mean he got third here, but the abs look kind of like pushed. They look they look a bit washed out there. And for me it does kind of spoil the picture. So I mean I think with Nick I think um I think I do you think he's actually capable of I say cap let me think about what I'm going to say now. I think do you think he actually do you think he'll actually like bring the weight down? Because you know with Nick, he likes he positions himself as like the freak, the mutant, and I know he's um he's all about pushing that body weight up and it's all about getting bigger and freakier and he's never got the prettiest shape, so he's just going to try and be the biggest freakiest thing on the stage. Do you think he's ever going to go right, okay, I really do recognize now that to really improve and get back up into that, you know, go from six to say top three or be a challenger for the title, I really do need to bring it down. Do you think he's or do you think he'll just do the opposite and just try and get bigger? >> Well, I I think he's a smart guy. We we've talked we've both talked to him before. He's not a dumb guy. So, I think he's going to look at where he was placing and what looks he was doing better at and when he won the Arnold, I think he was 255, something around in that range. Here, he's probably like 260, third at the Olympia. So, the heavier he's gotten, the worse his placings have been. I mean, you know, this year Pittsburgh being an anomaly, but uh when we look at his updates now, obviously he's probably in a health phase. He's probably on just TRT doses, but it looks like he is streamlining his physique back, dialing it back a little bit more because it's all about the midsection with this guy. He's never going to have a tiny little waist, but he can get that midsection down, but he can't compete at two, what was he like 270 at the Olympia, something like that. 275. He's never going to have a a flat midsection at that weight. It's just it's too much for his body and his structure. Uh I I'd like to see him dial it back down. >> Yeah. >> Let's let's look at say Ramy as an example. From 2012 to 20 well really up till 2020 Olympia. Ramy was kind of bringing a bigger package every year, but it was the same strengths and weaknesses with his physique. You know, he needed to bring this area up that area up. need to bring this in and and he would but every year he was putting on 510 pounds say as you know as a sake of argument but he was kind of the same physique do you know what I mean he was the same physique just bigger >> and he wasn't really addressing and it wasn't until 2020 when he realized he had to address those weak body parts you know the glutes the hams you know the calves just and I just kind of like balance everything out and also bring it down because what was he 290 when he won the Olympia but he was competing around 305 306 so he had to drop 15 pounds to win the olympia IA Shawn Rhoden in 2018 dropped to 238 from 250. So he had to drop 122 pounds to win the Olympia. Um I just had another example in my head there as well. It's just slipped my mind now. But examples of where guys, you know, they they they it's not just about getting bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger, you know, it's about actually doing Ruly in 2016. I mean, he did what I thought wasn't before I before I saw that at the Body Power Pro in 2016. I didn't think it was possible what Ry did with his midsection because I'm saying when he went to um went to Q8 the first time when he went from Rotterdam to Q8 and he put like 30 pounds on and he I think he was I think I'm sure he won that Finland show because I remember looking at the pictures on the MD website and I was just like, "Oh, he's ruined it. He's a big square. He's a big block now. It's like just like a big fridge." And then and then he um and I remember at the show as they were running and somebody from Amsterdam says, "Oh no." He says, "Ruly's Ry's got even bigger." And I just put my head in my hand like, "Oh no." I said, "He's he's doing the opposite what he should be doing." They says, "No, no, no. He's brought the waist in." I said, "Well, hang on a minute. You're telling me that his physique has gone to another level, but he I don't think that's I don't think that's possible." And it wasn't until he came on stage and you could see that everything had got bigger, but he'd really taken serious steps to bring the waist in. So it can be done. It can be done. So if if Nick could do what Ruie did in 2016, that means that Nick could continue to get bigger, but also bring the waist in. So it just we we have to wait and see to see if he's going to because thing is like look at Martin there. Look at Martin there. Martin's got beautiful symmetry. He's got a nice tight midsection. Um Derek, I think Derek is kind of, you know, he's got the nice he's managing to keep the waist pretty small, but um with Nick, he's kind of he's matching them in well maybe beaten them in terms of like thickness and density, but for me, Nick has to bring the quads up. He has to bring the waist in, and he has to bring his chest up. And I I I don't I don't know why people don't really talk about his chest very often because I think they're too busy looking at his his back and his delts and his arms and, you know, uh and also his legs from the side and the back. But I don't think anyone really addresses the other weaknesses of physique that so I think with Nick all he needs to do is try to do what Ramy did in 2020 and just balance everything out and and forget the scale. Um I mean maybe maybe actually do use the scale to see if he can if he can pull it down because for me I do you think he's stubborn or do you think he's act do you think he's actually trying do you think he's taking um critique on board or he's just going do you know what I'm going to do me I'm going to do it my way and I'm just going to come in I'm going to try and hit 300 pounds at 5'8 whatever he is you know may do you think do you think he's one of them or do you think he's actually capable of actually taking proper steps like Rhoden did in 2018 like Roelly did in 2016 do you think he's capable of that or do you think he'll kid carry on exactly the same. >> He's capable of it, but I'm going to wait. I'm going to hold reserve judgment until we see what he looks like the next time he gets on stage. If it's even bigger than he was at the Olympia and the midsection is as big or maybe even bigger, then I'll know, okay, he's just about being a freak and he's just gonna play to his strengths and not worry about what the critics say and but his placings are going to go down. You know, there's there there are guys with great aesthetics now. I mean, we got Samson, we got Andrew. We have people that have all this mass and this better superior structure and a small midsection. Uh, it's going to be tougher and tougher for Nick if he doesn't if he doesn't conform to the aesthetic standards or bring his bring that midse. It's all about the midsection. He could lose a little size and he's still going to be the biggest guy up there in terms of thickness and density. He doesn't need to be too thick. >> I just uh I think this is a real make or break time for him now. I know he had those couple of years he wasn't doing the Olympia and he, you know, the fans really slammed him for it, but I think this is a real I think we're really going to see where his head is at in this next um this next next show, whether he does the Arnold or just does the Olympia or maybe goes for the spring shows. But I think we're really going to see what he's made of. Um because I think because he's someone who he comes under a lot of scrutiny because he does have a huge fan base and I think a lot of um and I think a lot of people now a lot of I've seen some of his even most loyal fans kind of turn on him a little bit and I think it's sad to see because you know we saw the same happen with Jay in 2008 and then 2009 you know so I've seen it happen like guys like like I said Jay in 2009 they can if they really if they really apply themselves and they really really apply a sort of um a plan of action and actively work towards it. I mean, I'll be honest, I think Dennis James um and Chad was the the turning point for Ramy in 2020 because >> you know, Dennis James had Ramy in his house and he needed to do that to literally keep his eyes on him so he could he would do absolutely everything necessary. I just don't know whether I personally can't say I don't know Nick well enough and I don't know his mindset well enough to see if he's I don't want to say intelligent enough because he's a very he is intelligent but I want to see if he's capable. Uh, I'm trying to choose my words carefully here. Capable if he's able to, you know, like do what Ruy did in 2016 because honestly, mate, when when Rudy came in front of me and me and Ronnie, we hit that shot like most muscular. It's like it did the the picture looked photoshop because I was like, how can you how can you get the physique bigger, you know, and also not just keep the wid midsection similar. I mean, he didn't. He actually made it smaller. So, whatever these guys are doing, they've proved that it can be done. And like I said, I think um I think um I think with with um with Nick, like I said, I think it's definitely the midsection. He has to address that. He can't deny that anymore because thing is the judges might really because I mean I've seen a lot of people say that um you know a lot of people think that Brandon Curry did deserve to beat Nick. So that would have taken him down to seventh, you know. Um who was who was eighth? I can't remember right now the top of my head. >> Was Bon >> Antonio >> Antonio? No, Bonak was Bonak. Antonio eighth and then Bonak ninth and then Veto 10th. Right. >> So, you know, these guys, it wouldn't it wouldn't have taken a lot for those guys to beat him really. Um, I think the judges um I think the judges recognized the the conditioning and then the size and stuff like that, but um I feel like they won't give him another pass if he doesn't if he doesn't bring something a little bit different. Um I think I think they're going to spank him for it. So, I think this next year is going to be very very important for Nick. [snorts] But I I will say this, the Pittsburgh show this year was it was great for Nick because he had just missed out on the Olympia a few months before and he lost some fans and taking second here, I think, was the best thing could have happened in terms of regaining those fans and getting more new fans and followers because so many people thought he deserved to beat Derek because Dererick's thighs, his quads I should say, they were definitely downsized here. They had lost their pop. You know, Nick gets criticized for his quads, but I think Nick's quads were at least as good here as Derek's were in Pittsburgh. So, even though it was a blow and he didn't get the $100,000, I think that the two the Pittsburgh Pro worked out very very well for Nick Walker this year. Was probably the best the best reception he got out of uh even, you know, he won the New York Pro and the Olympia, but this this was the highlight of the year in terms of Nick's popularity. So sometimes losing isn't a bad thing. It was not a horrible thing. Anyway, you there Jos? >> I completely agree. I completely agree. >> Yeah. >> Samson, when he got second at the career show in Yeah. When when Samson got second at that career show in 2020, I interviewed Samson and I said, "Samson," I said, "The I said, "You getting second place here has actually probably done more for you in terms of, you know, attention, popularity, um, you know, people rooting for you than it if you won." So, sometimes it's not always losing a show doesn't necessarily mean that it's always the worst kind of outcome. can actually um depending on the circumstances like like Nick at um Pittsburgh or Samson at the 2020 career. I think sometimes it can actually go in your favor depending on the circumstances. >> Yeah. All right, let's move on to another one. Sam Sullik, of course, this was uh a guy that I never thought was going to compete. I thought he's a social media bodybuilder. Uh millions and millions of followers. He has almost 7 million followers on Instagram, almost four and a half million on his YouTube. Yeah. so huge on social media but never had stepped on stage and this year he finally did it. He got up at the Arnold amateur classic physique did his own prep, coached himself, came in very very good condition and he walked away with a pro card. So I had to step back and and change my opinion of Sam and say this kid is the real deal. He's a pro now. He earned it. Even if it wasn't strong, I I I know I shouldn't diminish his victory, but it wasn't the greatest lineup. But you know what? That's not his fault. He He picked a show that was right there in his hometown, Columbus, Ohio, and he walked away with the win. And feel good on this kid. I'm I'm I'm no longer going to say he's a social media bodybuilder. He's a real bodybuilder, and he deserved he deserves uh all the accolades that he's getting. This was uh the overall post down right here of the overall comparisons. Go ahead, Jaws. Yeah. Can you hear me? >> Yeah. No, he looked good. Um, I think doing the Arnold Classic as well, I think doing the Arnold Classic as well was a was a good move for him because I remember Andrew uh when I was on the tour with him last year and he told me he said he said the reason I went for the Arnold Classic amateur. He says if I can't get my pro card there then I'm not good enough to be turn to turn pro. He says I could go and do this show or that show and not travel as far and you know technically be an easier win to get my pro card. He says but I want to test myself at what is probably most likely to be a more international higher you know more competitive event. So um so I yeah I um I I kind of respected Sam before. He wasn't kind of my dem I'm not really his demographic. I'm not a young, you know, broccoli head teenager training at the gym, you know, that um you know, on White Monster and pre-workouts and stuff, but you know, I I get I get he fills that need and um I don't really follow his stuff, but um yeah, I think he does a great job and I think he did um yeah, he definitely I think he definitely earned um kind of a bit of respect really that uh that I think he didn't have before, you know, doing a show like this because he actually did, you know, test himself at one of the biggest stages is on the in the world and uh got his pro card. So, I I was really happy for him and um yeah, I'm looking forward to him turning pro as well. I mean, sorry, uh doing his pro debut. >> Yeah. Well, that will happen in uh early March at the Arnold Classic. He's going to do the Arnold Classic. Uh because everyone that wins the Arnold amateur in any division, I always knew it was bodybuilding. I think it bleeds over into every division. You're you're qualified, you're invited, I should say, to the next year's professional stage. So, we will see him up there with whoever shows up. Maybe it'll be Mike Somerfeld, Logan, Terrence. We don't We haven't The list should be coming out any day now, but uh curious to see how he how he does as a pro. Good on him. >> Yeah, I I I don't want to be I think I mean that's a big show to do to go up against those kinds of standards. But, I mean, the end of the day, I like the fact that he's testing himself. um it's better to come 11th or eighth or something in a really really tough show than go do some obscure pro show and get first or second that um you know at least he's challenging himself. He's having the balls to go up against uh and also do you know the he likes cats. I like him. Do you um do you know do you know do you are you aware of the the body weight limits what he was as an amateur compared to what he can be as a pro? Because I mean I'm looking at his physique I'm thinking he's going to struggle against someone like a Summerfield or um you know a Logan guys like that. I think he's going to struggle. So, I'd imagine he'd have to put on a significant amount of size or even, you know, add a lot of quality, you know, muscle that's going to balance his physique out even better. I think he's um I think he might might struggle in an Armor Classic if he's if he's um if he hasn't got any room, any wiggle room, basically. What do you think, Ron? >> Well, I know, you know, from from amateur to pro, they get another I think it's it's roughly 10 pounds difference for the same. So, but he was he was close to it. And I remember I don't know the exact weights, but I remember when this happened here is with our wheels. When he turned pro, a lot of people were saying for him to fill out and have the the density and the and the thickness, even though classic's not all about size, but the the people were talking about they have more more mass than he does. He would probably have to be well over the classic limit. So, it's be interesting to see what he looks like. he will have 10 more pounds. And I'm also curious if he's going to continue doing his own prep because how many how many of the top coaches would jump at the chance to work with Sam Sulliv? >> I think that's a bit of a bit of a gamble for somebody at his stage. I think um I think really he needs to be jumping in with a Hanni Rambo or a Sito or a Patrick Tour or you know one of these top coaches because he's it's a huge gamble for him to um uh to be coming into an Arnold Classic in your pro debut. Uh yeah, I think he's I I think he could definitely I mean I'm not I'm sure the kid's very knowledgeable. I guess I don't really follow his work, but um you know he's got himself to this level, but um you know to go from winning your pro card as a classic to then not just competing in a pro show, but competing at the Arnold Classic. >> Yeah. >> Um I mean I I mean obviously he's not going to say no because Arnold is really, you know, Arnold and Brian P are really going to want him in the show. Um, so he's a big he's going to be a big uh a big pull by doing it. Um, but I'm not I'm not expecting him to come in and be top three, top six, but you know, for that reason alone, I think that's worthy of respect. Um, do you know if he's doing any other shows apart from the old classic after it? >> I don't, but I wouldn't I wouldn't be surprised. It would it would make sense for him to find one of the less competitive classic show >> as well. As well, >> you know, because they have there there's one every damn weekend. They're all over the place. you know, go to Nebraska or Alaska or Timbuktu, somewhere like that. Well, you know, you've already you're making your debut at the biggest one of the second biggest stage >> in uh in bodybuilding on the Arnold Classic stage. >> I I think if he even if he made top 10, I think that would be a huge relief and a huge win for him. >> Um because thing is, you know what the fans are like? They'll be thinking he's going to come in and win this. And you and I know that that's just not possible. No disrespect to him, but I mean he's I mean he's very young, isn't he? He's in his what was he mid20s? >> Uh he's like 24 now. >> 24. Yeah. So I'm not looking I'm not looking I'd be very shocked and very happy if he made top 10, you know, because knowing the standard of what I mean you look at like I mean let's let's just be realistic. Let's he's got a great physique. The the kid looks fantastic. He's got his pro card. Um but look at the top 10 Olympia top five Arnold Classic guys and they're like, you know, these guys are on another level. Um, so I I hope he's so that so I think I think he really like look at these guys. I mean he's not in that he's just not in that league, but I'm not going to say he couldn't be, but yet he is not he's not at that level. So if he could get like say eighth to 10th, I think that's a really good starting point. And I think he'll earn a lot of respect as well because if he can just get a good starting point in his pro debut, everyone knows he's young. everyone knows that he's um he's going into the second biggest uh classic pro show on the planet. So, I don't think I just don't want those those well those fans or whatever to be disappointed if he doesn't make top six because I don't see him making top six. But, you know, if he can squeeze in that top 10, then at least then he can say, "Well, this is the start of my journey and uh just give me a couple of years to get going." And I'd be interested to know where he is in terms of body weight with his cap as well as a pro. Um but um I do think if I was if I was like advising him or whatever he asked me, I'd say, "Mate, you might benefit from you know, you're on a whole different it's a whole different ballgame now. You know, you're not just in the in the pros. You're competing [clears throat] up against the top pros." And I think really he could benefit from having uh someone someone like a Neil Hill that's not just going to give him a diet and just tell him how to train because he knows how to train. He know you know and I know his his diet's a bit crazy but I think um he could do with someone to guide him. I think that's what he needs. I think cuz cuz thing is it's a whole it's a whole new arena when you're competing you know it's like um you know when you're going into that level it's it's it's like you said it's like it's almost like a different sport altogether. So and I don't want him to get chewed up and spat out and also to be discouraged because um you know even if he gets 10th 11th or if you see he doesn't even get placed I don't want him to be or his fan base to be too disappointed because you know this is a huge leap and he's doing it without a coach. So, I think um I think maybe a Neil Hill or Patrick Tur should get a call from him. >> I I suspect that, you know, Sam is he's a very smart guy, too. I know in his heart of hearts, he was good enough, his knowledge was good enough to get him that pro card. But if he wants to continue and and have any chance of placing in a pro show, he needs to he needs to en enlist some help from a Neil Hill or aceto or somebody anybody that's just very very experienced >> and high level at that at that. >> He he reminds me of where I was when I was coming out of the novice and intermediates where like the ne there was no classic back then. the next step up was like the heavyweights or super heavyweights. And back then it was like Zack Khn, Daz Ball, and like Alvin Small. And I was like, where the hell do I go from here because, you know, it was such a leap up. I was just like, well, I'm pretty much done now because the next level up is so far away. Um, so I just um Yeah, I just I think um I'd love I think Neil Hill would be a really good fit. Or Patrick, I think. What's What do you think, Hannie Ramod? >> Well, Hy is retired, so >> Yeah. Yeah. He still props Honey. He still preps Hadi though. >> Yeah. Well, I I think that's it's they've never come out and said that, but I would be I'd be very very surprised if he did not prep Hadi. Hani and Hadi. I always mess that up. Hadi. Um, but yeah, I I I I agree with you. Somebody who's a very hands-on like a Neil Hill or Patrick Tour would be would be ideal >> because Patrick and Neil are very good. Like you look at like Flex Lewis, uh Franchesco Barios with Patrick, you know, these guys, they're they're very good at guiding the younger younger guys because they're almost like almost like a father figure to them in a way because it's like you said like um like Flex Lewis, you know, he needed a lot of >> uh molding and reassuring and guiding, you know, from this this guy from Wales and now he's, you know, he's literally in a couple of years he's, you know, with the 220 coming along, he kind of had something to jump into that meant he could be a success straight away. And like, you know, you think about how how rapid, you know, how big a jump it was to go from competing as a light heavyweight at the British finals or in Wales to then competing as a 202 in a pro shows. I mean, it's like there's a lot of it, a lot of it psychological, a lot of it is um we've seen a lot of guys get chewed up and spat out. I mean, like, you know, I remember I interviewed him the second time and he said I said, "What's the you know, you you got successful very very quick. What was the difference?" And he said, "Well, to be honest," he said, "I got myself a mind coach." He says, "And to be honest, I didn't realize how beneficial and how much I needed it until I got it >> because you know these guys they can we've seen it happen where guys sort of just they they some I'm sure if you really thought about it some names of you know they they come out of nowhere there's a lot of expectation and then they get they kind of get chewed up and spat out and they're kind of discouraged. Remember Trey Brewer? Oh, I mean if we really really thought about it, we could come up with probably a hundred names from over the years >> because it's [laughter] it is a huge leap up. You know, I remember like well with my ex and stuff when she was getting ready for the Olympia, I I would probably be doing a 45minute a day in the kitchen reassuring her and getting a psychological ready from winning pro shows to going into the Olympia as like technically one of the favorites. >> Yeah. >> You know, as rookie of the year. So it was like just um to go from that a lot of it was a lot of it was the the psychological pressure and I think that's where I think that's where behind the scenes we don't see a lot of these what goes on in some of these pros heads because um you think about guys that are climbing up levels. Think about what um you know certain pros that you know are moving up and you know you think it's a smooth transition and you don't know psychologically the strength and the and the the challenge it takes to keep moving up onto that level and the next level the next level and not just stagnate or move backwards or just you know or just quit altogether. [snorts] >> Yeah. So we wish Sam the best. Let's turn to uh this was definitely a very significant story. We almost lost Lonnie Coleman this year. >> You were You were sort of entangled in this story because >> I lost my hair. I lost a lot of my hair from that, mate. >> Because what happened was uh for those >> You nearly lost me, mate. You nearly lost me. >> Yeah. So, Giles uh was set to do an Olympia allstar tour with Ronnie. I think it was your third tour with Ronnie. Fourth, >> it would have been >> fourth. And the night before, so he was going to fly out to UK the next day, he collapsed after uh an appearance and was taken to the hospital with sepsis, which is an infection and it's it's the third leading cause of death in the world. Um millions and millions of people die every year from sepsis. [snorts] And Ronnie was in a coma for I think it was two weeks. Uh it was it was touch and go there. You know, we know he had the very best medical care, but still, this was this was Ronnie, a guy who's 60 years old. [snorts] Uh, it it could have ended very very differently. We could have lost this great eight time Mr. Olympia and this this wonderful human being. you know, luckily he pulled through and everything, but yeah, you found out the hard way because you were you were supposed to pick him up at the airport the next morning and uh you know, you wake up and your phone is is full of messages, right? >> Yeah. No, I had messages from Honey Ramald, uh Susan, his wife, Sean, his assistant, and uh there was other people trying to messaging me and saying, you know, obviously cuz they they were trying to get the message to me of what what had happened because I literally got up at 5:00 a.m. and I was about to drive down to Heathrow. It's like four or five hour drive and then pick him up for about midday. And then I woke up at 5:00 a.m. and all these messages and I was just like, Lauren, [\h__\h] They said Lauren's in Ronny's in the hospital. And I was like, what? So obviously I was thinking straight away I knew you'd missed the flight. Um and then uh Sean rang me and then Susan rang me because she was at the airport uh by herself at Dallas airport ready to catch the first flight the next morning because Ronny's daughter was with Ronnie when it happened and it was their first trip ever away that they had had just together. So she she was on you know because she was seeing Ronnie acting strangely and being rude to fans which is you know I've never seen that once. So obviously she she rang her mom and says, "Mom, you know that daddy's acting a bit weird. You know, he's being rude to fans. Is that normal?" And she says, "Absolutely not. Put him on the phone to me." >> So anyway, long story short, you know, we know what happened. And um and yeah, that was uh I mean, I was obviously at the time I was like kind of they were feeding me information, but they were saying, "Look, Charles, don't tell anyone what we're telling you because you're part of the inner circle, but just follow what we're putting out on social media, please." because I was getting messages from well I won't say but there was like big names and they were saying Charles what's really what really is going on I said I'm so sorry I just can't tell you I said I don't want to be the one person that shares that information to you and then you share it to someone and then they share it to someone and it's like it's just right now you know they need to keep it contained uh they need to be sensitive to Susan and the children and everything because on the Monday because I spoke to Brendan on the was it the Wednesday or something and he said because he'd been out there for three days uh Brendan Ronny's business partner And he said, "Jars" he said, "I'm satisfied that Ronny's pulled through." And I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "Well, Monday," he says, "Um Susan was signing um for Ronny's like organs to be donated >> because Yeah, because they they they like Monday." They said, "Look, this is the next 48 hours are going to be crucial. Certainly the next 24. I mean, if he makes it through the first 24, there's like a 60% chance he's going to make it through the second day." And then by the day three, they said that they he was stable. Um, plus they flew him by air ambulance to um to the sepsis uh unit, like a specialized unit. And I think by the Wednesday, Thursday, they knew that he was at least going to live because on the Monday they said they were literally just they were it was like the body was they were trying to work out whether the body was going to because it can shut the organs down and it's a really horrible way to die as well. >> Um, but I spoke to Ronnie was on the tour a few weeks ago and I said, "What what what was it?" And he said, "I had a cut on my leg." Uh it was a cut on his leg and he said he had some cellulitis and he said that's what basically that's what they think caused it. >> Wow. >> So um but yeah it was it was terrifying. I mean I spoke to Susan and I mean the strength I mean she was literally in an airport by herself ready to fly out to Ronnie um you know to the because she obviously the daughter had to go stay with the promoters um the promoter and and the wife. So she didn't know them. So her 13-year-old daughter and her husband is in this situation that she needs to be out there for. And obviously it was happening very very quickly. But um yeah, I mean you want I had um I had breathing issues for about six weeks after that. It took about because I couldn't I was struggling to train because I couldn't it's called respiratory depression. It was triggered by the stress of you know everything because it wasn't just obviously Ronnie but also had to sort the tour out and reschedule everything and obviously there was large sums of money and stuff. So there was a lot there was a lot kind of going on that and obviously people messaging me and stuff and I didn't want to share information because I mean know I you know Ronny and and his team they trust me so I didn't want to be the one to put that news out and uh and cause any additional stress because like I know Chris Cormier messaged me and he knew he basically told me what I knew and I couldn't confirm or deny it and I just said I can't remember what I said but I don't I don't think I responded or maybe I just like put a thumbs up or something >> but um yeah that was that was scary man. It was real touch and go there. Um but um yeah, >> the the one thing that you said immediately after it was uh it was actually a blessing that it didn't happen while he was on the imagine because it's a long flight from Does he go direct from Texas all the way to UK? >> I think there was I think there was one change one. No, no, no. It was uh was I can't I can't remember. Um I I think it was one change cuz the next flights I got direct but um yeah because we yeah I think it was one change but uh they did say because Brendan said to me he said look that was 24 hours away from being your problem and he says and he was told Ronnie was told if he'd have got on that flight and the symptoms had shown up on the flight by the time he landed he said he definitely would have been dead. >> Wow. >> Absolutely. There's no there's no doubts. He said it was >> it was kind of it was unlucky but also very very lucky. But could you imagine like me being at the airport, you know, now it comes like a paramedics with Ronnie on a you know I just the the whole idea of it was just I mean I've got to count my blessings and you know for everyone because it worked out. He pulled through. He was in the right place kind of at the right time. Yeah. >> And uh thank God he survived. But um I think that's why that last tour we just did was so it was so extra special because Susan came on that tour with him because she was because she said to us like like Lauren was for about six months or a year after my heart surgery. She was you know every tiny little if I said ow or any tiny little thing she'd be like what what she'd be like she said um and I said to Susan I said look Susan I said Lauren went through the same thing with me. said that protectiveness, that feeling of, you know, you're just you you want to be with him all the time and make sure he's okay and you want to check on him 24/7 and the fact that there was no option than you not coming because you wanted to make sure that he's okay and I mean he was absolutely okay on the tour. He was absolutely fine. I mean, we used to get a bit tired sometimes. Um but we just kept a close eye on him, but um yeah, he was he was he was fine. But it was extra special that tour because the fact we just managed to get it done and you know thinking because his heart's still only working at about 50 60%. >> Um it was at 20 and then he had the the heart valve replacement and it was up to like 40 50 and he said by the time I check he says again he'll probably be working on 50 60%. And then he's going to once he gets back to 80% which is probably around now they're going to allow him to start back training. >> Yeah. So obviously if it happened on the plane it would have been awful. But even if it he had landed in in uh UK, say you had just started the tour and it had happened you he would I'm sure you have decent medical attention in in the UK and everything but he would have been away from his family and it would have been it would have been a whole other situation if he had had to be in the hospital in the UK for a month or however long it was. But yeah, you got the tour. You guys got it re rescheduled and everything [laughter] everything went off. >> The universe universe unravels the way it's supposed to apparently. >> That's right. No, I I I to be honest, I think that I I do think that, you know, but um and and also the tour was amazing as well. And I mean that was 10 10 stops as well pretty much back toback. We had one day rest. >> Wow. Um but um yeah, it was it was it was good and it was um I was very it was a very good feeling when you know we waved them off goodbye and it was all done and dusted and everyone was happy all the fans, all the gyms and you know it was uh because you know it's so intense day after day and then the next thing you know that it's done and you know it's and you're on to the next one you know. So um I was trying to run it yesterday actually. He was messaged me yesterday morning. >> He seems good. I think I asked him if he's I haven't asked him if he's back training yet, but I know he was really really really Oh, he's dying to get back training. He said he said hang on the tour. He said I'm another two months. So that's well probably around around about now he's probably going to be able to start back training. So I think that's um that's going to be a real cause for celebration because you know what Ronny's like. He he needs to train. He loves training, you know. So >> he's one of us. He's one of >> All right. Next big story was >> Ronn is he calling you now. Samson guest posing. So this happened in Romania. It was six weeks before the Olympia and this broke the internet, the bodybuilding internet, social media platforms. Uh he was looking far leaner than we'd ever seen him at that point out. But many people noticed he did seem like he was looking a little downsized, which as we know now in in hindsight, which is 2020, we can say, wow, they were him and his coach uh wife Marina, you know, they were taking a they were taking a gamble. They were doing what they were supposed to be doing in terms of getting him into a level of condition we'd never seen before, but at the risk, the very real risk of coming in much smaller. And we now know he ended up at the Olympia 20 pounds lighter than he was when he won it. Uh and he dropped all the way down to fourth place. Was it 25? So yeah, I mean I remember you were you were very concerned when you saw this video came out. Well, I was up training um with me and Lauren had a weekend up in Newcastle and Lauren was at this um this assessment thing and I was I was training at a gym that I sometimes I took Lee Priest to called Viking Gym in Heaven and I I finished training and I watched the videos and my heart sank and I was like no because I could see yes he was slightly sharpening the glutes and the hams but I could see that he was losing size. So anyway, I got to the I got to the comments and I was like what the heck? I was so shocked. Everyone was like oh my god he looks amazing. I'm like and I thought I I can't remember I can't remember whether I said anything or I can't I didn't say anything but like I remember thinking no he's he looks smaller and I I just couldn't believe the comments. The thing is you know he would have been reading those comments thinking yeah I'm bang on target. Um um and the goal was to maybe I don't know eat back up into the show or something. But I just thought I just I was concerned mate. I was really concerned because you could see that he was clearly like quite a lot smaller if you compare to how he looked at even the Arnold Classic, let alone the Olympia when he won the year before. Um but um I was really I was really confused because I don't know why when you're when you've won the Olympia and you've you've brought a look that won it, yes, you could be harder, but maybe that was actually the best way to present your physique at its best. >> Yeah. Um I don't know why he started listening so much to the got to get leaner, got to get leaner, got to get leaner. Um and also the tactic of not using the scale because I think by there you would have you would have been able to compare the difference in body weight. Uh I mean look look there. I mean Andrew there at the Arnold Classic looked like Andrew needed 20 more pounds to be competitive with Samson. And at the Olympia it was completely switched around. It looks now that Samson needs 20 more pounds to be competitive with Andrew. So, I mean, I I don't know. I I I I'm sure he just wants to try and forget about this Olympia as quickly as possible because it was an absolute disaster. Um because um I mean, I my my feelings were quite clear on the live watch party. I was just like I was so disappointed for him because to be there I know how much being Mr. Olympia would mean to him, how much he loved it and how hard he worked with all the appearances and and also how hard he worked because he was I think he just had it in his head that the whole conditioning thing conditioning conditioning and I like I said imagine it was like a freaking woodpecker on his bloody you know like yeah you've won the Olympia but you know your conditioning wasn't great and it's like he just kind of pushed too hard. he went he kind of got a bit maybe a bit bit obsessed about you know getting that conditioning and it didn't work out. So I can imagine how disappointing it was for him and like I said I I've made it quite clear I think he should have been fifth. I think um I think Martin had him. Um but um so I just um I don't really know what to say about it really because it's um I'm sure it's something he just wants to put behind him now. Um, but also I was thinking about this today actually like he also did kind of what did and he did something that I didn't think was actually possible but the way he clawed it back in those two weeks between the Olympia and the and the Prague show >> like uh I mean I was I was I had my head in my hands every time I saw these updates. Oh, I'm back up to this body weight. I'm back up to that body weight. And I was just like oh no, you're just going to you're going to blow it. You're going to you're going to blow the midsection. You're going to over carb. You're going to spill over. And having said that, I think he I think he did an absolutely fantastic job in um Prague. And um I mean it was a completely different Samson to the one we saw at the Olympia. It still wasn't like 100% Samson because the back wasn't kind of like it was at the Olympia last year. Um but it was in two weeks I think he performed an absolute miracle. And up to that last round of posing, I think this is what you're showing now. Up to that last round of posing, I mean you can watch the live stream. I literally could not decide between Martin and Samson. And it was only in that last round opposing where I felt like Martin really really really pulled ahead because Martin really managed to maintain his peak beautifully over those two days. Um and Samson just up to that last that very very last round was um was he was really really holding it and like I said he just kind of fell apart in that last round. that he started sweating and it's like he just literally deflated and smoothed out and and uh whereas Martin just kind of just, you know, just managed to just just just pull ahead in that very very very last round. >> Yeah. Well, we know from Samson's updates uh in his videos, he's definitely not going to try coming in leaner at the expense of being any smaller and losing mass and fullness. He's already up to goodness, what is this, 352 pounds or something. Ron, Ron, what do you think about that, mate? What do you think about this getting to 350? Because he's he's what, 40 years old now and he's getting to pushing body weights to that kind of level. That's 25 stone, mate. I don't I'll be honest, like, you know, I've had my own cardiac issues and I'm telling you, mate, doing that at that age. I'm not sure that's sensible, mate. What What's your honest feelings? Uh um I'd say if he's taking all the precautions in terms of working with doctors, having his blood work, his heart scans, and he's not risking his his health in in life in any way. You know, some people are more prone to that kind of damage than others, and I don't know where he would fit into that spectrum. But yeah, I I do agree. In general, getting bigger and freakier and heavier at 40 years old and up is typically not the best idea. And you know, you as someone who survived a heart attack, you have a whole different perspective on that than the average bodybuilding fan probably, you know, you know, once you've stared down the barrel of your own mortality, you know, you you you have a different way of looking at these things. But yeah, I don't know. But I I know for his career and if he wants to get his Olympia title back, he probably does need to get bigger, at least as big as he was before, if not bigger, because that was what won him the Olympia. And that's uh that's what he that that's a strong point. the mass along with the shape and the structure that he has, it's deadly when he's 90% condition. Cuz I didn't even see any better condition at the Olympia at 280 than he had been at 300, 305 pounds. He just got smaller version of the same guy with a lot of the back the back was missing a lot of fullness and pop and the legs were a little bit downsized too. >> The for me the only thing say let's take Prague because that was more like the Samson we know. I mean like let's forget the Olympic cuz that was just whatever happened. I mean he just I mean we're watching the live watch part and his arms, his legs, everything just looked I mean it was a disaster. Let's just forget about that. But let's let's look at Prague is more like the Samson that we know and love. I think that the only thing was his legs weren't they were like 95% of what they were at the Olympia but the um his back that was the only thing I don't know whether he started training his back differently but like I can see it there like his back isn't like even in the frontal bicep it's not popping like it did at the Olympia the year before I mean if you if you need to check just go and literally you know get a laptop and a phone or whatever and hold it like his his front laps there is um you know nowhere near like it was at the Olympia last year because I actually spoke to like I said one of the judges and she said Um, she said Samson was a lot better than the Olympia, she says. But the only thing that didn't come back as much as all the other body parts like from from the Olympia to Prague was his back because his rear lap spread at the Olympia when he won it last year was freaking amazing. I mean, his real bicep was a great shot, but um because I remember when I saw the shot and also his front lap spread at France and the Olympia last year was beautiful. I thought it was incredible. So I don't know whether I don't know what happened to have to lose quite a well not a lot of lot of thickness but it kind of because things with Samson his physique is about symmetry and proportion and like look at him there to be honest I think my favorite my favorite part of Samson's physique is when he walks out >> I I honestly like because honestly when he walked out at um Prague I kind of like I jumped in my seat I was like why because his physique really looks like like say like Dorian's physique used to come together in the compulsory poses but then you used to see the picture of him with his Olympia trophy at the end and he just be stood there nor and it's like you think that's a Mr. Olympia. It just the physique didn't look right. Samson's physique looks its most most appealing when he's just walking out with his head down and you see that beautiful midsection and the the wide shoulders and it just and because he's got an amazing chest, fantastic legs, you know, he's got great everything just flows. Everything just it looks everything flows beautifully in perfect harmony. But um that was that was um so I was kind of really I was excited when I saw that the at the Prague show um because he's um I just the only thing is I I mean at the Arnold Classic yes his his midsection did get a little bit tiny bit wider um but uh I mean that's that's really that's really nitpicking but um I would love to just see him bring that package again you know because I thought like the olymp this Olympia finals um look that he brought when he won I mean it won in the Olympia. So there's only there's only 20 guys in since 1965 out of all those hundreds of thousands of bodybuilders. So that look was good enough to win the best title in the world. And most importantly, he deserved he fully deserved to win it. Um you know um but um I just I just I don't I I I I'll be honest. I just panic. Maybe because I have had my own cardiac issues, but I think when you No, no, seriously. I think when you get when you start talking about body weights and 350. But the thing is the problem is though he carries it really well. >> Yeah. >> Like that video you just showed there where he's posing. I mean what is he 340 350 there? >> Over 350. 350. >> His abs his abs are still sharp. Like he's not he's not carrying any there's no body fat. It's just he looks like a kind of like a a swollen version of um what he is when he is on stage. So what you how can I say okay don't get to 350 360. I just I think the thing where my my alarm bells start ringing is when he starts focusing on body weight >> rather than the actual physique. I'd rather be hearing him say, "Right, I'm going to war on my back and I'm gonna get my back, you know, like like when Jay knew he had to bring his back up to be competitive with Ronnie. He started doing two back days, one width day and one thickness day." So that's what he changed and in 2005 he came on stage, turned to the back and finally he was hanging with Ronnie. So, I'd love to hear something like that where it's like say Nick say, "Right, I'm going to bring the midsection down by three inches and I'm going to record it with a mid with a with a tape measure." And it's like I don't want to hear him go into 350, 360, 370 because to me that's meaningless. >> Um because it wasn't body weight and it wasn't, you know, that one in the Olympia. It's his proportions. It's his symmetry. It's the small waistline. It's the, you know, just the just the balance and the, you know, the fact he doesn't really have a weak shot. Um I don't really want to hear about body weight. I don't think it's relevant. Well, the only people who are going to be pleased if he gets to 360, 370, I think 360 is happening within the next few weeks, you know, the people that don't really understand the sport and how the physique >> like, whoa, he's 370. Wow. You know, 400 pounds. Oh my goodness. You know, they don't understand how that's going to equate to the stage. >> Yeah. But Ron, it didn't help Greg Kovac. It didn't help NASA. >> No. No. >> Do you know what I mean? And you know, see what I mean? like you know and also like it's just I I just think because it's a lot of thing is you know how much work it is to hold even 220 230 or whatever you know to think about like the amount of eating and and the stress on his digestion and stuff like that I just think I would say to make you don't need to kind of get to 350 to 360 to sort of come back in people's eyes or maybe in your own psychologically maybe in your own mind you don't need to do that you just need to do like 20 extra pounds to me is is meaningless I mean, you can do that by bumping up the carbs or adding in a bit of junk food or bumping in some insulin or something like that. You we all know how to get heavier, but does that make him a better bodybuilder? I just I want to see him back to basically what one in the Olympia, one in the Arnold Classic, and that's a really, you know, I don't want to see him I don't think if he came on stage 20 pounds heavier, we're going to be like, "Oh, this is a 20 pounds better version of Samson that we saw." Because he's won the two biggest titles in the world, >> right? Um, and I just I just I just think it's I don't think there's any point in, you know, only focusing on body weight because um maybe he enjoys it. I kind of I mean Jay always said he says like you know the getting to was like say 300 pounds or whatever. He said it was the eating it was like a full-time job eating every hour and a half. He said it was a drag. He said even now today he doesn't even enjoy food because of all those years of pushing the food that much. Like Ronnie said when he worked with Chad Nichols the biggest thing he changed was his food. you know, it was like from 10 ounces of chicken every every meal to 16 ounces now to get up through the night to eat food. It's like that is really really intense. And I just I just I just hope that cuz thing is also all that food's in that midsection and if something does to be I don't know if something grows or stretches [laughter] or whatever. Like imagine if he came on stage and his physique, everything else was looking beautiful and then kind of like Nick Walker where the the midsection is just drawing your eye and all the abs are gone because you know he's not um Samson is a is a beautiful physique and the center of the physique is the midsection. So if he ruins that, you know, uh if anything, I want to see him come back with a smaller waist, you know, not a not a bigger waist. So, because I think that would that would help him because everything then it'll make the shoulders look wider and the quads look bigger and you know because the end of the day it's all an illusion. >> All right, let's move on to the feel-good story of the year. This made everybody happy. Beani from Iran. Uh he had qualified for the Olympia I believe three years in a row 22, 23 and 24 and could not get a visa. And then finally through the grace of God and the US customs and immigration and ICE and I don't know who Homeland Security whoever whoever it was that was responsible. I don't know which agency it was. He got the visa and he finally got to stand on the Olympia stage. This was the official announcement right here on his Instagram. Uh and you know it was a you couldn't you couldn't be happier because this is a guy that he's just a workhorse. He comes in show after show, consistently in amazing condition, deserved to be on the Olympia stage for years and just because of politics, international politics. Had nothing to do with him, was not ever was never able to get here. So, wow. This was a happy day for all the bodybuilding fans. I think >> I've I've not seen this video you're playing now, but look at I can't hear the sound, but look how happy he is. >> Yeah. >> Like I remember because I'll be honest. Um I'm trying to think I mean apart from I'm trying to think of another time when I've been proved completely wrong and also been at the same time been really happy to be proved wrong because I had complete I would have placed any amount of money that there was no way he was getting to the Olympia this year. So when I heard the news I didn't actually I was even I want I actually doubled I had to double and triple check. I think I was on the group chat saying Miguel will know, you'll know. Who knows? Anybody got any anybody got information and I was messaging several people in, you know, the pro league and stuff and judges and officials and because I honestly thought it was an absolute nogo. I didn't because I heard he was in the military and all that and I obviously with what's going on, you know, geopolitically, I was a big word. I thought um I thought there's no way he's getting there. So I was really really happy to, you know, to find out that he um he got out because the thing is imagine you like um qualifying every year doing what it needs to you need to do to even you know like I said even getting a qualification is a huge achievement to do it three times three years in a row and not be and also you got to keep yourself in a state of um readiness. You've got to be an opponent state readiness because you got even if you get like when um Hadi did in 2019 he only knew a week before but he had to keep himself in condition. Um although I'm sure that Beiru maybe as a backup plan so the prep didn't go to waste because at the end of the day the odds of it happening a fourth time was probably more likely than him getting the visa. So we probably thinking well the worst comes to worse I'll just go do Romania or Prague or something. Um but um I was so happy and I know how much it would have meant to him and his fans because you know the Iranian fans are very proud very very supportive uh loving fans and so I was this was one of the feel-good stories of 2025 for sure and I like I like Berus I think he's a cool guy and um and I'm just I look forward to seeing him at the Olympia again. [snorts] >> Yeah I mean the the the mental resilience to be prepping 100% how many people could do that when you're not even sure and especially one, two, three years in a row, it's been denied and you didn't get to go to the Olympia. You know, how how was he able to even have the the optimism or the belief that he was going to get to the Olympia this year? I mean, I think we've talked about this before. It's like, can you really be 100% in your prep if you're probably you're very very uncertain? It's very unlikely you're going to be able to get to the contest. So >> well well like I said you'd have to have a backup plan and say look okay best case scenario um we get the visa and we get to do the Olympia great and then you know that's the only that's the only goal worst case scenario we don't get the visa and then I just carry on prepping another two or three weeks and go and do one of the post Olympia shows which I know I can get to but um I mean so that's the only that's the only caveat I can think of that would keep keep anyone going because uh you can be as mentally strong as you want in the world but if you're imagine training like you know obviously we were amateurs you know competing and stuff. Imagine training for something that you didn't even know was going to happen. I mean I don't think I don't think I could be I don't know I don't know unless I was put in that scenario because thing is there's more at stake for these guys because it's like you know no one gives a [\h__\h] whether you or I compete but you know that whole countries are behind Beirus and you know and guys like Hadi. So, um I can only imagine that it takes a special type of um because I think I think more and more I think we're learning in bodybuilding, you know, that I know we've we've gone over the genetics argument, you know, we we all look there was a stage in all our in all our lives, you know, individually even as when we competed that um you know, things like genetics play a role in how good you could be regardless of how hard you work or everything you do and having the knowledge. So um but um with uh having that mental strength to to keep going I think is I think it's something that's not really talked about enough as in the importance of whether you make it or you don't get anywhere in this industry >> 100%. So you know hopefully this means he won't have any more problems securing a visa in the future. You know we don't know obviously but >> Oh he got hit. >> Do you think do you think he'll do the Arnold? I'd love to see him do the Arnold. You know, I'm waiting. It's We're recording this on December 11th. That list has to be coming out any day now. >> Good. >> I'm wondering if it's going to be tomorrow. I wish I had the inside scoop so I could [laughter] >> I've got Brian I got Brian P's number if you want. [snorts] >> Well, I mean, I I could message him, but uh I don't know if he's going to tell me. [laughter] >> Oh, yeah. because it yeah I think I think the Arnold Classic is quite an interesting anomaly because it's it is invite only and um it's funny because sometimes competitors don't know they're doing the prep or even doing the show until they get the invite, >> right? >> It's uh imagine like not even oh do I start prep invited. I put the application in. Um, and then if you're one of the bigger names, maybe you had no intentions of competing and then all of a sudden you see the invite and you think, well, the thing is now with the kind of prize money that's on the line, it's like, would you I mean, if even if you had your plan and your coach all set out, right, we're going to do uh do New York Pro, we're going to do the Olympia, we're going to improve on our eighth place from last year, you know, whereas if you're um you know um if you're doing the Arnold Classic and that kind of money's up for grab, you know, you're one of the front runner, then you're going to do it, aren't you? >> Yeah. Most people know this, but but just to just for those of you who don't, first prize for the 2026 Arnold Classic is $750,000. $34 million. By far the biggest cash prize bodybuilding has ever seen. So yeah. >> Wow. >> Who's going to say no to that? >> Cool. >> Another feel-good story, and you did reference the miracle bear, Erskinsky. This is a time when you and I were both very, very wrong, but we were both so happy we were wrong. I did not expect much from Urs uh making his open debut this year. I remembered him as a classic guy and I wasn't a massive fan of his physique in classic. I thought he had it had some gaps in it. Uh the arms, the back and when he showed up at this uh which one was first? Italy was first and then he did the one in uh Germany. >> Correct. >> I was just blown away. And he won his first two open open bodybuilding shows. I mean convincingly. It wasn't like I don't I don't remember too much controversy about it. You know, poor Quint Quint uh Quint Beast had to go home again. He took four second places this year. Quint four seconds and one third place. But back to Earth. Um we didn't see this coming. And you know, I I'm so happy. So happy. >> I did not see this one coming. And I and I to be honest I keep you it's funny because you know this is somewhere where I like I'm I'm sort of positioning myself as some sort of expert and the one thing I'm most happy about is when I'm completely wrong >> because for me you know um regardless of what I do first and foremost I'm a fan and the thing is with being a fan we like to see surprising things happen because when you get so experienced and you know like you and I have been in the industry 30 35 years scrutinizing and analyzing all these shows watching these shows following these athletes knowing getting to know them, getting to know their mindset, their physical, their mental capabilities, you kind of have like a like a sort of an algorithm in your brain that is pretty good at predicting what is really going to happen. So when I said, "Oh, I think he's going to be like eighth place or fifth place or something if he's lucky." >> When to see him come in and prove me wrong, it gets me so excited about the small. It's things like this that stop me getting bored. >> Do you know what I mean? Especially with these smaller shows where you may be seeing the same guys for the sixth time in a row and you know it's oh it's you might have one new guy in there that you know a local or something or somebody from America looking to get an easy qualification you know so when stuff like this happens it really it really fires me up so thank you for for for creating like a lot of excitement you know because like I said maybe it's the third or fourth show and you know it's the same lineup same dies you've got Quint got you know Lewis Breed and this guy that guy and it kind of um you know by the third fourth fifth show you kind of get a little bit um okay here we go here we go again. Um so because obviously we have the Arnold and Olympia usually the most exciting shows and you got like Dubai now and a Pittsburgh show you know these other shows popping up but um you know this was uh this was a really pleasant surprise and um he did I mean you know I mean I was arguing back and forth with people saying you can't put 30 pounds on the physique be as good and and he completely proved me wrong. So, I I love stuff like this because it keeps keeps us on our toes. And um and I think once he brings that back up, I mean, I think I think really if you look at his age and you look at um where he is right now in the rankings, you know, this guys like him, Veto, um who are the other guy, guys like Quint, you know, these are the guys that are going to be the next generation who are going to be in the top six, top 10 Olympia in the next two, three years. So, um because these what is he still in his 20s already? 30s. >> I think he's only 28. >> 28. So, you can imagine where this gu is going to be in another two, three years. So, I'm um yeah, I was I think this is one of the most exciting cool things that happened all year to be honest. >> And we got to give him credit because he's one of the few that did not post updates. We had no idea what he was really looking like. We did get uh the news a couple days before the show that he was 260 pounds and you and I both were like, "Oh no, there's no way he was like 230 at the end." the chocolate guy or >> 228. 228 is a classic. >> So, we're thinking there's no way the condition is going to be there with 30 more than 30 pounds. It's just not going to happen, you know. Good on him. It'll be a nice try. He'll maybe get top five if he's lucky. Um but yeah, again, we love being proved wrong in a case like this. We're both overjoyed at how wrong we were. >> But also, he really like it shows you that um like because I was thinking, hang on a minute, guys. top three at the Olympia. He's winning multiple pro shows as a classic. What the hell is he doing stepping out of his comfort zone if that's where he is supposed to be? >> Yeah. >> You know, and then but actually as an open I much prefer like you I I didn't like that last year he did in classic when he got third Olympia, he had those silly white hair. >> I I didn't like where his physique was going. I thought like his upper body wasn't as hard and he was lacking separation and detail that he had had previously. his frontal bicep. Um like the lines were starting to go and I was thinking but still he was still top three in arguably it is the most competitive class in in the men's you the classic physique. I mean look pure numbers and quality and quantity there's no I don't think there's any dispute in it. So for him to step out I would have said to him like he said to me I want to go open because I want to I'd be like mate stay where you are for god's sake you know because are you going to be top three in the open? Are you going to win a pro show this year? Like I would have I would have really begged him not to go over to open but you know I think his physique as an open looks so much better. I really I like what I'm seeing and I can see like the front lat I'm seeing glimmers of a young Dorian and you know and you know that okay when he brings the back up when he brings the arms up and maybe put and thing is his body clearly wants to grow. So, if he can put 30 pounds on, even if a lot of it's regained tissue, um, like starved off tissue, I mean, imagine him, it's probably not going to be even hard for him to put on eight to 10 pound in the next year, and that that's going to make him look completely differently. Plus, he's a tall guy, so you know that there's a lot more that can be done with his physique. He could be improving every year for the next five years and bringing a completely different package, you know, like the tall guys can because the short guys, they like the Hadties and stuff, they tend to they they it's more of a case of just kind of bringing the same. So, um, I can imagine I can imagine the next couple of years he's just going to because, you know, he's he's he's he's he's well set up, you know, with with finances and everything else. He's kind of he's in a good spot. He's he's he's used to being a top guy in the world and handling the fan base and all the things that come along with it whilst also improving. He's he's got his head switched on. So, um, the next couple of years, I can't wait to see what is going to bring. >> Oh, I agree. I think he's in a great position right now. You know, he's like everyone else. He gets he gets critics critics saying, "Oh, he's too narrow, this and that." But give him time. Give him time. He's only had one one offseason where he was able to actually try to grow these other ones. >> He was holding back significantly because he knew he had to get down to 228 for the past few years. Now that there are no restrictions and no limits, >> he's got a great team. He's got boss of Outlaw. He's good friends with Mark Fu. 's got a great girlfriend, sponsors, every the stars are aligned for this kid, the Miracle Bear Urs. >> And also also, it's not like he won a pro show where there was like eight in the lineup and it was some, you know, low-level pro show. He won two pro shows and they were big. They were big lineups and he won them, didn't he straight first, both shows? >> Yes, he did. >> I mean, God. And thing is, you know, people were disappointed he got, was it 13th or 14th Olympia? Um, I think that's a really good starting point for someone who was literally in the classic the year before to then go and, you know, like and actually, you know, look like you belong up there. Um, I think, um, because I I think he's going to be higher than 14th next year. I mean, I think that's an absolute given. So, for him, you know, I think he should be very very happy, you know, that um, a he took the decision to jump, you know, because the end of the day, it was a huge gamble because think sponsors could be like, well, hang on a minute. if you're if you're you're not going to be third at the Olympia in the Open this year, why why should we, you know, um renegotiate your contract, say, for example, or why should we continue, you know, giving you a five-year contract instead of let's just monitor it one year because now you're you're a big fish in a little pond, you know, you're now you're a little fish in a big pond. So, um but he proved him, you know, he took the gamble. Um and also he probably because by the sounds of it, he was really suffering mentally as well as physically by pulling himself down to classic. It was kind of thing is when you're putting as much work as you need to do to do a prep and to get ready for a show, any show, um especially when you got a weight limit and you're not enjoying the process, that's that's that's hard. That's hard mentally to keep going and to really bring the best version. Uh and also to enjoy what you're doing. Oh, there's the article I wrote. But >> yeah, I was gonna say there's your name. Yeah, he's signing an MD. >> I get everywhere. [laughter] >> Yeah. Wow. I had to pull that up to see who wrote it, whether it was you or me, but you wrote that one. >> Look at abandon thigh shot. Look at I love his front. And the thing is, he's got some really good shots. The abandon thigh, that front lat spread. Um, even his front little bicep because his arms still need a bit more thickness. He's got he's got some really, really strong shots. But I think for me, once he brings the back up, then I think he's he's going to be a threat. I mean, not just a threat in these smaller pro shows, but I think we're like talking like top three classic. >> Oh [snorts] yeah. I mean, you know, people who know their history, Ronnie Coleman took last place in his first Olympia. I think Jake Cutler was last or second to last in his first Olympia. >> 13 13 >> 13. So, >> yeah. So, he's same same. He was the same. >> Yeah. So, exactly. So, give give her some time to grow. He's young. >> He's a tall guy with a big frame. He's got everything in place mentally, physically, support system, everything everything points to this guy doing nothing but rising up the ranks from the rest. I would for 2026 I would love to see him bring the back and the arms up. I'd love to see him win at least one pro show because I don't think he needs to win multiple pro shows and I want to see him in the top 10 Olympia. I think realistically for the stage he's at and the age he's at, I think um like if he can move up say 8 to 10 at the Olympia, win a pro show, keep putting on the six to eight 10 pounds, I think that's um that should be that if I was him, that would be my ultimate goal for next year because the kid is, you know, he's he's he's already um he's already had a hell of a career and he's still only 28. Yeah, let's So, my dream scenario would be he pops up at the uh assuming the German show is again a qualifier for the Olympia. It's not late. It's not too late to qualify Olympia. Pop up at that again, blow that show away. >> Get in the Olympia and crack the top 10 and start working your way up. >> Yeah. Or see him do like say top five Dubai or something. >> Yeah. Yeah. That's July. It's not too soon. Uh, you know, we'll we'll probably get some announcements from him soon as far as his 20s 26 plans, but Miracle Bear Ers Kachinsky, congratulations. You were one of the biggest success stories of 2025. So, >> thank you for proving us wrong. >> Yeah, we love being [laughter] love being wrong in cases like this. Uh, so that those were some of 2025's top stories. I do have more in store coming up. uh the ones I have. And guys, this is where your comments are going to help me determine the uh the way the next show goes. I have uh the Masters Olympia controversy, Derek Lungsford winning the TRT trip Triple Crown, uh Sarah versus Nicole controversy, Mike Somerfeld's Hairgate. >> Oh yeah. >> I was gonna put a story involving you, but I like we've done that enough. Let's cry. >> No. [laughter] >> No. >> It was a big story, but we're done. We're done. >> Please. No. Please. No. Don't bring to bed. >> I'd rather talk about having like a sex change or something than than talk about that or or something horrible come up from my past that I was hoping would be dead and buried or something, you know? >> Okay. [snorts] So, uh those are the ideas I had guys for next week. The ones I the topics I planned on discussing. But in the comments below, this is where you come in and you can change the course of the next episode with whatever you tell me. Cuz I'm forgetful. We know this. We know my memor is not great. So sometimes, you know how I came up with most of these stories? I went through Nick's strength and power videos. I love Nick [laughter] because he's always got the top stories. He's basically the I won't say TMZ. He's more like Sports Center. You know what Sports Center is? So ESPN's that big sports network uh in the U based in the US and they have a show that's been on since ESPN started in the early or mid 80s called Sports Center where it's basically clips uh of all the big events the top stories the big games the big plays. It saves you time so you don't have to sit there and watch hours and hours of football and basketball and baseball. They sort of encapsulate it for you and bring it to you in a in a like a newsy way. And that's that's kind of like what Nick does on Nick's Strength and Power. >> Yeah. >> You know, in six six 10 minutes you can get all the three or four times a week. That's all that's all you need to watch to know exactly what's going on in the sport of bodybuilding. >> I think he's um he's he's quite fair. Like I don't really watch a lot of his videos, but he's quite on it. He's quite profession. He's very professional. Um, he's got the respect of Arnold as well because Arnold, I've seen Arnold speak about him and you can Arnold doesn't [\h__\h] you know, he's not one of those corporate guys who, you know, he won't if he doesn't really feel it. You know, he's quite and he doesn't really speak up for people unless he really feels it and thinks it. So, I that's a huge thing for him as well. But, um, yeah, I like Nick. He's he's done a good job. Does a good job. >> Not only that, he has an interview with Arnold on his channel. >> Flex, it flex. >> Arnold doesn't do too many YouTube interviews if if you guys uh don't realize that. And he had Nick did the uh did the Giles thing. He did the live stream commentary for the Arnold a couple years ago. >> Oh, right. Okay, cool. >> Yeah, they brought him on for that. So, yeah, they think very highly of him. He's an Ohio guy. I'm sure that doesn't hurt. >> Oh, is he? >> Yeah. >> Poor guy. [laughter] >> Oh, he's he's got a he's got a nice house out in the woods. He's always bears and raccoons and mountain lions coming around to visit him all the time. It's pretty crazy. I don't know about the mountain lions. >> Ron, one last thing. thing. I know cuz we like to go off script a little bit and talk about other stuff. I know we all like good training music and I talked about this on the group chat, but I have discovered and I can't I hang my head in shame for not discovering this band before because you're like me, you like your slip knot, your five finger death punch. We like good heavy stuff to train to. >> Uh when you're posting stuff, we always like to, you know, put the music to it and we're quite similar in our taste of music. Parkway Drive. >> Yes. >> Australian heavy metal band. And I I've just downloaded two other albums. I can't even tell what the albums are called and I am just jumping up and down around the kitchen and I can't wait to go to the gym tonight and train on it. But I tell you what, guys, if it's like an Australian version of Five Finger Death Punch, honestly, and I think they're actually I think they're almost as good. >> Huh. >> Seriously, Ron, get on to it. And also Poppy as well because she's um Evan Essence, you know, Evan Essence. >> Yeah. Yeah, of course. >> They're doing a world tour and the first the first date of the tour is in Leeds, which is 40 minutes away. So, I'm going to go see them in September and she's supporting. So, check check out Poppy. It's like um it's like heavy metal. Um but partway drive guys like that is one of the most most exciting discoveries u musically. Um because a friend of mine used to be a judge guy called Paul Crook ran a big supplement. Very well-known guy in the in the industry. He used to be my music guru and he sadly died of cancer a couple of years ago. >> Um he got me into Five Finger, Slipnot, Seleura and all these other type bands and stuff. But um yeah, Parkway Drive guys, there's some just check them out on Instagram. Um get some music downloaded. I tell you, get it on your on your phone or your iPod or whatever. Put your phone on flight safe so you're not checking your texts and being because that's really starting to irritate me in the gym's mind. It's getting it's I don't know whether I'm just noticing it more or whether I'm just getting less tolerant, >> but um yeah, but that is that is proper training music that and that will that that's good for your um good for your sort of uh you know your main heavy set. So Tiger recommends >> this is going to sound make me sound a lot less hardcore so be prepared. But I don't really do top I I don't get psyched up for the top sets the way I used to because I'm not getting any stronger. I'm sort of just maintaining the muscle. I use the music more now for the cardio because cardio for me without >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Without music that drives me it's like unbearable. Like >> I've had times where like my my head my headphones weren't charged like oh no now I have to do cardio without h it's a slog. I I've tried doing cardio watching podcasts and I can't do it because I got my literally my treadmill's right here in the studio. Um and uh I can't podcast it just it it's too boring. It's too I need music to keep me going because I I put it right on the full incline and I'm really like just just today I was just I was going crazy honestly on the on the on the because things like music it does because we are most most people are musically stimulated and it does help connect with your training and you know your your mood and stuff like that and it does get you going you know it's like instant motivation. I mean not it's just instant fire. Yeah. So, um, but yeah, Parkway Drive, man. I mean, I'm just I I can't believe because I saw a couple of their things on Instagram like in the last couple of years and I was like, "Oh, that's kind of like my kind of music." But then I really looked into it and um like they've been around 20 years as well. But um yeah, so I don't even know how they escaped my but apparently they're they're huge in Australia, but they're just starting to crack it, you know, internationally. But I'm telling you, in terms of production and and also they got like a lot of strong tracks, you know, like you get some heavy metal bands like um Disturbed, you know, the there'll be like one or two tracks and I couldn't even tell you any of their others. >> Um you know, like Queens Reich was Silent City or something. They'll have one one or two good tracks and the rest is just kind of so so. >> Um but um yeah, Parkway Drive, man. like um I think uh because I'm I'm getting bored of not getting bored of Five Finger Death Punch and and Slipnot and stuff, but it's it's a lot of the same stuff, you know. So to have some like a whole catalog 20 years worth of this new music, I'm so fired up at the moment. I love it. I love it. Cardio is going great and um you know, so and also sorry for not turning up last week, but I had like um it wasn't a cold, it wasn't flu, it was kind of in between. >> Um and then it set my heart off. My heart was jumping all over the place. And then when that happens, I get really tired. >> Yeah. So, uh, I just couldn't I couldn't do it. But I'm fine now. Back to normal. Started back cardio on Monday and I'm back training tonight. >> It was [snorts] a kind of slow news week last week anyway. [laughter] >> I was struggling to What are we going to talk about this week? So, actually worked. Things usually work out. Things usually work out for the best in general. I think I don't I think everything happens for a reason. >> I don't want people to get sick of us, Ron. [laughter] >> Yeah. Well, I don't want to discourage people from watching this podcast during cardio. You should definitely watch this podcast during cardio. >> True. for those of you who do the uh that steady state slower just walking cardio if you're not cranky, you know. So, >> or you can just keep rolling your eyes to all the [\h__\h] I'm coming up with. >> All right. Well, guys, yeah. So, uh we're going to do part two next week of the top stories of 2025 because we still have couple weeks left in this year 2025. And uh if you have any topics you want me to cover or think are worthy of being covered, big news stories, big news items, definitely put it in the comments below and I will take them all under consideration. >> Yeah. >> Oh, I think the uh the um the Andrew Jack tour is going to be split into two now. >> What do you mean split into two? >> Well, it's um it's growing and also his demands from Scitec, his new sponsor, are kind of coming in between. So I said look why don't we have why don't we split the tour into two halves because otherwise if we put it in one you know scitec are going to need you for stuff it's going to get so he's basically I want to fulfill the demand um but I also um you know because and also I've done the we've done the agreement myself and stuff like that so he's keen because he really wants me to take him to certain countries he's really keen because he said he's got a big fan base in these certain parts >> we were hoping to maybe add America but I'm I'm I think January I'll decide on that one but um yeah the demand on the Andrew talk Because I think, did you see what Jay said? Jay Cutler said, "I think um" He said, "Exactly." Because I messaged him about it and I said, "I think I said Jay," I said, "I think Andrew is going to win everything next year like Derek did this year. I think he can win the Arnold and the Olympia and the Arnold UK." And um and then two weeks later he's posting saying, "I think you're doing jaywalking." He says, "I think next year," I says, "I think um another" and TK said it as well on Prime Time Muscle. He says, "Another five, six pound of muscle." And I think it's a wrap. I think um I think it's going to be because remember you I think you and I I think you said a couple of times you said you think over the next several years you think the title's going to be changing hands regularly you know it's going to Derek Samson it could go back to Derek go to Martin it could go back to Samson you know but I think um I just funnally I just I I really do think that uh >> Andrews uh I feel like his stars are aligning for him now and I think he's got I think he's capable of winning it. I think he's capable of winning everything next year. Oh, I mean anyone who disagrees, you know, we don't we don't have eyes. Yeah, you're a dummy. All right, man. So, we'll reconvene next week and finish off the best story, the top stories of 2025. Drop those comments in, guys. I love your feedback. Even if you say we suck, it all helps. So, comment away, good, bad, indifferent. So, Giles, thank you once again for uh lending me your expertise >> and your wit. Always appreciate it. Yeah. And that's it.