What's up, guys? What's up? The Olympia is over and the Olympia post Olympia tour is beginning right away. This Saturday, we have not one but two shows happening. We have one contest in the UK, the British Grand Prix in Bradford, UK, and we also have the Mexican Pro Show in Mexico City. So, I'd like to run through some of the top competitors at this. We got some really good competitors. Some of them were in the Olympia and did very well. Some of them were not in the Olympia, but uh let's take a look, guys. So, we have to start with uh definitely one of the most popular guys in the industry today from Slovakia, the Slovakian Superman, Michael Kozanic. So, Kriso uh has not been seen since the springtime. He took fifth place at the inaugural Pittsburgh Pro. Then a couple weeks later went to New York Pro, got third place behind Nick Walker and William Bonak. He is looking freaky right now. shoulders, arms, everything. This This guy's got an incredible herculan package. One of the thickest, densest guys in the sport right now. Huge fan base, and rightfully so. We love freaks in bodybuilding. And look at this. I I I don't know who has the best arms and bodybuilding today, but I think it might come down to either Kiso or Nick Walker. Kiso looks fantastic. Uh he is definitely one of the favorites heading into this show. This is uh we're going through the British Grand Prix entries first. Uh but he is he's one of the favorites to win this guys for sure. Let's see what else he has here. Uh this is some really good updates from a week ago. So this was about a week and a half out. Look at that. He is a freak. He has one of the freakiest, most muscular poses in the sport because you see everything there. Crazy strided, thick chest, delts, traps, quads are excellent. I'm trying to find some back shots for you guys because the back is where he hasn't been as impressive in the past. But geez, look at that. Such clean, clean, crisp separation between the muscles. That's what we don't see a whole lot of these days. I wish we saw more. Take a look at him real quick from Pittsburgh Pro earlier this season. Here he is in the middle. again, he ended up taking fifth. Pittsburgh was a great great lineup. Obviously, we had Derek Lunsford, the new not new, the two-time Mr. Olympia champ won that. Nick Walker took a very close and very controversial second place, but Mike wasn't that far behind over there in fifth place and third in New York, but looking fantastic. Creo is uh definitely definitely a favorite, as I said. Next up, we have the shed. And I think I'm going to go to his coach, Chris Tuttles. Chris Tuttles got some good footage there. This was the Tsunami Showdown in France where he placed sixth. Uh I felt he was flat here. They they didn't seem to think so. Uh because you can see Chris Tuttle's assessment here was condition was spot on, which I agree with. No issues. said he was full, but we can be fuller and be less conditioned. As weird as that sound, I I don't think being less conditioned is ever a good idea personally. Said he was 265ish on stage. We need to be around 270. I do think he was a little flat here. Um I saw it mostly in the arms, the chest, the upper body. Legs on him are always fantastic. James has some thick thick legs, thick back. He's just a very thick guy. Super strong. That is his money shot right there. That side tricep of his, it's up there with to me like Ruby was one of the best in the game right now. As far as guys who aren't top Olympia competitors, side tricep shot on James is awesome. Go to his page for some recent updates. I'm going to look at some of your questions, guys. So, when was this? That was nine weeks ago. That's not recent at all. Come on, Ron. Find something new. New. Okay. see him and his baby. All right, here we go. This was this was posted today. So, this was four days out from the show. Five days out again. Two shows Saturday. We're talking about the one right here, the British Grand Prix. Of course, he's going to do that. Uh he's actually won that before. He won one of the shows. Tremendous back condition. This see those hamstrings? I wish Andrew Jack's hamstrings look like that. just a little rounder, a little fuller, more drop to them in the side poses because that's all Andrew Andrew really needs. We're not talking about Andrew right now, but I just had to bring it up since I did see some great hamstrings there. So, that's the shed. See if you guys have any comments or questions yet because I don't want to fall too far behind. What's up, Connie? Old Chuck. Sad day for the sand. Now, I knew you guys weren't I knew somebody would immediately talk start talking about how bummed they are. Derek Chrysle should win the UK show. He's definitely one of the favorites. In fact, I'm looking here thinking who could beat him. Sassan might beat him. I don't know if he can beat Sassan. These are Hades of Grand Pri many Olympic careers on the road in Europe competing four or five. I remember uh sometimes it was seven or eight 10 shows. They'd be out they'd be out in Europe for like six weeks and a lot of times they'd be in one country on a Saturday and then they would have to like take a bus overnight or a train overnight or or fly and be in another country the next day to compete. That's how much they competed. Derek is a worthy champ. He's getting a lot of hate right now. Raymond, so much hate. I think Tony will win Mexico. Yeah, we'll get to Mexico. And I agree with you on that. From what I can tell, George Farah has been working wonders with Cruis. Yeah, that's right. Creo has a new coach in George Pharaoh this year. Creo B it would have been better than Derek anyone. So the last place guy Kiso been looking really good. Sad the biggest UK show outside. I don't know. UK is more prestigious competitive. Yeah, I would have liked to see some more people on it. I'm hearing Kriso has been working on his posing. Yeah, because we all remember that video uh where Steve Weinberger was chewing him out for being I think he said that was awful or something like that about his posing. But here's James again. That side tricep shot to me that's his best pose. James is really really good. He's going to push CO. Uh on paper CO's ahead of him at this time, but you never know. You never know what's going to happen. All right, next up, let's go to Sass. Sass on Harate. Where did Sas place at the Olympia? Sass was Sass was not in the top 15, guys. Gez, told you that was a tough show. There's 20 guys. Uh, he was SAS winning Toronto. He won that and he won the Emperor show in Spain this year. Uh, but he's got a tremendous physique. Sass very complete. uh gets in great great condition and I think this will be like show number seven for him this year. He's done a lot. Oh 16th he's posted right here. Here's a shot from the uh from the Olympia. Oh, this is that was somebody's phone recording the a computer screen. So I don't want to look at that too long. Got a headache. Yeah. So SAS ended up in he did not make top 15. There were five guys who tied for 16th because they don't they don't place after. You can see that right there. After 15, they don't they don't bother. Everyone after 15 is 16th. So 16th at the Olympia was uh SAS, Changong Shen from China, Dorian Haywood, Akim Williams, and Brett Wilin. Uh let's see. I know SAS has some good footage on here from Detroit, though. That's what I want to find because he is a tremendous competitor. But the Olympia is the Olympia guys. I mean, look at that. That's a great shot for him right there. I love I love Sass's quads. The shape, the separation, the detail. That's how quads should look in my opinion. Everyone should have quads that good. They don't though. Not everyone does. If I scroll down, I'll find New York Pro. That's a photo from New York Pro. Oh, there's a good That's a good shot from the Cal State Pro. That's That's a Gilko picture. It's got to be a Gilko picture. They do such good work. But look at that condition was bang on. He held his condition on all those shows and they went for months. It wasn't just like week a weekend back to back. It was months in a row. It's tuttle. Never mind. They always fool me with the thumbnail. I always think, "Oh, that's the posing footage right there, right?" It's not. It's not. It's just a thumbnail to get me to to get my attention. Give it one more second, guys. Find the posal. Here we go. I think Yeah, there we go. This is a cal state routine for SAS. Very complete. He does have a uh this bicep, the left bicep is torn. You really only notice it in the front double bicep pose. I don't I don't see it distracting in any other pose, honestly. Yeah. So, the calate, you could tell he actually tightened up a little bit after this. This was not his best best look of the season. It was very good, but he tightened up a little more after this. The Toronto show, he was tighter than this. Sass is very very good. Who we going to look at next? Matias Holoc. Yeah, we're going through all the I'm going through all the shows. I'm sorry, all the competitors, the top competitors that'll be in uh in the UK show, the British Grand Prix. Before I look at the Mexico, Mexico actually has AI think a better lineup. Yeah, it does have a better lineup. What am I saying? So, Matias Holwick from Germany is in this too. He's a very good competitor. A former He's coached by the boss, Boss Vlaw. A former classic physique pro. This was him last year in Prague, the show that was won by Martin Fitzwwater, narrowly edging out. six-time classic physique Olympia champ Chris Bumstead, who made his open debut and possibly the last time we'll ever see him on stage. Third place was Sean Clarita at that show, who had tremendously filled out since the Olympia. Uh the Olympia four weeks before had been a disaster. Very, very flat. He had worked with Matt Jensen. Matt Matt was not really on the ball coaching anyone last year. He was just uh I think he had like one one one and a half foot out the door as far as coaching already at that point. Anyway, Matias Hullwick from Germany looks really really good. I'm just going to see if there's a a more recent update because I'm sure he's actually probably added a little bit of size. So, this was not really sure where this was, but he's an excellent poser. He hits a lot of those classic physique poses as an open bodyb bowler which you know you see Ir doing that too. You're going to see more and more of that because a lot of the classic guys are moving up moving on and leaving leaving classic physique for what they hope will be greener pastures in the open. I want to show you Pablo Pablo Lopez uh Pablo Yopis Elopis from Spain. I I should be able to pronounce that because I I do speak some halfass Spanish. That's old. That's old. Here we go. So, this is his most recent update. Pablo. It's double L, which is a Lier. So, I'm going to say Pablo Ropis. Great conditioning. I think we've seen across the board very consistent conditioning at most of these shows from a lot of different people. Haven't seen too many people show up at these uh at any events this year. Like really off. So give credit to these guys. They're really they're trying their best. Some full body shots. And we'll move on to the next guy. So great shape. Very roundful. Look at those delts. Very rounded full. And that was three days ago. So that was about a week out. Yeah. Looks like a young guy. That fresh that fresh muscle. It's going to get more mature and detailed as time goes on. Looks to me like he's probably in his late 20s, maybe 30, maybe 30. From Italy, we have Musila, Andrea Mutzi. So, here's Miy Andrea Mutzi. There's two two really good Andreas. was Prey, which I actually prefer Prey's physique a little better than Muzzy. Mosy, but here he was today. This was his most recent update. Solid physique. Solid physique. We'll see how he does. Look at one more of his updates possibly. That's training. It's a good shot. Great front lad, huh? I mean, that's a that's AI wish I wish Nick Walker had a Vtaper like that. I'm crapping on Nick Walker. No, that tomorrow night, the Meatnight Meatthead podcast, we're going to talk a lot about uh what we feel like the next moves for Samson should be. Nick Walker, Mike Summerrfeld. I think we'll also address this Sarah Viegas controversy about that awful post she made today about Natalya where she lost a lot of a lot of fans and a lot of followers over that. But we'll get into that tomorrow. We're not talking about that right now. So, we got one more guy to look at. It's not Juan Prais from Spain. It's Joan. So, I was looking for Juan. Could not find him, but I did find him once I got his right name. It's Juan. Not Quan Ju, it's J, which I've never seen. I'll give him a follow with that. All right. So, this is today's update from Joan. You can tell he's a very young guy. He's probably like mid20s. Good size, great shape. I'm not wowed by that condition for being four days out. Uh I'd like to see Yeah, that side leg looks pretty blurry to me. And I'm wonder if the side leg looks like that. I'm guessing the back isn't very detailed, but we'll see what he can do in four days. I don't know. I don't think that's water. I think that's a little fat that he need to get rid of. Okay, he punches very hard, so I don't want to piss him off too much. He's going to get in a cold plunge. He's going to pose before he jumps in cold water. Yeah, he's a he's a kid. You can tell looking at the face he's a kid. He's a youngster. Great quads, though. Look at those quads. Nice and round. Look at that sweep. The quad sweep is largely genetic. I understand that. Let's see. Keon supposed to be doing the show. Well, Keon is doing uh Keon is doing the Prague show uh next weekend. He is going to make his open debut somewhere around 220, we've heard. What's up, Smoke Dog? Keon doing Prague. Yeah, Gryo was definitely having issue with his left scapular region. So, hopefully he can open up. Yeah, he had that shoulder surgery, which you know, it's it's not easy coming back from major shoulder surgery. I think he had torn rotator cuff or torn torn labum. Not easy to come back from a shoulder surgery. Jack was huge. blah blah blah blah. Martin will win Prague. I don't know, man. We'll see. What about Keon? And we'll see. Andrew Jack might be jumping into Prague. We'll see. We'll see. Why does Classic Jo Yeah, I don't know. Starline. That is a That is a weird weird thing that they do like that. All right, I'm going to get back to uh I want to start start getting into uh Mexico. So, the Mexico ProAm is also happening Saturday. Two open pro shows on the same day. Uh, and this is going to be another open show for the giant killer, Sean Clarita. So, Shawn made a tremendous showing at the Olympia. Uh, I know the scores said that Keon won with a perfect score. Rightfully so, but that that doesn't mean it wasn't close. It doesn't mean that he totally blew Shawn away. I thought Shawn, this is probably the best Shawn I've ever seen. Uh, really put together. This is even his shape. The only thing that holds him back a little against someone like Keon is his clavicles are not very wide. That's your bones. There's nothing you can do about that. But look at the package he brought in with a new coach, John Jwitt, uh who's a who's a pro himself. Obviously, you guys know John Jwitt. And I'm not sure how long they've been working together. I'm trying to get an interview with Sean. He's probably a little occupied right now. He hasn't gotten back to me, but I don't know how long they worked together for the Olympia, but geez, he looked fantastic. I was so impressed with the way he looked at the Olympia. to that. In fact, I want to go to Gilko. Gilo Productions, guys. I use their I use their pictures a lot. Uh, and I give them the credit, of course. Uh, and their videos are just a lot of times when the when the live stream is poor quality, but I know that Gilo was there, I wait I wait for the Gilo footage to sort of judge how people looked because that's a better indication of how they really looked. They have the the most advanced sophisticated video cameras probably that money can buy. And they get some crystal clear footage. I'll find you Sean because I was I was just very pleasantly surprised and shocked at how good Shawn looked at this show. I didn't expect it. I thought he's like 44 years old. 43 44. I think he's 43. You know, a lot of people thought he was going to be on the way out. uh or at least the physique would start to show some decline. But no, no, he he's looking as good, maybe better than ever. I think he looks better here than when he won the Olympia three years ago. Look at that. Look at that. That front double is beautiful. Great shape. Great quad sweep, bicep peak. He's really done a great job of controlling the midsection. Uh at one point it was starting to be an issue. it was starting to bulge out a little bit between poses. He's definitely either reduced his midsection or he's just making a much more of a concerted effort to keep it flat and sucked in all the time because you never ever want to see somebody's belly bulging out on stage. It's it's it just throws everything off. The midsection is the center of the physique. You know, Milos has said this so many times. He tells people to glue your belly button to your spine. Keep keep that keep that waistline, that midsection as small, as tight, as flat as possible. Sean's doing that now. But look at that, man. The muscle maturity, the detail that this guy showed, just spectacular. So impressed with what Sean brought. Now, he has won. He won the 2021 Legion Pro as an open at 178 pounds. He beat Sergio Leva Jr. and Rean Grimes, who are both somewhere in the 270 lb range. you know, almost a 100 pounds over. And I think Sergio before the show said, "If if Clarita beats me, I'll retire." But he didn't retire. I think he was just being silly. But yeah, here's some good shots from the Olympia with uh comparison between Keon and Shawn. You can see Keon is a much bigger guy. I mean, Keon was 211.9. Uh Shawn was probably about close to 180, I think. Maybe around right around 180. So Keon has about 40 pounds on him. I'm sorry that that that's some shitty math on my part. 32 lbs. But he just has a wider frame than Sean. A much bigger frame. It can hold a lot more mass. And I' I'd give Clarita that shot. The side try. I give K on the side chest. H I don't know. I might I guess I'd give Kon the rear lat because of the width, but in terms of back thickness, Clarita actually has a thicker back. You can see that right there. Not that Keon has a bad back. It's just Sean has so much more thickness and density in the middle there. Yeah, that was a great matchup, man. I'm glad that Keon didn't win just super easy with no one really pushing him and Sean pushed him. It's always fun to see more of a battle. And again, I know on the score sheet it says Keon perfect score, which you know that would indicate that it wasn't close at all, but a lot of us felt it was much closer than those score sheets would would give you any indication. See, between Derek and Dorian Haywood, give me Dorian. Ah, Phil Clay may say otherwise though. Oh, as far as who should have won the Olympia, is Mike the badass as hated as Derek? Nah, I guess Germans don't like him and I'm not really sure why. Tomorrow night on the meatthead podcast, I'm going to have uh Austrian Austrian powers is really Leo Marhoffer who has the Overcome podcast channel does great work and Leo is going to have a lot more insight to that because Leo speaks he's from Germany. He speaks fluent German. He knows the the German bodybuilding scene very well and he can explain that. So I'm going to look to him. Sass a damn good bodybuilder. Doesn't get much love. Saw us in person. He's the dest. Yeah, he brought the condition. clearly really took the wind out of Keon sales. So Fritz said the Germans hate Mike. Well, that's awful. It's those are his countrymen. You wouldn't I wouldn't I would never have thought that they hated him. That's that's actually kind of sad to hear. I wouldn't want that. I don't know why they hate him. I guess I'll find out though. I will get to the bottom of it, guys. Fear not. Fear not. Just want to put one more shot up of Clarita while I get to the rest of your comments and then we'll move on to the next guy. Oh, Roman just did an interview. We'll never back Mike. That's rough. Two types of people. A year's one January is doing many years last year's Olympia. This year's Olympia. Yeah. I mean bodybuilding fans we obviously our whole schedule revolves around the Olympia. They give a reason all in general why they don't like him. said this personality is fake as [\h__\h] See, how do you know when someone's personality is fake? United Kingdom is very underrated when it comes to body size United States. Majority of Olympians come from UK since 1965. I wouldn't say majority. No, no. He's an [\h__\h] for me. Jeez, that's rough. Yeah, he was being a dick to Janick. I did see that. We're talking about Mike Somerfeld. He comes off that way a bit in interviews. Maybe that's why he moves around a lot. He was fine. He did an interview with me about six months ago when him and his wife were in Mexico. I think they don't really live anywhere. They just sort of move around the world. They live out of a couple suitcases which is crazy. I could never do that. Surprised Janicki. Yeah, Janicki is a big dude. He's what, like 62, 63. I wouldn't put up with that [\h__\h] Do you agree with the results Olympia? Uh, most of them. I mean, I didn't have a lot of issues. I really didn't prep. They just don't do the collab. Well, it's hard to say no. when they, you know, Janicki has a lot of followers. So, when you do a collab with him, it it helps your channel tremendously. Eric was just feeling well. I mean, people wouldn't have talked about the interview, the uh the video so much if that if if Mike hadn't acted that way. So, I think it worked out for the best. Shocked they weren't getting along at all. Chair throw left. All right. So, we're going to move on to our next star. uh competing at the Mexico Pro this weekend. And I think uh aside from Shawn who took second in the 212, I think Antonio would be your favorite because Tonio just did place eighth at the Olympia. I believe that's the second time he's placed eighth. He was eighth two years ago as well. Uh you I wish I wish Gilko had gotten some footage of him. They got pictures. These are Gilko photos right here. I mean, he's got a beautiful physique. He really does. Just the shape. He I hate to keep remind comparing him to Dexter because that's not fair. He's his own his own person. He's a unique physique in and of itself. So I don't need to keep comparing him to anybody. But that's why he's able to do so well as a guy who's he's only about 220 pounds, 225 maybe at at about 5'7 or so. I mean, that is a when you look at the height and weight, I mean, Nick Walker is probably about the same height as him with another 50 pounds of muscle, but bigger isn't always better. Yeah, Nick did have him by two places at this Olympia, but I actually prefer as far as the aesthetics and the shape and the symmetry, I prefer Tonio's physique a lot more over Nick's. Great chest thickness. His back is just ridiculous. Back is insane. I'll find another picture, guys. Another Olympia shot. What's this? I don't know what the heck that guy was. He's out in the crowd. That's a nice candid shot of walking off stage. Are these his coaches? I suppose his squad. So, Tonio Burton. Yeah, these are some good shots from Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. He missed last year's Olympia because he had a motorcycle accident and he got second degree burns and I saw the pictures. It's mostly on his legs and his forearms and stuff, but he was messed up. Luckily, it was just flesh wounds and it all healed and he doesn't have any any crazy scars that I can see. But look at that. His back shots tremendous. Condition was right on. And if you follow Antonio, he never got out of shape. Uh, since he won, did he win Legion this year or did he win? I can't remember what show he whatever show he won. Look at that back last one more time. Jeez, it's like a cobra. He's got one of the best backs in the sport today. Die shot is tremendous. See, he has that little split between the abs like Keon. Keon has even more more of a gap in there than Tonio. But Tony looks great. I'm a big fan. Nice. Nice guy, too. Hell of a nice guy. I just what I almost call him a kid. He's not a kid. He's in his 30s. He's he's a grown ass dude. This is somebody's iPhone footage probably from like the fourth or fifth row zoomed in. Yeah, he was in that second call out. Let me find that for you real quick. I have a picture. I have It's It's not the greatest uh lighting as you know. Uh top four. up four Dwind. Yeah, here we go. Yeah, it's so dark, guys. It was so dark you can barely see it. The street, the lighting at the Mr. Olympia was I just it wasn't bright enough. Not bright enough. Think was up there with uh Good Veto, Martin Fitzwwater, Nick Walker, Brandon Curry, and William Bonak. Really good group of guys up there. Just goes to show you how number one through 10 at the Olympia this year was just everybody looked fantastic I thought. But that's Tonio. Tonio next to Martin. Yeah, that's awful. Awful footage. It's just somebody's iPhone pictures which looks like something I would do. Yeah. I just want to show you his back before we move on. What a tremendous back on him. What a back. Incredible. Next up, Rean Grimes. tremendously popular. See how many followers he's got now. He's got a lot of followers. Rean has 1.9 million. Well done. So, this was back at the Cal States earlier in the season. I think it was June. He won that. Beat Sassan forced Sassan to keep competing. Uh but he Sassan beat him in Toronto. Turnabout is fair play as we say. Yeah. I mean, I want to see more quads on him. I want to see more chest thickness. He's got great shoulders. Arms aren't bad. Back is great on Rean. Um, but yeah, the best he could do was 14th place. He had been top 10 a couple years back. This wasn't the Olympia. I want to see if he's got anything up from the Olympia. Just curious. No, that's not the Olympia. That was 18 weeks ago. Oh boy. I see you in Mexico. He's walking around his ass hanging out. This was yesterday. He put this up. I know it's kind of hard to see with those those wacky lights on the ceiling there as a backdrop, but yeah, his back his back shots are his best his best shots because you don't see any weaknesses at all. Even his arms look better in the back shots. I He's a great bodybuilder, but I mean, the Olympia is the Olympia. If you make top If you make the Olympia period, you you got to be happy. Uh his coach is dumb. Super sliced. He's letting us know we face his challenges. I don't know what his challenges were. I don't know. Yeah, Regan's got a great physique. I mean, that's why he he he tried classic for a minute. He won the New York Pro Classic after losing 22 pounds in like 24 hours. How he did that, I'll never know. Only Chris Aceto, his coach, knew. Um, he won that, he went to the Olympia classic physique. I think he was somewhere toward the bottom of the top 10 that year. Eighth, nth, ninth, 10th. This is going back a few years. Yeah, he's got a bunch of shots. Again, this is crappy footage. Gilko didn't film him, unfortunately. Fortunately for him, yeah, Rean, he's very good to me. I don't know. He's he still needs he still needs a little bit more. And I don't know if I don't know if we're ever going to see it. I hate to lose faith because, you know, I'd sort of given up that Andrew Jack would ever look any different. Andrew looked really good. And looked, of course, he looked very good. He was top five in the Olympia twice, but I didn't know if he was ever going to move up because I'm thinking, these guys are so great. He's got to make some improvements. And he made improvements. We'll talk about that tomorrow on the Meathead podcast. So that is Rean. Let's go to Hassan. Hassan Mustafa was fourth place at the Tsunami Pro in France. I had just interviewed him a few days before that. We had high hopes he was going to win that. Didn't win, but uh I think he just need to be needed to be a few pounds lighter. By a few, I mean about 10 pounds lighter. So this was this recent this was two weeks ago as he was prepping for this. Now he had gained 20 pounds of muscle over the last year working with his new coach and I don't think he needed 20 pounds. He already had plenty of size. Um I I see a little loss in the muscle separation just overall condition. So that was two weeks ago. I'm hoping I'm hoping that he has trimmed down significantly from here because this is good. It's not going to be enough to beat Sean Clarita Antonio Burton if they're on and they're going to be on. I mean, when are they not on? They're very consistent. Uh, so this was backstage at the Tsunami Show in France. Yeah, he's like 57. I think he was about 280, something like that. 270 or 280, somewhere in that range. Just massive. But I want to see more detail. I'd like to see the waist a little more streamlined. It's a big dude though. He is a big dude. Hassan all the way big dude as we used to say. Antonio 225 243. It nuts. It's nuts. I got to go back back to my last comment. I don't know if that's true, Kion, that they produce the second most number of Olympians. That might be true. I just I didn't sound right to me, but I'm trying to think of what other countries there would be, right? I don't know. Book Australian Society market exposure. What? Who? What? Book Australian Society marketing muscle bellies allows thickness. Oh yeah. I mean, the longer your muscle bellies are, the bigger your muscles can be and the fuller. Wasn't too impressed with Keon. Sean's pretty gnarly. Brandon should have placed higher than Nick. Yeah, a lot of people felt that way that you should have flip-flopped Brandon Curry and Nick Walker. Brandon should have been six. Yeah, I agree. Ruff should have won classic was a little bit taller. Yeah, I was really rooting for Terrence. He's such a tremendous uh tremendous poser. the lines, the symmetry, the shape. It's, you know, we can argue about what's cl what is classic physique, but when I look at Terrence, there's no doubt in my mind that's not a 212 guy. That's an open guy. That's a classic physique pro right there. I don't think Nick was good enough for top 10. I mean, few people feel that way. You got a lot of Nick Walker fans who think he should have been like top three, but they're very, very blind. Nick to classic. Nick would need to drop 100 pounds of little Terrence one classic. He didn't, but he I wanted him to win. I really did. What's up, Don Pump? You think of Beirus AO? I wasn't overly impressed. Um, I don't know what I expected. I mean, the the quads the quads were a liability. Uh, I've seen him better. I know obviously he didn't get the visa till about a week out from the show. So, having to put all the travel arrange everything together last minute, I'm sure that that affected him. But, I wasn't overly impressed. Not I expected more. I expected to be like blown away like wow. But let's see what happens next time when he's able to get things in order a little faster. Should grab Brandon a better look. Martin of the future of bodybuilding. Well, they're young. So yeah, Martin's only what 20 28. He's a height trick of Mike. He usually win classic the height trick. Glasses are back in bodybuilding. I should go to the next guy. I should move on from Hassan. Uh we also have Tim Buddhisan from Germany. Tim had been Let me find him first. Tim, let's see. So, this was three days ago. These are his most recent updates. Buddhism, that's how you say it. Buddhism. Tim, I'm surprised he's going all the way over there. Britain would have been a much quicker trip, but yeah, he was seventh at the the Germany pro show where Urs won. He has a a big fan base obviously in Germany. Uh nice nice guy. Really nice guy. Well, we only get one posing. They always do that. They put the posing one first and then you got to look at all this other stuff. They trick me. They get me every time. Man, that's a guest posing. No. Was he allowed to compete like that with all those props? Mix up the hole yesterday. Oh, this was a guest appearance. Okay, never mind. That's fine. Guest appearance. I think he's being a Trojan. the guys from 300. Not Trojan, the condom, a Trojan. The actual Trojans from uh ancient Greece. That's cool. We got the sword, the helmet, all that good stuff. Actually have that those same I don't know what that thing's called. It's like a skirt thing because I was a gladiator for Halloween when we went to Las Vegas a few years ago. Me and Janet. Yeah, Tim looks really good. Condition is usually bang on with this guy. Structurally, he's not as gifted as some of the other guys, but he's got tremendous muscles, thickness, density. Look at that back. Nice. Yeah. Buddhisim. Oh, there's a great shot of him. Quint, that must have been backstage in Germany. Yeah. Yeah. Tim's a thick dude. Very thick dude. O, that footage looks rough. rough. I don't think I'm gonna put you guys through that. I can't do that to you. I care too much about you guys. I'll leave this. This is a great shot there. That's These are great shots. Great tan, great condition, great lighting. Yeah, those are great shots for Tim. Be Nick and Samson base disappointments. I mean, Beirus had reasons. I don't want to say excuses, but Beirus didn't even know if he was going to be able to get there. And Jles and I have talked about this. Jalice has put it out there like could he really prepare with 100% uh intensity, due diligence, whatever you want to call it, not even knowing if he was going to make it because remember he's been qualified for three years in a row, 22, 23, and 24 for the Olympia. He didn't get to any of those. He never got the visa. So after three disappointments in a row, I'm sure he was trying to be as optimistic and hopeful as possible. But I wonder if in the back of his head he's like, I'm not going to they're not going to let me go to the olymp. They're not going to give me a visa anyway. So I don't know. Uh Nick was a disappointment. I expected more. And Samson obviously I thought Samson was going to be shredded and still huge. He was not. Another big dude with the big belly. Was that Buddhism or who we talking about? Hassan. Do you think Chris Bumstead should change him to Cheat Bumstead? Well, if Chris cheated his height, it wasn't him. He wasn't the one doing the measuring. So I don't think we can blame Chris. We got to blame whoever did the measuring, right? I think Tim can Tim Buddhist time. Uh, I'll show you Brent Swanson. Now, I I I like Brent. I don't expect Brent to to place very well. Uh, he might crack top five just because he gets crazy conditioned and I hope he doesn't do his blonde hair again. That was 125 weeks ago. That's old. Funny story. Uh, so 2011 Team Universe, I beat Brent, but Brent was about half this size. I would say that this, it looks like this Brent ate that Brent, but I It looks like this Brent ate two of the Brents that I beat. So, I can't say that I beat this Brent. I beat a much much smaller version. Probably about 50 pounds lighter, I'm guessing. Uh, and Brett was natty back then. Uh he's put a lot of size on, but yeah, great conditioning. He works very, very hard. He has a lot of fun with the sport. Him and his wife are both pros. Uh great guy. Do I expect him to place highly here? Probably not. Um not being a dick. I'm just being realistic. Like I said, I can like people as human beings and think they're cool and get along great with them. But when I'm talking about their physique, I I have to tell it like I call it like I see it, tell it like it is. I show no personal favoritism. Just like if I've ever had bad interaction with someone or, you know, maybe they someone like Keon hasn't given me an interview in two years, maybe he never will again, unfortunately. But I give him props for how great he looks. You know, I don't take out the fact that there's his wife. I don't take out the fact that uh I'm salty about not getting interviews with him when I'm talking about his physique. So that's Brent. Another one competing uh I want to show you. Remember the the bearded woman that I I did an interview with. Unfortunately, the audio was so bad. It's Mariana Guaya is uh competing in I thought I was following her. Did she change her I think she changed her Instagram account. So she had a beard as you can see. Uh it was a huge controversy because she was planning on competing with the b the beard beard board, but someone the IFBB reached out to her and said, "Nope, you cannot do that." This was her a few years ago. I think this is like three, four years ago. She obviously didn't have a beard then. I think she turned pro as a female bodybuilder. Uh so Mariana, she was rocking the beard, the mustache. Uh but here we see she has actually let's listen let's take a listen >> so she shaved the beard she's clean shaven now she looks a lot more feminine I think obviously without a beard any comments on that guys any comments Kianne just says Nick Walker said he's up by 10 pounds since previous pro unfortunately yeah um we're going to talk a thought about it tomorrow. Tomorrow night on Meatthead podcast, I have uh Justin Randall who is a contest promoter. He puts on the NPC Rhode Island. He is a top prep coach. A ton of people in New England and obviously outside New England use Justin as a coach. He's a 212 pro himself. He'll be joining us along with us uh as I said, Leo Marhoffer. We're going to be talking about uh what we think Samson needs to do, Mike Summerrfell, Nick Walker, and again I want I think we're gonna we're gonna have to reference the Sarah Viegas thing. The poor sportsmanship. What happened to Logan? What was he like 14th? I think he was 13th. No, he wasn't overlooked. He was thin. He was thin. Want to take a look at Logan? Why not? Logan's another one who like won't give me interviews anymore. He used to give me interviews all the time. But then me and Jose were doing a preview of the Arnold. Was that like eight months ago? Something like that. And uh in my haste I couldn't remember his nickname which is the Texas oak and he got really upset about that. But so here he was the Olympia. You know it he does have very great physique. It's just he looks he looks lanky compared to some of these shorter guys. Not Ruffin. Ruffin doesn't look huge at all. But I just I feel like he still needs more size. He's tall. I mean, I always say you shouldn't be able to look at somebody and know if they're short or tall by just looking at them. If if that's the case, then their structure is off, like their limbs are too long or too short or, you know, in the case of him, he just needs he just needs a little more overall mass. I think I don't know what else he can do. I mean, he took second place to uh Somerfell back at the Arnold, and that was a that was a great showing for him. But yeah, this was not the Olympia was not his show. Can't blame his coach. Patrick Tour did a great job. The condition was great. He, you know, sometimes somebody can place outside the top 10, but there will be a lot of fans who say that's my favorite physique up there. There's a lot of Logan fans that that believe he's got the best physique. I mean, look at his Instaund. He's got a million followers. You don't get a million followers for nothing. You don't. Uh, it was back at the Arnold with him and Summerrfeld. Of course, Mike was 212 there. He had to come down under 204 for the Olympia because they did not height him in at over 5'9 anymore. He was under 5'9. Maximum weight was 204. He weighed in at 202.4. Logan, I think they showed, was 224 at this Olympia, but he he looked to me, he looked a lot better at the Arnold. Fuller, a little thicker and fuller. Not a tremendous, but it's little things can make such a difference, guys. Logan, got to find at least one one good shot to leave it on while I take a couple more comments. Did I show everybody I wanted to show? Yeah, I did. How did I get on it? Where'd Nick come from? I don't even know. How did I end up showing pictures of Nick Walker on Logan's account? Logan had those posted. That's why. Yeah, it's funny. They say Nick, I heard one of the commentators saying he need they think he needs more arms. I think he's got great arms personally. Consight issue in classic division like Christopher Nolan movie. Unclear. Unclear. Yeah, unfortunately that really tarnished the division uh right before the Olympia. This whole controversy over guys getting heighted taller than they are really should be. It's unfortunate. Urs looked pretty good at the O. Yeah. Uh, let's see. Matt. Okay. Go to Gilko. Gilo. Gilko filmed him. I think they knew a lot of people are going to want to see what he looked like. Gilo has two brothers, the Mitchell brothers. They do fantastic work. Fantastic. Like I say, I always wait for the Gilo footage to come out on their uh Instagram page when the web stream when the when the live stream is poorly lit. Uh and I can't really see what people look like. I like waiting till the I got to wait for the Gilo footage to really tell you guys what I think because I'm judging this by some really crappy really crappy live stream footage. How far down is it for God's sake? I think I went past it. No, here we go. Here we go. Urs. Here we go. There's Urs. Okay. So, yeah, I thought Urs made a tremendous Olympia debut. He did make top 15. He was 13th. Uh, beautiful shape, symmetry, obviously. That's why he was third in at the Olympia, I think, three times in classic physique. One of the top class physique competitors every year for the past few years, and he's still only 27, I think. So, he just needs more time. He needs to put a little more size on another another one more good offseason. I think he'll probably be able to put on another few pounds of quality muscle. He really needs it in the back and the triceps. The back thickness is an issue right now. It's a liability. Legs are really good. Shoulders are great. The back needs to come up. It needs to be thicker because you can see he's not the widest guy. His clavicles are not wide. When you don't have very wide clavicles, all you can do is just get bigger. Bigger shoulders, bigger upper back, thicken the upper back because backs are very critical. You see how a lot of shows come down to the back poses because so many guys look good from the front and not as good from the back. Yeah. So, but great debut for Urs. I I don't think I hope I I haven't really follow he's not disappointed. His fans are because they wanted they were hoping he was going to do better. Bruce with the visa was chilling in popcorn when he got the call. Earth showing up with this giant mohawk shirt was intentional to manipulate. Oh, that was in classic. Yeah, he did have a mohawk last year. Great hand tattoo. Compete with beard? No. Measure with a wig? Yes. Yeah. What they are they trying to say Mike's got a wig? That's not a wig. I could see he went to Turkey to get a hair transplant or somewhere. I maybe not Turkey. That's where most people go. That's where I went. Where Bumstead went. Um yeah, because a few they showed him like a few years ago and his hair was receding. It was receding and now his hairline's way back down again. That just doesn't happen. I don't watch this [\h__\h] Oh, that's what you're saying when I had the the woman on with the shave classic. Now Wesley is going to really struggle. Love him as a catalyst. Let me put some other footage up while we're talking. While we're talking. Why not? What the heck? I'll be I'll be off soon. Killing coverage, Ron. Thank you, Dolan. Appreciate it. Yeah, I really I'm so grateful for uh the turnout we had Friday and Saturday nights. Saturday night especially. We had the highest that's the highest views I've had on my channel on anything since I restarted it. Uh so to say two years ago, little almost two years ago. This is October, November of 2023 when MD went out of business abruptly with no warning to me. Um I started my I never I never lost my YouTube channel. I just wasn't contributing much to it because especially the last few years with MD the last from 2017 to 2023 I was the online editor. So I was responsible for most of the magazine content and all of the YouTube channel content on MD. So I didn't think it would be right. I thought it would be a conflict of interest if I was putting out videos on my channel while I was supposed to be getting more traffic and views for the MD channel on YouTube. So, I didn't do anything with my channel for years and then once MD just went poof, vanished into the vapors into thin air, uh, I brought it back and the Olympia watch party we had Saturday night for the, uh, Classic physique finals and the open Mr. Olympia finals was my highest viewed video since that time. Now, I did get higher views in the very early days of YouTube because there weren't that many people making content back then. It's it's a lot more competitive now. Uh, but I wasn't even monetized back then, so I wasn't getting a scent out of those. I'm monetized now. So, thanks to everybody. Props to you and your British mate Jiles for your great live commentary. Amazing. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, we we did a whole breakdown the Olympia yesterday, guys. It's It's on this channel right now. It's almost two hours. It's supposed to be power hour, but sometimes we just get fired up and I look at the I look at the counter and I see how long we've been going, but I mean, there's still more to say, so we keep it going. I doubt Urs will get big back in one offseason, maybe two years. Yeah, he'll put on some size. I I don't think we're going to see his final form Urs for another I'd say two or three more years. He's still growing. He's still growing. I'll leave this up because you guys love Derek so much. I know you want to see Derek winning Fouad's podcast called the question from Mono's height to weight ratios and let the internet sleuth stigma Mike's issue probably with the help of the Germans. Yeah, I mean we had that famous video I already deleted it from my I had it where he was talking to Dennis James a few years back. I don't know why you would say this when there was a camera on you, but he said they have me listed as 173 centimeters, but I'm actually 170. And I think he was hiding in at higher than that with the hair. I think he was coming in at 175 cm, which would be over 5'9 for us uh silly Americans. Yeah. All right. I think I'm going to take off, guys. I'm going to take off. All right, guys. So, get rid of that, too. Oh, that's the Instagram. All right, guys. So, yeah, we have two shows coming up Saturday. Uh, we have a post Olympia show in UK called the British Grand Prix. Your favorites for that are Creole, Michael Krznik, James Hollings Head, Sasan Herati. Those are definitely the three front runners for that show. And then the Mexico Pro happening in Mexico City Saturday as well. I think that's going to come down to either Sean Clarita or Tonio Burton for the Yeah. for the win. Uh because they were both Clarita got a very very competitive second place in the 212. He's a former Olympia champion. He did win an open show before the Legion Sports four years ago. Tonio Burton. This is twice he's been top eight at the Olympia, so he's a favorite. Rean's in it, too. I don't think Rean's going to be either of those guys. Uh Hassan's very good. He'll be in it. Tim Budan. So, some really good guys. The Prague show the week after that is probably gonna have an even stronger lineup. Ko's doing that. We know Keon is doing that. Everyone's going to be wanting to see Keon Keon and how he compares to open guys because we've never seen Keon Pearson next to an open body competitor on in competition. This will be the first time. So, will he blow the show away like a lot of people think or you know what if Andrew Jack jumps in? I know. I've heard J said he's thinking about it. He's thinking about it. So, we'll see. And Kiso is no joke. Crezo is not going to roll over and just let Keon Keon take the win. Andre Mizy would jump. Uh Muzzi is in Muzzi is in the British Grand Prix. He's on the list. Katana Gatano Vakado. He is in the show. I saw him on the list. We actually talked about him uh gez about 40 minutes ago at this point. So yeah, Milos hasn't been critical of Derek at all on Cutler podcast. I'll keep praising him for hiding. Milos is playing real safe. Yeah. I mean, why do you want Why would you want to make enemies? Anyway, guys, uh I want to thank you for watching. Tomorrow night, 7 PM Eastern. 7 p.m. Eastern tomorrow night. Eastern is uh time zone for like New York City, Boston where I'm at, Miami, Florida, the eastern half of the USA. 7 p.m. uh we're going to be live. Me, Big Mike Cox, is going to be joined by Leo Marhoffer, who's a classic physique pro and has the great channel Overcome Podcast. He'll have some really great insights on the classic physique division uh as well as you know everything else. He's a he's got a very astute eye. Uh we're going to be talking about uh Mike Somerfeld, Nick Walker, Sense Da for sure. We'll probably talk a little bit about the Olympia in general of course and we'll also be joined by Justin Randall. Uh local guy to me. He's a promoter of the NPC Rhode Island show. He is a 212 pro himself. Uh very well known and respected New England area. So, I really want to hear Justin's insights as well on these uh issues. He'll have a lot to say. Grease those beasts. Raymond Jones, I'm going to get I'm going let you get the last word here. Rematch of Legion with Tonio, Shawn, and Rean in the lineup. Was Tonio in it in 2021? I don't know, but they're all Have they all won? I know Shawn's won Legion and Tony's won Legion. I don't think Rean's ever won Legion. I don't think he's won that one. I could be quite wrong. I could be wrong, but yeah, it'll be a rematch. Shawn was up against him. I know that four years ago Sean beat Shawn beat him Regan. I don't know if Tony was in it that year. He probably was. Anyway, guys, I want to thank you so much for watching and yeah, keep your notifications on. Like, subscribe, share, smash that like button. Of course, that helps me. If you're watching this in the replay, please drop a comment or two. Helps me out. And that's it, guys. Thank you so much for watching. Later.