Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour. This episode is so special. We had to bring in Big Mike Cox. Big Mike Cox joining us along with Giles Tiger Thomas because we're talking, of course, we'll do a New York Pro preview, but we have to talk about Pittsburgh. I had to talk about it with these two gentlemen right here because they both been in the sport in the media side of it a very, very long time. They have excellent eyes for physiques and I want to hear the Tiger take and the big Mike Cox take on this. Uh, I'm going to start rolling footage and you guys uh I'm gonna I'm gonna let you guys just uh say whatever pops into your head. So, what I'm going to start with is the I believe this was the final comparison, the extra judging round that was added because Derek Lunsford and Nick Walker were in a complete dead heat, a tie score for finals. And you know, we can't have a tie in bodybuilding. Somebody's got to win and somebody's got to lose. So, uh I'll start with the special guest, Mike. Uh you did you watch the whole stream first of all? Yes, I did. Yes. Very first very clear stream, very wellrun, great background. But when they walked on stage in the group text, I said, "Holy [\h__\h] Nick." And I get their shape's beautiful. It's it's small waist, but it's still a muscle show, run, right? Hardness, condition. You can see who's better. It's like saying it's like we know what profanity is. You have to like hear profanity know what it is. We know what a winning physique is. And Nick Walker won that show in my opinion. um size, hardness, he's he's not bad. His shape ain't bad. It's not like he's Paco Batista, right? But, you know, he held it. The back shots, he held his own. He may have won this back double. You know, glutes and glutes were Dererick's, but Dererick was not as good as he was in Columbus. And that was the measuring stick. He had to be as good or better, and he wasn't. And when Dererick's off, he's not Derek. when he's 100% spot on. This dude is the best in the world. But when he's off, it's just like he's taking body shots, bro. Like my he's he's taking shots. And Nick, to me, it was it was close, but Nick should have had a perfect score. I had Nick straight first, Derek straight second. It was pretty simple to me. Okay, J, you're up. Yeah. Um, did you know that I learned today that Tyler did it pose for pose on his explanation? that um I'll tell you why I think this makes it a four-man race for the Olympian now because Nick took the riddle bicep. Now that is Derek's money shot and he was he was quite decisive about it and actually looking at it it's like yeah Nick actually did take that shot now that was that was Phil Heath Ronny's I mean you know that was their lights out shot that was the one that always kind of shut the door but um that's why I think um I don't think Lightning will strike twice the Olympia I think Nick's in with a chance of not just beating Derek but I think he's got a chance of winning the Olympia. Wow. Um, and and Nick isn't my style of physique, but I mean I could see I could see it with my own eyes. I think he deserved to win that. But also the argument that like politics and all that [\h__\h] you know, it would have been like Mike said, it would have been uh straight first five. It would have been a five score, a 10 score, and then everybody else, you know, s 1520. So for me, there was um it was it was very very close. Um but and I do think uh Mike's right. I do think Derek did look better at the Arnold Classic, but I kind of don't expect him I didn't expect him to peak any better because I think he peaked beautifully at the Arnold Classic and I think he won the Arnold Classic quite clearly. Like I said, I watched the live stream, but then I watched it on a big screen at a gym down in Leeds a few weeks ago, six weeks ago and I looked up and I was I don't know why it was just a bigger screen, but I was I was I was thinking, [\h__\h] he won that quite clearly. Now that's beating the current Mr. Olympia. Um, so yeah. So for Derek, he was like probably what what do you think, Mike? 3% off, 5% off. He was Yeah, he was close, man. It wasn't much. Maybe% from what he was. Yeah. But um I just think um I think Nick had this one. But uh I think it's funny though because um I feel bad because all the all the hate that was directed towards Nick before this show has now gone over to Derek because people are people targeted Derek now and it's like it's not really Derek's fault. Do you know what I mean? It's not He turned up. He looked fantastic. He won the Arclassic. He wanted to win this show and you know and also the prize money helps. Let's be honest. I mean I know they say it's not about the prize money but come on it is. I mean he's Yeah. But the thing is now I'm worried that um you know you've got Hadi who's taken a year off. He's fresh. You've got Samson who will have a fire under his ass like never before. You know he's not going to want to lose that title. He's going to be going all out to hold on to the Olympia. Um but um I'm just worried that um like you know trying to peak like this and because I I said to you a couple months ago I said I said I said I I've got a feeling Derek might win everything this year and he's already won two out of three. So um I but I honestly I've got a feeling that Nick I think Nick will get his revenge at the Olympia. just something I've got some feeling. I've got something in my heart that tells me that Nick um is because I said to you I said if Nick because I said the thing is in the preview we did the power hour last year last week um I got the top eight completely right but I'm not happy about it because I actually said Derek was going to win and Nick be second. So I actually I'm not happy that I got it absolutely bang on last week. I think I do think after seeing them on stage I did say look I said don't be shocked if Nick maybe wins this because the updates I was seeing they weren't they weren't filtered. They weren't, you know, they just very impressive and I thought, holy [\h__\h] there's a what if he wins this because then it makes it a fourman race, not a threeman race at the Olympia. So for me, um I actually for the first time ever, I actually do think that Nick's in with a chance of winning the Olympia. There's four guys that can win the O. Like there's there's there's no as good as Samson is, as much as I love Samson's physique, I don't know if he if he's going to nail it. And because of that, these four guys, but I think Jiles Hottie is just sitting there like this, man. I think hottie is going to come to that show looking absolutely ridiculous, right? And again, Derek, we've seen it in the past. I got peing in March. Now it's April or May. You only got about what 18 weeks until October. You got to like a four a four to six week kind of foot off the gas. Or is he just thinking, I ain't got time to mess around. I'm just going to stay on prep. And you know what happens? The body rebels. It can really really put it can really really push back, doesn't it? Ronnie in 2001. Yeah. Well, yeah. I know. I mean I mean I I just I I don't know. I mean, but I think I think evidence proven that um it's like Martin at the Olympia. Um Chris Cormier actually messaged me and he says, "I'm telling you, he said he won't be as good at Prague." And I was like, "Are you sure?" I said, "What what if he gets buried?" He says, "No, I'm telling you, Charles, Martin peaked beautifully for the for the Olympia. It's impossible for the body to peak like that. So, I I guarantee you he won't look as good. I mean, it was still good enough to win. But, um, see, that's what the thing here, like I said to you, um, I said to you last week, Ron, I said, you know, there's three there three things that's going to happen with Derek. He's not going to look as good as the Arnold. He's going to look as good as the Arnold, or he's going to look better than the Arnold. But either way, all three of those scenarios, that might still be enough to get the win. And he did. Yeah. Yeah. Giles, don't fall off your chair. In Tyler's recap this morning, believe it or not, Tyler said he had Nick winning even at the very end. Yeah, I saw that. It was a onepoint one judge made the the decision. I need I need to address this because I put it in the thumbnail. Was Nick robbed? Because the word robbed is coming up gez millions of times in in posts and comments. Robbery is when somebody is really off and they definitely didn't deserve to win and they won. Derek was not He was off a little bit from the Arnold. Absolutely he was. But he was not off. He wasn't It's not like it wasn't It was super close. Derek and Nick both have strong and weak points that the other one doesn't have. And it was, you know, I I had Nick winning, but I'm not I'm not upset. I'm not screaming and outraged that that Derek won. I mean, I could I could see why it could have tipped in his favor. I would have loved to have seen Nick win again. politics. It would have been so much more exciting for the Mr. Olympia if Nick had won this show. 100%. Oh. Oh, hang on, hang on, hang on. I think you know remember um remember when Samson's popularity went up when he got second in Korea? Yes. Like I said to you then I said you know what I said he's actually gained more more traction from fans and love because he got second. Now fans are rooting for him because he went all that way out there. He was stuck in his hotel room for two weeks. Now you've got a storyline that the fans can get behind like an underdog story. They're like they're rooting for him now. So I think I think um and what and what did I say the last couple of weeks about the uh the Nick talker crew? I said they they will go very very quiet because even if Nick doesn't win, they're going to go very very quiet as soon as he gets back on stage and looks fantastic. And I honestly think I think this is the best Nick we've ever seen as well. So for me, I'm re and also credit to Nick as well for the way he handled I mean, I don't know what's going on. He might be having meltdowns behind closed doors, but online, he seemed to handle it really, really well. And I thought he was very classy the way he congratulated Derek, but I think I I kind of get Nick's mentality a bit more. I remember that that interview a few years ago, and I and I I just I I really really turned against because I was like, you really made that uncomfortable for me. But you know what? Now I saw him at the 22 Olympia and now I've seen now I kind of get his mentality. He's really really fierce and I think we need competitors like that because could you imagine you've seen the way Samson is on stage he's very very animated he's fierce he's passionate and Nick's the same so like I was going I'm running through different scenarios I'm thinking could the top two be Nick and Samson could it be Derek and Haddie like now it makes it a much much more exciting show because I can't remember the last time where I'd have to really think in fact I'll ask you this question guys when was the last time that we realistically go going into the Olympia where there's four different guys that have the potential to win this. What can you think of the the last time that happened? 98. Yeah. 98. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 98. Yeah. Yeah. Ronnie. Yeah. It was like Kevin Flex. But Ronnie wasn't one of the four. Ronnie wasn'T4 guys we thought about, you know, like dude, Nick has so much the hype, not the hype train, but I'm gonna get a Walker Nation shirt, man. Like, and I know I was never a big fan, but he's confident. He's not co he's not as if Sean was cocky. Nick's confident in his ability. If I look like Nick, I'd be confident in [\h__\h] too. But like that the going to New York, that's going to be the loudest crowd because of that. Last week and it's in Jersey, right? In New York. What's in New York? But he's from Jersey. So, it's going to be insane. And going to the old man. He's got as good a shot as anybody. I personally I like Andrew. I I always think if Andrew is 100%. We haven't even seen the tip of the iceberg. Mr. Olympia think that you think that could be a fiveman race then personally I've got the four four in my head and I think fifth and sixth will be a battle between Martin and Andrew. That's personally what that's what fit that's what makes sense in my head unless Andrew does something because I I spoke to Andrew a few weeks ago and I said mate you need to go to absolute war on those legs and he says I know I know broke. That's why that's why I love Andrew. He can only thing is he just said he says, "Look, I know I know what I need to do and he he's what he's been training for not that long." So, it's only a matter of time. But listen, man, if Nick won that Olympia, I think people would lose their effing mind, right? But I think it is going to be hard because of Samson shape. And you just hope, man, I you hope Samson says, "F I'm gonna come in at 290 and just destroy all these guys because he has that potential to put together a two maybe a two-year run if he's 100%." But right now, you know, it's just it's exciting jobs because it's just we haven't seen this kind of Olympia in decades where four or five guys and look if Martin figures it out and comes in shredded, you know, he's shown he can beat these other guys that they're not in shape. It's gonna come down to who's in shape on that day. And honestly, I don't think, you know, Derek, that's a lot of dieting, man. That's going back to last year. That's a lot of prep on the body and traveling to Europe and, you know what I mean, being a dad, it's a lot. And, you know, just trying to dry out again, you know, three times in a year. And we know what these guys do to dry out, right? So, that's a lot on your body. So, he did make a lot of money though. I he made a lot. He made a lot of money. I just hope I hope Derek in a tax-free state. I hope you know what I mean. I Yeah, I hope Derek doesn't get injured because the thing is, you know, that constant constant batter in the body and he's very he's like Nick. He's very fierce. He's very intense. He's he's kind of like Sean Karina like foot on the gas all the time. What from what I've seen anyway. And thing is now he's he's he's still kind of he's still probably it's still probably really hurting what happened at Olympia last year. So, I think I feel like he's really got something to prove. And I I think even after just after the Olympia last year, I think he in his head I think he thought, "Okay, I'm going to do these three shows and I'm going to win all three." Because I think I I truly think he believe And also, did you know his um his grandmother died as well? Oh, she died. Yeah, she died. Yeah. Because I messaged his mom today and I said I DM'd her privately and I said, "I'm so so sorry." Because I met her at the 22 Olympian. She was a lovely lady. really and it really and that's why I kind of feel like you know don't don't you know if you're if you're upset that um Derek won don't take it out on Derek don't because people have been saying some really horrible personal things you know and I think that's really uncalled for and you think about what Derek's kind of going through like he's had to push on with this prep like backtoback preps and he's had this going on because I know his grandmother wasn't very very well so I I kind of want to you know I want to sort of say guys look just the thing is it's not even you can't even direct it at the judges because it was a tie you know, and yeah, and thing is Derek Derek has a slightly smaller waist. He's got, you know, because now they're kind of going for the okay, what kind of physiques like um like the year Keon won the first year against Clarita. It's a kind of like a similar Nick and Derek thing. You got Keon with a slightly nicer shape, more aesthetics, but personally, I had it the other way around. You know, I had Clarita winning that first year. Yeah. So, I just think that um you know, it's it was it was a close one. We knew it was going to be a close one, and I knew it was going to be a twoman race. Um, and I hate to say it, but Ron did, what did I say about Martin? I told you that guest posing and also that vid that video where he was only showing the upper body. You could see he wasn't in condition. But you know what? I'm starting to think, you know, Fuad's podcast, I think it actually has real influence because when you got Fuad on there bringing up these videos of um of him like two days out and let's be honest, it was sharpened and filtered and very well lit, you know, he's saying like this is the best Martin ever. this is g, you know, and then uh Stefan saying this is something we've never seen. people believe it as fact, but obviously that's his sponsor and his coach and um so I was a bit like um I said I to me he looked behind and I've been getting honestly I've been going back and forth and getting so much [\h__\h] for this but um and the thing is what happens in they say they blame the coach then when um it's like oh his last two days peaking um um that's what caused the it's like no he just he was behind um and also when and also it's the alarm bells go off when I hear this 10 to 15 pounds heav 10 to 15 pounds he have it because straight away I just I'm just thinking well you did you were competing in November realistically are you going to be able to put on 10 to 15 pounds of of of quality muscle the only the only I didn't see it even in the in the runup in the leadup I didn't see that extra size all I saw was a few pounds that he had to lose like certainly off his back because I think his back look that lacks separation a lot of separation and detail to me but so there was nothing that went wrong this last two days it's just that he wasn't he wasn't sort of where he needed to be, you know? So, and I have caught a lot of [\h__\h] for that because like people really do think that he's uh that he was it was the coach's fault and it really wasn't. Because here's the thing, bodybuilding fans are what I are kind of like the crazy soccer fans, right? It's just you you got blinders on. You don't see your your hero's flaws. You just see perfection, right? You don't you can't objectively look at a physique and say, "Well, he wasn't great." Martin set the bar really high at the Olympia. Like he was pushing Derek Lunsford right for third place. So coming off of that, the expectations are high. And then it happens to a lot of guys. You get that great placing, you want to do a lot of shows, you get catch that nice rebound, but you have to remember like 10 pounds in what, six months? 10 pounds of real tissue in six months is hard, right? Even at that age, you know what I mean? It's just Martin Strange for that crazy condition. He can out detail guys and he's still big, right? When you're lean and shredded, you're going to look bigger anyway. He was two what 30 something at the Olympia. He looked huge. He looked as big as Derek at the Olympics. Was he what was he at Pittsburgh? Do you know? Two I don't want to 240 something maybe. 242 I think. The only diff the only difference in his physique is I thought his legs looked bigger from the side. That's the only difference I could see. And to me it looked like and and I said to you Ronda, I said I said don't be surprised if Bonak gets third because Bonak look here clearly got better separation and detail. I knew that Martin wasn't I was behind. I knew he was behind on his prep and you knew that Bonak wasn't going to be. And for some reason I don't get it but Bonak never ever gets decent predictions. And every single time, every single year since 2012, he has delivered, delivered, delivered and always comes in condition. So I knew he wasn't gonna miss, but I knew that I I had a feeling that Martin was, you know, and um so u but thing is I mean I don't know whether Martin had anything to gain from doing this show because he's already qualified. So for me, I hope this gives a real like like like with um like with um Nick now. I hope this really puts a fire under his ass and he brings his best to the Olympia because you know Nick Martin's a top six guy. Um so like I said I can see him him and Andrew you know battling out for like kind of fifth place but um I don't see him you know cracking the top four again this year. Not with Nick Martin is doing Dubai. That's what um manager Matt said on Jay's podcast. Yeah he's doing Dubai. No no he shouldn't do it. He should back off and go do five weeks away isn't it? Yeah. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is But this is a big mistake. Big mistake. Big mistake. It's a lot of money, though. Here's here's my thing. I'm I look at I look at the money aspect, right? You gota I'm sure he gets paid a bonus from sponsors. If you're getting flown over there, right? You're getting you're probably getting flown over there and getting a place to stay. Even if you play third, you get maybe what like 60 grand maybe who had max. I know it's 140 for first. 140. But um but thing is thing is mate, I mean I Oh, that's why I saw the comparison today on an Instagram account of him with Beer Ruse and I said, "Oh, this is an interesting one." I don't know how to I don't know if I can call that, but um I'm guessing because um a lot of the American fans support Martin, they don't actually know how good Beer Ruse is. And thing is, we haven't seen Beu Be is a legit like sort of sixth sixth to guy. I mean, I've seen him heap. I mean, um, I know that I was at the Emperor last year when Bonak beat him, but I'm telling you, he beat Bret Work in 22. Be is good and he's only getting better. If he can only get to America Giles, he would blow these dudes minds over here. Like, I know that he's legit. He's legit. When he was next to Samson, he wasn't getting blown away, right? Yeah. Um, so he I think he's that good. Um, Bonak is just he's I love it because he's 42 and if you're older, I appreciate that that you look that damn good and you got legs and you're beating these young cats. I had him I thought he was going to place third um at this show, but Martin was a little a little bit bigger and you looked a little bit better at night, but dude, I'm I'm on the William hypes right now, bro. I'm like part of Walker Nation and William Bonak, dude. The he's just defying time, mate. I've been the the biggest Bonac fan and supporter since like I remember seeing him at the Arnold Amateur back in 2011. Followed his career all the way through. I remember when MD sent me to Rotterdam to go and film. Remember when Ruly was like all the the next big thing? They're like, "Giles, get over there and get some videos and photos and find out what's going on. Get, you know, we want to be there first." And I remember um was it Barry? Barry Deay came over to say hi. And I remember this other guy, I forget his name now. I forgot his name now. The Dutch guy, friend of mine. And I can't remember his name. Anyway, and he said he said, "Look, Jars." He says, "You know, you know, Roy's here and you got all this Marshall Herman and the Gregor Francisco and all these great competitors in this kind of relatively small gym, great gym, but all that's where Cibil kind of trained out of and trained everyone." And then people will come from all over. He said, "But Charles, there's another guy over the other side of town. He trains by himself. He's a bit of a loner. He's really quiet, but he says, "I'm telling you, there's a guy called William Bonak." He said, "He's he's as good as Ry will be will become." And I was like, "Really?" Cuz like Ry was there looking absolutely monstrous. And I was like, I need to find out more about this guy in a few weeks, later that year, he turned pro at the the Bergman Classic and obviously, you know, but uh the thing is like the couple years, was it 2020, then 21, you could see he was trying, he was starting to, you know, and he was hitting 40 and he was like he was doing that. But him um who was it? Brandon, uh and Ake, these are three guys that you would expect to maybe be at the tail end of their career and to start dipping. They've come back up again now. And they've got a they've got a maturity to their physiques too that look a little bit different next to the younger guys. Like Bonis got that crazy cross duration and detail to his specs that Dererick doesn't have yet. So even saying Mckame's not as big as he was, but he's super conditioned and crazy detailed now that he can stand up. He can stand in with the best in the world. He's probably doing better and more consistent now than he was. Look at that. Look at the the separation in the quads. It's just father time, man. These you can't you got you can't miss reps. You can't replace reps in the gym. That's why why do why do you think that people always underestimate and don't give him the credit in leadup to show you look back you look back over the last well since 2012 the last 13 years every single year every single Arnold Classic people have been like he might you know Bonak might have been second or third in Libya or won the Arnold Classic and it comes into predictions and the re preview and everyone's like he won't be top five he's g I'm like really look at this look you put his places on a graph it's like a continual rise and he's very consistent he's very consistent what why do you think that It's just it's a name game, right? We get so because we get hyped up on pre-contest pictures and Bon's pre-contest pictures aren't like Nick Walkers or they're not like Derek's or they're not like so we're not like ah William he'll be seventh eighth those guys miss and guess who comes along placing right there top five you know what I mean? Top five Arnold won Detroit top four here top three four in New York you know what I mean? This dude's had a career and it just his career. Think about he's been second at the Olympia. He could he was couple Arnold Classic wins. This guy's put together a hell of a professional career and people don't even still now give him the props or the respect that other guys probably because he's not huge on is he huge on like social media. They have a big following. He's not flashy. You know what I mean? It's just not. It's if this was the magazine era and we had magazines and William was this popular and he being photo shoot, we would see that. But it's just kids now don't appreciate a 42-year-old professional bodybuilder from Amsterdam that's had this track record. He's not the flashy new toy, you know what I mean? He's not like the crazy commercial. He's coming like the 2020 Olympia when he dropped to fifth and you know and a couple of other ones and um you know he's been like he's come a little bit flat but I've never seen him out of condition ever. Never. He's consistent like Dexter. Remember Dexter had that kind of decline a little bit. He slowly came back up. Yeah. In 2012 the end of 2012 Masters Olympia 2013 won the Arnold Classic. It was like oh he's on the slide now. Fifth at the Arnold Classic 2012. And then all of a sudden it's like look at this dude. He just he just brings old it's old man muscle and old man muscle on stage looks looks better than that kind of like blueofy ba baby muscle. Well, I don't want to be, you know, disparaging, but he he has a different look to his body. Like, like Ron said with a Keem, they've had a mature look and judges see that. And if you're off nowadays, you're not going to place high, right? There's no more favoritism. People robbery. No, like robbery was what we saw. This is just competitive. If you're not in shape, you're gonna lose. It's not going back to Martin, like this this body weight thing. They It really makes me nervous when I hear that. I just it's straight away I get a bad feeling. I'm like like right now I would love to see Martin not do Dubai. I just want to see him shut it down and just focus on getting more detail from the back, more separation, you know, because you can train for that and it's it is time served in the gym and I just want to see because he looked fantastic at the finals at the Olympia last year. I had him ahead I had him ahead of Lunsford. I did. But it's um you know like at Prague I had Bumstead winning. I know that because at the the prejudice he walked out and I was like I'm disappointed. He was a bit watery around the midsection and he did tighten it up for the night show the finals and you know it wasn't like it wasn't like a shock that he won. Do you know what I mean? Because he was clearly a lot thicker and more developed than uh than Bumstead. But I just thought okay you've missed the mark and you deserve to get beat by by Bumstead, you know, who really really shouldn't have any business coming anywhere near top open Olympia guy really. But I saw it with my own eyes and of course I got [\h__\h] for that as well. So it's it is what it is. I don't really care to be honest. He just when you're young, listen, when you're young and like you're gung-ho and you're living, he's living he's doing what we all wish we can do, man. You know what I mean? He's living that dream, you know? Great living. He's making a great, you know what I mean? You're getting paid to travel the world. I mean, I get it. He's He's making a lot of money, dude. Like, he's for a kid that age, and I say kid because I'm I'm an old man, right? But he's got some good deals, bro. So, I get it. you want to be the your best at the Olympia. Um maybe he will because he's young. But I don't know, man. I just if you you work so hard to get to that stage, do it, man. Do do the Sean the business of bodybuilding. Guys, can I ask you another thing? Like I mean, I'll be honest. I think um Martin's not disappointment but disappointment from the fans is partly because they're posting these videos where they're either done with very like high resolution cameras or they're bumping up the sharpness or they're doing being very careful the lighting. Now you know me, I'm a huge Kriso fan, but did you see that stupid posing video at Pittsburgh the gym two days out and they sharpen the [\h__\h] out of it and then and then everyone's disappointed with what Kriso brought to the stage and Kriso was shredded. I know he met me and he messed up his tan again because Kriso I remember he did his pro debut when he run run won the uh the EVLs back in was it 22? I was there I was doing the live stream commentary and he literally I was outside in the the expo bit and 90 minutes before I think it was actually might have been like an hour before the show start he turned up in a t-shirt of course it was like such a sight to see he had no tan on he was white as a ghost and then he literally went on stage there that was the that year the year he won it I think that was the night show. No, no, this is the What year was this, Ron? 23. 23. No, it was 20 22. Yeah, because Yeah, 22 when he won it. And he came out and he and where his massive arms were brushing against his lats, it was taking all the tan off. It looks so sloppy. So, and then and then when he won Spain the year after, he kind of fixed it. He fixed his posing. He fixed his tan. But um this this filtering thing the fans are the fans who kind of aren't um I hate the word educated or casuals or whatever but they don't they get disappointed then when by the time they hit the stage because I thought Krisel looked absolutely fantastic apart from the tan I thought he looked absolutely fantastic last weekend but his but his and he was shredded. He was shredded but thing is they they had it burned into their mind this two days out video which had been sharpened to hell and thing is then you're only ever going to be disappointed. Why do you think do you think what it's like the you know I said the shooting up the shoulders and stuff. It's something that really is bugging me now. What do you think? These guys never get fat anymore. You know they they have to be like in shape all the time for the social media. So when you're lean all you're lean you're sharp the p if that's not what real life is man. The fan and fans don't get that. The casual fans don't get that. Like that's not what they're going to look like on stage when they're dried out when the diuretics in there when they're carved up. If you don't look like that, fans are gonna be disappointed. Maybe you didn't miss your peak. You still look good. Chris looked good. He did, but he didn't look like super onion skin, thin doing roles in the gym good, right? It's just not it's not real life. It's not reality. And like this is not what they look like in real life. That's why when you go see shows, that's why Bob said, "You got to be there, right? When you're there, it's different than we're watching it." And that's it's it's just the way of the times now. G. It's just people, they want to look good. They want to get the likes. They love likes. And if you're shredded and hard year round, you're going to get those likes and it's going to your endorphins going to get released. You get that serotonin bump, man. You know what I mean? But look at the guy in the blue trunks next to Krzo. Look at how much better his color looks. And thing is, my eyes drawn more to him. Who is that guy right to the right of Kris? I can't see his face. Yeah. Leandro Perez. Is that who it is? Oh, that's Leandro. See, he looks he looks polished. He looks presented. I mean to be honest there I don't see I mean I wouldn't have put Leandro in Chriso's league before but watching this cuz he's got better color and he's fuller and everything. I'm thinking actually he compares very well. That makes a huge difference. Your color that's all part of being professional and I just think there's so many people out there that can help the pros or that probably reach out to them that these are amateur mistakes. We I was putting tan on when I was 16 years old, right? You knew you knew that and there's they're backst you know to do the tan and you're posing but I don't know it's just I don't know what it is that's is that's your job that's your job right he doesn't have the word you know something I learned this weekend because I've been in Sweden all weekend doing the live stream commentary one thing I learned is if um amateurs show up to the night show and they look better or noticeably better or worse um I've realiz I've I've learned now that they'll rejudge it because because I actually had we actually had the results to the finals in I won't say the class because I don't want to piss the I don't want to upset the guy but um we actually had the results and I was like like looking down to Mina and Ashkan I was like oh that guy's won you know the guy that you know I thought the other guy was going to win but the guy the other guy showed up to the night show sharper better tan and the other guy kind of thought he had you could see he was acting like he had it in the bag and then when it came to the results. Um the results reversed. So they they rejudged it. And last year there was um there was this bikini girl and she was actually the she was actually winning. She was actually on the sheets as winning and she was absolutely fantastic. She came back she must have been pigging out after the judging. Came back to the finals and um the judges the judges were like what the hell she done. They put they dropped her down to third. I don't I don't think she even knows. I don't think she even knows that as well. So she was actually winning. So anyway, my point is the judges if they see noticeable, you know, or or a change in attitude or or they're not putting their effort into their posing, they're not fighting for it, they will rejudge it. So that's what I'm saying. You should always fight to the very very end. So that's something I've learned in the amateurs. And a lot of these judges, they do judge pro shows as well. So that obviously is a standard thing in the MPC in the pro league. So and obviously saw what happened with um because they said that Nick won the pre-judging, didn't he? He did by one point. Yeah, he won. And obviously what happened at the night show, they said that um he was he was starting to let the stomach go on that very very very last set of comparisons. So that because end of the day the judges are looking for something. If it's a tie brick, they got we've got to look for flaws. We've got to pick on something that you know Derek's got a nice tight waistline. Nick's hasn't got the smallest waistline and he's been holding it. But up till now he's starting to let it go now. So straight away then it makes it makes their job a lot easier. So um yeah. So anyway, that's something I've learned anyway this weekend. fans should be happy that the judges are taking this much time to compare physiques. They're not just saying, "Oh, he won or he he's third." Yeah. Every guy now gets a shot. There's nobody that doesn't get called out anymore, right? Everybody gets a fair comparison. And if you're in good shape, they're going to find you and and give you that opportunity to move up, right? They Martin and Bonet got a comparison together. That was for third and fourth. They didn't keep keep them apart. They didn't Everybody got flip-flopped and switched. So if you're a fan, your your anger should go at the judges, but like they're there doing their job. You're watching you might not they might not even be watching the show from the live stream, right? Just because we have so many people now that can comment from all over the world and you can see which ones are idiots and which ones kind of maybe know what they're talking about and then which ones really do, right? Like Nick didn't suck and Derek doesn't suck, right? But people they get so enamored with Sorry. Yeah. Go ahead. No. Did you know that um they gave Derek the front double bicep? I've just been looking at that and I think Nick maybe took that one as well. Ah, well, let me let me let me talk for just a second. So, the front double bicep, I'll freeze it for a second. I I had a real issue with that because I'll tell you why. As far as trying to decide who deserves that. Uh, let me get to it. So, Derek's biceps, they're not good. They're not good. They're they're not very developed. There's not one ounce of separation in them. Um, they look like blobs, whereas Nick and there's no they're they're it's but Nick has these best I don't know the best arms in bodybuilding probably Nick Walker and Kriso. They're definitely in the top three, those two guys. Um, why why does why does Derrick win this shot? Because Tyler said he thought about it, and this is one shot he actually had to give Derek purely on the way the lats are popping out, the vtaper, just the shape and the structure. And Nick out muscles him, but he's sort of straight up and down in the torso. He's got better legs. I mean, if you go body part by body part, uh it it's easy to give the shot to Nick. But I, you know, I'm I'm trying to wrap my head around. We all had Nick winning. Not by a landslide, just by a hair, but I mean, this is a Mr. Olympia winner Derek. This is an Arnold Classic, reigning Arnold Classic winner. For him to almost knock this guy out, good lord. But man, if you had to, if you guys had to argue for Derek winning this shot, what would your argument be? Um, one thing I want to say also as well, um, you know, I said before about the being on prep so long, his legs don't look, um, Derek's legs don't look as good as they did the I thought they looked okay. They look good, but here they look like they did at the Olympia last year. Sorry. Um, sorry over to you, Mike. So, I just had to say that because I can see it in this image now. Yeah. Like, if I'm going to make the argument for Derek winning the shot, it's just because on pure beauty, right? That's that's a beautiful shot. That's that's a X-frame bodybuilding front double bicep pose, small waist, wide flaring lats. But the issue for me is the condition, too. And you know, I mean, the condition isn't I have the Arnold Classic in my head. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it like I said, it was so close. They had to come up with a reason to to knock one guy into second and still it came down to one only one judge's opinion. That's how this is probably the closest if not the closest in all of all time. It's one of the closest decisions we've ever seen any of us. We've been we've been going we've been watching these shows for many many many years guys. Um, and again, uh, I want to wrap this up because I want to get into New York, but I think losing the show, I know it sucks for Nick to lose. He wanted that money. He won the title, but just like what Giles said about Samson, this catapulted Nick back into another another stratospheric level, a higher level. He's he has he made more fans going into the show. He had a lot of haters. Nick talker, he's not going to show up. He's gonna suck. This and that. He converted a lot of those haters into fans this weekend and I think unfortunately for Derek I think Derek got some a gained a lot of haters because of this show through no fault of his own but in a way losing this show was probably the best thing that could have happened for Nick because now because people see him as the rightful champion who was robbed and I'm putting that in you can't see me but I'm putting I'm using air quotes with my fingers. He wasn't robbed guys but no we could have a lot of us had Nick winning. Tyler had him winning. He was the head judge. Uh the Olympia, this sets up a very very interesting Mr. Olympia. We now have him in the conversation to be Mr. Olympia. And I mean Bob Karillo a couple months ago was laughing about him and saying eighth place. You know, he's got a H frame. He's eighth place this year. I don't think anyone's thinking Nick Walker is going to be eighth place at the Olympia this year. Right. Maybe close. So So I I think this is the this isn't the comeback because he was still the New York Pro champion. He competed last year. But for me, this is kind of like the sway of the which I kne and I knew it would happen. I've been saying it for bloody weeks on this show. Like I said, this was like when Jay Cutler came back in 2009. Remember when 2007, 2008, remember on the on the on the forum, people were like superimposing his head on a fridge and they were like fridge and he doesn't deserve like when like the one about Phil's gut towards the end. It was just people were just relentless. And I think it's like mob mentality. they all start copying each other and everyone just gets in on it and it's just it gets really really it gets really out of control and I think um and I told you I said this I said I telling you as soon as he gets back on stage and looks great all those Nick talker guys that all the crew they're going to be very very quiet so but like I said they're not they're not real fans anyway I don't see them as real fans Nick Walker fans never went anywhere I was talking to Hunter about this in the car in the the car yesterday Hunter Labrada and he was he was said he said yeah he says those guys he says uh he said they they're not they're they're not real fans and I I completely agreed. Totally. Yeah. So, I guess that's a good way to start transitioning. I mean, the way he looked here, I mean, who's beating this in New York? I mean, nobody. Guess you may as well phone it in. Yeah, he'll phone it in. And not to say there's not some quality competition. There is, but good lord. He almost beat He just almost beat Mr. Olympia, guys. He almost beat the reigning Arnold champ. I mean, and we never, you know, we we thought in a dream scenario, maybe he'll win, but we didn't think it was going to be a reality. And good lord, had it not been for one judge's opinion, one judge, this guy would have just beaten Derek Lunsford and he would be the reigning. It's not also that it's the fact that he looked his best ever as well because maybe we've been saved for a couple of years, he's maxed out or I preferred him in 21 when he had a little bit of a smaller waist and better aesthetics. his kind of physique is ugly now and he actually brought a really really nice package when he's doing those quarter turns. I mean his midsection nice and tight and like the way that you know the intercostals came into his into his obliques and top his hips and stuff really package. Yeah, you knowesters he's very separated too now. like there it's it's a lot of detail in his chest and that pose right that's a killer pose man that's a killer he looks he's a little funky in some poses but it's just gnarly muscle and listen it's bodybuilding right it's still it's still a muscle show so he's an I'll muscle everybody in New York pretty much beat Derek in that breable bicep that that when I learned that today when I saw that when Tyler says actually we gave this to Nick the readable bicep that puts me more more certain that he's in the conversation for winning the Olympia because if you can take out Derek and his money shot, you know, then that I bet that, you know, that makes it very very very, you know, interesting for the Olympia and like I said, it's a four-man race now. It's going to be a good time. It's going to be a lot a lot of fun leading up because again, we got New York. Um hope I mean, I don't think Rean can beat Nick, but I'm curious to kind of see what kind of package Rean brings now. um you know working with Stefan having a whole full year off you know I know Ria's backs don't look crazy but what is the front going to do you know I mean like is she like I'm just kind of curious to see if Rian will finally live up to that kind of hype that we've all kind of had for him I thought this dude would be Mr. Olympia by now. Honestly, I thought with his frame and structure, I thought he was phen he was in 2018, dude. I thought he was just he was on his way to just kind of being the that that dude, but you know, you're a dad now. You know what I mean? Your husband and life is happening. So, is that fire still the same to kind of reach for that Olympia goal? You know what? Why did he um why was he supposed to be pulling out? Because I heard a thing he was wasn't doing your prone and he was. He said he was behind. What What was the Do you know anything more on that, guys? They said manager Matt said he just wasn't Well, no, he he I don't want to misquote on the podcast. He said he was just he wasn't be ready for Pittsburgh, so he's ready for New York. And I think he's doing a couple other shows as well. He'll need to because he ain't qualifying at the New York Pro. Let's be Let's be brutally honest. I mean, he's I'm sorry, but he's it's AI don't think he'll beat Bonak and I don't think he'll even beat Krisbezo. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. I He's He's lacking in some areas. The the the biceps are not the arms in general are not great. The chest is not great. His back is phenomenal. Um he gets into condition, but I I'm trying to remember the quote. I think what he actually said, and I didn't listen to him, but he said, "If I'm not ready for New York, I'm not going to do New York." So, I guess he's That has me worried. That has me worried. That means that tells me that we're not going to see a very and any any of the updates I've seen, he looks he certainly doesn't look like he's a week out or two weeks out or three. He looks like how you expect to see him eight, nine weeks out. But then again, like he's working with Stefan. I don't think Stefan would let him miss. But then again, Stefan's in a different country. Is it I don't know. I just I just think Stefan wouldn't be Stefan knows what he's doing. He knows what he's looking at. He wouldn't be putting like a six weeks out be like, "Come on, mate. You need to we need to ramp it up. You don't need to drop this and up that and do this and do that. I just I mean what I've seen so far I mean go yeah those crazy back shots and stuff but like who who cares about that? We want to see condition. He's got to be conditioned from the front the side you know and you can do the the fisheye lens back shots with those crazy traps in his back you know and that's all impressive but you know like with Kriso sharpening that bloody silly bloody uh picture up those those pictures up. I mean you can't take that on the stage. So, I don't see I'll I'll be honest, I don't see him as a factor in this show and I think he's going to have to try and qualify elsewhere, whether it be a European show or or the Legion or something like that because so best basically be prepared that, you know, Kriso and and and Rean might not even qualify, you know, and thing is there's only so many shows you can do. Like I don't think Kriso had anything to benefit from doing Pittsburgh and New York because Kris is not going to win New York. Um, you know, Nick's Nick it's a fight for second place. I'm sorry. I know that's that that really pisses off the fans of those individual people, but unfortunately um you know there's levels to this. It's how listen it's how bodybuilding is. And this is not anything personal. It's not it's just it's like we're talking about like a football or basketball team. Yeah. Nick Walker. Yeah. And Nick and Nick's at that he's a top four. He's a Mr. Olympia contender. Which not to say these guys aren't good, but also true Dallas is Chris's been competing a little bit. Bonex has been competing. Rean's coming off a long layoff, so that timing may not be there yet, especially with a new coach. Yeah. And I don't think I don't think Stefan will let him miss because his Stefan's guys have all been lean. They've all like Sergio came in lean. They've all been lean. It's just they haven't maybe maybe nailed it 100%. But coming off a year a year off, right, it's just the bodies and a new coach, it may not react the same. And you got Bonak who's this Bonak could be second in the show. Yeah. Yeah. So, it wouldn't shock me if if William came in second here. Um because he's he's got a lot of hype in another year, another week of dieting, which another week to get sharper. So, it's going to be an uphill battle, but I forgot about Sauce. Holy crap. I was just I was just about to say William versus Sassan's going to be interesting. And I think And I think Chris, to me, it's like, okay, let's just put Nick to the side. He's going to win. I think um Bonak and Sassan's going to be interesting. And then I think like it was with Martin and Bonak, Nick and Derek, and then Kriso, and I thought Veto would be battling out for fifth and sixth. I feel like there's three lots of twos going on here. So I think um Rean versus Kriso will be interesting because because Regan's pretty complete, you know, is um and let's be honest, Kriso's awesome. And even if he sorts his tan out and he comes in nice and crispy and full, which I'm sure he will, um the back the readable biceps lacking and the posing's not great. Um but Kristo's gone backwards on his posing. I don't understand why because he was um Do you think it's the shoulder thing? Do you think there's still a bit of mobility issues there or It may be it may you know it may take a year or so the the range of motion Jesus that's the one the filtered one. So guys just just forget anything you see after that is going to be disappointing. I mean everyone was freaking out and it's like oh he's going to be he's going to win it. He's going to be second. He's going to be top three. And I'm like guys it's just a filtered video. And then they showed the unfiltered video version a day or two later and everyone was devastated. I'm like, well, come on. You can clearly see it's bloody filtered and no sharpened, you know, with the editing. It's stupid. They don't get it. They don't get it. But like I said, that's that'll be a good battle. Him and him and Rian. But again, like I said, Sass and Bone will be very good. I think Das is a very complete bodybuilder and he comes in crazy condition, but like said versus Williams fullness. So, which one do you go with, right? Because when William walked out last week, I'm like, he's third. That's third place. That's what I thought. I love Sas. I I think Bonak will take him. I think Sassan Sassan and Kriso and Regan is like the third to fifth. I I've got a feeling that Bonak is going to be consistent enough to take a solid second, but I think third through fifth is going to be those three guys personally. What do you think, Ryan? Yeah, I mean it's going to be tight obviously after Nick. I I think I think it's going to be Bonak in second. I think Sassan is a very likely third. Uh Rean fourth. Uh Ko fifth again. And there's no shame in fifth place. It's top five. Yeah. Yeah. I got I got Bon second, Sas third. I got Regan in fourth, but I got I think Rean's going to impress a lot of people. Like I think Rean's gonna maybe shock a lot of people with the new with improved size, maybe better condition. Um I don't know. I've been drinking the Rian Kool-Aid for like six years now. So, I'm I'm hoping my um my thirst is quenched finally because I think I think that he's got such a a huge frame. Like when you see him in person, when I saw him in person at the Olympia, I didn't realize how big he actually is. Like he's a big dude. So, you just hope like it's just time as well. Just time time time. These guys, they come in so young and we have all these expectations on them. It just it takes time to get that that quality muscle. But dude, if CISO I don't know, he he may be the odd man out going into October because he's not going to win here and I'm not sure what's he doing overseas, but you got some like Nathan's competing. Um, Beirus is going to be competing. I'm sure Bonax will be doing a couple shows overseas as well. So, it's going to be a rough road for him going forward, man. But, it's just how it is now, especially with there's no point system. Yes. So win a show. I I think with um Nathan and Beerus, well, we think they we don't know for certain and we anything could happen and anything could change or whether it has changed, I don't know. I've got no information on this because Nathan and Beerus can't get to the Olympia say um they're going to go and do as many shows as possible. So even if Nathan and Beerus get a win, say like Beirus likely wins Dubai again, like cuz he he might just think, well, I can't get to Libya, so I may as well. my sponsors want me to do two or three four shows and then you might be you might have Nathan and Bear Ruse battling that out and then next thing you know that's three or four qualification spots are then gone and then you got guys coming from America desperate to try and qualify trying to fly over here unsuccessful getting seconds or thirds you know it's um it's going to be tricky so anyway my place I'm going to have Nick first it's just not even up for discussion somebody I forget what they said to me today they said this guy's got nothing good to say about anyone what are you talking about and I think he was a Sassan fan and I'm waiting for him to reply to me to say mate Look, I love SAS as a great guy. I would say he's a good friend, but we know each other. We've known each other for over 10, 11 years. He's there's levels to that. I think even Sasan would admit himself, you know, like Bonak and and Nick are kind of like next level guys. So, um, but Sassan, I think Sasang So, I think Bonak in second. I think um Sassan in third. I think Kriso in fourth because his condition is light years ahead of Regan from what I've ever seen from Rean. And I think Kriso is going to he's going to fix the tan and he will look better than he did last weekend. Um and then I think Rean and fifth. So um and if you I I haven't really looked at the list a whole deal um beyond that. But um also I thought tell you I'll give credit though that Leandro looked really good. Mind Oh yeah, he did. Yeah, because he's really he looked loads better than the Ar Brazil because I did say to you I said I said um um after because I had veto in like sort of sixth place. I said Leander will be next. So obviously that bumped him up to sixth. So that was uh he looked really really he looked better than he did the Brazil. I was really impressed with him. His tan was phenomenal. He He had He presented himself very well. Only being late, I'm sure. Maybe I don't know if that had a had a a role. Did you know him and Kriso came in late? Um Oh, did they? Did they? Yeah. And they had not they came in about 20. They already had some comparisons going on. I remember they came in with no color. No. Yeah. They came They came back. Oh, so that's why Kristo was all useless. Oh yeah. Thing is though that Oh, come on. Don't got me started because that'll be really annoying me about the lack of preparation because you know so I don't know what happened with that way but if you're going all that way just get yourself there a few days early remember remember um Sergio did that turned up to the show and he was all flustered and flat and stressed out and you know and the tan and the oil they're not pumping up properly so they're running on stage half prepared it's not good so that I'm sure that that didn't help a lot you know what I mean but they they kind of like you know did a little tan and gave him a little bit of color on stage but uh they did say they they did announce that Those two were finally there when they came in there. It was just like, oh boy. One of those moments. But I think, listen, I think I'm going to go on the legend and say, are we going to be third here? I'm going to go out go hang out. Um, hang on. Hang on. He if he's in condition, he could probably challenge someone like Sassan and Kriso. Yes. Personally, I don't think he I don't think he'll be in condition, right? I got I got faith in Stfan. I got faith in Rian finally going to nail it. I'm taking two big jugs of that Kool-Aid pouring it like that sauce. So, I go actually I'm gonna go with Creo in fourth and Sass in fifth one with the big guys. Hang on, hang on, hang on. Let me think about that. Wow. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Well, thing is like that those beyond um second, I mean those three guys, they're kind of interchangeable. And they're quite they're quite even, you know, they got their own strengths and weaknesses. But for me, I'm gonna say this as well. I'm sure I'm gonna get [\h__\h] from this from the British fans. Sassan's body still hasn't come back to what it was in 2018. I think he still needs he like last year, I saw him at Empero and he was fourth in Empero. I was there literally stood 20 foot away from him and it was kind of like his comeback. But I mean, the legs were just always there. I mean, his legs his whole lower body is ridiculous. It's like um vetos. It's just insane. But I'm telling you, the upper body still hasn't come back. So I'm thinking another like say he goes say Sassan goes and does Dubai and puts another couple of months training in and just you know sort of prepping hard and doing everything right. We so I'm basically saying we still haven't seen the best version of Sassan that I know he can bring physically. I'm not even talking about condition here. I'm talking about what he can because if you look his chest and his arms they were actually a little bit thicker back in 2018. I don't think it's a sign of age. I think it's just he needs a bit more time back in the gym you know really really hitting it hard. And I think we like we might see it this the end of this year. We might see it um next year, but um there's still the best is yet to come with them. We got shows every weekend from now until what? Like Tampa pretty much, isn't it? Brilliant. It's a lot of shows. Wow. It's a lot of shows. So there there is chance for these guys to qualify. Yeah. Opportunity. Uh want to move into I know we didn't talk about too many of the open guys because I want to get in some other divisions that don't get as much recognition. Although classic, I shouldn't say that. There was another battle classic physique rough diesel. This was his first show back in a while. How long has it been John since he competed? You were uh well it was uh 23 compete was it? Yeah. Was it Dubai or 23 Olympia? So he dropped dropped at the top five, didn't he? Yeah. So it was him versus uh Kama, the 23-year-old Jose Manuel Monise. And it was very very close. We didn't expect it to be close because Terrence is Terrence, especially knowing that he's he's improved the upper body density and thickness. I thought it was going to be a clean sweep for him, but you know, I on the recap, uh, Tyler said it was close and I I I think Weinberger said the same thing. Um, first of all, what did you think of uh this was the first glimpse we've had of the new Terrence on a stage. What did you think, Giles? Um, I thought it absolutely absolutely fantastic because like I said last week, I remember um, like I said, I've said many times when Terren used to come out the Olympia when he came out by himself and the way he hit those classic poses because the end of the day, whether we like it or not, classic is judged slightly different to bodybuilding. It is, and it should be. So, when he was coming out by himself, I was like, my god, how could how could anyone beat this? This is perfect classic. But then when he come in the lineup, he would kind of he would fade a little bit. So, um, kind of and he kind of looks small. So taking that year off, you know, was was very smart. And then obviously he was very lucky with like Bumstead retiring because um I think he's I think he's a serious contender for the Olympia the Olympia title. So coming back and putting a little bit of size on I think was really really really really wise. But um I looked at the Joe Se because Joe Se I'm a huge fan of his. I think he's absolutely amazing. Um condition you know I love conditioning but um if it had been judged purely bodybuilding I think Joe Se would have won. I think he would have beaten him. But this is classic and there are I do believe there are certain things that the judges should be looking for like the way that Terrence presents himself, the way he you know the way he sort of poses uh the symmetry, you know, because because Jo is good, but he's there he's not got as nice a structure as Terrence. So I was just really because obviously I'll fly Terrence in next week to UK. Yeah, I'm flying him in next week. So for his tour. So, um, I was really really happy because, uh, all the all the places I'm taking him to are all very very happy he's won and I and I'd love to see him win the New York Pro as well again this weekend. So, yeah, but this Joe Summit is he's I mean, can you believe this? Like what's he 23 24 years old? He's incredible. 23 23 years old. Yeah. When he placed sixth place at the Olympia, he was still 22. Amazing. Amazing. God dang. But he's just said he's he's he's a body he looks like a bodybuilder. Like Terrence to me is every Terrence is classic bodybuilder. That's what when you think of classic that's exactly what I think of. And like I think Terrence is going to be win the Olympia to me. Like no doubt that's what I would envision of a classic Olympia. But this kid is just a freak show, man. But there's it's not a classical look. It's AI love it because it's just nasty and gnarly, but and certain poses are classic, but Terrence, the way he flows, that posing routine that he did, it was just everything about him is almost flawless, right? Like like that Bob Parish flawless. That's the waist, the how he moves his hips, when he poses, the arm movement, how he does his transition poses. That's what that's what you wish bodybuilding had. He has. That's just to me is just one of the best physiques in the sport. like he him and him and Kean are the two most classic physiques at the sport. Right. He's like he's like LeBron. I was chatting to Hunter yesterday in um in Stockholm yesterday about his dad and I said that 91 Olympia routine, man. I said that was the probably the best posing routine of all time. And I think I think Terrence is the sort of car sort of bodybuilder that actually carries on that tradition of that that that presentation, that professionalism, that polish, the transitions, the the effort into posing condition, professionalism, head to toe. I feel like I feel like Terrence is carrying on LeBron's good work. Like when he when he comes out, you sit up like you wait for him to come out. Like there's not a lot of great posers now, but when he comes out, you just that's you know, you're going to be entertained. And like it's just it's like I said just very Lee Labrada like it's just I've never seen a guy move like that since those guys back that we used to see just every pose is just that's what Joe Weider would love like this this dude would be on in imagine black and white photos like with Perk of this dude that would be oh my god that's a good one to have on tour bro that's gonna be a good one. I can't wait. I can't wait. And he's he responds to me straight away. He's very easy to work with. I mean, I knew he was because I when I've interviewed him and spoke to him, he's always been a real gentleman. Um, a question, guys. Who's the best top five best poses in the industry currently today? Oh, jeez. Ruffing. Ruffing. Ruffing. Ruffing. Ruffing. Very good. Come on. Oh, man. Terrence. Uh, re uh Logan. Yeah, Logan's very good. And that sucks that you can't think of a lot. It sucks that you can't name five great posers. I I it is sad but I would say Samson at the Olympia because I didn't like his routine at the Classic. I thought he wed it but the Olympia routine was beautiful. I think that was one of the best posing routines I've seen for about 10 years. Yeah. Um so Samson absolutely you can't when he puts the real effort into putting a beautiful routine like he did and really the expression and everything the music choice. I mean that was a routine that gave me shivers. Um Keon's a good poser. Keon's good. I like when I like it's hard man because these guys they don't give you goosebumps like Bob Paris would give you goosebumps even like watching Shawn Ray and all those or when Melvin came out right like when Melvin came out it was just or Darren Charles like Samson for a big guy is amazing. I would love to see Samson peeled and posing like that with all the crazy tieins like super shredded that will look ridiculous. But for a man his size to get on his to kneel like that, that's special, dude. That's very special. But it's just there's no there's no passion or just Yeah, it's just you know what I mean? So um so Samson turns up to the Olympia in the Arnold Classic condition. Where's he placing? Fourth. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Nick's beaten him as well. Nick's beaten as well. Think about it. think about it. But so I'm really really the thing is you know now that they know that the own because Samson really has the best physique. He has I mean it's not a for argument you look at size and symmetry proportions sheer physical presence for a Mr. Olympia he has the best physique out of Derek Nick and Hadtie he you know he's it's just not up for discussion but thing is you know that the only thing they can potentially catch him on is conditioning. So you know that Derek Hadtie and Nick are going to be inside inside out shredded this year. So, I'm really, really, really hoping that Samson can get that condition without flattening out, you know, managing to keep the aesthetics, keep that forms, keep that pop, because if he does, I think if we see a next level conditioning from Samson this year, I mean, that's a bloody I mean, that's probably exaggerating, but like a 10 time Mr. Olympia in my eyes in my mind. I mean, that's certainly because I always had in my head that Samson was going to win three Olympias and um and he he is someone that does does improve, but so far we've only ever seen improvements in his physique, not his conditioning. I mean, he was good enough at the finals. He was the best man on stage at the the finals at the Olympia last year, but um he's he's cutting it fine now with the conditioning. And I'm hoping that doing all these shows back to back doesn't kind of um I hope that he can pee because I really want to see if we see you know because like imagine how Derek felt last year when he dropped to third and he knew his conditioning wasn't right. I mean imagine all year prepping for that and you're Mr. Olympia and the next thing you know people are saying you should have been fourth with a guy behind a guy that's never even done Olympia before the Martin, you know. So that would really really hurt. So I really really hope Samson gets it to his head that he's really gonna have to bring something new this year. What do you think guys? If he's in shape, nobody's touching him. It's just you can't with a guy that that size with a waist like that. Again, I don't know if people can if they haven't seen him in person, right? Just the the sheer beauty of his physique, number one. But when you have a physique that beautiful that's also have a level of conditioning that we haven't seen, fans will lose their mind and it'll be straight first place from the judges, right? It's just you haven't we haven't seen this kind of look in years with a guy that look at that. Imagine 98 Ronny condition on Samson. I mean there was that would be like that would be like Ronnie in 2003. Like it's like okay who second? I would just leave. Yeah, it'd be like, yeah, just leave it in the back. But also, guys, can I give a shout out to Missy Truscot because she watches our show. Oh, thank you. Yeah, absolutely. Now, Olympic champion, Missy just we don't give enough love to the 212, guys. And 212 was not in the Pittsburgh show. It is in this show. And look who's coming all the way from Spain. Angel Calderon Frias. Uh, has to be Jez. I believe he's won this before. He's so big, dude. So, he's like Yeah, he's like 5'2 on a good day. Just a brick [\h__\h] house, this guy. He's as wide as he is tall. Dick. So, big dick. That's my favorite to win right there. If I'd be very very surprised if he doesn't. He's another one like um like Bonak. You never see him off ever. Even when he um he jumped into the because he did the open at the New York Pro last year and he took eight in the open. That's right. Yeah. So it's um um so he's another guy the Spanish the Spanish man I mean him and Jose the two best Spanish athletes right now literally off the top of my head I mean maybe there's some other categories like bikini or wellness or something where there's some good athletes I'm sure there are but I can't think of them immediately right now so for me Calderon and Calderon don't forget what was he 10th 7th fourth second and then he had like a third and third or whatever so he's always I mean he's the top Olympia guy I mean if if Keon and Keon stepped over to open and say then clar reader say stepped over to open completely unretired. I mean this guy being the Olympic champion 100%. Nar he's got gnarly condition even at when he was in the open. He wasn't off. He was he was huge and you know he probably I'm sure he has to suck down to 212 or maybe get down to 212. So he's going to be just dug out peeled and he's just super like crazy thick man and he's been around for a minute too. He's been a consistent competitor for a while. Do you remember what I took him to? I took Brandon Curry on that Olympia tour to we got UK, Spain, Portugal. And um Veronica Gallo, Alio's Alio Martinez, the proto the the promoter, his wife, she trained with Brandon and yeah, she trained with Brandon and she was she was matching him on because they were doing the upside down leg press and every 100 people. It was a gym opening. It was there like an open day and it was packed over 100 people in there all watching them train and they were doing the upside down pancake leg press and she and he went you want me to take some weights off she said no no no leave it leave it and she did I've got I've got video I've still got the video on my phone and like Brandon anyway she was doing repping away with what Brandon was lifting and she and Brandon just looked at me burst out laughing he was like [\h__\h] hell so such AI might post that on my Instagram tomorrow actually because that's a cool that's awesome figure girl a figure So, who else has a chance? Who else has a chance? Another Latino. Yeah, of course. My kids are half Latino. I'm married to one, so I have a little kid is awesome. Yeah, we're talking about Francisco Varios. And now it's Francisco Varios. Is it VLK? Looks like an Vul Vul. Yeah, I interviewed him. Yeah, he's a he's a lovely lovely kid. I mean, sorry, one thing I wanted to say like even at like 10 weeks out, he has harder quad separation than most guys do on stage. I don't know what it is. Genetically, he has the leanest quads and they they look like they look permanently flexed and hard. They to be honest, they look like stone. They don't even look real. Good problem to have. I mean, we you know, John I like we we like to tell the story because we saw him at the Arnold Amateur when he was he like 20 or 20 not I don't think he was 21. Yeah. Very very young. And we said, "You're gonna be a star, kid." We like to think so. He's been with Patrick Tour. He's still with Patrick, I believe, right? Yes, correct. Yeah, correct. He's he's really I mean there's a kid that's just gone he's just gone like Keon like Keon he's just continually like Karita they've just continually every single year moved up and up and up and up and up and he's uh he's just he's obviously just one of these just young just really really hardworking guys and he's someone you could see that he really loves bodybuilding because I remember interviewing him and like he was so happy the fact that he could do what he loved and get gets paid for it you know I mean this was a kid just living his dream and I and he's such a nice guy as well there's no ego there's no you know um he appreciates feedback, you know, he doesn't get assy about it when you say you need to improve this or that. You know, he's a really really really lovely guy and I know that him like like Patrick's like a father figure to him. Yeah, this was Texas last year. Very very consistent. I've never seen Francisco out of shape ever. And yeah, the passion just really comes through. That's what I like to see. He's awesome. Awesome. Yeah, he'll probably he'll be second probably to Calderon. I don't see him being because Calderon's like a next level guy, isn't he? Yeah. Another guy I definitely see in the first call out. I haven't seen him in a minute. Cody Dro, not robot, but Dro. Yeah, he's got a he's got a stash 70s mustache now. Oh, that was last year. Let me let me go to some current. There he is with Neil. He's got a porno star mustache. Porn star mustache. This is one week out these shots here. So, yeah. Very, very big, full, complete. Yeah, good technique. Great shape and symmetry. I think Cody's gonna be first call out. We'll see. I think he's under I think he's underrated. Actually, I went back on for Instagram a few months ago and he said, "Thank you so much, J." And I said, "I think I you know what I try?" Because I said to him, "I'm trying to figure out what it is." And I think it's because he doesn't compete that often. He'll do one show like one of the summer shows, I think, Tamper or Texas or something, and then he some I think he does like two shows in the, you know, in the US, like Chicago or something, and then you just don't see him for another year, and you kind of forget about him. But he is really good. I mean, I remember Neil Hill sending me some shots of him a few years ago, and he goes, "Jose, check this guy. I'm working with. He's freaking awesome. And um and I love the balance, the symmetry. I I I think he's really really good. And I don't think he's I I don't think it is that he's underrated. I just think he's underexposed because I think he I I'd love to see him come over and do something like Romania or because Neil will be at that show. So I would love to see him do like a few more shows and really kind of spread his wings a bit. Yeah, agreed. Yeah, that that's exactly what I was thinking is he just drops out of sight. You know, obviously he's probably does it to make improvements and so on, but people forget about you in this sport very fast. You get guys like that. They just kind of they pop up like Dorian and then they just disappear again. But if unless you're you're a Dorian and you're winning these big shows, people just It's not that they forget about you. It's just that soon as soon as I saw his name, I'm like, well, he's going to be a front runner. Yeah. His wife is competing, I think, in figure. Oh, wow. Oh, damn. What show this was? That's fantastic there. So, okay, that's it. I apologize to everyone I didn't mention. There's probably another 150 competitors in the show. Um, I I want to point out the live stream because everyone always asks, "What about the stream? Is there going to be a stream?" Yes, there's a stream. If you buy it today, this is coming out on the Wednesday, uh, May 14th. So, until the end of probably midnight tonight Eastern, you can get the the stream for $19.99. Let's call it 20 bucks. Or if you do that now, you're going to pay 35 bucks. No replays. They had a lot of strict warnings about no pirating the video. Those Pittsburgh all that Pittsburgh video I was showing you, that wasn't the stream. That was some guy on YouTube. Wow. Oh my god. Hey, Ron. Ron, I'm really glad I did today because I was feeling a bit down because yesterday I was um I was walking around with Hunter and he had shorts on and we went for dinner. We went to we went to this museum, this big ship museum, the Vasa, the the ship they brought up from the 17th century. There was me, there was me, Branch, uh Brett Wilin, Hunter. You saw the videos on my stories. Um and um I just I was and when we went, they had like a big people carrying thing. Michael dropped us back to the office and then I got an Uber to the to the airport. Um uh I was squished I was squished in between Brett and Hunter and I said, "Guys, if you flex," I said, "I'm literally going to get squished to death here." So, um, so I just kept looking down at Hunter's cars. I was like, "Holy shit." I tell you what, Brett's looking fantastic. Yeah, he guest. He He guestposed, right? And he's he's not even started his prep yet and he's um was he 14 how many weeks out from the Olympia? Um, yeah, he was um guest pose and he's in really, really, really good condition. There he is there. There he is there. It's hard to see because I was I was too far back, but um you know, you can see you can see like he looks and his freaking shoulders are incredible, but he's 285 and he looks he looks honestly and you can't really see in this video because it's a bit hazy, but he looks like four weeks out. In fact, Samir Trudy guest posed and Samir Trudy's doing the New York Pro this week and I know Samir Trmudi had no tan on, but they look like they're in the same condition. Wow. Yeah. Do they do they allow the venue or something? Why? I know he Yeah, it's a dry ice. He does come closer. You see him come closer and it kind of sharpens up, but uh yeah, Brett's looking meaty. I was chatting to him as well about the um problems he had with his gut when he said when he had to pull out of the Olympia five weeks out. He was really devastated and yeah, but he doing something before the Olympia. Is he just doing the Olympia or is he doing something before the Olympia? I think he said yes, he's going to jump in a show before the Olympia. didn't specify though, but um but that was they had they had record numbers at this um at the MPC Sweden show and it was absolutely fantastic. But um yeah, the they they look after you so well and I got in some good couple of good training sessions there as well. Giles traveling the world. I love it. I love it. How about a happy birthday to this woman? It was yesterday. I know, right? Lady T. Lady T. Happy birthday. She's she's in South Africa and she's um she's been there two weeks now and she's thinking of coming home early because I think she's a bit bored. We just we just we just got 50 South African refugees here in the US. I don't know if you knew that. Oh wow. That's a that's a big news item. Yeah. So congratulations. Happy birthday I should say. Yeah man. U New York Pro. Um I'd say it's going to be exciting show and it is going to be an exciting show. Yeah. This is one case where I think we know the winner. I I don't think there's really much doubt in anyone's mind. If anybody beats Nick Walker, I will take off my hat to them and I will eat that hat. What do you think? Can we can we think of a single scenario where Nick doesn't win this? I'm I'm lit because I have to because thing is like last week I was really I was really pissed off because I got my predictions completely bang on. Like I didn't I I didn't I I was like, "Okay, Derek first, Nick second, William uh Martin third, but he might get third beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat my ball you know uh Chriso fifth veto sixth Leandro then uh RPG then just I got it bang on but I was like I didn't want to be right because I wanted you know when I saw actually you know sometimes surprises happen and I thought I didn't think Nick was going to be coming in and and like realistically unless Derek messed up because Derek didn't mess up. He didn't look as good at the Arnold quite by 3%. But I didn't expect this to happen. Do you know what I mean? So, I'm just trying to think of a single scenario where where where Nick doesn't win this easily. Ninja attack. Ninja. Ninjas and bad fish. Tilapia. Yeah. Phil Heath with the tilapia. Bad. Bad lic tilapia. Bad bad salmon. You mean basically means they messed up on diuretics pretty much. So, bad salmon. It's a code word. So, uh, yeah, this is, uh, it's happening. Uh, I didn't put it. Yeah. 8 am, guys, it starts. Just in case you're wondering how early this damn thing goes. Yeah. If you want order of divisions and stuff, go to their website, new yorkypro.com. You can find out the order of events. Uh, because it's going to be a long day. They do every division. Uh, and it starts 8. And the judging is probably going to go I've been to these things. It's probably going to go from 8 a.m. to about 2 or 3 p.m. Just just the judging. Yeah. Hang on. People go on about, sorry to interrupt, but people go, it really annoys me when people go on about the like, oh, it's only so and so much for prize money. But you've just said there, they do every division. Yes, that's that's a lot of prize money you got to find. So, just remember, guys, that when you see these shows with two or three pro categories and they're giving away big prize money, you know, and maybe they're supported by a company or whatever like that, you know, just remember that like shows like um, you know, the Tim Gardner shows, most of them, they even have female bodybuilding as well. And then you've got you've got the New York pro that has every pro category. So just just bear that in mind. Yeah. Well, female bodybuilding, there's only three of them at this show. Oh my god. Really? Come on, ladies. I worry about this division. If they're not going to show up. Yeah, exactly. The promoters aren't going to keep putting these shows on or including them if they're not even going to show up. Jake's put his money where his mouth or he's the one who brought it back in 20 2020, wasn't it? 2019. Yeah. 2020. He's brought it back, you know, and thing is Andrea Shaw's kind of carrying the weight of this now. She's the only one really because of the way she presents herself and the way she puts herself out there. Like really ladies, you need to step up and compete because otherwise like when the 212 they got rid of at the Arnold Classic when only seven turned up. You know what I mean? They said they do invite more but if they don't show up um you that's why I think it's kind of great guys like Kriso and Derek now are traveling and doing multiple shows because I'm saying yes it's detrime because it might be detrimental to Derek for now doing all these shows back to back. Like I said please I hope he doesn't do an pro. shut it down and get ready for the Olympia because otherwise, you know, we could, you know, he could get absolutely his body might not play ball. So, yeah. So, I just want to sum up one last time because it's in the thumbnail, so I'll get heat from some people. I don't believe that Nick Walker was robbed. A robbery would be just a blatant miscarriage of justice where we've seen that years ago at the Mr. Olympia. That's a whole other show. This was not that. This was not someone who was way off and was given the the the win anyway. It was close. I I I felt Nick edged him out a little bit as did most people. Even the head judge, Tyler, in the old days, you never would have had a head judge come out and say, "I had the other guy winning." And here's a broke down. If you go to Tyler Manning's Instagram, he took the time. It's like two different videos, 30 minutes total. Broke down every single pose. Very, very detailed. What's Derek What's Derek got to do? What's How's he hitting this pose? How could Nick hit this pose better? I mean, he's he's incredibly thorough in the way he run he breaks down because he kind of had to be because the fans are pissed. I haven't seen this this much butt hurt since Victor lost to Jay Cutler in 2007. Yeah, I'm trying to think of I'm trying to think of another instance where that literally I'm really struggling to think of another instance where it's happened to that degree. Yeah. So, this was fans. had defy fans, but this wasn't as this wasn't as justified at all. Um, Derek looked pretty damn good. But Derek was off a little bit from his best. No doubt about that. And when that happens, I think we all get used to seeing someone, we expect them at their best all the time. And if they're a little bit off, we get upset. Like, what? When I saw his legs, I was like, "Oh, no, not again. What the hell? I thought he I thought he figured out how to keep his leg fullness, and he didn't." Constantly prepping. I'm telling you, that's why I'm worried now because if he he's got what, four to six weeks. I mean, I hope he goes on a bloody holiday or something and really like goes to the Caribbean and really relaxes with his wife and baby because like, you know, you can have it. That's the thing. Like Dorian and Ronnie, like Ronny's body when it started to deteriorate. Like the mind was still willing. Dorian's mind was stronger than his body. That's why he kept tearing everything. Yeah. Because these guys are they're just they're just something there's something different about him. Like when you you know Derek with his like he's got like has belief in God and everything but he has a lot of belief generally like selfbelief and then you got you got Nick as well like this guy is just like I love I I never used to like Nick's stage presence and now I love it. I'm like yes he's really great and the way he holds those compulsory eld isn't it? Yeah, like like you know what Dar but I think Derrick's got that angry personality to where him and Nick if if he had that kind of personality. Him and Nick can market this rivalry really good, but he's just such a likable guy. But you know what? Maybe now with like that kind of, you know, he he's Nick's the underdog now and Dererick's not the hero. It plays out so well, doesn't it? Like going into the Olympia because it's just the story lines always seem to match up to where we're going to the Olympia. It's so it's just we're at a good point in the sport, right? We're not we we got not a lot to complain about because we got guys are competing a lot now. There's some good rivalries going on and like we're excited for shows again. We're not like ah so and so's going to win this this Olympia. We don't know. Are you most excited to see Nick versus Haddie or Derek versus Haddie? Derek versus they're like Derek versus D those two just because they're they're history man. Like it's been those two the past couple years either first second third and they're not listen they may hey we're training for the video but you know deep down they want to beat the oh come on dude so that's why you know seeing those two and the t you can see the tension when they're posing next to each other when they're getting a little bit closer the elbows are getting closer to each other so you can kind of t see that that tension on stage but every every sport you need a good guy you need a bad guy, right? You need like a Hy Lrada, a Ray to Yates, you know, a Phil to Kai. We need that kind of rivalry, you know what I mean? And with everybody, you know, guys changing hands. So, every year we don't got that. But now we got like Hottie just sitting away just and plus listen, the fact that he's in Iran, it kind of lends a little bit more lore to that kind of coming here and like it's just just with it just makes it a little more exciting, right? just having that like that kind of international flare to it. So, but also I kind of feel bad for Derek because look how the Nick fans have directed their hate towards the Nick fans have directed towards Derek. It's not his fault. And when last year when when and also in 23 when when Derek won how the Hadti fans direct I mean they got his Instagram account taken down the next morning and they were saying I mean you know what these you know what those those Iranian fans are like. I mean they they said some pretty disgusting things actually. you know, some pretty disgusting comments. Do you know what I mean? That's like it goes way beyond the the beyond the limit of what is acceptable because they just I mean that just I don't know I don't know what I mean whatever. I mean let let their lower the trend lower the trend and relax. Calm down or get on some bloody gear and just calm down a bit, you know? Like listen, it's it's guys in thongs like right right in the end of the day this dude was oiled up making muscles on stage. Okay. Like I I I get I listen you got to have thick skin on social media but I don't think a lot of guys nowadays like we came from an era to where like we had the boards and you talk [\h__\h] to each other like nowadays guys are very thin skin and it affects them a lot more mentally. I get a lot of [\h__\h] I get a lot of [\h__\h] I don't I never used to get this either and I've been doing this for 30 years. Like I've got athletes that really don't like me and some really appreciate what I do and how I do it and with the intent I do it and others just think look I mean I've had them come up to me what have you got against me? Why do you hate me? Why? Like I've got nothing against you. Like I was thinking right okay I was thinking about actually this earlier on like remember when had turned up to 21 with his shoulders all pointed. Yes. like somebody at some point maybe his trainer or his coach must have come up to him and said look you know you're fourth you took fourth you're disappointed you know had Ramy and and and Brandon were off you know you were on you look great but this was not good then he came back a little bit a little about 10 pounds heavy the next year wasn't quite as hard for the back but the shoulders weren't as they weren't noticeable and he ended up winning the Olympia so the person that had to approach you and say hardy this is not good the judges are noticing this so when I say these things I'm I'm saying so they can actually be better and actually put because the end of the day it's about getting as close to perfection as you can so you're the best man on stage that's all it comes down it's about being the best person on stage so if and the thing is like I keep saying if I spot things sure as hell the judges are like when Nick slightly let a stomach out in that final set of comparisons their judges went right brilliant because two guys can't win you can't have both having 15 points each there is no joint winner there has to be a win like Tyler said there has to be a winner there has to be a loser I hate that word but it's you know the end of the day it's second place So, but you can't otherwise you have to give them half a trophy each or let them let them take custody of it. You know, there's no there's no such thing as joint winners winners in bodybuilding. And unfortunately, you have to pick the judges. I mean, I bet they were stressing out thinking, "Shit, you know, you can't have a tiebreak. You have to rejudge it." And then you literally the smallest thing is going to be picked up on. That's basically my point. Yeah. Well, these kids need to calm down and suck it up, man. Somebody wrote Edgar Fletcher who looked like he got caught at the buffet turn out in in Vegas one year. Like how do you think he felt reading that? Right? So people wrote they wrote basketball people for years, right? Don't get so butth hurt about somebody just saying you maybe you need to be a little bit leaner. Like some kids saying you're fat. That's different. But like if you say Giles, well, you know, maybe you could be a little tighter, a little bit leaner. That's constructive criticism, right? That's that's something you need. Anybody in your industry like if they give you criticism, just take it, right? They're not being mean or or angry. It's just you want to be better. My football coach kicked me in the ass. Physically kicked me in the ass, right? So I can't for me I'm a little I just think a little bit differently because I'm like ah well we got hit in the head which we messed up. They're just writing stuff about you. Calm down people. And the thing is like I mean now I've got this thing about the the whole the whole injected shoulders. I was talking to one athlete on the one pro on the weekend. I said mate do you wear at dinner? I said mate do you pin your shoulders? Yeah of course I do. I do that on my laps. I'm like, mate, you know, this is like this is like before the judges really started addressing the gut thing like 20 years ago that everyone was like, well, if no one's being marked down for it, we'll just carry on. We won't mind. And then obviously, remember when Ry started wearing the race trainers and and they were active, they thought, shoot, we're going to get marked down. So, so they actually did something about it. But right now, like that's the thing that kind of gets on my nerves because I I would hate to see, you know, someone go into a show and it's like, oh god, he would have probably won if he hadn't had the point shoulders. Yeah. you know, and the jud judges see it. They know what they're looking for. And don't get, you know, when at the top top level, like when um Hadtie in 23 lost to Derek, like I said about the um his posing routine wasn't very good. His tan was yellow. It wasn't like dark enough and he had a soft back and people are saying, "Oh, the posing routine doesn't matter. The tan doesn't matter." It's like, "Yeah, but you know, Derek tan was perfect. His you know, his his posing routine was fantastic. So, if it's close, who do you think they're going to give it to?" Yeah. So, I'm saying you should, you know, you can you can come at me and say like that's that's you shouldn't be saying stuff like that, but it's like, okay, well, okay, then just I'll say nothing and then you just carry on and uh the judges will just place you accordingly, but then don't come crying to me when or crying or crying generally when you're like, oh, you know, or I missed my peak or whatever like that. So, just, you know, stop filtering the bloody pictures and sharpening them up because it's not good. I don't get it, dude. But it's just it's a sign of times, man. You know what I Like everybody, you can't be in shape 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Like you we used to get like go up 30 pounds above our contest weight, right? But god forbid if you put a picture of yourself 30 pounds over your contest weight on your social media, you know what the the hate that you would get if you like if your abs weren't in or your ass was big in the offseason. You know what I mean? Like people people that's just how you that's the human body. You can't you can't be on T3 20 all year round, right? You can't be on clan all the time. I was I was chatting to a woman whose coach had her on T3 for over two years and she's had serious ser I went what? I know I know this coach as well. I know of him and I was like what? She said yeah I've had really bad thyroid these hormonal problems and she said she said it's been absolute hell because obviously you know the whole situation but um but yeah we need to wrap it up guys. We're into a almost two hours. So, uh I want I want to thank of course as always Giles Tiger Thomas, welcome back from Sweden. Back on the back on the uh UK scene and all that. Did you see me the on the the James Bond speedboat thing? Did you see me looking all James Bond like Ray Bands on? I was thinking I'm so cool, you know. I was just kept wait kept waiting for me to like hit a wave or something and that go viral. [\h__\h] Thank you, Big Mike Cox, as always. You're phenomenal. Love having you on. And guys, uh, drop some comments. Keep talking. What do you think? What do you think about, uh, Pittsburgh Pro? It's It's not too late to still throw your two cents in. What you Why you think Nick should have won or if you if you were on team Derek, why you thought Derek should have won. One final thing. Sorry. Did you see how Wesley looked? Uh, you know, I've been saying you should try an open show. Did you see him next to Samson? No. Oh. Um, did I? Oh, he's say he's saying he says when I saw this picture, he says I'm starting to realize now that maybe because I don't think he needs to leave classic. I think um how he looks three four weeks out from a classic show. I think that's good enough to do. Not I'm not saying he's going to win an open show, but he's bringing a better physique. Like two weeks out from the Olympia last year, he had the German guest posing and before he was obviously a few pounds, you know, from the weight cap and he looked amazing. He looked like a proper open guy and then there you are. But I mean that's you wouldn't believe that that's that's impressive. I know Samson's kind of off and he's you know he's in that kind of phase in between now but what do you think guys? That's that's very nice. I like that look. I like the look. Good look. He's I mean that and he's in pretty good condition. That's next to Keon. Yeah. Raone. Look. Raone. Wow. I honestly I think I'd love to see him to jump in like Prague or something as an open guy because he'd probably get he'd probably get like first or second call out. I think he I could see him like get getting squeezing into top six and I think that would be I think that would build a lot of hype like when Bumstead jumped in the open last year. I mean the hype and the excitement that brought you know guys jumping over into when Karita does the open it's I think it's exciting and I think there like you know like that's that's I think I think he stacks up pretty well. The thing is um when he's when he doesn't have to jump down into the pull down into his weight cap, his legs are fuller because I've seen them. Yeah, I've seen his leg his legs are massive. But when when he when his chest and his legs seems to flatten out when he pulls right down in that final week to the weight cap because I saw him saw videos of him backstage at the Olympia and I was like, well, what's happened to him? But obviously he has to pull down and usually it comes off those body parts that you don't want it to come off. All right, that will do it guys. Thank you so much, guys. Leave us a comment whether you love us, hate us, or you're somewhere in between. Uh, I like all the feedback. It's good for the algorithm. So, all the hate, all the love, it's all good for me. Bring it on. Bring it on. I've got such thick skin now. I don't care anymore. That is it. Thank you all for watching Power Hour sponsored by Eurom Muscle Show. And we will see right