 And musikhikh.. Hey everybody, welcome to Ask Dr. Testosterone, starring Dr. George Soliatos, the only show on YouTube where you can ask bodybuilding questions to a medical doctor. He's brought to you by his book, The Bible of Bodybuilding 2, over 700 pages full of everything you need to know about training, nutrition, supplementation, and PEDs. That's available on amazon.com and we also have my book on amazon.com, Real Bodybuilding. Check that out. Now all the way from Athens, Greece, please welcome Dr. George Soliatos. It's been a minute, George. Hello, hello to the snowstorm, Massachusetts. Yeah, we're recording this on Sunday. We're getting about a foot and a half to two feet of snow. That's 0.6 meters to you guys over in the metric system world. We have a bunch of questions, but before we get into the reader, the viewer questions, I wanted to mention something that was really disturbing. We lost another pro bodybuilder to a heart attack just a couple days ago. His name was Jason Lowe. He was a classic physique pro originally. Then he became a 212 pro. And from what I understand, he was trying to put more size on to be an open pro. Just 38 years old, which you and I know, that is so young. It's not a safe sport, but this was the day before he passed. He posted this. So still in the gym, still training heavy. I don't know if there are any warning signs or not, but when someone's about to have a fatal heart attack, George, what would they expect as far as any kind of warning signs or symptoms? Well, I don't think it comes out of the blue. You know, you have some angina pectoris once in a while, some like a pressure over your sternum or to the left, you know, choking sometimes gasping for air, fatigue. And usually those guys, when they go for a calcium score, then they get into a stent. So just before the heart attack, they were lucky enough to detect it and to avoid the myocollary infarction. Okay. Infarction. So, well, from a lab's perspective, usually the LDL and the Applebee and the LPA are super high, plus the total cholesterol. All the HDL is low and the triglycerides are high. The blood pressure also high. The glycerated hemoglobin high, the hematocryl high. It's the whole combination, you know. So the steroid stack along with the aromatous inhibitors or perhaps the CNS stimulus, stimulants, plus the super high cholesterol diet may contribute to all of that. Plus the genetic predisposition, of course, the smoking. But nevertheless, a patient of mine, he was an overall Greek champion in, let's say, 212 class or the short division. He suffered a heart attack of 45, even though he never smoked. But he had family history from his father. And he was, of course, a steroid abuser. I mean, he was a Greek champion for a couple of years, you know, perhaps a decade. So it's all, it's multifactorial. But I was surprised how heavy he trained until the day before his passing. Yeah. Well, the same happened with Dallas, but Dallas didn't die out of a heart attack, died out of a hypoglycemia, perhaps because of IGF and insulin combination. So it's very sad. Yeah. It's sad. So like you said, steroids are part of the game. We can't tell people don't use steroids. If you want to be a high level professional bodybuilder, you don't have a choice. You have to. But what are some of the things that steroid users can do? Also, it could be, I'm sorry, it could be arrhythmia. Now, arrhythmia is the result, not just of the CNS stimulus, but when the heart thickens, it's more vulnerable to arrhythmia. The LDH, you know. When you say heart thickens at the left ventricle, the LDH? Yeah. The LDH then makes the heart more prone to arrhythmia. And also, when you have an LDH, the heart doesn't diastole well, meaning feeling under relaxation with blood. That means less ventricular volume and inadequate amount of blood pumped to the periphery. And the diastolic insufficiency in the long run, eventually after decades, may lead you to a heart failure, you know? Yeah. So like I said, if we can get the blood, we know you're supposed to get blood work. You're supposed to get your heart scans. Stress test, stress test. Very important. Yeah. That's where they hook up the electrodes and put you on a treadmill. You got to run very fast. This is either that or the eco stress test, you know, where they put your IV, which is artificially spitting in the heart rate. Okay. Uh, also, they're super comprehensive. Now, it's not the calcium score. It's the MRI of the heart. That shows the heart as a whole, you know? And it's three-dimensional. It's super expensive. It costs about 500 bucks. But I believe after his 50s, the bodybuilder should do it with a history of steroid abuse, of course. Cool. That reveals the ejection fraction and then the form of the ventricles. And of course, not just the HCG or the triplex or the ultrasound. You need to go further. You need to go for a stress test and calcium score plus the MRI. Okay. Well, those would tell you if there's damage. Are there certain heart protective supplements or... Absolutely. Okay. Yeah. The statins, but the certain statins also damage the muscle, you know? Presumably, they raise the A1c and the causes the resistance. They load the testosterone, but we know we are jacked with... we are plagued with testosterone. They also deplete the Q10, which is actually the energy coin in the cells within the heart, you know? So it's responsible for producing more energy. Now about supplements, yes, the red-white yeast, the polycosinol, the niacin, the bergamot, the phytosterols. But azetimine, which is the azetia drug that lowers triglycerides and boosts the HDL plus the statins that lower the LDL and the APOB, these are the notorious medications to improve the lipidemic index, you know? The ratio between the HDL and the LDL and the total cholesterol. Yeah. Right? I think you should follow... Low carb, you cannot go for bodybuilding, but follow with the draining diet, rich in unsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids. Okay? Moderation, desaturated fat, even though that the saturated fat increases the testosterone, you can't have it all, you know? There's no free lunch. Yeah. What about cardio? How much does cardio, doing a lot of cardio, really help your heart as far as strength? Well, it does, it does because it reforms the myocardium. It's the so-called remodeling of the heart, okay? Yeah. It improves the VO2 max in the cardiorespiratory capacity and builds also the so-called collateral saturation, which is a life-saving vascular network that the under ischemic conditions, the heart is able to breathe through those tiny capillaries. And you build it with years. That's why an old man is able to to get through a heart attack rather than a young guy who hasn't developed yet in his life the collateral circulation. Yeah. Um, don't smoke, of course, come on. I mean, this is something crazy and stupid. Yeah. So if you want to play with steroids, eat clean, do cardio, sleep well, because insomnia also raises cortisol that leads to vasoconstriction. Um, do your regular cardio, all right? And avoid the junk food. Come on. Food is your fuel, okay? If you eat crap, eat little crap. And if you're the best out of your food, you need to eat quality stuff. Okay. I don't believe, I don't believe to cheat day. I believe to eating higher calories of healthy food. Yeah. We call that a refeed. Yeah. Yeah. When people are dieting and you just give them more carbs for a day or two, it's a refeed or just bigger portion. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I'm glad you covered it because like I said, I'm tired of hearing, I don't want to hear about anyone else dying. It's, it's like every week or every other week we hear some bigger name for every big name bodybuilder. There's probably another thousand that we're never going to hear about because they're not, they're not. Yeah. The majority doubt of cardiovascular visions because the, the stories mainly affect first the heart and then the liver. Uh, rarely you're gonna hear about, uh, liver cancer and liver has a great capacity of recuperating. Uh, and you can go even to stage three, which is the list is hepatitis. And then you can reverse back to normal liver one stage before the, the, the liver cancer when you need the transplant. But, uh, kidneys and heart, this is the gradual decline. You know, that eventually you go to fit to, to dialysis or to heart attack and stroke. So last question about that. Once you have damaged your heart, like say you have bad LVH, you have calcium, like a very high calcium. You can reverse LVH. That's what it's gonna be. I reverse my LVH from 30 millimeters to 11 millimeters. Wow. By dropping in weight, lifting head lighter. Yeah. Riding the bicycle every day and getting on a beatable blocker, 365. Okay. Okay. Oh, there's an improvement to that. Okay. Downsize. Do a smarter training with 12 to 15 reps. Okay. Yeah. Go for more for fitness, you know, skip the four to six or even at the maximum, uh, um, reps that also stress the valves. And then you have leakage in your valves when they're super stressed under the maximum force, you know, when you're struggling to do this one more rep. Um, and yes, do a little cardio, but you don't need to go for hours. You can do heat. You can do 20 minutes every day or three times a week. Okay. Yeah. But the most important muscle is the heart. You know that skeleton muscles, you'll know longevity, but the most important possible is the heart. Yeah. Good luck living without that. Yeah. I mean, all those things you said, they make a lot of sense for guys like us who we're not trying to get bigger or stronger anymore. We've already done that. Yeah. We have plenty of muscle for the rest of our lives. Okay. Yeah. I mean, I worry about the young guys when you said don't lift heavy, don't do they, they have to, they don't have a choice. I was, I was lifting heavy until I was 47 and I broke my disc. Yeah. All right. And I was 220. But then there comes a time that you need to stop and change if you want to live more years and have quality. All right. Yeah. It's a choice. It's all personal decisions. You all got to make guys on your own. So, all right, cool. Let's move on to some questions. Here we go, doc. First question today is I've been on TRT for five years. Does TRT lose its efficacy? And do I need to take breaks from it? Shadily not take a break, but yeah, it may lose its ability to work in a way that your own production has been shut off. Therefore, you need some HEG in order to increase your intra-testicular testosterone and boost also your sex drive and your libido. All right. I don't know. I mean, if the antigen receptor saturation exists, then we would be screwed in TRT because we do it for life. Okay. But I believe that we don't abuse. That's why we don't perhaps saturate the receptors like other guys that use five to eight grams per week in powerlifting, for instance, or in bodybuilding pro cycles. And then they don't feel anything and they need to increase the dose or stop or switch the esters or switch the compounds like Rich Piana said. Yeah. So, I don't think by 200 milligrams, you're going to have this situation, but you need to restore your production, wake up your latex cells by the HEG. Okay. Cool. All right. All right. We've got a cycle question here. I was planning to run test and anthate and DECA as a bulking cycle. What dosages or ratios would you recommend? Previously, whenever in DECA, I've developed gyno. What can I do to prevent this? Look, I don't think it. DECA aromatizes much less than testosterone. All right. To prevent, you need to use an AI. The point is you need isstrogens also to grow, you know, to fill up your glycogen to improve your joint, your androgyro receptor affinity. So, you cannot crush isstrogens and expect to grow. Besides, the bulk is based on aromatizing agents, not like the DECA derivatives in cutting where you don't grow, obviously, but you preserve the muscle. So, you can do double the amount of testosterone, you know, to have a decent sex drive. Otherwise, you can do equal test and DECA. You know, there are people that don't care about sexual activity while in the cycle just focus mainly on this. Yeah. Yeah. And dosages now, this is very relevant, you know. I've been up to 600 DECA per week, for one week also only, and that was my peak. Yeah. Well, I've been also to 100 grams of tests. So, I was also doing my last DECA cycle was four years ago when I was doing the MD shooting during the bugging. I was doing 250 tests and 50 DECA, and also three G8s and 50 ProVIRM. And I was looking very well for a 48-year-old, you know. Yeah. So, it depends. I mean, a beginner may use massive doses because he has been trained for years. Well, after 20 years of training, you don't need more than... I mean, Milos told me he's using 250 and 50. Really? And he looks exceptional, yes. At his late 50s, now he's 62. That's all he's on? Wow. Yeah, I believe it's enough for him. Come on. I thought he used to say he was on 500 milligrams of tests. He used to be. Yeah, he used to be perhaps in the past, in his early 50s. I don't know. Yeah. I don't believe he used a half a gram now. Come on, this is ridiculous. I hope not. I mean, he's 62 years old. That's yeah. It's older than me. All right, cool. Oh, okay. So, he asked about arimidex dosages. Like, typically, people do a half a gram, a half a milligram or a milligram a week, don't they? Yeah. I mean, if you do 500 milligrams, you definitely need Monday, Wednesday, Friday, one milligram of arimidex, I guess. Yeah. But, once the gyne is established, then you need some Tamoxifen, CERM, right? And all the decks. Okay. Now we got a couple training questions. We like those, too. What is a dumbbell front raise? That's where you're coming up with the dumbbell. Yeah. It's the front deltoid. But also, if you do it this way, you pump a little bit of your chest. Yeah. Do you do front raises in your training? Listen, I do this one. I do it with a barber like Jay. I do the plate. Okay. Okay. All right. I do it with the the hammer, you know, the... Yeah. Across the wall. Yeah. And I do it with a rope also. Okay. And with an isbar also. I didn't know if you did it because, like, some people don't train front delts. They think any kind of pressing movement for chest or shoulders, you're already getting so much front delt stimulation that they don't feel the need to do anything, an isolation movement just for the front delts. But I hear a lot of people that, like yourself, will do it because they want maximum development. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And here's a leg training question. I just turned 60. You can no longer do squats or leg press due to back injury. Is the combination of leg extensions, hamstring curls, and donkey kicks, I guess that would be like a glute kickback, an adequate substitute for leg and glute training? I think you can add also the adductors machine. Yeah. And the abductors also for the glutes. Yeah. And the piriformis. But why the leg press? I mean, if you sit stiff back and you don't move your ass, it's very safe to go, let's say, 45 degrees. No more. I think the only way you could hurt your back on leg press is if you go way down past, past the head. If your ass moves, yeah. If your ass comes up off the pad at the bottom, you could hurt your spine. Then your spine flexed and you're screwed. But other than that, yeah, that's a good, good question. Okay. All right. All right. Here's another older gentleman, not as old as me. I'm 53 years old. I'm starting to lose my hair. I'm using a keto, keto nozzle shampoo, spironolactone and progesterone shampoo. But should I add the dutasteride? I think you shouldn't use aldactone. Come on. Progesterone, yes. You can use it as a cream also or as a pill. And you can add minoxidil in a pill. Okay. And minoxidil also as a foam. Yeah, that's what I need. That's right. Now, dutasteride, do it locally as a foam, not orally because you're going to have perhaps side effects. All right. And definitely if you're not in testosterone, you're going to be screwed. So add testosterone with the dutasteride, even orally, and you're going to have a permanent hair in six months. Nice. So what's that? Spironolactone. That's a diarone? Yeah, the aldactone. Yeah, it's an antigen inhibitor. And women use it when they have hirsutism. Oh. Yes. I didn't know that. That's why aldactone may give you gino because it suppresses the adrogens. And it's the so-called aldactone gino. Somebody will have it. I never heard of that. That's crazy. Okay. So the last part of this question about dutasteride, what is it? What's that standard dose for dutasteride? I think it's one milligram, half a milligram. They're taking people with prostate cancer. Is that weekly or daily? Daily. Okay. Wow. Okay. All right. Oh, this was a good one. It's a long question. So let's go. Asking about TRT and kidney failure and being on dialysis, please, if it's a good idea or not. My nephrologist says no, but my RBC, iron, HB, hematocrit platelets are all very low, and I've been battling anemia for years, often being given blood transfusions and weekly EPO, but still anemic. I know TRT will sort it, but can't seem to convince my doctor. Should I add that to a testosterone test? Well, I had a testosterone test done, and I was at 14.4, so this must be in Europe. They use a different range. Not a one, yeah. Yeah, the range goes from... Yeah, he's about 400, you know, perhaps a little less than mid-range. Okay. So somebody who's on kidney dialysis, should they be on TRT or not? It will definitely help with the stamina, the endurance, you know, the fatigue because of the low hemoglobin, because obviously when you have a kidney failure, you don't produce EPO. Okay. But this guy does not have any deficiency of testosterone. Now, if he uses testosterone, it's going to be for life. He cannot get off. I guess the nephrologist is concerned about the possible blood pressure that may come out of the testosterone, but if you use a moderate dose, you're going to have a lower blood pressure because the testosterone releases nitric oxide, so it vasodilates. If you abuse now, then you have a release in aldosterone, and you have an increase in blood pressure. And, you know, I guess this is an old-school nephrologist that believes the testosterone is another neumabolic steroid. All right. So, I mean, I need to know what the blood pressure is now already because those guys are very worried even about what amount of salt they're consuming. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, his testosterone looks like it's in range anyway, so I don't know why he would want to be starting TRT. Well, he can increase his own production with HG and ankylomiphene. That's true. He can even double that amount, at least temporary. All right. Well, here's a good question. As a dad, someone else wants to become a dad, what is your pregnancy protocol? Does one need to come off TRT? I'm worried about how I will feel not being on the TRT. We're looking to conceive in about five to six months. Well, that was one of my last columns in MD. I believe it was the September column in 2023 and the magazine shot off in October. So, no, you don't need to come off. You can preserve fertility, but you can only increase fertility with HG. Now, if you want to increase fertility, you can use the HMG and HG combination. But I was using for 10 years straight HG. And I had a decent amount of 40 million when I became a dad at 50. Wow. All right. So, you can stack them both or you can use just HG to remain your testicles size good enough in your testicular and your testicular ejaculation. So, HG three times a week? Yeah. Yeah. 1,500 I use is for enough per week. You can do this in three doses. You can do this in two doses. I was using this in daily 200 I use of doses, microdose in daily. All right. To avoid the spiking, presumably the estradiol and avoid the gino. So, if he's already doing 1,500 I use of HCG weekly. That's a good one. Right. He doesn't need to change anything, right? Yeah. All right. Protein question. I don't know if you know the answer. I would have to look this up. Does skinless chicken have more protein per calorie? Well, no. That's a trick question than protein powder because all protein has four calories per gram. So, yeah. They're all equal, right? Well, listen. The powder is just a supplement. Come on. Yeah. And as you become more advanced, you don't get fit by powders. Come on. This is for the boys. For the beginners. I see Arnold. I see, oh, I'm going to be like Arnold if I eat the powder. So, you want to eat real food stuff. Yeah. And this is what makes you, gives you satire, you know, not the shakes. Yeah. I mean, shakes are great as a supplement. That's why we say supplement. In addition to a lot of good, real whole food. But yeah, these young kids, a lot of them, they just drink four or five shakes a day and they might eat one or two real meals. And they don't really get much bigger. That's why. All right. Our last question is another long one. So, here we go. TRT is not widely available in the area I am in. So, I've been trying to run my own protocol at 200 milligrams testosterone cypionate per week. I've been using the 22 or 23 gauge one and a half inch needles to inject in the glutes. But in listening to your show, I was thinking of breaking the dose up to two doses a week for more stable levels. In asking chat GPT, yes, I know, apologies in advance, it said that more modern TRT protocols use 27 gauge half inch needles instead. Is this correct? And is that length long enough to inject into the glutes or does the injection site change? Well, it depends on your body fat percentage. If you're pre-contest, you can do that. But usually you whisk it, that remains the fat. And then it's poorly absorbed afterwards. What happens if you inject in the fat instead of the muscle? Well, it becomes absorbed much later. You know, the day after, it remains a lump. Okay. Okay. It definitely doesn't go into the blood circulation because the fat is poorly blood supplied compared to the muscle, which is all blood, you know, and full of blood vessels. Yeah. Okay. That's why a lot of guys go in the delts because there's, you have to be really fat to have a lot of fat on your delts. You have to be like, oh. Yeah. You can use the insulin syringe into your delts, but not into your butt. Into your butt, you're going to use insulin syringe only for subcutaneous purposes. Yeah. Perhaps using the glutathione, that doesn't hurt that much when you do it subcutaneously, like myself. But deep in the butt, yeah, it hurts more. Yeah. One and a half inch needle. That's about that long. That's a long needle to go in there. But, you know, unless you have strided glutes with no fat on them, I guess that's a must, right? Mm-hmm. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I don't know how people do the insulin needles with the gear. To me, that's crazy. With the gear, you know, with the oil, you can not do that. You can do a tiny amount of 0.1. That's what I'm saying. It gets stuck. It gets stuck and it gets exploded, you know? That actually, I told the story before. The wind straw. Yeah, the wind straw. I was injecting a pro and the whole thing exploded all over the place. It blew it, yeah. It blew it. A waste of perfectly good wind straw. Okay. Well, those are all the questions for this week. Guys, please leave your questions in the comments section for the next video that we make. And, of course, head over to Amazon.com. Get a copy of this. You will get so much knowledge, such an education, everything you need to know about bodybuilding. That's why it's called the Bible of bodybuilding. Who do you have for the Arnold? Andrew Jack. How about you? Me too, yeah. Have you seen recent pictures? He's about 80% already in condition, yeah? Yeah. Even 90. Hadi, I'm worried. Hadi hasn't posted anything in like a month. Well, you have, they have, you know, those, how you call it, these civil war. Yeah. Brazil, you know. I don't know if he's going to get his visa. You know, it's hard for him. I do hear he's in Dubai. So he's, I think he anticipated once things started getting really bad in Iran, I think he went over to Dubai. So he won't have a problem. I don't think he's going to have any problem getting here. But the poor guy, his country is in turmoil. Like they're killing, the government's killing people. And it's, it's, it's bad. It's bad. So anyway, yeah, that's, that's, we both have the same pick. Andrew Jack. So who, how about a dark horse? If, if somebody could really surprise us and win. The underdog. Who would it be? I mean, you're looking for an underdog. Who's the underdog? Yeah. Who's your underdog? I don't think Nick is, is called the underdog. He's one of the favorites. But he just need to find that condition of 2023. When he won there. That was his last good appearance. Well, he didn't win. Hard time midsection, you know, the D taper. Yeah. 20, the size game is not about the muscle. I mean, as Sean Ray said, it was not pure muscle. It was water. It was fat. Yeah. It was bigger, but he was not conditioned. Yeah. He's put on about 20 pounds of muscle since then. But like you, I liked him better in 20, when he won the Arnold in 2021. We took third place at the Olympia in 2022. And when he took second to Samson at the 2023 Arnold Classic. I loved all. No, fish water can be the underdog, you know. Yeah. He would be the underdog because he's never won. These other guys have all won. Yeah. He looks good. Yeah. He could do it. He could do it. After that, I don't really. I don't see anything. If everybody comes off, you know, those circumstances. Yeah. We'll see. All right. Well, thank you, doctor, for taking the time again. It's very late over there in Athens. So appreciate you staying up for us. And I will try to stay warm here with all the snow coming down. Same thing for us. Because two-thirds of the population of the U.S. is being hit by this storm right now. Well, California and Florida, they have sunshine. Yeah. Yeah. My daughter's in Miami. She's okay. But most other people are in deep snow right now. Wish me luck. All right. Well, thank you so much, doctor. Appreciate it. Thanks, guys, for watching. Ask Dr. Testosterone with Dr. George Antuliatos. We'll see you.