What's up guys? Ron Harris here and remember if you like these videos, please like, share, and subscribe. The like button looks like a thumb. You just click on the thumb thing. So, I want to talk today about two of the athletes at the Mr. Olympia last weekend who failed to look the way we expected to look. I'm sure they wanted to look a lot better. We'll start with the reigning of Mr. Olympia champion, Samson Dou, because Samson was in a great spot to repeat his win. Um, we all thought Samson was going to be his best ever. At least a lot of us did. There were doubts. He guest posed in Romania at six weeks out looking leaner than we'd ever seen him. But he was also looking like he was starting to downsize. And sure enough, once he got to the actual show, he was a smaller version, a flatter version. It wasn't just an issue of being flat. He had lost muscle tissue. There's no doubt about that. I don't know what he ended up weighing. To me, it looked like he was about 20 pounds less. uh whatever it was, it it was enough to knock him from first place last year to fourth place this year. The difference in prize money was very substantial. Instead of winning $600,000, he only walked away with $40,000. So, he missed out on $560,000 that I'm sure he was counting on and expecting to win. And a lot of us were. Um so, what does he need to do? That that's the million-dollar question. Uh we'll show you while we're talking. And I'm going to put up MarkX Max Muscle did a great video. He does a lot of these sidebyside comparisons comparing different bodybuilders, comparing same bodybuilders to how they looked before versus now. So, I'm just going to let it roll. Yeah, here we go. So, you can see Samson lost a great deal of pop. Great deal of pop here. Uh, hang on. Share the screen. Go to YouTube. Yeah, here we go. All right. So, no, it's not sharing. Oh, boy. Sorry, guys. Not really sure why it won't do that. Oh, it's my fault. I I know what I did now. All right. Here we go. All right, guys. Technical difficulties. Technical difficulties because of me. Me being old and technophobic. So, in a second, I'll be able to skip the ad. There we go. All right. So, let's get to some of your comments, questions, suggestions. Samson's doing I heard he's doing Prague as well. Uh, he's done Prague a couple times before. I think he won that show a couple years back. Uh, he's going to have his hands full. I say that because Kzo's there now. I don't I do believe he'll beat Krezo. Keon Pearson is making his open debut there. Martin Fitzwwater is going to be there. Martin almost beat him. I I honestly had Martin in fourth, Samson in fifth at this last Olympia last weekend. A lot of people felt that way and I have no skin in the game. Neither guy will give me an interview regardless. So, uh I'm not kissing anyone's ass. I honestly thought Martin looked better than Samson. Samson is uh is a tremendous bodybuilder. I don't know if it's he's capable of getting into the condition that we want to see. Look at the look at the difference in the legs there. The legs came down a lot. The legs in the back were were where I really saw the difference. Granted, his waist came in, which is a good thing, but it's only a good thing if everything else is still big. I I still don't see much improvement in the condition. I just see a drastic loss in the fullness and the size. Uh this is how about how the size Samson was a couple years ago. See where do they go? Where do they go? And where do they go? You're singing there. Where do they go? Oh, no. You're singing. I thought you were singing the other song. You're singing uh Sweet Child of Mine. Where do they go now? Ah, yes. Your mom's flip-flopped. It's It's only Let's see. 6 hours ahead. So, 3 9 PM in Germany. Well, you're a youngster. You need to get to bed soon to make those gains. Have some hearts. Props to you, Mr. being so consistent. I try, man. I'm trying my best. Really trying to make this channel channel grow with Samson. It depends if it's a loading issue. I don't believe it was a loading issue at all. And I don't believe it was a peaking issue with Nick. Uh I'll get into Nick after I'm done talking about Samson soon. But so loading issue means you were flat, meaning the muscles were depleted of glycogen, which is the what our livers turn carbohydrates into. Glucose turns into glycogen inside the muscles. If a muscle is flat, you can fill it out. But if you've lost a certain amount of muscle tissue, you can't fill out tissue that's gone. Uh I'm sure he'll be fuller in Prague. And I'm sure he'll look a little better, but it's going to take him a little more time than that to get back to his usual 300 lb Samson. You know, I I take responsibility, partial responsibility, because I was one of the many people who gave him [\h__\h] saying Samson's never been shredded. I'd love to see him shredded. Of course, I wanted to see him shredded, but still big. Um, he came in smaller. I don't see him anymore any leaner, honestly. Tell me guys if I'm way off here, but I don't think he was any more conditioned at this smaller size. Yeah, that's a pay cut. 600 versus 40. Geez. Uh why exactly did Simpson downsize so much? [\h__\h] neck everyone. I think he pushed too hard. Um I think they were told so many times to go for condition him and Marina, especially after he lost the Arnold Classic back in early March to Derrick Lensford. It was basically because Derek outcond conditioned him. uh because obviously Samson's beaten m uh Derek before. However, um it just didn't pay off. The gamble didn't pay off. And uh I have it on authority uh from a source that at least one person reached out to uh Marina and Samson after the guest posing in Romania expressing concern that he was he was possibly pushing too hard on the prep and losing some muscle. And they told him, "Don't worry. Don't worry. We know what we're doing. And you know, I'm sure they believed that in their hearts, but they didn't know what they were doing. Samson can keep trucking. Nick can retire. Nick's not going to retire. He's like 31 years old. I blame the multicolored trunks. Nah, I mean, those are cool trunks. Again, this video is Mark's max muscle that I'm showing. Mark's max muscle. I want to give him credit because I am using his video extensively here. One of these days, Ron will pay to skip ads. Nah, I never will. I don't even pay to do that on like Netflix. Too cheap. Too cheap. Samson won't win Prague. No chance in hell. Who do you think beats him? Martin, Keon, Kriso? I don't know who else is doing it. Martin Samson won't be a battle unless someone else signs up. That's the fight. I mean, I don't know. Maybe Keon? Who's to say Keon can't push him hard? Keon's no joke. Good morning from Melbourne. It's Let's see 500 a.m. over there, right? Yikes. Get ad blocker. It's free. Oh, the ad blocker thing messes me up because then it uh all the every popup it it's it's just been issues in the past. Don't worry, guys. I'm sorry I made you wait there for like three seconds. I'm sorry. Close to 11,000 subscribers. Yeah, keep on subscribing. Appreciate it. It's without talking about Mike Israel. I never talked about Wes Watson. I never talked about Mike Israel. I did make one video about Mike Vanwick last year after he knocked out poor little Jeff Nippert. Do you rude my take from yesterday on Nick? Oh, what's up? What's up, Leo? Um, yeah, I was gonna get to Nick, but I I was actually gonna reference you, Leo, because I think your suggestion Samson doing Prague. I haven't heard any confirmation yet, but uh why wouldn't he do it? I mean, I don't know why he's not doing British Grand Prix. I guess maybe the money's not as good. I don't know if the money's better in prod, but British Grand Prix, maybe it wasn't enough time for him to bounce back and fill out in in him and his coach Marina's minds, but geez, it's right there in in UK. Why wouldn't he do that? Yeah, I keep hearing that he's doing Prague, but we have we've heard nothing from Samson. Legs almost half a stick there. Yeah, the legs came down a lot. He was more conditioned. Okay. I mean, I don't see it. Maybe a little. Like I said, I think maybe he's 5% more conditioned and easily 10 10 15% smaller, maybe more, maybe 20%. Nick does not look well at all. He should retire and get all the medical attention. I don't think he needs to retire, but we'll talk about what he should do in a moment. The lost pup made it look much more. Yeah. Yeah. Because when you're flat, when you're when you've lost muscle tissue, it's not bursting. You don't have that fullness pushing out and the skin isn't as tight. Think about it. You have when people are obese and they lose a lot of weight, they have loose skin. They usually have to have skin surgery, especially morbidly obese people. So, this is a very small version of what what we're seeing. He had lost some muscle. So, the skin wasn't wrapped as tightly around the muscle because, you know, your skin's elastic to a point. His condition that much better. I a tiny bit a tiny I don't think it was worth it. I think if he had come in looking exactly the way he did last year, he probably could have won or at least been second. I don't think he would have been lower than second. Lost a lot in the lower lats. Yeah. Sam should be tunnel vision stick himself solid offseason. Yeah. I That's the thing is I don't know if his wife is the best coach for him. Uh, like I said last night uh with Leo and Justin and Mike Cox on the Meatthead podcast, we thought or they we thought and Samson said and Marina said there's there's no better coach than someone who can be there 247. Someone who can see you every day, every night, all the time, be there in the gym with you in the kitchen, you know, make sure you're eating what you need to be eating, make sure you're doing all your cardio, not slacking. However, when someone is that close to you and especially when it's a spouse, you know, maybe they don't want to see you suffer. That's one thing to think about. Another thing to think about is maybe because they see you so often. Oh, now I got to skip the ads again. That Sorry guys, this is going to be about 3 seconds. I'm not paying for ad blocker because I I rarely ever share videos from YouTube. So, when someone is that close, they see you so often it's like maybe they can't even see what's happening. Oh, that was the end of the video. Okay. Okay. Well, I think I'm going to stop sharing anyway. Yeah, stop sharing. Okay. Go back to Streamyard. Put up put up the comparisons from the Olympia so we have something to look at. CP2, Mr. Top Four. Okay. So, yeah, here he was fourth place in this lineup where it was Derek, hottie, Andrew, and Samson. And Andrew made Samson look small. I mean, I didn't know if I'd ever live to see that day. But he did. Andrew made him look small. Let's see. Slightly leaner. Not a mass improvement. Not super impressive. Yeah, something went wrong. I think what went wrong is they just they pushed too hard. They went too low on the carbs, calories, too much cardio that, you know, I don't know. I don't know if he's ever going to come out and say exactly because his statement was that they just didn't have enough time to load like carb load. I don't think this was something that another couple days, another two, three, four days of eating more carbs was going to fix. I believe it was lost muscle tissue that he lost in the last, say, six to eight weeks of the prep. You're not going to get that back in a couple days just by eating more sweet potatoes and cream of rice. Blame Marina. Marlinka, she's coach. I do blame Marina Samson. I mean, I don't blame her. Like, what a horrible coach. It's just, you know, she's his only client. I'm not saying she doesn't know what she's doing, but I'd like to see what someone like a Chris Aacto boss of Outlaw. Uh jeez, Chris, no Chris, I said Chris Aceto. Uh Chad Nichols, someone like that. I'd like to see what Patrick Tour. I'd like to see what what they could do with him. What's up? Zionic live during the day. Yeah, Simpsons was small and soft. Smaller and softer. I the condition. He wasn't soft, but he was smaller and that really hurt him. Fuad's less pock S was four pounds less. That looks like a lot more than four pounds, man. If you want I'm not drinking that Kool-Aid, FUD. Sorry, bro. That is not four pounds. We just watched a whole bunch of comparisons from last year to this year. Don't tell me that's four pounds. That's more like a minimum of 10 pounds. I suspect it's more like 15 to 20 pounds if I had to if I had to guess. If I had to guess since was was on fake or No. No. Yeah. I mean, that's that's always a possibility, Leo. It's just uh I I think they did say that Merrick Health had him on less overall gear, but still, you're telling me that Samson Da can't get real gear? Really? The guy who was the reigning Mr. Olympia who's got plenty of money, plenty of connections in the industry, you're telling me he couldn't get good gear? I'm I'm not buying that. I'm not drinking that Kool-Aid. Yeah. This was last year. Huge difference, guys. Huge difference. Way better last year. Don't give YouTube your money. I'm not giving them any money. They need to give me more money. The downsiz in the back. Yeah, Chud Muffin. That's where I saw it. The back was really flat. Really? His back was about the size it was three, four years ago. Both should do a classic. See, uh, I don't think Nick should. Samson, yes, Nick probably not, right? I forgot about Keon. Yeah, Keon's no joke, guys. behind shots really show the loss. If Keon comes in like the Olympia, Keon will win. No doubt in my mind. Look at realistically be Martin and Keon. Keon's just better. Well, I'm gonna give Samson the benefit of the doubt because that gives Samson two weeks between shows to fill out or regain some of the muscle tissue that he did lose. And I believe he can gain back probably about half of what he lost in that time frame. I think he can do it. And that Simpson might be enough to to beat Martin, to beat Keon. We we're going to find out. Abs look worse photo comparison. Yeah, it had to be tissue loss. Had to be significantly. So Keon just got to keep that gut separation check. There's nothing he can do about that. Uh blue and G, blue RNG, whatever that's whatever your name is there. That that is purely genetic. The formation of Keon's abs, there is nothing he can do about that. It's not going to change. That gap in between the the left and the right side of his abs, it's going to be like that forever. I think Sam is running fake gear since he had working with Matt Jansen. want because that was a speculation about Nick Walker last year while he dropped out of the Olympia. How can he be leaner with less abs? I mean he to me he didn't look the condition to me wasn't better. Leo and a few people say he was a little more conditioned. I don't see it. Uh I think Samson should do the Arnold. I don't think Nick should. We'll talk about Nick in a minute. However, if Water Buffalo does Arnold, he might win. Who's Water Buffalo? I don't know who Water Buffalo is. I got to go back to uh some footage. I can't just can't just yap. Let's go to when Samson won. That was a great That was obviously the best day of Samson's career last year, a year ago when he won the Olympia. Does Samson dare do the Arnold if Andrew is waiting there? Well, I mean, I feel like he needs to beat Andrew now or to make a statement. Otherwise, if he does the Arnold and Andrew beats him, then that's it. I think Andrew's solidified himself as an Olympia a definite Mr. Olympia contender. He is. We know that. But it means he's sort of gone past Samson. It was flat. Simple fix. Lo Sun Sons. I think he lost muscle. I don't think it was just flat. Nick will never miss. Probably. Probably not. I think he'll look crazy his next show. He will. Mom's flip-flop. Sam should definitely not do Prague and build that muscle back quickly. He should do the Arnolds or something. Well, he can't build it back any quicker. It's going to come back at whatever rate it's going to come back at. Uh, have you seen his updates? No. Let's take a look. Uh, has he put any posing updates on? I'm curious. I was looking at pictures of him. Let's see. What do we got, Samson? What do we got? Oh, okay. Okay. All right. Let's go to that. Let's see how he's looking and we'll see what he's got to say for himself. I just got to get rid of this first. Samson wins. Where' I put that? Bear with me, guys. You always do. I appreciate you guys. Samson finals. Simpson wins. I have so many video clips loaded and playing, guys. It's crazy. I need to delete some of these. Uh, I'm going to his update in a minute. Okay, here we go. Let's go to Instagram. All right, one second. Share screen. All right, this is Samson's latest update. Granted, this is him by himself. This is better than he looked at the show. And of course, I knew, you know, this was posted today. Today is Thursday, so this is Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. He's had five days to load to eat up more carbs. See if there's any loss in condition. Not too much. She wasn't much leaner than this on stage. You could see there's some water bloat there. Some He's retaining some water as you would expect from anybody who pulled water for the show, which they all do. Uh, and especially with the reintroduction. I'm sure he's been eating a lot of carbs since then. So, there's going to be some some fluid retention. He definitely looks better here than he did at the show in terms of the size and the fullness. He's not quite back to the usual Samson, but he's well on his way back. uh to qualify somehow. I don't believe, you know, I don't think they've changed it. If you're the winner, the a Mr. Olympia winner, you're qualified for life. Like Derek, Hottie, and Andrew. No, they all I don't know. Don Pump. He needs to qualify. Uh well, yeah, top three don't need to qualify, but they did say before that Mr. Olympia champions, they're qualified for life. He'll only jeopardize his long-term health. I assume you're saying if he continues to compete, he doesn't need to qualify, right? Samson's qualified for life. Samson is also 40 now. I think he turns 40 in a few months. Yeah, Donald. Like I'm pretty sure they did say in the not that long ago in a post at some point this year that Mr. Olympia winners are qualified for life or for five years and he just won the Olympian 24. Despicable me. Tamson Chase me is not Dorian. So when he lost Wow factor he look stringy as hell. Yeah because he's taller. I mean, Dorian was 5'11. A hottie's only 54, 5'5. YouTube Premium is $13. Ron, don't be cheap. So worth it. Nah, I don't I rarely I rarely share videos from YouTube. Sean Rooden was 43 when he won. Yeah, I remember. What could be Nick Walker's next show if he doesn't do the Arnold? We'll get to Nick in a minute. Name a successful top male body as a female coach. I don't want to [\h__\h] on say it's it's because she's a woman that she can't be a great coach. But let's face it, she hasn't coached a bunch of other people like all these other coaches that we mentioned. Stefon Kingsel, I think he's coached hundreds of people at this point. Aceto, probably thousands. Patrick Tour, probably thousands. Chad Nichols, hundreds or thousands. Uh Marina is not that experienced as a coach. Uh, so maybe he needs to find someone that's just a little more experienced. That's all. Exper Andrew winning and chat GP is interesting. Roly had a female coach did well. Yeah, grandma Sibila Peters, she was good. Andrew looked best. A lot of people feel that way. A lot of people feel that way. Uh, I keep saying when Andrew lands, it's over for a lot. His shape is amazing. He needs more legs for sure. My humble opinion, Nick should take some time off work diligently on his admin. Yeah, we're going to get to him in a second. I want to get to him. It's not about the big female lack of overall experience. Yeah, grandma had been a coach for a while, Sibila Peters, and she had worked with a good amount of athletes. Uh Marina had not to my to the best of my knowledge. Samson is her first and only client she's ever had. And yeah, they did a pretty good job. They won the Olympia together last year. So, but did they just get lucky? Was it just a fluke? I don't know. Anyway, Derek Lumpsford. He's the alter boy. Oh, boy. You seeing the alter boy? No, it's not. There's no there's no favoritism anymore. It could be Hottie again. Uh it could be Derek again. Andrew could win next year. Uh you know, we could see we could see all kinds of things happen next year. Or Samson could get it back. If Andrew improves weaknesses, the Olympia will be his next year. Sean Rice, thank you so much for the $5. With the year that Derek had has had winning three shows and could be two times Olympian, I think he is top 20 of all time. I that's subjective, but he's he's got that so-called triple crown. Very few uh guys have ever won the Arnold and the Olympia in the same year. I believe the only two prior to this were Ronnie Coleman did that back in and I believe Dexter Jackson did it in 2008. I think Dexter won the Arnold that year. Uh never in a million years. You don't I don't know what you mean. Never really Nick needs to take Sean's device down smarts physique. Yeah. Oh, 100%. Sam was 4 pounds. He was on zero carbs for days before the O. Yeah, he wasn'T4 pounds lighter. There's I'm not buying that. Or sorry. Sorry, Fouad. I know you're uh that's your boy, but I'm not buying it with Nick. It wasn't peeking issue. 10 pounds more. Yeah, let's we'll get to Nick in a second here. Martin with 10 more pounds we force. I agree. Martin's getting better all the time. Yes, you can see a difference with the side leg, too. Don't forget Samson's age. I don't think it is. He's He's young as a pro. He hasn't been a pro for that long. It's not like he's been up there 20 years. He only started competing, I think, in 2015. So, he's he's really not that old in terms of bodybuilding. Saves hottie is never going to m again. Don't say that. That's not necessarily. Why do you say that? It's not about the if he can get. There's 80% fake. No, you stuck to what you always used and they started faking. Yeah, I've seen videos where there's so much fake gear out there now. And that's why I'm one of the reasons. I mean, I I stopped cycling for health reasons because I didn't want to I didn't want to die young and people were dropping dead left and right a couple years ago when I finally made that decision to just just use TRT doses and no more Tren, no more uh equipo, none of that stuff. Um but I don't know, that's a good point. Uh, I just don't that that's crazy if 80% of the gear out there is fake right now. So, go to Sam's story, check out his fuller look. Legs still down a buck. Well, this is uh this is uh I don't know when you posted that. 309. So, we're showing his fuller look. Yeah, he looks better. He looks a few pounds up already. Martin Ke Martin beat Ke Martin beating Keon. I'll put Keon up while we finish up the uh Samson discussion. I think Keon wins. Nick Walker. Where's Keon? Oh, did I not? I thought I had Keon. I didn't put Keon's routine up there. My bad. Well, there's Keon. Just so you can look at him. All right. So, go back to your comments. I'm just trying to catch up on all your Samson comments before I move over and talk about next. Should they do away with all the class visions? I don't know. You can't really do that at this point. Martin Cruz will beat Keon. Keon's abs will get worse. Nick's AJ Sims is a coach. Why do you think that one particular coach is going to be better than any other coach? Samson walking to the Arnold. Hi, Samson. Andrew. People are going to appreciate Sam size more because now they've seen him lose it. Don't be harsh on central when census ping remain paran said wow probably you wrong to truth he looks yeah I said it's I I've been taking accountability several times already in this in this live Sam said he didn't fill out why not believe me and leave it at that till next show he looks much better now well said because I I I know what filling I know what a flat body looks like I know the difference I've seen tons and tons of guys who are flat and then seen them full like the next day nobody is that much smaller just by being flat Fact, carbs don't make that much of a difference. Gly muscle glycogen doesn't make that much of a difference. I believe that's what he believes. Just I don't that's the case. Walker's sore leisure being rude to fans. Is Chad be the right choice? He's not working with the top pro undivided attention. Yeah, Chad's good with the big guys. Ab separation isn't just genetics. Some steroids metabolize progesterone hormones. Well, I don't know how he's supposed to bring bring it back now. Keon other body short tors because they've got less wiggle room. Yeah, you see that with guys like uh Bontak as well. This sport is rough and unforgiving. Go back to back to this. I swear I'm going to get to uh I swear I'm going to get to Nick if I could if I can keep up with all your comments. I appreciate all your comments though. Peak Sam needs to get this fullness back. Shadowy lighting at the same as stage sends his updates are heavily filtered. Always be. Yeah, he does like to do the filters. They also have praise for dedication. Oh, Jordan. I mean, I always I always speak respectfully about these guys. I know how hard they work. It's what happens when your wife is a coach. She doesn't look out. O rough. Champions to qualify for life in the division. Correct. KFC doesn't need to qualify. Shouldn't do any show at all. Why would he? Probably just to redeem himself in the eyes of himself and the fans. Show people that was not the real me at the Olympia. I can look a lot better. Steroids a breakdown of progesterone cause ab splits to the THT special preparting gonds. Well, they all use those. Big shout out from the UK 15. What's up, man? Thank you. Appreciate it. Do you still think Sam's win the Olympia? I do. Of course I do. Of course he does. He's still got the same physique. It just needs to come in fuller, bigger and fuller next time like he always did. like he did when he won the Arnold in 2023 and when he won the Olympia in 2024. Mind is important as body in the sport. Yeah, that's why he'll compete again. Age will eventually be a factor. Yeah, it's not a factor yet. Samson's been 40 for the last four. Yeah, a lot of these guys like Andrew Jack has been he was 39 for about three years. Still got a few years. Invite Leo on. He's in the chat. Uh if he asked me to, I would. Leo gave me like an hour and a half last night on the Meatthead podcast already. M potatohead would just say let AI coach him. AI coaching e Stefan is great. Don't think that he would be vibe with Samson. I don't know who would did Derek Andrew and Dino. Yeah, Chris Aceto had a hell of a run at this Olympia. Samson's wife coached Mike Summerfield and he grew shorter. That's not true. He had boss of Outlaw. Boss of Outlaw was coach. You think Nick should qualify early? Get off gear four or five months. Wear a waist trainer. Well, I think he should get off first. Get off the gear first before he does anything else. We'll talk about that in a second. Somebody must take fourth or fifth place. O Stephan said Aceto was the best current coach and the biggest inspiration. How do you self-impose? What is a triple crown? Why is Pittsburgh more prestigious? Well, because it's Jiman show, that's why. And it's $100,000. Even though Dubai is also Dubai was actually more money. Dubai gave 140. Beu Tabani got $140,000 for winning Dubai. So it's the third biggest prize cash prize in the in the IPB Pro League. Stefan seems to work best with athletes with the same approach of self-reflection. Never in a million years. Dark isn't top 20. No way. Honestly, Heidi probably had this year, but Andrew is right here. It was only two-point difference. And Heidi did win the night show. The finals. The night show. They were both the night. finals on Saturday. They gave it to Derek. What happened to grandma train? I don't uh she comments on like my Facebook post stuff. I don't I don't know if she's still coaching. I don't know. Joint winners round class, Mr. Olympia. Brandon Curry. Did he do that? Yeah. So, Derek, so it's four people have done it. Thank you, Ken. I appreciate it. How do you got robbed this year? He didn't get robbed. He didn't get robbed. One last hate post for Derek. I don't feel there's enough in the chat. Gosh, I can't I can't keep up with your comments. So, I can start talking about Nick. I think Curry could veto others had a better package than Nick. Why did Judge always take a year later? We just placings a year later. How did she be three time Mr. row? Nick should sell Rolley Winkler about how he trimmed his waistline. There's a brand new vid on YouTube about the fake gear flying the market now. Yeah, I think that was the think big podcast. Think big podcast. If you use fake gear, are you still a natty? Yeah. opinion. Would the Olympia benefit from bringing in fresh judges? They're not going to do that. So, don't it's not even they're not going to do that. Everyone looks better after Olympia once stresses over and you have some cheat meals. Of course, they're going to look a lot fuller. Sentin doesn't look anywhere near as lean here, anywhere near as lean. Uh I don't think it's fat. I think he's just holding a lot of water now. He because when you pull water, it's very hard to not hold a bunch of water. When you start drinking a bunch of water again, eating a bunch of carbs, you're going to retain a ton of fluid. Some guys go so overboard with that they get edema and high blood pressure and have to be hospitalized. What should Nick do? Let's get to Nick in a second. Okay, that's a good point. Appreciate the honesty. Thank you. Shut up now so I can catch up. Oh gosh, I can't catch up. It just keeps coming. Absolut issue. Florian, I'm gonna not talk about abs splits anymore. Sorry, I'm leaving. Nick sucks. Always excuses. Dino when Nick was calling other guys out for being all right I'm going uh geez I want to get to Nick being Instagram buyers I always thought Nick projecting his curious public knows an IG body has a worse stomach and legs boss outlaw is not Somerfield's coach yeah Somerfield is coached by who? Correct me. Correct me. It's not bus outlaw. It's too Somerfeld. Why is this such a surprise? I think everybody was pushed too hard. I died. Is it Is it Chris? Is it? It's Aceto, right? Aceto. It doesn't see I don't It doesn't really matter to me so much who coaches who. I know a lot of you guys are obsessed with who's coaching who. To me, it's like not that big a deal. I don't know why it's such a surprise. I think everybody always push hard. Oh, of course. But unfortunately for Samson, it happened at the Olympia that he was trying to defend his title at Oh, he's coached by his demon. Oh, that's rough. Guys, if you're the best athlete, doesn't make you the best coach. Yeah, I think Cedar is great, but if he switches athletes with Tour, you would have done better. Tour is the best coach, hands down. You won't catch up with the comments, Ryan. Just move on. Yeah, Judge Judy, you're almost there, Ron. Oh, come on. I can do it. I ah God. Yeah, you know what? I'm moving on, guys. I'm moving on. Sorry. Yeah, moving on. All right, Nick Walker. So, uh, Nick Nick did, uh, did not look the way we expected. Um, he looked a lot better in Pittsburgh. Now, I don't think this is a peaking issue as his coach, Kyle Wilks, made that video explaining a few days ago. Look at the uh, look at the condition. I don't think his condition was off. I think he was full. So, if he wasn't flat and he wasn't spilled over or holding water or body fat, then he peaked right. There was no peaking problems. This footage is from Saturday. I know he looked a little better Saturday, but he didn't look bad on Friday, guys. It's not like he looked bad on Friday. So, what happened to him? Uh, I just think his waist got bigger. And he got bigger because he added four pounds. He added four pounds. Oh, did uh Oh gosh. Okay, sorry guys. I can't keep up with everything. I'm trying. I'm trying. I want to go to uh Nick's photos in a second once it's once the video is over. Yeah. So, okay. All right. All right. And we're back. Uh yeah. So, to me, the 10 pounds that he gained since Pittsburgh was not a good 10 pounds. Neil was video playing by the height thing. Oh, Mike Summerfell is coached by Neil Hill. I know that I should now. I know that it's when I'm talking fast, my brain's like going all over the place because I'm trying to keep up with everything in the comments. But yeah, this is why live going live is tough sometimes. Um, yeah, you're right. Neil Hill is his coach. Uh, I I knew that. I forget things when I'm when I'm scatterrained like this. Neil Hill. Neil Hill. Neil Hill. Neil Hill. Yep. But we're talking about Nick now. Uh, Nick the Brick. Nick needs a time machine. I thought Nick should do Prague, but Kyle said they're shutting it down for the year. No, Nick shouldn't do do Prague. So, in all honesty, Nick should retire. No, I don't think he has the structure to win Mr. Olympia, but he could definitely be a top three guy again. I mean, I'll go back to this was 2022. This was just three years ago. This was the last Olympia that he did because he missed 23 and 24. And remember guys, uh I think he was about 250 255 here and supposedly was about 270 or 275 at this Olympia. So the extra weight did not help. Uh it made it it most of it seems to have gone to his belly. Honestly, he didn't have a small waist here. No, but it was smaller than it is now. The midsection wasn't as blocky and and chunky looking. He just had a better flow. Uh, and his his legs looked better. And I I know they're not his legs haven't shrunk, but his upper body's gotten bigger since then. And I don't think his legs have gotten any bigger, honestly. Pittsburgh Nick was at the Olympia when he been top four. Probably. Probably. Uh, chest is overpowered. Yes. When he hits when he hits a lot of his front shots, his his chest sort of goes away. Not the crab, but when he puts his hands together in that class, most muscular, his shoulders, and his arms totally dominate the chest. Nick's tongue was tan. Yeah, he had a way better tan here. Leo made a sharp point at the high caliber clientele. Yes. So Leo was the one that said he believes Nick's best bet to recapture his best look and to to place better, maybe win the Arnold again, maybe be top three at the Olympia again, is to go off all the gear for three or four months completely clean out, take the food volume down, just let his body relax, recharge, reset, get healthy again before he goes back on gear and goes back to eating obscene amounts of food, which most of these guys have to do to be this big. Uh if he could have kept the structure, yeah, when he won the Orange Island fine, it would be different. Yeah, somebody got offset on him. Also, Nick looked much more poss. Yeah, I know this. It can be confusing, guys. It can be confusing. So, this was the Pittsburgh version, Nick, which I like better. I like this version a lot better than the version we saw at the Olympia. Uh he's not a second tier bodybuilder. Top 60 in Olympia, you're not a second tier bodybuilder. He's been through a lot. Yeah, he has. Dy poses. Nick came in two years too late. He could have beaten the road in our curry Olympians. Now he has no chance in hell. Those were a couple of the weaker years. Yeah. For the Olympia. He had none of this energy. Who would win? Nick or Big Ramy? Uh Ramy. Ramy at his best would be Nick. I I don't see that as a question. Why the old heads didn't tell him? Don't go off the scale. Nick wouldn't listen to old heads anyway. He's he's Gen Z. No, he's a millennial. He's a one of the older millennials. Um but I don't think he would have listened to anyone like my age who who made any any suggestions. I don't think he he listens to the old people. Skin looked thinner back then. His bald head. Yeah, I I think he should grow his hair back. Here he is in Pittsburgh with hair. I don't like the bald look on Nick. I know that's it's got nothing to do with the physique. It's just it doesn't look good. His head makes his head look bigger. The bald head. I don't like it. So, he doesn't he's not going to listen to me. Doesn't matter. First Ramy Olympia, no chance. Second round Olympia, Nick would have had a shot. Yeah, Nick can step on stage 300 with enough gear still at 300. At 5 foot7, which he claims to be, Nick would not look good. No way. Can he get off the gear though mentally? I don't know. He needs to He needs to That midsection is just getting out of control. It was flatter here. It was a lot bigger at this Olympia. I wonder what he'll do now. I'm sure he'll probably make some kind of some kind of some kind of announcement soon. Allergy test, KP7, BPC 57 over. See, Leo Leo's giving him all the secrets right here. This is what he should do. All the uh peptides that would help him out. the whole the whole peed cycle, peptides and gear. Yeah, he he shouldn't come off all tests because he's got his body can't manufacture testosterone anymore. He's going to have to be on TRT. But some of these he looks he looks great in some shots here. But there, look how blocky that just looks so blocky to me. Yikes. It's just there's no there's no vtaper there. I know. I know. You can't see his face. back looks good. I mean, his back is definitely improved, but when he's like not holding his belly in, good lord, it's just too damn big. It's too damn big. Tanner, way better pit in New York. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think Nick would listen to anyone but his coach. And that's fine. you know, the coach is the person you're supposed to listen to, but uh I don't think his coach was ever telling him, I'm just speculating. Dude, your gut is getting bigger. You need to chill out on that. You need to you need to stop worrying about size. He had all the size he needed. He didn't need to be bigger. His quads needed to be bigger. Nothing about his upper body needed to be bigger. His back and he did that, but his arms got bigger. His shoulders, I don't think his chest got any bigger. We should listen to Donald Trump Pump regardless of age. 2021 Nick was peak. He says hero was thing. I He says that it didn't look like it was thing to me. It looks fine. It looked fine to me. Someone needs to work with Nick on the front last spring break for sure. That's never been a good shot for him. Uh needs to in classic physique, you can't be bald. There's some bald guys in classic, but you notice not many. needs to lay off the GH. Your GH receptors are in your intestines. Most of your GH receptors are in your intestines. I don't know if that's true, but it sounds pretty pretty. This is from the the pay-per-view, the live stream. It was very dark, but you can see Nick Nick was over there in the blue trunks. Again, very very very dark lighting at the Olympia this year. Why is G Shin give you a bubble gut? Uh, well, that guy just just claimed to know the answer. I don't know if it's true or not. What Nick has achieved is Trump's most vital achieve and then do for his legacy will be a cost still. Yeah, he's already achieved a lot. He's already won the Arnold. He's won three New York pros. He's been top three at the Olympia. He's already had a great great career and he only turned pro in 2020, August of 2020 or September it was. So, he's done a lot in a short time. Dave Plumbo as a coach. I don't know if you're joking. Nick has no chance midsections tight and small. It's never going to be tight and small, Iron Brothers, but it needs to be tighter and smaller than it is. A guy with Supreme J like Andrew can look good a bit softer. Nick has to be in great condition. He needs that waist to come down a little bit. It's too big. It's obviously amount of internal organ growth he's got in the past couple years. Chill's doing good, Ron. Thank you, man. Appreciate that. John, what else we got? What else we got from Nick that I can show? trying to show you, you know, I don't want to [\h__\h] on him saying he was so much better before. Actually, YouTube, there's one IG channel that did a really good comparison. Who was the best bodybuilder? Let me go to that. They did a good uh a good comparison between 2021 and 2024 of Nick. So, I'll put that up. Who is the best body though? That's a great question. It's gonna it's going to be hard to find because it goes back a ways. These Instagram pages, they do, you know, multiple posts a day. So, sometimes sometimes you got to go way back to find it. But where's Nick? Where's Nick on that? I'll find it, guys, because it's worth it's worth looking at. A lot of a lot of you feel that 2021 was his best look. Uh, so I do want to I do want to see if we can show the comparisons. Where is it, Nick? Where is it? I don't think they deleted it. Did they pin it? Oh, okay. Here we go. Here we go. Ah, there we go. Here we go. All right. So, this is a comparison. That's 2021 on the left. 20 25 on the right. Yeah, I wouldn't say most of his physique certain parts of his physique have gotten better. His back is definitely better, a lot more detailed. He's got one of the best rear doubles in the sport right now. His condition is better there. Uh I don't know. I I like 2021 again. Grow the hair back. That's a good That's a good one to leave up. Let's see because such strong side back position needs to bring in the front more streamlined. So, let's get bigger. Yeah, he lost the plot. I mean, his I'm not saying he's got a bubble gut, but when he's not paying attention, his when he's letting when he relaxes between poses or when he's walking from one side of the stage to the other and is he's not really keeping his his midsection sucked in, it it looks bad. Now, I understand that most guys, if they do that, their belly would hang. My gut I can look pregnant if I really push my gut out. Trust me. So, I'm not I'm not I'm not that one to uh call the pot calling the kettle black. I don't want to be that guy. But, he's got to keep it under control. He has to. He has no choice. It's kind of happened where Dave happened to him. Palumbo is I mean, Dave lost Dave lost size from the limbs, the arms and legs, and his midsection got bigger. Nick Nick hasn't lost any limb size yet. be 10,000 videos soon. Geez, I didn't know that. Thanks, your mom's flipflop. No neck neck. Uh, video number 10,00. No, I didn't. I didn't even know I had video number 10,000 coming up. If you look at the lighting, guys, 12 feet in front of good sage. Perfect. Too far back. Good afternoon. What's up, Paul Bartlett? Travis unfold. No one's ever happy after the Olympia except the people who are fans of the winners. They're happy. Everyone else is pissed off and butt hurt and calling uh calling [\h__\h] and politics and blah blah blah. This package still better than 24 25 New York package midsection troll was atrocious in both mostly shirts. Looks like Nick age 10 years. I mean he does need to chill out a little bit. I I think makes only hit the front double. Let's see. Let's go back to more comparisons there. No, that's not it. Yeah. Again, the 10 pounds he added, I don't think was necessary. Um, I think he should go back to back to like 255. I think that's where he looked the best. I really do. Did Nick repost all those pictures from Gilo? I'm not sure. No, he only reposted that one, which is understandable because Gilko posted uh a lot of those shots that I'm surprised Nick didn't ask them to to you. Please take these pictures down, guys. Please. Not cool. That's a great shot. Leave that one. That's okay. That's a good shot. I would leave that up. The Gilo shot. Uh this one would be questionable. That's questionable. That's fine. That's fine. He's covering the abs. That's a great shot for Nick right there. That's a great Gilko shot. That is a terrible shot. I mean, I'm surprised he didn't ask Gilko Productions, you know, that picture pictures like six, seven, and eight in that sequence, can you please take those down? And I'm sure they would have complied. They would have done that for him. They're reasonable guys. The Dilbert, the Mitchell brothers. I would take that shot down. That's fine. I'll take that one down. It's bulging out a little. He just looks like a block there, man. That just that's I can't see that physique cuz Mr. Olympia. I just can't. I just can't. Can't do it, guys. It's like a lot of you, a lot of the new guy, young guys say, "I just can't." Ron, you always check in. Check if I'm ins. You can always check if I'm in. Okay, next time I will. I didn't want to bother you, man. You gave me so much of your time yesterday, Leo. I appreciate it very much. Check out Overcomecast, his channel. He's in Las Vegas. He got a bunch of the guys who were in town. He's still got a great Lee Priest interview coming up. He got a bunch of the Olympians uh on his channel while they were in town for the for Vegas for the in Vegas for the Olympia. So check out the overcome cast channel. Leo's channel. Appreciate it. Appreciate that. Appreciate it. Look at that last one chat. We can actually well chat. And I I I talk to you guys. I don't just leave it up. I don't Some some some YouTubers just leave you to talk amongst yourselves. I'm I feel like I'm supposed to engage. It's the whole point. Crunch down on the abs. Does he make his waist look wider? Think he's going to give more out of his depth to the young competitors. Better genetics. He's got great genetics for overall mass. I mean, he's got some of the I think him and Kriso have the best arms in pro bodybuilding right now. Kiso, Kzanic, and uh Nick, their arms are incredible. Probably why he doesn't do it. Crunching down the abs. Fans who are angered by the Travis head are massly outnumbered the fans who are rejoiced by the final outcome in the open division. No, I think there are probably more people upset that Derek won than otherwise. just because he just gets so much hate because, you know, his arms, his biceps, they're not good. He doesn't have a lot of detail in the shoulders and the arms. Uh, I get it. So, he's got an incredible structure and shape. He's got plenty of size and the condition. His back shots are Nobody beats Derek from the back. Tino did in the finals is much better. Skin just look thicker on his lower back. Some belly shots of Ronnie. Yeah, Ronnie didn't toward the end of his career. Ronnie's belly was pretty big. Ah, what's up, Dan Dylan? Sam should fill out and do the next show. Well, he's doing uh Prague, which is two weeks after Olympia, so it's about a week and a half away, and I think he'll look a lot better. Disagree that Derek has won. Yeah, I mean, you don't have to agree. It's he him and Hottie were very close. So, if if you believe Hottie won, you're not wrong that he could he certainly could have won. I don't think too many people would complain if he gets back to Pittsburgh shape, just small increments, add size. Yeah, grow his hair back. I'm sure he could grow his hair back. He had hair in Pittsburgh for God's sake. He had plenty of hair. I don't think his hair in Pittsburgh look maybe like up close it looked like it was thinning. What do I got there? Oh, that was Pittsburgh top four. I just want to show I just want to show that one comments. See? Almost done. He's getting massive. Getting massive was his downfall. Yeah, he got too big. I mean, it's he can downsize. He can lose a little bit of muscle. It's not going to hurt him. He can lose 10, 15 pounds of muscle and he'll probably look better because his midsection will probably come down. The overall effect is going to be better. Disney could have saved on rough come. I mean, there's some great channels out there. Absolutely. I wouldn't just watch one channel. Andrew finally got to take it next year and keep it for a rain. I think Andrew could win it next year. Sure. His waist is almost as wide as his shoulders in that in that Instagram shot. Definitely was there being so tall. I think he'd sit down more in side pose and back. I don't know if it's the way he po Yeah, he doesn't hit the poses very well. I would get a posing coach, but he also needs more hamstring. The hamstring, his side leg is not great. It needs to be great if he's going to be Mr. Olympia. Thank you. Appreciate that. Jack of all trades. That's why I love you by Thank you, man. Appreciate that. Your mom's flipflop. This look of Nick made me Yeah. made me feel thin in shape. Didn't live for Martin going to Pittsburgh. Lee Priest steals his neighbor's dog food. No, he doesn't. Nick probably has the best genetics in the chemical sense of anyone ever. Yeah, I mean he blew up very very quickly. Nick Walker like in 2017 was I think he was like a middleweight. Uh he was like he was like 175 180 pounds and now he's like almost 280 for God's sake. Brandon Curry was impressive. I thought he was over that one shoe. Seems to get confidence back. He will. He will. Dan Ron saying he would have kept that hair thin. It It probably looked like it was thinning if you were standing right in front of him. But look at that. Does that look like thinning hair? Doesn't to me a bit like Ray Kovac get very big. Never look pretty on stage. Makes me constantly growing maybe off the gas once to maintain his health. Yeah, I mean he could he could stand to lose a little bit of muscle. He really could. He doesn't need to get any bigger. Personally appreciate someone like 99 who is big but still has a nice shape. So I personally my favorite versions of Ronnie were his first two Olympia wins where he was about 245 250 and his 2001 Arnold Classic win where again he was about 250. When Ronnie was 280 to 296 it wasn't as it was not as good. Almost impossible. Yeah. Uh, it's got to be mindful, but I think that's the only thing that's going to that's going to bring his career back to where it could and should be. He should be be he should be top three at the Olympia. He should be. I don't know if he's going to win, but he he could be a top three guy again. It's not going to happen. And needs to be more aggressive in his posing. Yeah. I mean, he had a little more confidence and aggression this year. It's still not It's still needs to be a little bit more. He came out to Bonj. I don't want to live forever. Did he really? I don't want to live forever. Uh making you guys listen to sing needs to ask Mike is so surgeries. Yeah. Isn't Mike getting some like a a rib removed or something? Or a couple ribs removed? Derrick got a wide chest. Remember my 20s ain't know way I was slowing down. Yeah, he's in his early 30s, Nick, now. But yeah, he's I I I hope he decides to slow down. That's all. Lee is the van Derk win Olymp heard. Not as a person with the physique. Oh, Lee Haney or Lee Priest. Big Ron, that's me, Dan. What's up? My favorite version of Ronnie when he was starting out, not even on gear. I he was you're not going to convince a lot of these people he was ever a natural could do classic. Very few people can shrink their waist when it's blown up. Uh we did see Roly Winkler do it uh almost 10 years ago. It can be done watching takes advice. Well, he won't take any from me, that's for damn sure. Lee priest selling Chevy Calier. No, your money is not that different from our money. I was in Australia two years ago. The Australian dollar isn't that much that much higher than the uh Ron like his Olympia. Talk about Ronnie now. Ronnie Coleman best a favorite. Nick Fury is this. Don't listen to anything I say. Nick's not reading this. I can guarantee you. All right. That's it, guys. That is it. All right. So, that's it, guys. If you're watching this on a replay, please let me know what you think Nick Walker should do, what Samson Dada should do, because they're both phenomenal bodybuilders. Samson was the reigning Mr. Olympia. Nick is an Arnold Classic champion and a three-time New York Pro champion. He almost beat Derek Linceford who just won the Olympia. Almost beat him. They were tied at the Pittsburgh Pro earlier in the season. So, let me know what you guys think. Appreciate you watching very much. And this was video99. I had no idea. Thank you so much, guys, for watching and I'll see you on the next one.