What's up guys? Ron Harris here and today we're talking about Quint Beastwood, Quinton Aria, who attempted four times to qualify for the 2025 Mr. Olympia, fell short unfortunately. second place to Urs Kalachinsky yesterday in Germany. The weekend before that in Milan, he was second place behind uh Jordan Jordan in Texas uh I'm sorry, first in Tampa, Jordan Hutchinson, and then third place behind Jordan Hutchinson and Joe Palasios in Texas. Uh this was yesterday in Germany. He did bring what many feel is the best package so far out of the four shows. If you'll remember at the first of the four shows, Tampa, uh, conditioning was pretty good, but he was flat. Then he went a little too much toward being full in Texas. Condition wasn't quite as good. Kind of made up the difference in Milan, Italy, and then yesterday really put it all together. The score sheets did indicate that Urs again won with a perfect score. Uh, so at least according to the judges, it still wasn't close. But this begs the question, where does Quint go from here? Of course, we are not Quint. But if Quint had your ear, if Quint asked you personally, you watching this, what should I do next? And I have a poll there where you can actually vote. I split it up into three different Oh, most people are saying shut it down and go in offseason. Okay. Okay. Interesting. Yeah, I have a poll there. You can vote on what you think he should do. Okay. What should Quinton do? Shut it down and go into offseason. So far, wow, we're only a couple minutes in. That's by far the lead. Compete in France. Uh, I'm kind of leaning I know it's two week two weeks more prep compete in France September 27th. But what's he going to do? uh if if he shuts it down now, makes some improvements, which I'm sure he will, then he's got to go look for another way to qualify for the 2026 Olympia, he'd probably have to wait until, again, later in the season next year until he's had a good offseason and time to prep. I mean, a year goes by quick, guys. A year goes by so fast. Um, so it's Yeah, that's Nick Strength and Power. Thanks for the footage, Nick. Appreciate it. If you're not already subscribed to Nick's channel, go ahead and do that. So, uh, also want to show you his individual posing from that show yesterday in Germany in Ofenbach, Germany. Here was his individual posing. And here we go. So, I do believe Quint has all the tools he needs in terms of structure, muscle shape, size. He has he has a a good amount of size just like Samson. Doubt had good size a few years ago, but until Samson put on that extra I think it was 30 pounds working with Milos, that's when he finally advanced to the next level. And personally, I think that's what Quint needs. I'm not saying it has to be 30 pounds necessarily, but he's got such long limbs. He's got a big big frame, wide frame. It can hold a lot more muscle mass. And I think that's the missing key for him because obviously the muscle shape's not going to change. We don't we know he needs more back a little bit more hams definitely more back thickness but more overall size too I think another say 20 pounds I know that's that's a lot it's substantial but look at how tall he is look at how much room he has to work with in terms of those that bone structure it's a big big framework already getting some comments so let's get to those black angel says hey Ron Quinn take a break you thought he looked worse I don't think he looked worse here I think this was the best package so far. Fix the umbilical hernia. It's a little hernia. I I don't agree with the people who say he needs to take care of the hernia. If it gets bigger, sure, absolutely take care of that [\h__\h] He's just learned how to peak. That was weakness. He should build on the areas of weakness. Come back with his conditioning at his first show. Needs more lats. Yeah, definitely more back thickness. Definitely more back thickness. When he gets that, when he gets that, I think he's going to be winning shows. He does not have a win yet, does he? He does not have one win yet. And I'm not saying, "Oh, boy, you suck. You don't have any win." I mean, he's been going up, he's been going into some very, very tough shows. Had he picked some smaller slash easier shows, very likely he could be uh he could have a win or two or three under his belt at this point, but he's going into some pretty stacked shows. Um, obviously you don't know ahead of time which shows are going to have who competing in them, but nonetheless, um, if he targeted a smaller show to qualify, but then you got to ask yourself, well, if if that's the level of competition that you're using to get to the Olympia, how are you going to do well at the Olympia? And, you know, I I although I really wanted him to get to the Olympia this year because I like him. I think he's a very good good-hearted guy, hard worker, humble, I don't think he's ready for the Olympia yet in terms of doing any damage. So, if he couldn't if he couldn't beat these guys, he couldn't beat uh Jordan Hutchinson, he couldn't beat Urs, I I don't think he had a chance of making top 10 this year anyway. The back needs to be addressed. He needs to have a better back, a thicker back. Once he does that, that's when he's going to be dangerous. From the front, the side, these poses are great. Although again, I still think he could be a little bigger and fuller. If he maintains that shape and that small waist, he'll be dangerous. Great side shots, side try. The back doesn't look back there when he spreads it out. See, these are really good. These are these are better lighting than what I recall seeing before. These are shots from Not sure who took these. I think it says at the bottom. These are the official NPC online shots. So the yeah I mean the back isn't horrible but he's going up against guys with really really crazy thick backs and you want to beat those guys you want to be at their level you have to you have to beat them at their own game learn how to peak more lads Raymond says he should find a coach you shouldn't risk losing to Stefan or Theo in France. Yeah I have not seen I've been I' he hasn't posted any new videos since the show. nothing in his uh Instagram that I could see that indicate he's doing France. But I'm wondering is he gonna do France? Because that would make sense. Although Stefan, he beat Theo pretty handily. I don't think he'd have a problem beating Theo Leier. Uh I do think he might have a problem with Stefan. Stefan is looking pretty crazy. We're going to Charles and I will be looking at him tomorrow for sure on our power hour show. See how the poll is going so far. Oh, okay. Okay, now it shut it down going off seasonason is 56%. Do the franchise is at 33%. Hire a coach only 11 of Well, because I only gave you had to choose one. I should have given you should have given you more options. Should find a coach. See, this is what I think as far as a coach. I don't think pe is necessarily his issue. I think he's doing a good job of figuring that out on his own. I know he's been a little flat at some points, a little bit too full and and missed out on the condition by a tad, but I think he's figuring out that aspect, the peaking on his own. What I do think he needs is to get bigger, particularly in the back, but overall, and I think the best man for that job is Milo Sariffe. I really do. That's who did it for Samson. That's who brought Samson from a guy who was taking like fourth, fifth, sixth that shows to an Arnold Classic champion, then an Olympia champion. I I say this and I'm going to keep saying it. I I don't believe that Samson would be Mr. Olympia right now if he had not worked with Milo Sarv and added that size that he needed to fill out that big big frame and come into his own as a bodybuilder. Let's go back to that. Let's go back to yesterday in Germany. He he compared very well with Urs. I mean, shapewise and struct shape and structure, I think he does have the edge. People were saying Urs's legs are a lot bigger. I I don't think Urs's legs are that much better. They're a little better. A little more sweep to the thighs for sure. I like that thigh sweep on Urs. Quinn could use a little bit more thigh sweep. Could use a little more hamstrings, but the side shots really good there. Really good because he's he's got better arms than hers. She's got better arms than a lot of people. Nice round full biceps and triceps. The back shot. This is where I thought, well, neither one of them are that great. I wonder who's going to who's going to come away with the back shots. It was Urs. I gave the back shots to you. The judges the judges saw it as pretty unanimous. They didn't uh they didn't think there was a big discrepancy. Okay. So, that's that's that one. Yeah. Oh, that's l I'm lagging behind on the uh I'm watching that. Okay. So, let's go back to Instagram for a second here. Okay. So, what do you guys think? Urs has a better flow than Quint for now. Yeah. And I I was talking to someone at the gym today. I like Urs better now than I did I I was not a huge fan of him in Classic. I liked his presentation. I thought he was an amazing entertaining poser. He had great stage presence and charisma. Gets in a great condition, but he he never looked big enough to mess and now he does. And now I'm looking at Quint and thinking Quint needs to get to that next level. Quint needs to be bigger. If Quint could put on, geez, even another, let's say, 10 pounds, 10 pounds on that frame with the same shape, same small waist, really good condition would be would be much more dangerous. 20 pounds. Then I'm thinking this is a this is a guy who's going to be a legit top five Olympia Arnold Classic guy. He's not there now. So Kulawa Skola says in my eyes not win maybe a little better condition but still more massive in shape for Quinton. I don't think Quint looked bigger than him. I don't I you know I'm not AI'm not a hater. I'm not a Quint hater. I just don't think he looked that much bigger than him. I know in terms of body weight, they're probably about the same and Ursa is Ursa is a little bit shorter. Quint is right there at six foot, I believe. But, you know, I am a Quint fan. I just don't think he's where he needs to be yet. He's he's a diamond in the rough still. I know he's not a newbie. He's not a novice. He's been at this a few years now as a pro. Um, and I do see improvements, of course. I remember when he made his pro debut. uh way back in Toronto. I was there. It was either 17 or 18, one of those years, 19 maybe. I don't know what year it was, but I remember him and his coach at the time, Dorian Hamilton. They didn't know up until a week or two before the show if he was going to go into classic physique or open bodybuilding because he could have made the weight for classic. He would have had to suffer a little bit, but he could have done it. He's he's way above that weight now. He's He's far exceeded that. Great shots. That's some good lighting. Yeah. But with that frame, with that shape, man, I just think another another another 20 pounds would be would be deadly on him. He would he would be he would be beating a lot of people throughout next show for him. I was kind of hoping he would do France, although I his body must be very, very tired at this point. And this guy right here is no joke. Stfan, where was it? Yeah. So, this is Stefan. Did he post it on his page, too? Stfan Stfan Matala. Yeah. I mean, look at this update from Look at this posing update that Patrick Tour posted. I don't know if Quint would beat this. This guy's This guy looks like a winner to me. Obviously, he's just by himself here, but wow, look at that. That is just He moved up from classic. And, you know, I bet in terms of weight, I bet he's not 30 lbs up. This is no pump. I I doubt he's added like 30 pounds since his classic days like Urs did, but it it it's Geez, it's a big difference. He looks He looks great. Phenomenal shape. I don't want to make it all about him. I just want to show him for a second there because he is very impressive. And that'll be his uh that'll be his open debut, right? His French makes sense. If you want a real test, he'd be in Germany. Uh, so some people there were giving him [\h__\h] for not doing the Germany show, but he's in France. Why wouldn't you know, why wouldn't you wait, do the show next week, or sorry, on the 27th, get your qualification, then you have a whole off seasonason to build and get ready for the Olympia. You have almost a whole year. You should have a good six to eight months offseason before you need to get back into prep mode. But back to Quint. Back to Quint. Quint Beastwood. Yeah. So, let me see what the poll is saying now. I have to Okay, so now the poll is at 41% of you believe he should shut it down and go into offseason mode. 38% say compete in France September 27th and hire a coach. I mean, I guess a lot a lot of you probably would have picked hire coach if you could pick more than one thing. You can only pick one, right? Yeah. So, I get it. All right. Looks made by hand to be honest. Talking about Stefan. Yeah, he's he's amazing. I don't think you can assume he Oh, no. I'm not assuming. I don't even know who's in the show. He's definitely one of the favorites. I don't even know who's in the show. The list won't come out for another week. So, he could very well win or he might be like fifth place. I mean, we don't know. I assume a good amount of the guys who were in Germany yesterday are going to be competing in France. I bet we're going to see I bet Mark Hector does it. I bet Lewis Breed does it. Matias Hullwick. Theo is definitely going to do it. He's in France. I bet Buddhism does it. Tim Budy. I bet Emiric. Roman Fritz. Yeah, I think you're going to see most of the top 10 from Germany showing up in France in a couple weeks. Why' that stop? Okay. I thought that was a video, but it looks like it stopped. That was five days ago. Okay. Yeah. Some people were talking about his training saying he needs to stop using so many machines and do more free weights. And I don't know. I mean, I haven't watched a lot of his training videos. You know, there have been plenty of guys like Phil Heath used plenty machines in his in his uh training. It didn't seem to hurt him at all. Uh yeah, whoever wins the France show goes to the 2026 Olympia. So yesterday in Oenbach, Germany, that was the last chance to qualify for the 2025 Olympia. That's three weeks from Friday coming up. It's coming right up, guys. But, uh, as usual, every show that happens after the final qualifier that starts the qualification series for 2026. So, there's going to be I think that's the only one before the Olympia. You have the France Pro. Yeah. The pro show in France and then there's Olympia October 11th. Then you have the British Grand Prix and the Mexico Pro on the same day. They're both open bodybuilding qualifiers for the Olympia. On October 18th, you have the Prague EVLS Prague Pro. October 26th. November 1st, you have the Poland Pro. These are all for 2026 Olympia qualifiers. November 8th, you have the Romania Muscle Fest. Uh, wow, there's more. The 30th of November, you have the Big Man Pro Show in Spain. And it looks like on a Monday, the 24th, there's a Japan Pro. Who the hell has a pro show on a Monday? these crazy Japanese promoters. What are they thinking? What are they thinking? I want to go back to uh Quint on stage. That's a good shot. I'm going to leave that up. Hire a coach and shut it down. I think he came a long way from where he was last year mentally and physically. He's on the right track. Yeah. Jro 55. He doesn't seem to be too open to having a coach. He's had, I don't know if you want to call them bad experiences, but unsatisfactory experiences with coaches in the past. Uh most famously his break with M Jansen last spring uh when he felt Matt really let him down, overded and depleted him and had him looking very stringy and flat at the New York Pro. And then he showed up with by himself a couple weeks later in Toronto without a coach looking much much better. So So what would he hang around Francage? Well, it would just be for the qualification for 2026 Olympia. Then he wouldn't have to worry about qualifying for the Olympia next year. He would have all that time to make improvements to his physique before he had to start his prep for next Olympia instead of, you know, figuring, oh, how am I going to qualify next year? What show am I going to do? Am I going to do Tampa again? Texas. What? You know, where am I going to go? What if Earth shows up in France? I don't. What do you What do you guys think? I don't think the odds of Earth showing up in France are very good. I think he's all set. He's got two pro wins in a row. Uh I think he wants to try to relax a little bit. I would I'm sure he'll say on his videos, but I think he would want to try to focus on the Olympia now instead of He doesn't need any more wins. He was going to do Germany, of course, that's his home country. There was no way he wasn't doing Germany. He did the Italy show. So he locked down the qualification Olympia twice. He won a pro show right there in his backyard of Germany. I don't see any point for Urs for another $10,000 or whatever going to France. He's he's not hurting for money. Quit chilling in French. It's me surprise. Yeah. I mean, I'm sure if he wants to do France, I'm sure he could just stay continue it staying with Samson and Marina in the UK. That would make more sense than coming all the way back to uh Canada and have to come back to France in two weeks. But, you know, I don't know what I don't know what he's going to do. Mike doesn't train hard enough to the bro chat episode said the issue with him and the coach Q doesn't execute with the intensity. So, yeah. I mean, I I haven't watched him train. And sometimes people, they don't look like they're training that hard, but it's it's because they don't grunt and groan and maybe push all the way to failure and beyond. You know, Jay Cutler didn't train like that and he freaking won four Olympias. The way he trained, a lot of people didn't think he trained super hard looking at him in his videos, but it was it was hard enough. Cuban said on his videos, Samson, he didn't realize how hard he needs to train. Well, I mean, that's good if he's coming to that realization. if he's having that wakeup call now, better late than never. He's still a young guy, 31 years old, I believe. So, he's got plenty of time to adjust his training. And, you know, I I I honestly believe that losing these shows was probably a good thing for him. And I know that sounds crazy, but it's it's kick in the ass when you lose over and over again. It just it makes you never want to feel that way again. It makes you never want to lose again. And Quinton never wants to lose again. I'm sure after four shows where he was one of the favorites and he walked away, I won't say empty-handed, but he walked away without a win at all. He went zero for four. I'm sure he's upset. I'm sure he's angry. I'm sure he's fired up and ready to to train harder now. So, like I said, sometimes sometimes losing is the best thing can happen to an athlete because it it knocks them way out of whatever comfort zone they may happen to be in. It forces them to to do what they haven't done to to you know the there's that old saying, if you want to keep getting what you've always got, keep doing what you've always done. So, he's going to have to break through that comfort zone, do things a little differently, train harder, maybe eat more. I don't know what he needs to do. I don't I don't know exactly what he needs to do. Bers mustn't train hard. since he barely peel. Oh boy. Matt did put a lot of size on him though. Well, I think Milos is the guy. I think Milos is the guy that could that could do it. If he stayed out in Vegas for two, three months even, I bet Milos could put 10 new pounds of muscle on that guy. I I'm very confident that's that's what Milos is the best at. Not that he's not a great coach and it doesn't peak people very well. He does, but I believe his greatest gift as a coach is improving them in terms of size, specific areas, specific body parts, muscle groups. He needs to go visit Dorian. Dorian Yates. Jay Cutler's Jay Cutler. Yeah, I mean, Sergio Leva trained with Dorian a good amount of times. I don't know if it really benefited him. Andrew Jack looks like he isn't training hard. Was actually pulling a lot of weight. Just very expressive. Yeah, that's the thing is you can't always tell. You don't know how, you know, what kind of effort that people are putting into if they don't show it on their face. And some people don't. They don't make all the the crazy gremlin faces and they don't grunt and groan and scream. Some people grunt, groan, and scream, make faces. They're not really trying hard. It's all kind of a show. So, you can't really you can't really judge by what you're looking at. Now, I tend to think training hard is pushing to failure and beyond. That's my definition of it. putting out maximum effort, applying as much effort, trying training as hard as you can, pushing and pulling till that weight doesn't move, and then you still keep trying. That to me is hard training. I mean, this would be the answer. I I think so. See how the poll's doing now. Okay, we're still around now. We're at 50% shut it down and go into offseason. Yeah, I mean the France show again since it's going to be almost all the same people. I don't think we're going to see anyone new other than that Stefan Matala. I mean who else would wait until now? I don't know. I know Kiso is waiting till Prague. Uh who else? I I don't know who else he would have to be concerned with in France as far as beating him. Martino D Ryder and he's fasic hardworking Jim Kiss with a good clean bulk. Yeah, that is a because he's got such a big frame. It's a big frame. It's got so much room. See right there? This is the shot. When I see that, I say this guy could be a lot bigger. This to me looks like someone who's at about 70% of the size that they need to be to be one of the top pros, to be an A-list, top tier guy, a guy that everyone's like definitely top 10 Olympia, maybe top six. I see that potential. If we morph this, and I don't know how, but if we morph this and put 30% overall more mass on it, that's a lot, right? But that would be that would be the the most dangerous version of Quinn possible. Samson was very similar situation. Like I said, Samson Dada a few years ago was probably about 70% of the size he is now. He added substantially more muscle mass. And you see what happened? He won the Arnold Classic and then he won the Olympia and now he's Mr. Olympia. I mean, this is a this is a beautiful frame this guy's got. It's the muscle shape that's not going to change as long as he doesn't blow out his midsection. And I don't think think that hernia the hernia doesn't bother me that much. It's so tiny. Meanwhile, Will Tennyson just spent 40 hours in the gym 10. What? Yeah, I don't follow Will Tennyson sharing with El Campion. If you guys don't know who El Campon is, boy, you don't know what you're missing. So go to Instagram. Um, El Campion, for some reason, he has two ends at the end. I guess Elmpion with one end was already taken. He's this Mexican guy. He's not very big, but he does these stunt lifts. Like he'll put 2,000 pounds on a leg press with bands, and he wears three big leather weight belts when he trains, like powerlifter belts. Smacks himself with the belts before he does a set. He's He's a nut. You gota You got to check him out if you haven't seen him yet. If faces and grunting help build muscle, I'd be Ronnie Coleman. Me amigo. Donald Pump. Suge White. Not Chug Knight, but Suge White. He will never be like Jason Goenova. Freaky tightest look. Well, that's true. Quint needs 24 months offseason. Uh, I don't know if he needs that. That's two years. That's a long time. I I think and the thing about taking that long off is your body will eventually adapt to all the extra calories and the lesser cardio. So a long long offseason is not necessarily as productive as you think. That's why I think uh competitors have an advantage because they'll do these offseason modes where their body gets used to caloric surplus and a little less cardio. Then they switch into prep move, prep mode, caloric deficit, more activities, more cardio, and it just resets everything. So they do this over and over again. Whereas I think if you're in permanent bulk, permanent offseason, eventually the body just sort of figures out, h I've done this before and it's not going to respond as well as you want it to. It's true with Neil Yoda Hill. Neil's a great trainer. Absolutely. Quint, you probably took a break for a bit. It's where you qualify for the Arnold 246. Well, so the Arnold God of Frogs, you don't qualify for the Arnold. you get invited to the Arnold. So, the Arnold Classic Committee, they invite a certain amount of guys. Uh they cap it out at 15. They don't have more than 15 people in the Open or any any of their divisions. So, they know who they want to invite. They ask all the top Olympians and then people can apply. So, in December, a lot of guys will send out applications for the Arnold early December. You know, here I am. I'd really love to do the Arnold Classic. man, if they have enough of the people they already invited showing up that have committed to it, then none of the people that applied are going to get in. But if they asked 12 top Olympian guys, hey, come on, let's love to see you on the Arnold Classic stage. And only eight of them said yes. Well, now there's four slots that they want to fill and so on. But I think the Arnold because they they're they've bumped it up to $34 million first prize for next March. $750,000. I think they're gonna get most of the top Olympia guys for sure. That guy should be banned from all gyms. Yeah, you're talking about Elmpion. He's He drops the weights. He destroys equipment. I wouldn't let him in. What's up, MVP? Compion. Mamola. Mamada. What's mamada? I don't know that word. Mamada. Is it a bad word? Compon did a video. Larry wheel says migo. Larry about a thousand times. Well, he doesn't speak English. El Campion, but he he knows migo is obviously his native Spanish. He's from Mexico originally, living in Southern California. So, in eight months, he put on 30% more muscle mass. Uh, I mean, Samson did it. Samson did it. I don't He didn't do it all in one offseason. So, let's say in one offseason, he can get half of that. 15. We're being I'm being ridiculous here, but let's just make it so completely even. One offseason of eight months, he can add 15 pounds. Diets down, competes, does another offseason. So then two offseasons he's got that extra 30 pounds. And then he's about Samson size. Samson's six foot, right around 300 pounds. That would put him close to 300 pounds on stage, Quinn. It would be it'd be a 290, 300, somewhere in that range. You get invited, you tell me you got a chance. Well, they're not going to invite you or me, Donald, but you can apply. I mean, you have to be a an IFBB Pro League pro in good standing, but they don't they don't accept everyone, obviously, because they they do cap it out. the the Arnold they uh they keep the show smaller. It runs a lot faster than the Olympics because they don't have all the divisions. They've gotten rid of the divisions that they didn't they didn't think were going to uh do very well. They've gotten rid of women's bodybuilding, women's physique. Uh what else they get rid of? They got rid of figure. It's all women's. They got rid of 212 men's bodybuilding. So, they don't have any of those. And they cut they they cap it out at 15 per division. Quinton is going to have a nice rebound for sure. Oh yeah, cuz he's been dieting for a while. He's been in prep for a few months now, obviously, which is basically where Samson was before he went on the run season mimic Sam Sny. Yeah. And I mean, Samson did it by working with Milos. I don't know if there's been any talk between the two. I don't know if Quint would even consider it or if Milos would consider it. I bet Milos would. Milos loves the sport. He loves the athletes. He wants to see all of them reach their maximum potential. I'm sure he would be he would relish the chance to train Quint for, you know, at least a month or two. Get him training much much harder. All those crazy giant sets that he does and food and insulin, whatever it is that he does that that gets these guys huge. Urs was invited to the Arnold to quench by another show. Oh, I mean, yeah, I would. It'd be silly for the Ar the Arnold, they invite all the top guys because they want the best lineup possible. They want to have the same lineup if not better as a Mr. Olympia. That's their goal. So, they do invite all the top Olympia finishers to chant, you know, the whole top 10 basically. I'm sure they invite and based on who says no, no thanks. Then they start looking at the invitations and considering, okay, this guy's got a huge fan base. Urs is a no-brainer. He's got so many fans. Um, you know, it's not necessarily by merit the Arnold Classic. It's not like we want the absolute top ranked bodybuilders. Sometimes they'll go for somebody who just has a massive massive following. And I'm not talking about influencers. I'm talking about like pros. Like if Bumpstead had wanted to do the Arnold as an open bodybuilder, you can bet your ass they would have said, "Oh yes, please, please." They're going to invite Sam Sull. He's already been invited for the classic physique portion of the Arnold Classic. Sam's never even done a pro show. I'm pretty sure that's going to be his prodebut at the Arnold Classic next year. Now, does he have, you know, if you're looking at merit, does he deserve to be there over, you know, there's a ton of other classic guys that would love to be on that stage that they're not going to get invited and their applications won't be accepted. And these are guys who have been, you know, top top 10 at the Olympia, maybe they've won shows. I mean, there's there's dozens and dozens of class of guys that have won shows. But are they going to draw? Are they going to bring the ticket sales, the sponsors, the pay-per-view sales? they probably do a a free a free stream again, the Arnold. But you know what I'm saying? It's it's it's a they have the divisions they want and they have the athletes they want at the Arnold. Whereas the Olympia, they have to have all the divisions and they have a very strict qualification system and that's who ends up on the Olympia stage. The Arnold, they're very much an independent independently run and organized event compared to the Olympia. They do it their way like Burger King. Martino dro need to climb up the ranks eventually win the O without years not competing. I believe get Quinton there. I I I am convinced convinced there's no way there's no scenario I can envision that Quinton would not end up much bigger, substantially bigger. Even with a month, a month of working with Milos, I guarantee he'd put on some new muscle. I guarantee it. Quint just need conditioning, not size. No, he needs more size. Trailblazer, he needs to fill that frame out just like Samson. This is about the size Samson was a few years ago if you remember. I remember Samson at the at the Boston Pro. We only had one. It was 2022 and he was uh he was about this size. He's about 30 pounds 35 something around 30 to 35 pounds lighter back then than he is now. And he made that leap. He put the size on and that's when he got to that next level. He won the Arnold Classic in 2024. Was it 2023? Yeah, 2024 was hottie, so it wasn't that. It was 2023. So 24 months, like I said. Yeah. Yeah, you were right. Mil didn't do too much with Rean. I give George Farah a chance. Uh well, I mean, I'm I'm just I'm not talking about peacing coach. I'm talking about someone like to train him. George Farah is not an a hands-on trainer in the gym. That's what Milos does best. I think he's a really good coach, but I think he's a better trainer from watching his videos. He gets these guys to work harder than they've ever believed possible. You know, way harder than they thought they could work and and it ends up they all get better. Mil has more passion than anyone. Should have been athletes ambassador. Milos doesn't get enough credit for Sam's Olympia win. All the glory went to Mel, but it was Milos that built him from that non-olympia show winner. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, he he got him to the Arnold Arnold win in 2023. Will Sam train quit? Probably not. Then he will be then he will be training hard enough. I agree. got plenty of conditioning. Although Yeah, he's he's not lacking condition. I mean, let me let me go back to look at the back shots. Yeah, he could have been he could have been a little a little leaner from that. His glutes could have been in a little better. Uh see if we go to the comparison again. Let's try to let's try to compare the conditioning between these two guys. From the front, they're pretty evenly matched. Yeah. You see, Quint's legs aren't smaller than Urs's at all. Urs just has a little better shape, a little more sweep. Quint's legs actually look bigger. You see how much wider he is in that shot? Wider across the clavicles than Urs. I'm not I'm not I'm not doing this to argue that Quinn should have won. I'm I have no argument with Urs winning this show yesterday or the week before. Great side shots. I think he beats Urs in the side poses, Yeah, Urs Earth Urs was leaner. Urs was a little bit leaner. Neither one of them Neither one of them has great backs, but I I'll give the edge to uh Urs in these poses. Back to your comments. Quinton can work with me when he gets the results he was looking for. Quinton can drop me just like Samson did. I don't think he would plan ahead of time on dropping him. Rean just kept on switching coaches. I don't think he was ready to follow Milo's advice if he did. I think he would improve way more. Yeah. I mean, Regan was with Aceto. Uh, is he with Boss of Outlaw now? He's had a few coaches. Not wider legs from the side. No, they need to do lat pull downs. No, they're they both their lats aren't lacking in width. It's the thickness. They need more thickness in the lats. That's what they need. Should have Milos on the Meithead podcast. Oh, I'd love to. I'd love to. I mean, I don't know what the deal is with Milos as far as doing other people's podcasts because uh the athletes that are paid by Jake Wood to be on his channel and you know the different podcasts that they have, Olympia TV, the Menace podcast, uh all the ones that are owned by Jake Wood. I don't I don't know if they're supposed to be doing other other podcasts or if they're exclusive because I know they get paid. They get they get a salary from from Jake just for doing those. I would like to be part of that [\h__\h] Give me that money. Hope Sense doesn't drop Mel. He's not going to drop his wife, Kitty. I don't think I don't think he would drop his wife. How's How's the poll doing now? All right. So, shut it down and go into offseason seems to be seems to be the way to go. uh talking about both of them. They have high insertions lately but don't flare from lower. Yeah, neither one of them has those lats that really drape and that's just genetically where your lats insert. Their lats don't insert way down the hipbone like some more gifted people. Uh like Derek Derek Lensford, a perfect example of someone whose lats insert all the way down the hipbone. Those are very low lats kind of like Franco Columbo had the same thing. Look like a freaking cobra when they hit the back shots. the rear lat spread especially back to that. Oh, Quinton. I don't know why he doesn't have a video up on his uh does he? No. No, he doesn't have a video. I'm going to find Rep. One had it. The German company. They had his posing video. We'll leave that up for a bit. I'm going to be taking I'll be shutting this down in a couple minutes, guys. Yeah, in fact, I'm going to shut it down now. I know it's it hasn't even been 40 minutes, but I think we all we all figured out what we're going to what we're going to say. So, I'm going to close the poll, end the poll, and the results were most of you think. So, the final results of the poll were shut it down and go into offseason. 54% of you believed yes, that's what he should do. Compete in France. 31% of you thought yes. Uh only 15% believed he should hire a coach. And I think that's because I you would have picked you would have picked two things if you had the chance, but you didn't have that chance. So cool. All right, guys. That is it. Okay. All right, guys. So, that's it. Uh if you're watching this in the replay, drop your comments below. What do you think Quinton should do next? Shut it down. Go back in offseason mode. continue on to the France show September 27th. Should he hire a coach? If so, who do you think would be the best coach for Quinton aka Quint Beastwood? Who could take him to the next level? Would it be Milo Sarv? Would be Christo, Boslaw, Neil Hill, Patrick Tour. There's a lot of there's a lot of great options for coaches. George Farah. Gosh, who am I? I'm Honey Honey's not coaching people anymore. Uh there's a lot of great options for coaches. So, let me know who you think who you think would be the best option for Quint. and uh what you think he should do next. And that's it. I got a power hour with Jal Thomas tomorrow. We'll be talking about Urs Quint and all kinds of other stuff. So join us then. And of course, Wednesday night at 7 p.m. Eastern, the Meatthead podcast. Lee Priest will be joining me again along with Leo Marhoffer from the Overcome Podcast. You may know him as Austrian Powers. So that's it, guys. Thank you so much for watching and I will see you next time.