Bang everybody. Welcome to Power Hour starring me, Ryan Harrison. Of course, all the way across the pond in the United Kingdom, Giles, Tiger, Thomas. Got a lot to talk about today. Urs Kachinsky, the miracle bear, just got his second win in two weekends as an open bodybuilder. Hell of a debut. who now qualify for the Olympia. So, we're going to talk about where we think he might place at the Olympia. And of course, we got to talk about the other guy, Quinton Aria, Quint Beastwood. Quint had a pretty good run these past four shows. Came up short, but we're going to talk about what we think he should do next because of course he's going to listen to me and you, Giles, right? Okay. All right, Giles. So, uh let's talk about Urs. Uh, I know we weren't there, but uh, do you think he looked a little better, any different in Germany than he did the week before in Italy? >> Uh, it's again, it's difficult to tell because of different lighting, different stage, you know, it's um, I think it's I was looking at pictures in the runup and um, obviously they were like sort of kitchen kitchen photos, backstage stuff, and you know, you're looking at basically you're working with what you've got. So, I was looking at the footage and I was thinking, do his legs his legs look kind of soft here? um he just kind of, you know, I think he does he look as good, but of course when he got on stage, you know, it was just literally the bad lighting or the low resolution it was filmed under or poor light. And um yeah, he looked absolutely fantastic. Um did he look any better? Um well thing is the only way I can gauge if he was any better was if he was any harder from the back and any crisper and um you know from the glutes up really he was lacking kind of separation and detail for me. So that's where I wanted to see improvements. Um, but as you can see from this footage we're looking at now, he looks bursting full. He's dense. He's he's hard. I love the I love the the leg separation, the quad separation. Everything's crisp. Everything's tight. Um, I thought he looked absolutely fantastic. And um, yeah, I think he, you know, obviously there's only so much you can do in a week. Um, I don't think he he he slipped at all. I mean, I but I would say, yeah, he looked as good. And um maybe if you really analyzed it and held the the footage um next to each other, you maybe might be able to see some difference. But um no, he looked good. He looked he looked great and uh he won straight first on his on his on his home country. So yeah, good on him. >> Yeah. Do you think it was any closer? Do you think Quint was closer to winning at this show or or was it just as much domination on the part of Earth? >> Uh I've seen a lot of people thinking that Quint should have won and it was closer than it was the week before. Quinn looked good. Actually, I thought I wasn't expecting him to be this good because I thought based upon Italy last week, I thought he was actually starting to get a little bit tired. But, um, to me, he looked he looked good at this show. He looked great. He was fresh. He looked full. He was conditioning was good. Um, I was actually, like I said, if I I was predicting last week that he was definitely going to slip and I was thinking maybe he might slip down for third or fourth. Maybe Mark Hector or Lewis Breed or Well, Carbo, one of these guys might have caught him. But um fair play to him for really holding his peak, you know, considering he's done now what four shows in a row. Tampa, Texas, Italy, this one, traveling as well, you know, living in a different country while he's been prepping for the last two shows. So, um I think I mean, yes. I mean, would it have been an absolute scandal if he'd have beat us here? >> Uh I don't know. Obviously, the crowd would have gone look at that leg shaking on Earth. That was really distracting on me to me. >> Yeah. I was too busy looking at Quint then. Yeah. Would it have been a scandal? No. I mean, I think I think there would have been a lot of uh upset people. And I mean, how would you if if you would argue the win, how would you argue how would you have argued the win if if Quinton had won? >> Well, the fact that it was so close last week. I mean, I know that the scores people go wet, but the scores are clean. 333, 666 or whatever, then uh how can it be close? But you and I know how a lot of these shows work where the head judge makes a decision and all the other judges fall into line. I mean it is starting to it's a bit of a bug bear of mine I must admit and I pointed out a lot of times but um yeah I think um I think Quint did look slightly better than Italy but then again so did so uh I mean and was I mean if you look at the score sheets it says that won clearly last week so really you know it was like I said I think it was going to be more of the same and I know we had Carbo not in Italy and I said it's probably going to repeat be a repeat of the top three of last week and you know and pretty much without Carbo because he like I said didn't do Italy. It was that was the top three really. Um so um yeah no shock there and like I said I mean if it's more than a week maybe then you could get guys slipping or you know fading or getting better. Uh but it was only a week so I wasn't I wasn't shocked that uh that it ended up this way. >> Yeah. I mean I I I love Quinton's physique and I did see a lot of comments. There were there were a decent amount of people who felt he should have won. Um, but I look at this shot. I don't have a side by side picture, but Quint Quint is a lot wider in this pose, just to give one example. The front front latch spread, he's got a much wider shoulder span, wider clavicles, so he has much more pronounced Vtaper, but Urs for especially a guy that just crossed over to open, you know, just now, to me, he looks so much more thicker and complete where Quint looks to me like he needs to fill out. We'll talk about Quint later. Yeah, the chest even just the whole upper body in that pose to me looks just like it could it could stand to be a lot thicker and fuller. Um >> yeah, I I to I totally agree. Like you look at there. I mean he's very like his symmetry, his proportions, he's got a lot I think he's just got a lot more density than than Quinn. I know Quinn's got a better structure. He's wider in the shoulders, smaller in the waist, you know, and if you look at it structurally, he he's he's he's much much better than because hers isn't exactly that wide through the shoulders, but he's very complete head to toe. Whereas Quinn, you know, there's if you squint at Quint, you can see that there's areas that could just need a little bit more bit more chest in the front in the front, which would make his front lap spread look incredible. Bit more, you know, chest and shoulders in the side chest, you know, just little tiny tiny tiny details. Whereas Earth just kind of flows really really well, you know? I mean, that's as a lot of these these classic guys, they flow really really well and when they put the size on and it goes on evenly, you know, you end up you end up with situations like this where they just look absolutely sensational. But um but yeah. Yeah, that's yeah, that's we're we're starting to hear a lot about, well, these guys are going to change open bodybuilding. These classic classic pros who are moving over to open because now the open guys are going to be well, they can't really you can't change your shape and structure just because oh no, these guys are coming along and they have really nice shape and structure, your bone structure and your muscle shape. It is what it is. They can work on their presentation to try to step it up a level to to match what we're seeing with >> Yeah. Think thing is thing is wrong. Sorry to interrupt, but thing is we've got a we've got a Mr. Olympia with a classic shape. >> You know, it's just he so happens to have the size of an open of a good open a very very good open guy. It's just, you know, you like Shawn Rhoden, uh, you know, uh, Samson Dow, these guys have got they've got all the attributes of a classic physique. They've just got another 60 whatever pounds of muscle on top, you know. So you I don't know whether classic guys are going to come in and revolutionize you know or change the criteria because it's already been there with like guys like Shawn Rhoden Samson. So um and thing is a good physique is a good physique. Um so yeah. >> So now that he's qualified um people are starting to speculate where is he going to place at the Olympia? Uh and that's that's a good question. It's it's not something we can say for certain but I think we can speculate. Um, I guess probably the the the best thing to do is to take a look at the take a look at who's qualified for Olympian, see who could he beat, who could he realistically beat. So, oh, >> also Ron, sorry, one second. Going back to your point, I think the I think personally my gut tells me the reason many people were saying that like so 80% of the people were saying that, you know, the comments I was reading anyway on the on the pages I was on saying that Quint should have won. I think it's because they wanted Quinn to qualify and has already qualified. I think in my heart of hearts, that's why most of them, you know, like I said, there's no way of telling, but my my feeling is that it's because they wanted Quinn to qualify, as did I. >> I did, too. And that's why, again, I said that a lot of people get mad when I say this, but if it's super close, if I was a judge and it's so close that you could you could just flip a coin. They both deserve to win, but you have to pick one guy >> and one of them's qualified for the Olympia and the other one isn't. >> If it's a tie in my head, I'm not gonna make them do a sudden death, you know, Nick Walker, Nick Walker, Derek Lungsford thing from Pittsburgh. I'm just going to give it to to the guy that needs to get to the Olympia if they're even if they're 100% even. Like, I can't make up my mind, but that's me. >> But it's not like came in worse. If had come in like 5% off that he did in Italy, then they probably would have given Quint the nod, but he didn't. He showed up as good, if not better. >> Yeah. So Quint did get better, but Urs didn't get worse. So >> yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yes. Basically, in a nutshell, Ron, >> that's that's what would have needed to happen and it didn't happen. U so let's look at this. So Brett Wilin, he qualified. Was it Romania he won? Doesn't he always do Romania to win or Prague or something or Anyway, so Brett's qualified. >> Okay. Can he beat Brett? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what Brett's looking like though. >> Have you seen Have you seen Brett recently? He looks incredible. >> I have not. I'll take a look. Yeah, we'll be doing Olympia of We're going to start talking about the Olympia immediately after this. Clearly, Samson obviously not. >> Yes, I'm right. >> Rob, could we could we do this a different way? Sorry to do this, but just humor me. Could you give me the likely top six that we don't even have to agree on, you and I, but just give me what? Just give in no particular order. What do you think is the top six likely? >> Sure. Okay. No particular order. I got Samson, Hottie, Derek, >> uh, Martin, Nick, uh, Andrew. Is that five or six? >> Okay. Okay. In that no particular order, that is, you know, based upon what we've seen and their track record, that is most likely the top six. So, now we've got four spots left. >> Yeah. for the um for the rest of the top 10 that Z is going to have to beat and crack if he wants to crack the top 10. So, give me give me give me sort of um give me four or five names of names that stand out to you other than the top six we've just mentioned. >> Sure. Okay. Akim Williams, Brandon Curry, William Bonak, and Good Vita. They're all in a row. That was easy. Vitalio Golinkov. I mean, those are >> Antonio um >> I forgot about >> Well, they was that five or six names now. What about I forgot I keep forgetting and I'm getting I'm getting a lot of flack from the Colombians. I keep forgetting about Necilla Rubio Moscara. >> Exactly. What if he comes in like five five four or five kilos sharper and he turns around to the back and everything's nice and crispy? I mean, he's is he going to be at the top 10? >> I mean, and what about Rean? If Rean comes in looking phenomenal, he's been top he was top 10 before, wasn't he? Eighth or ninth? >> Do you know what? I've always been quite harsh and I've never really been a huge fan of Rean, but I know we can only tell so much from these carefully selected and stuff photos, but um something is something in these last few updates he's been posting. I'm seeing a little bit of magic happen that I've never seen from him in years past. And he's been eighth. It was he been top 10. It was eighth place he got a couple years ago. >> Yeah. >> So realistically, I mean, you know, is is going to beat someone like that? I don't, you know, I mean, could he beat Sassan's going in on two wins. I think I don't want to I don't want to do it this way because this sounds like I'm being a a big jerk, but who who do I think he'll definitely beat? You know, nobody's nobody's definite, but Well, Bay Ruse isn't coming. I don't think Be Ru is coming. That's why I'm not mentioning Bay Ruse. I think Bay Ruse is a is a threat top six. Otherwise, he would be >> I'd be talking about him for sure. He's he's an excellent competitor. >> Um, obviously, I mean, What? Sorry. What about what what about Jordan? Sorry, Jordan Hutchinson. Sorry, I just saw his name there. Jordan Hudson has just won two shows and he beat he beat Quinn all those other guys because thing is has won two shows here. >> But apart from Theo who was like 12th in in Germany. He's slipping. I mean he was like what eighth place last week. I don't think there's any Olympia guys there. So you got Jordan Hutchinson now who's very complete. >> I mean would beat Would beat Jordan? >> That's what I'm struggling with. Jordan's a lot bigger and Jordan gets in a crazy condition, too. Uh, I do like Ersza's overall shape a little better than Jordan's, but Jordan out muscles him in a big way. Uh, he's significantly thicker and denser than than Ursa's right now. >> What about what? >> Yeah, go ahead. >> Well, does win either of the back shots, two back shots against Jordan? >> No. No. No. George Urs Urs's his weak point is Achilles heel right now it's his back it's not a horrible back but it's not a great back and on the Olympia stage you have a lot of guys with phenomen like Tonio Burton's back shots are just lights out you know he beats he beats most of these guys in the back shots uh Rean's got a really good back uh Bonak has a phenomenal back Brandon's got a good back I mean there's it's it's going to be tough for Urs so When I say he might not even make top 10, >> the Earth the Earth fans are gonna are gonna rip me a new one. But it's gonna be very very difficult. This is the greatest contest in the world. These guys are no joke. We have how many Mr. Olympia? We have three Olympia champions competing already. Four, I'm sorry, four with Brandon. You got four guys on that stage already that have won the Mr. Olympia. Um, that takes care of that takes care of four spots right there. It's It's going to be tough. I know. And this is a this isn't a huge lineup. It's a pretty pretty compact lineup. We've had we've had significantly more people in the show than this, but >> yeah. I mean, if Urs could make like ninth or tth, that would be incredible for him at this show. Incredible. >> I What do you think? >> I I just don't see it happening, Ron. >> I don't see it happening. You know, like we mentioned the top six there and you've got guys like um yeah, Brandon Curry, Bonak, are they realistically going to be out of the top 10? I mean, Bonak, I think, is getting better as the years going on. Brandon um fourth at the Arnold Classic looks like he's getting a bit of a second wave in his career. You know, he's looking he's he's certainly we thought he was slipping a couple years ago, but now he's kind of coming back and getting some foot getting a footing again. Jordan Hudson coming off the back of two wins, you know. Antonio Rean, uh, good veto, do you know what I mean? I mean, I don't think he's top 10 either, but um, as as obviously exploded earlier on in the year, but um, you know, these guys are these guys are no joke. I mean, Öza's won, but did he really be top six or really really like top 10 Olympia caliber? So, >> you know, >> um, if it I think he'll be um, I don't know whether I think from the back. I think he's going to be exposed in this kind of quality of a lineup. >> Yeah. And you know, people will say, well, that's only one, but the back is it's very important. You know, if you're losing if you're losing the back shots at on the Olympia stage, these judges have a very, very hard time, a very hard difficult task, I should say. They have to sort out the very best physiques in the world as fairly as they can and as quickly as they can because nobody wants to be there for hours while they're struggling to to uh to make their decision. So, uh they have to they have to be merciless. They have to say, "Well, this guy's got weak legs or this guy's got a weak back and they sort of push him down to second or third call out based on that." >> Uh condition can knock you out of those first couple call outs. You know, it could be anything because they need a reason. They need a reason to to place one guy first and one guy 20th, assuming they they place that top 15. So yeah, Urs looks phenomenal. I don't think Urs is expecting much out of this first Mr. Olympia. I don't think he's saying I'm top six. He's not saying anything like that. It's his fans. >> Go ahead. I think um I think for the first year even if he could get in 14 15th I think that is going to be a very very good starting point for him but um the next couple of years I think we'll be I think then we'll be having a a different conversation about him being top 10 certainly but um people say top 10 top six and they get all excited but then they kind of forget you know maybe just just guys if you do that go and have a look at the go and have a look at the uh the line the lineup of the Olympia for the open And really, like you said, do what we've done and go person, you know, athlete by athlete and really ask yourself if this guy's on, has he got any chance against this guy? Like if Rubel comes in sharp, Jordan Hutchinson, Brandon Curry, William Bonak, you know, um I mean probably would he beat Veto? >> I don't know. I Veto Veto is very good. I mean, he's another guy that I I just I don't know why I don't remember. He just he's someone I don't think about as often just like Rubiel. I don't know why, but then I look at them and I think I'm looking for weak points and there aren't that many. You know, Veto still doesn't have the greatest back shots, but he's massive. Huge arms, huge legs, really good structure and shape. >> He'll >> Yeah, in in condition, what about what about >> who >> what about Tonio and Regan? I mean, there's two there's two guys that have made top 10 at the Olympia. Um, if they show up improved or or really nailing it, I mean, is hers coming close to them? >> Not yet. Not yet. I mean, that that's no knock on earth. He just he just became an open bodybuilder these past couple weeks. >> So, give this kid a chance. Give him a full offseason where he's unrestricted. Doesn't have to have that mental block where, oh no, I'm going to have to lose anything I gain just to make weight. You know, this is a 260 pound. Another 10 pounds on him because I think he still needs to be bigger. He's not as big as he needs to be. Needs more back. means a little more in the tricep. Biceps I I I think are great, but not a lot of sweep and fullness to the triceps in some shots. When he addresses those issues, I think like another 10 pounds in the right places, that's when we start talking about Ursus as a definite top 10 Olympia, Mr. Olympia competitor. >> But we're not. reminds me of um Dorian in he reminds me of Dorian in 1990 when he came second to Ben benaziz at the champions >> and he just turned to the back and he realized that's where he was being beat. Now imagine if went to really went to war on his back for a year came back and those back shots were matching the front the sides because he's um he doesn't apart from those back shots I don't really I don't really think he's got like a bad shot I mean abandon thigh is is incredible I love his frontable bicep his front lat spread his side chest his side tricep these are all crazy shots for him most muscular is good but the rear bicep and the re real lat spread I just think okay I see that as a as a literal work in progress I mean I try Not to judge him on that, but thing is he is going to be judged on that when he gets up on stage at the Olympia against that level of guy. So I would be very very shocked if he made top 10. I don't think he's even making top 12, but 13th to 15th if he because you know he's going to be on and thing is we don't know whether guys like Ruby or certain I mean Brett Wilkins looking amazing you know Jordan Hutchinson you know there's like these the names stack up you know I mean there's there's there's there's like literally 15 guys that uh are good enough to make top 10 that he would have to get past. So I um I think he I think he's I think he's going to he's had an amazing year regardless. So, um I think it's it's good that he's going to go go to the Olympia, do it. And thing is that's his starting point. And thing is, isn't he one of like probably the youngest guy up there in the open lineup? Surely at 27. >> You know what? I think he might be the youngest now. I'm look at Brett's def. Samson, Hottie, Derek. >> I'm trying to think of the next youngest guy. I don't know if there's anybody. So, Veto is Veto is under 30, I believe. I think Veto is only right. >> Is he about 28 or 29? >> But I pretty sure Urs is younger than him. We know Regan's over 30. Yeah, I believe he will be. Yeah, he'll probably be How old is Good Veto? If Good Veto is a 20 even uh 28 or 29, which I think he is at this point, I guess will be the youngest guy up there. So, that's a that's a real accomplishment. >> I I think is unfortunately a lot of the um the guy the really popular guys, you know, like the Chris Bumsteads and and the Miracle Bears and the you know, the Özes and stuff like that. I think sometimes people confuse popularity with status and kind of and level, you know, and I know he's just won these two shows. Um, but um, he didn't really go up against top six or even top 10 Olympia caliber guys. That is the point I'm trying to make. So, I don't I I I hate to think that his fans will be disappointed if he doesn't make top 10. And I can see that he was robbed and all that, but I'm more I'm thinking more long-term. I'm thinking, okay, then he's off to a great start, but in another year, another two years, you know, and then he'd be he won't even be 30 in two years time, that's when I'm going to get really, really excited and really kind of like, okay, we really need to include this guy as a conversation for top 10 or even top six. Top six Olympia, but I just don't see it yet. >> Yeah, 100%. Give this give Urs a little bit of time. He's so young. He's just starting out in in open after a very very successful run as a classic guy. remember he turned pro he was 20 21 or 22 so he's still a very young guy uh let's move on let's move on to the guy who uh >> but the thing is guys like go >> ahead veto hang on sorry sorry guys like him veto and quint these are the next generation in five years time these guys those three might be up in the top six at the Olympia you know because you know they it takes it takes time to get going you know I mean like Samson Ronnie these guys you know they didn't start off winning pro shows I mean hers has. So, um, but you know, some of these these top guys, it takes a few years to kind of get the progress, you know, make get the physique, you know, completely balanced and thick and, you know, like Quint with another 10 pounds of, uh, 10 pound of density. You know, you know, that's going to be a factor. >> Yeah. I'm looking at the list and I'm thinking who's going to the Olympia in say four to five years. I think Samson might be retired. He's already almost 40. He might, you know, he might go out by then. He might be gone. I could tell you uh Akim is probably going to be gone. He's been at this a very long time. Uh Brandon Curry and William Bonak are certainly not going to be competing four or five years from now. I don't see that happening. >> I think I think Bonak said this is his last year. >> Okay. Yeah. Uh Sassan, I don't see him going another four or five years. I'm just saying based on age and how long they've been in the sport. You can't do this forever. >> Andrew Andrew is still a young in the sport, but he's not a young guy. I don't know if he'll be around in five years. So, like I said, that it's gonna be a whole new guard. gonna be a whole new a whole new group of guys up there in four or five years at the top of the Olympia level. And uh >> what about Rean? I mean, hang on. Jordan Jordan's 29, isn't he? >> Yeah. Yeah. Jordan's Jordan's a young guy. Regan's only 30 or 31, I think. They're all They're all around late 20s, >> early that's the next >> These guys are the next generation, mate. So these are the guys that we you know that you can get excite you can get excited about now because it's not about well it's about how they'll be you know cramming up that top six in in another three to five well in the over the next three to five years. >> Yeah. So let's talk about Quint Quint Beastwood. So he did four shows admirable. Um two of them over in Europe. So Tampa was how long ago? I'm trying to figure out how long this guy's been in prep. So he did the Tampa Pro which was way back very beginning of August, August 2nd. Texas Pro was the week after that. So he waited all the way through August and he did these two shows in September, the Italy Pro and Germany Pro. So came up short four times. He was uh second place, third place, second place, second place in that universe where we had the point system. He'd be going to the Olympia, but we don't. Not for open. Um, so he's not going to the Olympia this year. Um, question, my first question is, if you were his adviser, his manager, whatever, would you advise him to keep going another two weeks and try to get an early qualification for the Olympia 2026 over in France? >> Um, depends who depends who's doing it because, you know, he's been on prep this long. is another two weeks if he's got a chance of winning this show and qualifying for next year which is going to be hugely beneficial for him. Is that something to consider or is it like okay am I realistically am I guaranteed to win this you know really with when I look at who the lineup is and how good I am and when you're objective about it is it is it really is it really realistic that he can win you know and qualify for next year it's um I to be honest I don't feel strongly either way um I won't be shocked if he shuts it down now and I won't be shocked if he decides to go for it because I know there's two names I know just came in this morning Hassan Mustafar is in France. >> Wow. >> Uh Stefan Stefan Matela. Was it Mattella? The uh the beautiful shaped guy. Looks like Paul Delet and uh Phil Heath had a love child. >> I mean, there's there's >> Yeah, >> I mean he's um he's going to be doing it. You're probably I mean, you know, God knows who else is going to do it. He's he does have a good chance. Yeah, I suppose he does. It's um it's up to him whether he really wants to keep going with the prep um and whether he feels that he can he can do it. Um how do you feel about R? >> I would do it. I mean it obviously it's not a guaranteed win. I think a lot of the guys from these past two shows are going to be there, but he he beat all those other guys. >> The only guys you just mentioned, Hassan Mustafa and Stefan. Um, you know, it's not guaranteed that he can beat them, but you know, just competing because you're guaranteed to win is kind of silly. If you can't if if you're worried about who's going to be at a qualifying show, then you know, you're not Mr. Olympia material because you're going to see you're going to you're going to run up against all those people at the Olympia anyway if you're that good. Um, I would do it though. I would do it just to see >> this. Um, >> this sounds like a silly thing to say. It's going to be worth it. He's going to be worth doing it if he wins it. >> Yeah, of course. Of course. But I mean otherwise, what's he really losing? It's another two weeks away from home. It's another two weeks on prep. I know it's been a very long season. So, August, September. Geez. So, assuming he did a four month prep. I don't know if he does, but that's six months in prep overall by the time he done he's going to be done with France if he does France. >> But, but what's another two weeks, I suppose? I'm just thinking about it now. thinking about I'm trying to think about it objectively. What's another two weeks? And if he does win it, then it's kind of the best case scenario where you can get a qualifier which is even before this Olympia that qualifies you for next year's Olympia. I mean it's like I remember when Brett Wilin, you know, the way he qualified and um other pros that have, you know, really good like um Raphael last year when he won Romania, I know he's not doing the Olympia, but like in some ways that's one of the best case scenarios because then it gives you almost a full year knowing that you're going to be standing on stage Olympia. So really you're thinking about not qual just trying to qualify and then try and peak for the Olympia, make improvements, going in and out of off seasons. This is about [\h__\h] I've got 11 months to make my physique look like it belongs on Olympia stage so I can actually do well and actually get a good place. >> Yeah. I mean otherwise he's not going to have as much time. So say he skips France and now he's got to figure out how am I what show am I going to do in 2026 to qualify. I've heard a lot of people say, "Why doesn't he just do like Toronto Pro, which is in June? He lives in the Toronto area, but still that wouldn't give him as much time because if he qualifies for Olympia by winning France, if >> that would give him a lot more time. He wouldn't have to start his prep, his next prep until, you know, next July or whatever for next year's Mr. Olympia. Whereas, if he does the Toronto show or any of the spring shows, he's going to have to his offseason is going to be cut much, much shorter. And then what do you do? You have a little tiny off seasonason before you have to start up prep again. You know, people don't understand the timing of how how complicated this can be for these guys to try to really figure out and strategize. Best case scenario is he goes to France, he wins it, and then he basically goes into a big old offseason, doesn't compete until next year's Olympia, or maybe does a warm-up show four or five weeks out like like um Samson did when he did France like two weeks out, you know, just to sort of, you know, pe tweak the conditions, see what improvements you've made, get a buzz going because thing is when you qualify early for an Olympia and you don't do any other shows in the meantime, your name kind of gets forgotten. >> Oh, 100%. I mean, that happens. >> That's the only downside. That's the only downside. >> Yeah, that happens to with with Brett every I forget. Oh, yeah. He's in the Olympia because he he he qualified so long ago I completely forgot about it. >> Have you seen how Brett's looking? I mean, I I saw him guest pose in Sweden back in April. He was I think 285 and he looked like he was four or five weeks out from the show. He was in really good condition. I mean, it was really like good condition for that far out. Um, and some of the updates I've been seeing, he looks he looks absolutely fantastic. So, is this a new Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I have not been following him, I confess, but I I I don't doubt the guy. He typically There's Is that That's Martin, isn't it? Right there. >> Yeah. They're trained together. >> So, what's the latest update from him? This is >> good. >> So, this is four days ago. >> Yeah. I mean, he's I don't I don't think Earth could beat that. I'm sorry. >> I know. I mean, you bring up guys like him and then Jordan Hutchinson and ask yourself, you know, when when turns to the back, is he even going to be competitive against these guys? >> I I don't From the back, I think he's going to get beat by almost everybody. And that's, you know, I know that sounds awful. Condition-wise, he'll have the glutes, the hams, and everything, but he doesn't have the thickness and density in the back yet that some of these guys do. It's because they've been at it longer, and they weren't stifled by a weight cap in classic for years. the way he was. He was holding himself back, not making the gains that he could have should have been making because he was he was restricted. He couldn't do it. Yeah, Brett looks great. >> And the thing is, Ron, you know, and you and I know that there's levels to this. You know, he's won a certain level pro show and really he won it kind of just really. I mean, people are arguing that maybe Quint should have won and Quint hasn't even done Olympia. I mean, Quint hasn't won a pro show yet, has he? >> No, he has not. I realize that, >> you know. So, yeah. So, he's nearly been beat by guys like that. So he really needs to be head and shoulders above guys like that. He needs to be you know like um Andrew Jack did Fibo and he won it at 80% condition because he is so he's that level or two above guys like Sassan or you know guys that he was competing against who were in condition and he still he still beat them. So you and I know like you know like you and I know that um you know the top six pretty much of you know those six top guys like Andrew Martin you know uh you know the Samsons and Hardies and Dereks you know pretty much that's going to be the top six unless one of them messes up or somebody else improved drastically you know Rean ain't beating Andrew or Martin if those guys are on you know but he could be like seventh eighth because the the seventh place down guys seventh to 10th there's another level and then you got the guys the promising guys 11th to 15th And then you got the guys who are just kind of just making up the numbers. Let's be honest, even if they show up bang on, they're just not at that that stage or they just don't have the potential to kind of be that good. Maybe just they'll never be that good, you know? So um which I don't want to call those guys out because you don't want to sort of discourage them, you know, right? >> But um you know, because the end of the day, look what I mean, look what I did the other week when I said about I said I didn't even see him top three. I pretty much in the leadup I didn't have him top five. And in my head that morning, I was like, "Oh, he's going to be like eighth place." he showed up and he showed me completely wrong. So, it's based upon what we know, what they've done in the past, who they've beat, what level of shows they've done, and what basically what they've achieved, and what we've seen from whatever updates we can we can kind of, you know, uh glean from, you know. So, that's um yeah, >> right. So, the the the other issue I want to talk about, Quint, is you what does he what where does he go from here? forget about qualifying for Olympias so forth because it's really all about the physique and building, you know, showing a physique that's capable of being top five, top six of the Olympia or even becoming Mr. Olympia. We've we've talked about how Samson Douta a few years ago was in a similar position to Quint right now where the structure and the shape were there. conditioning. You know, we've we've never been like uh overly impressed with Samson's condition, but regardless, Quint is in that spot now where I feel he needs another I'm going to say 20 pounds cuz that's the leap. Samson put on about 30 pounds of muscle, I believe, in the in the last couple years before he moved up from a fourth, fifth place guy to winning the Arnold, then winning the Olympia. >> Um Quint does not I'm gonna show this. This was three years ago in Tampa. And tell me if you see, so this was a little over three years ago. How much of a difference do you see from here to what we've been seeing these past few shows? >> Not drastic. And I don't know whether it's just the quality of that that high resolution uh footage, but I mean he looks harder here. >> Yeah. I mean, >> the legs anyway. The legs. >> He's improved. He's improved. But I'm I'm just talking about in sheer in terms of sheer size. This was three years ago >> for a guy at that point. point. I think he was still in his late he was still in his late 20s. >> Yeah, >> I do see I do see an improvement in size, but I don't see what I would have expected. >> And he needs that size. If he's going to if he's going to get past second place to these guys, third place, if if he's going to be fulfilling the prophecy that a lot of us believe he's capable of, he needs he needs to do something something he's not doing now. And I don't know what that is, whether >> it's our good friend Milo Sarv that could be the answer for him. Uh I I don't know what you know if if again if Quint called you up said Giles what do I do Giles? I don't know what to do. What should I do? >> It's just a matter of just keeping on going. I mean, you know, like Samson in 22, he kind of reminds me of that of when Samson was there where, you know, he was at a certain level and he was a great pro and, you know, he'd always be up there in the in the good placings, but and then he just went kind of nuclear and just, you know, just ding ding ding dong every show. The body weight was going up, the waist was staying small, and he just basically went all in and just, you know, just kind of went to that next level in like the space of like one or two years. Now, we're seeing a lot of ifs here. You know, we we look at guys like this and we've seen guys like this before. I'm not I'm not trying to discourage him, but I'm saying that there's been a lot of guys like this before where we've looked at them and saying, "Look at the structure. Look at the genetics." Remember when we said Richard Jones, remember when it was said in the front page of Flex magazine, that Richard Jones could win the Olympia and he went to the Olympia that year, 2005, and he got last place. >> Yeah. >> It's like it can be a gift. thing is it's a it's a blessing and a curse when you see someone that has the genetic potential, the structure, the everything there, but it's just they're just kind of kind of bringing the same or just slightly better or slightly better. We all know that Quint with just say he goes and puts 10 15 pounds on and thing is that sounds like a lot of muscle but on a guy that's what 61 6'2 that's not that's not actually a lot of that's not drastic you know like if he if you could wave a magic wand and put put 20 pounds on him yeah then yeah then probably guys like Samson Andrew Jack would be sweating you know because um he he he needs to do that to really really level up. So, but thing is I to keep it really positive, he has improved this year. So, he just needs to he's been doing because he's he is getting better, but the it's incremental which probably like like Raphael Brando, you know, his progress has been incremental over the years, you know, nothing you don't look at him on when he takes a year off and comes back, you're like, "Holy [\h__\h] wow." It's like, and then you see the photos and you really look close and you're like, "Okay, he has, okay, he's got six pound on and I can see it here. I can see it there. His balance is better. He's brought this body part up. he's a little bit more detailed in this area, you know, and it kind of bodybuilding is that kind of name of the game. And thing is they can't all do what Samson did and go from like this level to Mr. Olympia within two years. Some people just don't have it in them. some but you know but it's like I said it's it's kind of it is kind of within within his control because you see guys with poorer genetics you know like say like guys like Lewis Breed I mean that guy doesn't have anywhere near the kind of structure that Quint Quint does >> but you know he's imagine him with imagine Quinton with Lewis Breed's density conditioning and muscle hardness and fullness. I mean that that is that's something that you know you could go toe-to-toe with the Samson on Andrew 100%. So, I mean that the question is, is this is this about as big as he's ever going to get? I I don't know. Or is he capable of doing what Samson did? Because Samson made that that jump in mass in a pretty short time. >> It was like 30 30 or 40 pounds in a two-year span. It was very substantial amount of muscle that he put on. >> But that's the question. Is he capable? Now physically structurally yes you can say add 20 pounds to that and yes that would be you know very very hard to beat but can he do it? >> That that's what I'm saying is we don't know if this might be this might be his full potential in terms of mass. I you know I hope not because I want to I I'm a huge fan of his physique and I want to see him go to that next level but if he's this size he's not going to get to that next level. And I know it's people are going to be like that's a big dude. I mean, think about who he's got to beat, though. That next level of guys is a lot thicker and denser. He's got the shape, he's got the structure, but he does not have the mass of those top guys. >> Yeah, but yeah, I don't know. The thing is though, bodybuilding is about all about progression. So, yes, if he keeps bringing in the same look or, you know, just 1% better after another year, another two years, then yeah, other guys are going to pass him by and he's kind of he's not going to hit the next ceiling. But um you know he's thing is he he's what 31? >> Yeah. 31. >> 31. So for so basically that's us saying he's never ever going to improve after the age of 31 now. I think he'd have to be pretty lazy and be putting in not very much work to not improve. So um I I mean yes we look at that that foot you saw that footage just then you showed you know it's not drastic improvements but there is improvements. So, um I mean yeah, if he could if he could pull a bloody what um what Samson achieved with Milos then 100%. You know, but um that's a that's a big if and like I said, not everyone can do what Samson did ever, >> right? And I I want him I want to make it clear that I'm holding out hopes. I'm rooting for Quint. I want him to >> Me, too. >> rise to that top echelon because he's a really good guy. >> Yep. >> Uh you know, people question his work ethic or you know, how do you know? You can't tell. They say he doesn't look like he trains that hard, but like some people aren't the grunters and groaners and making those gremlin faces, >> you know. Not every not everyone is like that. Like Andrew Jack, I don't think he's uh screaming and grunting and groaning when he trains, but he he obviously he's trained hard to get where he is. >> Yeah. But Ron, you know, I did that tour with Andrew Jack last year and I did a we did a collab video where Nathan Dasher came over and they trained together. And you know what Nathan's like? He talks the when he's not got the video on him and it's not contest time. He's talking the whole time and he's in between sets and he's taking long rests in between sets. You can see he's not fully focused and Andrew was kind of just using the video to he said he said when I'm on these tours he says even though I'm eating right because we were cooking all his food he was you know he said he said I'm just I'm this is like coasting training for me and I mean he was in between reps talking to Nathan and he was doing four plate incline Smith machine. >> Wow. So, you know, and he and that to him is just that's him. That's him at like, you know, uh 50% training, just enough to maintain. He calls that coasting training. When I did the tour Brandon Curry in 20 2020, he came and trained um shoulders at Derek's gym. You know, Derek Clark used to be my producer for global. Oh, yeah. >> He was training and I was watching him train. And Derek, I said, Derek, he was the cat. I said, go and train with Brandon. This is your one chance to train with Mr. Olympia because he was all shy. And I said, I literally pushed him in the gym. I said, "Go and train with him. You don't get many opportun you don't get any opportunities like this. So we went and trained with him and Derek was and Derek's a hard trainer. He's a very good bodybuilder in his day, you know, still train hard. And Derek was dying. And I said to Brandon, I said, "Brandis, I thought you said you weren't training hard on this." He said, "No, I'm not." He said, "This is not even 60% for me." Wow. So these these guys 50 60% what you think is not training hard you know go and you know then you you know like I said we're all making judgments by what we're seeing on our phones and on our laptops and everything but actually go and train with them do you know what I mean and actually see what they're you know go and train them when they are training all out you know basically that's my point >> well and it's it's funny that a lot of people will judge training hard versus not training hard in terms of how many basic barbell and dumbbell movements they do Like if somebody uses more machines than they think somebody should use, oh no, they don't train hard because mach Phil Heath used primarily machines if I recall correctly. >> Exactly. >> He did pretty well in a row. >> Used to make me laugh when people said, "Oh, Paul Delet didn't train hard." And it's like, "Yeah, but look at the guy's physique." >> You know, it's like what are you judging that on? You know, maybe the day remember the day when maybe the day when Miti used to come in and film, they were kind of >> maybe they weren't training at 100%. you know, um, you know, not everyone's a Dorian or a Ronnie, you know, that would go in and just literally just tear the gym up every single day, you know, if they're every sing what time of the year it was, whether offse full offseason or pre-contest or coasting, you know, those guys always hit it hard, you know, but um, you know, everyone's different. Everyone's different and everyone the thing is all you got to do is stimulate the muscles. Like I see Samson doing like a lot of a lot of sometimes you see him doing a lot of isolation movements but he might have just done six exercises before that and done all the basic stuff and you know it's like when you're in the gym or something you know some you know you finished like your heavy basic movements you're doing some light laterals with like 15 pound dumbbells and then some hot chick walks in and or some awesome group of guys walk in and they look at you and they're like oh look at him he says he trains hard and you think yeah well he should have seen me 20 minutes ago mate. >> All right let's move on. Let's move on to uh someone who is probably the most dominant Olympia champion right now uh in her in their respective division. Sydney Gillan was, but she's retired. So, Andrea Shaw, Andrea Shaw just won her fifth rising Phoenix title. She's got five Olympia titles and most likely going to have six Olympia titles in a couple weeks. Uh so, I want to say congratulations to her and I'm I'm really glad that Jake Wood keeps this show going. This was actually I think he had this show before they he even brought back the Miz Olympia if I recall correctly >> and uh she's won almost all of them. Those are the respective Is that the top five? I guess so. >> Yeah. Yeah. See Angela Angela Yo won it last year and beat >> right >> and beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat her here you know. So um Andrea so uh and then obviously uh and I knew that because I think Andrea thought I'm Miss Olympia. I'm gonna come in. She wasn't coming in bang on for it. She was like 90%. And in many many respects n that 90% is still good enough like when Andrew Jack said beat you know Sassan you know 100% Sassan at like an 80% Andrew Jack. Sometimes these people are so good there such a level that they can still come in and win. And yeah she didn't win it but I knew she'd reversed the decision at the Olympia because you could tell that wasn't her peing for that day for that show. She was peing for the Olympia and the the the the rising phoenix just happened to be a few weeks before. So, you can see she didn't she didn't sort of play that game this year and uh came in literally as good as I've ever seen her. Um but um I wonder if Angela Yo was going to be doing the Olympia. Um I would imagine because she was second last year, she will, but it's interesting why Angela Yo decided not to do this one after she had such a good result by winning it last year. >> Yeah, I don't know. I mean, maybe she she's obviously she's already qualified. She's saving it for the Olympia. I mean, >> because, you know, I'm not gonna try to guess inside her head, but I think everyone knew that >> Andrea losing last year, she wasn't gonna let that happen again. >> She wasn't gonna take any chances and come in at anything less than. And that's a long time to hold a peak because that was four weeks out. >> This show, I should say, was four weeks exactly from the Miz Olympia. So, she's got to hold on to this. And I don't think this is even her 100 100% to be honest with you. I think >> I've I've I've seen a little bit of footage and stuff, but to me she looked better than she did at the Rising Phoenix last year. That's the point I'm trying to make. But it's just interesting why Angela didn't jump in this one just to try and you know, [\h__\h] her up and create a bit of hype for Olympia because I mean um >> you know, if you beat the the you know, the what we saw as like a almost unbeatable Miss Olympia, you know, and you're going up against and you beat her, surely your confidence would be enough for you to Oh, yeah. You can see she's not 100%. You'd think that Angela would be thinking, I'm going to go do it again. >> Yeah. Another thing to think about is they don't have a lot of uh shows. Women body women's bodybuilding division does not have a lot of shows. That's why they don't need a point system because there's there's only a few of them compete. There's only a few shows with big money and this is one of them. So, >> I don't know why Angela passed it up. I don't know what second prize was. They were I used to give away like I think they stopped the car, but they were giving away like 50,000 or 60,000 cash plus like another 5060,000 $70,000 worth of vehicle to whoever won this. >> I remember interviewing Angela, sorry, um Hela Trevino and I think she'd won it what two or three times. >> Yeah. >> And then she picked up a phone and she did a guy did tour of her garage and opened up the garage and saw all the cars in there. >> Oh, she kept them all. >> Yeah, she kept them all. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, um but um yeah, it's it's a good shot, but it looks like um it looks to me just at first glance here at this footage particular footage, it looks like um Andrea Shaw's legs have got even bigger. Her quads look I've never seen her quads looking this big. >> Yeah, I remember the arms always overpowered the legs because her arms she's got these phenomenal arms. >> She's made some gains. She's definitely, you know, again, here's somebody who's already a a dominant world Olympia champion and she's still improving. >> It's amazing. And she's over 40, now is she? She's 40 41. >> She must be. She must be. >> Yeah. I I like Andrea. I remember I saw the Arnold UK last year and um I hugged her because she was full on offseason and I was like, "Wow." Like I was like hugging for a bit too long, you know? I was like, "Yeah, nice." >> She's she's And I want to I want to show her cover. She was one of the last MD covers. Is that right? Yeah. She have it in her tagged photos, I think. Oh, I'm not I'm not on her page. I'm on Wings of Strength. Yeah. She was uh you know, MD didn't do a lot of covers with with the female athletes, but this one was iconic. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. That's a beautiful photo of that. Beautiful photo. >> Yeah. This was probably So, that was the September issue. I think we only did two issues after that >> if memory serves me because the uh the Ronnie Ronnie issue was the very last one. >> Go ahead. Sorry. >> Yeah, I got I got when Ronnie was here last year, I got him to sign it and he's he's dated it. >> Yeah, I saw you in the room there. I know exactly where it is. I've just I've got it on the side with my Phil Heath and Brandon Curry because I did the tours with them and I made sure I pulled out that issue of MD with them on and they signed it. So, I've got the three. So, I should really get them signed and get it framed. But >> I remember I gave Ronnie 10 or 12 copies of that at that 23 Olympia. >> Oh, nice. >> You know, I don't regret it because they it's him on the cover, but I'm like, man, that was the last issue. I should have kept those. Maybe they'd be worth something someday. >> I'm so glad that my last ever article, you know, the main it was the main sort of um the they called the cover feature, wasn't it? They used to call it. Um I'm so glad that it was I did it. I'm lucky enough that I got to do it and I'm glad that it was with Ronnie because I I asked Ronnie I said Ronnie just I messaged him you know private and I said why did you like that? He says I loved it mate. He says I really loved it. And then he started talking about certain bits he liked of it because I was thinking oh he's just saying that and he says no I liked what you said here and you said here and I was like obviously because I've got a personal connection with Ronnie >> but um in terms of Andrea Shaw we've got to look at her. I mean really Rachel Mccl, Corey Everson, Linda Murray, Iris Kyle and and Andrea Shaw. I mean that really is the mount I mean obviously that's four or five names out but that's really those are those are five of the four that you would have on the route Mount Rushmore of female bodybuilding. She's incredible. She's I think she's really done a lot to rejuvenate um when it came back in 2020. I think she's done a lot to really because of the the package she brings. I mean, the physique, the femininity, the presentation, um, and also who she is as a lady because I I love Andrea because she's so lovely, >> and I think she's um I think she's a great represent great representative for female bodybuilding. So, yeah, I think she'll win again this year. >> Yeah. And just on that note, I know it's it's it's an athletic event, so facial beauty and femininity really shouldn't matter, but she still is all that muscle mass. She still has a woman's voice and she still has a very pretty face, which it it helps the the reach of female bodybuilding. If we're trying to get more of a fan base, >> you're more likely to attract newer fans with a feminine look, still plenty of muscle, than you are with more of a an androgynous look. So, >> and also also look at the effort she goes to with her posing routines. I think Rachel Daniels helped her with this one last year where she starts on the floor. And I mean, you know me, I know I I I go on and on and on about posing routines and the effort they put into it. I mean, look at that. I mean, it's just that's kind of like the routines that you would see all the competitors do in the 80s and early 90s. So, the fact that she's putting the ef that much effort into like headtotoe presentation, her physique, her femininity, her hair and makeup and um you know, everything. The fact she puts that much effort in um overall is is why I think she deserves to be to go down as one of the greatest ever. >> Absolutely. >> And not hang on, not just not just uh Miss Olympia, but overall Olympia champions like that. Like she's like the kind of Ronnie Coleman, you know, the of it, you know, of of her division, you know, like the Sydney Gillan of the figure, you know, these are some of the names that we will remember in 20 30 years as being the absolute goats of their division. >> Oh, absolutely. She'll she'll go down with all those names. I think we should probably add even though Bev Francis never won a Miss Olympia title, if we're talking about the Pantheon as far as women that were pioneers of the sport and had a massive fan base, we we got to throw Bev's name in there. >> Yeah. >> Now, I don't normally talk about men's physique. It's not it's not that I have anything against them. It's just it doesn't interest me as other as much as some other divisions, but you mentioned to me that Jeremy Buendia was competing again. Mhm. >> That was 98 weeks ago. That is not a recent shot. >> He looks good to me. He looks good. >> I've never I've never really been that much of a fan of men's physique, but um Wendia when it first started, he was the one that kind of caught my eye as being like, "Okay, this guy's on going to go on a dominant run. Is it three or four years he wrote it won it on the trot?" >> Uh let's see what he says in his bio. >> I think it's four times, three times. Four times. >> Uh what would it say here? Four-time Olympia champ. you know, one of those guys that just I mean to me like he he's and and thing is he said this is going to be his last year. Um and thing is there's actually quite a lot of hype this year for the men's physique. I've seen Ali Balal, Ryan Terry, uh Brandon Hendrickson, you know, Andre Ferguson, guys like Jeremy Buendia, they've all been really kind of been they've really been putting themselves out there online in interviews and building a lot of hype actually. And I think it's important for the top guys to really promote their division and actually not just stay quiet and hidden and just do like sort of uh pretty prettily edited and filmed and filtered videos and you know uh you know high quality footage whatever and just put it on YouTube and so they make money but actually doing stuff to actually bring positive attention to the division. And I think I've seen a lot quite a lot of that recently and I think there's actually there'll be more excitement for this division than there has from from a from not just the hardcore men's physique fans. I think it's um but certainly from my point of view I mean I've been more engaged in it this year because the guys have been putting more effort in before the show. So this will be interesting to see how he does. Can remember he ripped his pec. Can you see the rip the pector there? You see >> he's not he's not flexing his chest completely. He's doing it where he's just flexing the arms and the shoulders and not tensing the chest because obviously with the pector shows up otherwise but um I mean yeah it looks good. I think the pector looks good and he knows how to pose it. So, be interesting to see because you think it's all going to be Ryan Terry versus Ali Bal versus Hendrickson. But, um, I think he's going to be up there because he's looking he's looking better than I think he's ever looked uh for well for certainly for a number of years anyway. >> And he said win, lose or draw, it's it's this is it. This Olympia is going to be the last time we're going to see him on stage. >> So, yeah. >> Fantastic physique. >> Wish him the best. >> Okay. >> Maybe he'll put some Maybe he'll just put some trunks on and jump into Prague. I mean, why not? All right, let's go. >> Other guys are doing it. All the other guys are doing it. >> So, uh, you guys over in Sweden are in for a huge treat this weekend. Hold on, guys. Free live stream. My goodness. >> On NPC Sweden.com. So, this is happening Saturday and Sunday over there in is this go? What What city is this? Do you know? >> SAL. >> What? I I can never even say it properly. Swedish people say it differently. It's the same place you always have it. Beautiful venue. And to be honest, I think I think now actually this is the only amateur one I do. >> Oh wow. because I turn a lot of them down because I only like doing the pro shows. But with Sweden, we me and Lauren, you know, I mean, there's been one where she's been I didn't and vice versa, but this is the one where um this is the one I never ever say no to because from literally from when you land, you get picked up, you know, you got your own driver and you take like everything's planned out. They're messaging you. It's they're taking you out for nice meals. It's just it's not just I don't just go sometimes I'll just go to a show for the show and that's my main reason for going but when I go to here it's for the overall experience. It's to spend time with friends >> and uh because this is a this is a busy show. I mean like we're doing eight they're doing live stream commentary for 8 to 10 hours a day on both days and you've got to focus and you know there's people back and they've got screens backstage where they put us superimposed because we're on green screen and they superimpose us on the on the back and there's people literally watching it backstage and on their phones. the competitors are watching it. >> They're literally see if there if there's the next division of men's physique, they'll be watching the the the one that's on stage at that moment, watching it live and you get people commenting you as the show's going on. So, I can't wait. And this year, I'm the I'm the lead host. Um they promoted me. So, um so I've got all the all the all the the Q cards and stuff like that for the uh for the sponsors and stuff like that, which um Ashan would normally take care of. Um he's not doing the live stream uh this year. There's actually a very good reason which you'll find out very very soon. >> Yeah, I think was was that the secret story you were gonna come up with or >> No. >> Oh, okay. Uh yeah, I just curious when you do a live stream for a this is a proqualifier, but these are all amateurs. They're competitors. You don't know anything about them, right? >> No, you just basically say what you see. And uh thing is like because it's free because um I've asked Louiswis Breed. Louisis Breed's going to be there this weekend because I'm see because on the Friday when we fly in they either sometimes the driver says I'm we're supposed to take you to the hotel and sometimes I'll just say look take me to Stark gym because there's a gym locally like a couple of minutes away where everyone trains between a certain time. So I know that if I fly in in the morning and I go straight to the gym, put my gym clothes on and train. I know that I mean like Keon and Martin were there training in 22 literally doing some back and there's everyone. I mean there's probably 50 60 people at any one time and some of the competitors as well you know the was that young lad called the men's physique. You look like Terrence Ruffin forgot his name now but he was coming up to me go oh Joe I watch your commentary and I I follow your stuff and you know and I said let's go and train then. So, uh, I've actually asked Louiswis Breed, I said because I've texted him, I said, "If you want to train arms with me on Friday, I says, "I'll understand if you don't want to because you're scared." So, um, but like you know, like Branch and Johnny sometimes and you know, Michael's there and they they have a barbecue outside, a free barbecue, and everyone's everyone gets free training and then everyone's in the mirrors posing and it's just it's a really good it's a really good start to the weekend because then later then we go back to the hotel and then we go out for a nice meal and then the next morning we're there for 9:00 a.m. and it's just all systems go and it's always a buzz. I mean, I can't wait. I mean, Lauren's um Lauren's flying back from South Africa on Thursday. Um she it was her dad's funeral last week, so she's obviously she's had a rough couple of months there. So, I But she's really I'm glad that we've got this to go straight into because we're not we're staying till Tuesday. >> So, I can't wait to kind of immerse ourselves in with just just be with nice people, you know, like I was there in April. We were going doing sightseeing with Brett Wilin, Hunter, Branch. We're all going around the the the the the what's it called? The palace and all that and uh >> you know and Michael's giving you like guided tours and they went to see that sunken ship thing and in the the museum and stuff and it's kind of just you just come home and you just it's just a nice just a nice experience seeing your friends all being kind of brought together by like-minded people. So I can't wait. So I hope I hope you tune in anyway. It's free so you may as well. And um yeah, I can't wait. >> Yeah, guys, npcsweden.com. It's Saturday and Sunday if you want a nice because there's no pro shows going on this weekend. This will give you a free live. Free is the best price. I love free. >> Nothing beats free. >> And and the good thing is because there's at least three of us at any one time on the panel because I think like I said on that poster branch and Johnny going to jump in and I'm going to ask if Lewis can jump in because I wouldn't mind doing like the heavyweights or heavy super heavyweights with him. >> Thing is when when there's plenty of us it not just gives you a chance to have breaks but like when I usually have my break I'll go backstage because backstage is like a show within itself. They've got like free food and there's just there's just so much going on backstage. Interview, photography, the live stream, free. There's a there's there's people work because you got MJ's MJ's got his own coffee. MJ's roast >> really. >> There's literally people there with an espresso machine, you know, because I don't I'm a coffee snob. I don't like the instant coffee. I hate that [\h__\h] >> Yeah. >> I I like the, you know, so I keep going, you know, having topups of like literally triple espressos. So, you can go and have a nice free coffee and also it gives you a chance to see the next few classes. like the heavyweights are super heavy weights. When the light heavies are on, I might take like a five minute break. I say, "Guys, just cover for me." And then I go around and I'm literally just like scouting out who's there because obviously you can tell the super heavyweights are because they're freaking massive. >> And um Yeah. And also you got to be really careful of sort of keep yourself professional because a lot of women backstage and stuff, you know, a lot of people with phones and so you're really sort of like and they're coming up to you in bikinis and they're asking you like and I I kind of get nervous because I just the whole, you know, whole me too thing. So I just uh I I usually just just speak to some of the supras and the heavyweights and get my coffee and then get back on do some more live stream. As long as your eyes are at eye level, I think they're >> thing is you know what it's like. Imagine you're just turning your head and your hand scanning knowing your luck, you'll get somebody taking a photo of you in the line of sight and because that there's that there's that gym local gym there's a big gym chain and they got one of the local gyms here and I was watching the I told you this. I was looking at the uh the the the gym owner the the franchise owner doing this video about gym rules and like rule number four was don't give eye contact with women. >> Oh wow. like you're not allowed to take like that's that's a rule violation of the gym and you can be you can be asked to leave or suspended or banned or whatever if you even give a eye contact with with a woman another woman obviously a woman in the gym and I just thought what is what is society coming to you got to be really careful >> I I but that's exactly the rule I follow because I don't I've seen all those Joey Swole videos and I don't want to be >> Tik Tok saying look at this creep who's looking at me that's the last thing I or Ron, they get some video and they freeze frame it just as your eyes are just scanning the room and it happens to be where someone's walking past and honestly mate I'm like I'm really like when those classes are backstage I tend to just lally grab my coffee and run you know because the thing is you get a lot of like I mean as you know there's a lot of people in this industry professional that you know use their position to not be professional let's put it that way >> correct correct >> you know and like you know I've seen it I've seen it where some of these um some of these media people have been actually like physically touching some of the girls even, oh yeah, come and we show you delts and you can see they're getting a kick out of it. >> Oh, 100%. >> Honestly, you got to, you know, because sometimes you get people, they'll come up to you and oh, they, you know, you've known them from last year or you've known them from years ago and they come up and give you a hug and I'm really like I just go I make it really quick and then I just get away, you know, and if they were in their if they in their bikinis wear like that and I got just say, "Oh no, sorry. I don't want to get tan on me." I just back away like that and I run. I literally run. >> Oh, I mean when they have the tan and the oil on, forget it in they're going to just destroy whatever you wear. So, >> I always That's why I That's That's the only reason I wear nice suits, actually. >> All right, Jiles, you had one last thing that you were going to talk about, and I have no idea what it was. So, >> yeah, I want to pick you up on this um this uh Conjuring film. >> Oh, okay. Conjuring Last Rights. >> Because Nick Walker disagrees with you, mate. >> What'd he say? >> He said it's brilliant. >> It was very hard to follow the plot. Um they focused far too much. So Conjuring one um was the Harrisburg, Pennsylvania with the witch. They really developed the characters of the family, the the husband, the wife, the daughters. You really cared about them and they you saw a lot of what was going on in that house and then the Warren showed up a little later and you know set everything right through their through their what they what what is they do. Conjuring 2 was in the UK. Same thing. It was a mother and her two daughters and they had a son that wasn't in the house. Same thing. A lot of character development. They really built it up and you saw what was happening to that family inside that uh that row house and you cared. This this film did not do that. They focused way too much in my opinion on the Warren and the Warren's daughter and her fiance Tony. And they barely they barely showed the family. There was just a few scenes of what was happening to them and it was confusing. There was a mirror and there were these ghosts and maybe there was a demon, but they didn't really flesh it out. It was like they forgot to connect the dots or something like that. It was really it was not cohesive. So, I'm a huge fan of that franchise, the Annabelle movies, the Nun movies, the first four Conjuring movies, even The Devil May Do It, which wasn't as strong as the other ones. I still like that one a lot better than I like this one. So, >> I would wait until you could see it for free on like a streaming service. I would not I wouldn't spend 15 20 bucks to go to the to go to the theater and see it. >> I I really pissed off on the weekend because obviously I was by myself and I was just chilling with the cats and my snacks and glass of wine and stuff as I do on the weekends. Just had a really good leg session on Saturday. I was like, "Right, I'm going to treat myself because uh we now I've got a new skybox. They've installed that new skybox thing which gives me uh and they actually synced it properly because the old one wouldn't sync with my broadband with my uh fiber optic basically couldn't meant I couldn't download films but the new one I can so I thought you know what I'm going to treat myself I'm going to buy one of these new films so that weapons >> oh you saw it >> no well I paid $15.99 for it downloaded it and then it said oh sorry your your TV is not compatible with USD sorry UHD ultra HD it's just 1080 HD so I paid paid like $20 to get this film and I was all excited. I was going to watch it because I've heard it's so great and then um it won't bloody play. So, and of course Saturday it the the the rent expires. So, I was really pissed off, mate. >> Sorry to hear that, man. Because that I haven't seen it. My son went and saw it with his friends said it was incredible weapons. I definitely want to see that. >> Uh this is from the It's called The Conjuring. That's their Instagram. >> Pray for Tiger. >> Pray for Tiger. But I wouldn't waste I wouldn't waste my time on it. If you could see it for free on, you know, Netflix or something in a few months, >> that's when I would would waste it. It's funny because they there was a TV movie made in 1991 called The Haunting about this case and it's on YouTube for free and I watched it and it was much better even though >> shitty special effects, you know, production values compared to this were crap. But we all know that just because you have fancy CGI and >> and a lot of money into a movie doesn't make a great movie. So I like >> I I to be honest, I'm so um I'm so reticent to to even watch a lot of horror films because I'm so used to being four out of five times I'm disappointed. I mean good horror films like The Descent, The Void, As Above So Below is an absolutely amazing horror film. Um what else? What else? Oh, Barbarian I liked I like I watched that again the other week on Netflix. That's Barbarian. It's free on Netflix. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. So, I would go with >> That's good. >> It follows Smile. >> It's boring. >> No, you didn't like that. Talk to me from Australia. Talk to me is an excellent movie. >> Uh, Sinister in the Insidious series, >> most of the Conjuring movies. Uh, Hereditary, really, really well done. >> That was [\h__\h] >> What? >> I hated it when a girl gets her head knocked off. I was like, I've got it on DVD. You know what? Actually, in fairness, sometimes when I watch films a second time, like a year or two later, because I used to buy a lot of DVDs, I will watch them again and actually like, oh, actually, it wasn't that bad, you know? So, sometimes maybe at the time I wasn't focusing and I wasn't, I don't know, maybe sometimes I just don't enjoy films, but uh when I rewatch them, I'm like, oh, actually, that's not actually a bad film. There's a couple of films um what was that one called? Oh, I forget. I've got it on DVD and I've tried twice to watch it and I always stop at the same bit because it's that bad. But um like when you look back to things like The Exorcist and the quality of those films, like there's nothing like there's nothing that I was watch that Russell Crow um Exorcist of thingy was on TV >> and I watched like Yeah, I watched the I watched five minutes of it and I just turned it off because I just thought it's all jump scare and CGI and you know there was no real I wasn't I just thought no I'm not going to give that a go. >> Yeah. Poke's Exorcist was okay. Wasn't that Russell Crow too? >> That's the one. >> Then there was the exorcism with Russell Crowe. Right. Yeah. This was the one where it was very much with the kids like tied to the bed. It was very much like The Exorcist basically. >> Yeah. Okay. That was uh that was Pope's Exorcist, >> right? Yeah. Yeah, that sounds right. >> Yeah. So, see, we're different different opinions, guys. But good news. Uh my brother my younger brother who is also a horror fan told me they're developing a a series. So, I assume it'll be on one of the streaming services about the Warren and that a conjuring series. So, my guess is the opening sequence of this movie showed the young Warren uh on a case in the early 60s. I'm guessing those that's probably the actor and actress who are going to be the Warren. And I'm betting that the Conjuring series is going to be the Young Warren and their early cases >> because they've already done their big major cases. uh for the movies. So >> um before I got interested in bodybuilding when I was 13, 14, I was a huge Freddy fan. What do you think? Um Robert England said because he doesn't want to play Freddy, even if he was asked or offered a load of money to do it. He said he's too old now. He said um the person he'd like to have replace him is Kevin Bacon. >> I think they're doing a Freddy Krueger series with some younger actor though. >> Oh, big gamble. Big gamble. >> I know, but I I I think I heard that. I mean you they had Jackie Earl Haley who's an absolutely amazing actor. He was fantastic as raw shack in Watchmen and then they brought that absolutely it's it's a film that I think most people just most horror fans or Freddy fans just want to pretend didn't happen but it was absolutely awful. I I was in the cinema and I was actually angry. It's like when I saw Batman vs. Superman I was actually angry when they turned the lights on at the end. I was like what the hell was that [\h__\h] I was actually annoyed. I was actually irritated. >> You know furious. please. >> How dare they do this to them? >> So, that is uh that is that's my review. I didn't like it personally. Um I don't recommend it to anyone because movie I didn't even know that ticket prices had gone up so much. It had been so long since uh my son bought me a ticket as a senior citizen even they didn't check it. But anyway, that >> I'll be honest, Ron, go sorry. Going to the cinema now annoys me because people are always on their freaking phones and getting their phones out checking social media. It's like gyms now. Everyone's on their phones and it's like guys, turn it off for two hours. Going to the gym, leave it in your gym bag. It's uh it's frustrating. And now, you know, I mean, I I went to see Superman with bloody Lee Priest. I mean, that's kind of like that's one off the bucket list. And I didn't even enjoy that. >> Well, I mean, I as an old man with a with a weak bladder, I can't go two hours without urinating. So, that's I end up missing at some point. I'll wait till there's a big action scene and then I know it's going to be not much going on for a couple minutes. I run to the bathroom and come back, but I can't make it. >> And then you go out and you can't remember which way it was and you run up and down the corridors. You're like, >> "Yeah." And you're yelling out to your your friends. Anyway, >> some of those get some adult adult diapers. >> Yeah. I don't want to I'm not ready for adult diapers yet, but uh if the day comes when I do need them, I I will not hesitate to get some. Depens. >> Nice. Nice. That's That's my brand of choice, I think. >> Yeah, that's the big one. That's like uh Pampers and Huggies are the big baby diapers, but depends. If you're a grown ass adult and you need a diaper, depends. >> Ron Harris um depends. Uh 10 10% discount discount code. >> There's an old joke said, "What does an old man wear? Boxers of briefs." And someone goes, "Depens." >> Wrong. That's a That's a That's a good one for you, mate. I'll give you that. >> Okay, cool. Well, I didn't come up with it. But anyway, that is it for this week's power hour, guys. We covered a lot of ground. So, in the comments below, where do you think Ursa is gonna place? Who do you think he can beat? Quinton Ara, Quint Eastwood. What does he need to do to move to the next level? And do you think he should do France? Give himself that one last chance this season before he's done before he shuts it all down and maybe qualify for the 2026 Olympia. Should he hire a coach? I know he's not into the coaching scene. Should he go live with Milo Saria for a couple months or in the same general area? Yeah. Could >> Could you imagine? Can you imagine if if Quinton went in and he was like looking sensational and then on the way to the airport, Samson says, "Oh, by the way, I'm coming with you. I'm doing it as well." >> You're like, "No, no, bro." >> He did that last year. That's right. >> Yeah. Yeah, he did. Matt, can you imagine if he just kept it quiet and they're living in the same house and Quinton's looking sensational? He's nailed it. He's really suffered. He's been doing zero carbon, 10 hours of cardio a day, and he goes there and then all of a sudden Samsung starts getting dressed undressed backstage. You'd be like, "You bastard." >> Well, if that happens, your uh your title is Mystic Tiger will be unquestioned >> because you would have called that uh a little over two weeks before it actually happened. So remember that, guys. Remember what Giles just said. And if that ends up happening, this man has true psychic abilities this time. >> Psycho. There you go, Billy. All right. Well, thank you so much, Charles. Appreciate it. Have an excellent time. I wish I was going. The way you just described that whole three days in Sweden, I'm like, ah, I'd probably just want to go the first day, honestly. That sounds like the best day to me. >> Looking forward to sharing a bottle of red with red wine with Michael because I know what we got for the meals. He's like he's like me only only weekends, you know what I mean? You know, he's super strict all the time and he's busy and then he gets the red wine, I'll be like, "Yep, that's me, too." So, he's for coffee, one glass, and he's gone. It's hilarious. Those were the highlights of our our when we were done covering like Olympia Arnold nights, we'd have dinner with Steve Black and would take us all to dinner and the red wine was flowing, guys. We had a lot of red wine. Yeah, >> it was Steve that got me onto the Malbeck because when I went to the Masters Olympia in 2012 um because I said, "Oh, Shiraz and and Steve says, "No, we're drinking." And Pete McGoff was there and an George Farah, Dan Solomon, Lou Farero, we're all there in the bar. Um because I remember my friend Crystal came with me. >> Yeah. Yeah. And uh yeah, we walked down and we sat with him and he said, "No, no, no. Try this one, J Malbeck." And that was 2012. And today that's that's the same red wine I like to drink on weekends. >> Oh, what do you know? All right. All right. Well, that is it, guys. So, leave some comments below. It's good for the algorithm, and the algorithm is something I don't understand, but I want I want to have more algorithm. So, please drop some comments, share, like, subscribe, do all that stuff. And that's it. Thank you for watching Power Hour with Giles Tiger Thomas and me, the Ronster. And we'll see you next time.