What's up everybody? What's up? Welcome. Welcome to the channel. Got a great show for you today. We're going to talk about why we I said I, but it's me and Mike here. Why we feel sorry for the generation Z bodybuilders of today. Little background for these grumpy old men, these old heads, these boomers. I'm 55 years old. I started training Christmas Day 1982. Did my first competition in 1989 at 19 Mike younger than me, but he's still very old to you youngsters. 51 years old. Started training in 1987 and did his first contest in 1989 shortly after he turned 16. Um, Mike, I want to let everyone know, guys, this is not going to be what you think it is. We're not going to be [\h__\h] on Gen Z and the young kids. We're legitimately sorry that they didn't get experience bodybuilding the way that we did back in those days. So, Mike, I'm going to start off with the first first topic, uh, because I know you got a lot to say about this. Bodybuilding wasn't for everybody back then. We didn't have 10,000 divisions. You couldn't just walk into a gym and a month later hop on a stage. It was like a little special club. What do you remember about those days? Oh, bro. Like the first gym I trained at was it was actually owned by um Carl Weather's brother, Curtis Weathers. Carl played Apollo in the Rocky movies. Yes. And he his brother played for the Cleveland Browns. It was called the Apollo Fitness Center. Wow. So I was a kid, Ron. I would go in, I'd keep my mouth shut, and I'd train hard. There were big guys in there. Not a lot. It wasn't a a big crowd. It was a few guys and I was the youngest cat in there around. But you go in there, you train. There was one woman training there. And she was a bodybuilder and she was bigger than me. She was jacked short. Her name was Kelly. Short hair, jacked. Like she was she had a husband. He was a big jacked fireman. So going in there and I had you know had your rag caps on and your your crazy wear but it was just it was a small community every and it was almost you were proud to say I was a bodybuilder because everybody wasn't a bodybuilder on um there weren't a thousand gyms you know every gym had its own like little click here and there of you didn't certain guys train at this gym certain trades at this gym we had a morning crew and a night crew every now and Then you you you inter intertwine like the Seinfeld episode where they had the the Bizarro World. So it was just it was just a small community, man. And everybody knew each other. You may not have seen him, but hey, I heard about this guy or I heard about this dude or I heard about so and so in Columbus, right? We heard that there was this guy in Columbus named Metal Meadows or something, right? We didn't know who he was. We were in Toledo. So, but when we finally saw John Meadows, you were like, "Oh [\h__\h] this guy's legit." And then you you got to know him and it was just it was just it was a genuine love that you you don't know if they have now because of the internet. Yeah. Um and you because everybody's connected now. We weren't connected then, right? You were at the 80 at the 95 Armor Classic. I was at the 95 Armor Classic. I didn't know you were there, but you were there. Right. So, it's just it's it was a special it was like Camelot, bro. It was like Camelot. That's the best way to put it. It It's funny how you talk about like we heard rumors of other guys because I was in the Boston area back when I was young and you know it's just there was no inter there was no internet yet. There was no social media. So, you would just hear these rumors. There's this dude Mike who trains at this gym five pounds away. He's got the biggest arms and or this other guy that can bench 600 pounds in this gym. And it was like, wow, really? And you know, you never rarely did you actually see or meet these people, but it was like these stories just got passed around. It was the coolest thing I thought. And and god forbid if a if a pro came to your gym to remember Chris Dickerson came to my gym, it was like 1990, right? And I was just like, "Holy [\h__\h] Chris." But the thing is, I knew who Chris Dickerson was because I studied the magazines from 87 till then, right? I I bought the back issues in in Muscle Mag, you know what I mean? I called Wayne Demig's office to get the results of the 8700 champions, right? So, it was just we studied that and when I saw Chris Dickerson training calves, god forbid, it was just one of the coolest things I and I and to this day, bro, I can see that it's clear. I don't have a picture, but it's clear as day in my head what I saw. So, you there you got I was in the moment. You got to be in the moment, man. I don't think those kids are in the moment right now. Yeah. Well, you just brought up magazines. So, that was my next topic. Magazines were, you know, for you youngsters, they were made out of paper. They were about this big. They had these things called pages that you turned. Anyway, you probably you probably know what magazine, but yeah, this was where we got all our info. There was no obvious I I hate to keep saying there was no internet because some of you were many of the people watching were probably born long after the internet was a was part of the world. So they can't it's hard to understand the world before the internet contest results and stuff. For example, we call gyms the the next day, Sunday morning after like the Arnold Olympia said, "Hey, do you have the top five or the top 10 for the Mr. Olympia?" And the people at those gyms like Gold's Venus, a bunch of they would keep a list because they knew everybody was going to be calling. So they'd be like just rattling it off and on, man. Uh, get I got some pictures of magazines. And we got all it wasn't just one one magazine we bought. It was Muscle and Fitness, Flex, Iron Man, Muscle Mag. Um, I of course I was a Women's Physique World myself. Um, but I got you got all those and eventually Ron, I got I had a subscription. We got a subscription to Flex, Muslim Fitness, um, MD. It was just that was our Bible, right? And it was Christmas every month. You knew what was coming out. Like you kind of knew the date. Not exactly, but you knew it was coming out. And God forbid it was a contest issue, right? You you would sit there and you would just study them over over I would take like three magazines with me in the toilet just to sit there and you would read and study because this was this was our YouTube This was our Instagram. This was our Twitter. This was our This was our social media. This is where we learned who Dorian was. We learned who Ronnie was. We I saw Shawn Ray in Iron Man winning the Cal in 86, right? And then that that what sparked that interest, right? That we all have a story of who we saw that made us fall in love. goons was Barry Demay, right? He loved Barry Demay. Tall guy. I didn't That's not me. Sean, 5'6, flat top, good-looking like me, light-skinned. It and and that that image is that image burn. It it struck a nerve and it sparked a flame, dude, that led me to talk here with you because of that, you know what I mean? It's crazy how all that is connected, you know what I mean? But magazines were That was great, man. I mean, I I I I've told the story before, but the day I decided to become a bodybuilder was I was at UC Santa Barbara. I was a freshman. I don't think classes even started yet. We just I just moved into the dorms and all this. And um I had bought a jug of Weer Mascane, whatever, some dynamic muscle, some stupid Weer product, and on the side you could send away for a free issue of Flex magazine. And I forgot all about it. My mother was forwarding all my mail to me. So, I've been in I've been there for like not even a week and it came in the mail. I opened up and I can't remember her name. I think it was Kathy Paleo, female Bible on the cover, but inside was a pictorial on Shawn Ray who this was this was September 87 who at the time wasn't a pro yet. He had won the junior nationals, but they had like a 10-page photo spread. They had coverage of I think the last year's IFBB world. That's how late it this is like September 87. They're showing 86 contest results. Yeah. So, they had all those guys. Uh I saw training articles. on like Stride, Gary Stridum, Lee Labrada, Lee Haney, and uh Rich Gaspari was in there and that's the guy I'm like that's that's who I want to look like. He's my height. He's from the East Coast like me. He's not huge. He doesn't look, you know, I couldn't never I could never be Lee Haney. I immediately I saw that I'm like, nah. But I looked at Rich Kaspari and in my dopey little uh malformed brain, I like I could look like that. And I I cut out the pictures. I pasted into the wall and I said, I'm not just lifting weights. I'm a bodybuilder now. I want to be one of those guys. No matter how long it takes, no matter what it takes. And it was a one It was one magazine that that changed my whole world in that one day. It was insane. The pictures were on I had had Rich Kaspari's arm workout on my wall and I did his 25 set arm workout in the in my basement not thinking that this is not normal. But I remember had Weer had every God God bless him. Like the sport needs Joe Weider and Peter McGuff. like the sport would be a much better place if those two were around. It's just it's not the same. And Joe Weider kids started this. And there's people that don't know who Joe Weider is and there's people that don't know who Peter McGuff is, right? And that and that that's where I get kind of like, you know what I mean? Like this the tradition in this sport is so rich and like we fell in love with that like the Joe Weider's Mr. Olympia that theme when we hear that theme song at the Olymp we were sitting there the last time and like the VIPs I elbow man I'm like we're at the [\h__\h] Olympia up close you know what I mean it's just I don't and I don't and the kids there they're feeling and like they're I'm like sit down and just watch these guys right I'm respecting all of them bikini but this is why we're there and because Flex magazine, Ron, and really the 88 Mr. Olympia on tape. That's why I want to do that. I saw that that show and I I got I saw on Flex. They had the Arnold Classic coming. I was in Cleveland. Columbus was two hours away. Mom and dad bought the tickets. I thought Sean Ray was doing the show, right? So, we go there. I'm waiting. Uh get the program. I can still smell the program. We're in the very last row of the vet, right? find out Sean's not doing the show because of an injury, but seeing Gaspari, Robbie, Stridum, Bob Paris had the greatest routine I've ever seen, I will say to this day, ever at that show. It was just I got to see the first effing Arnold Classic, but you're not thinking 35 years later what you saw, right? So, it's just it's just something that you can't duplicate now because I we have instant access. Like I can call Jose Raymond. I got Sean Ray's phone number, right? So, it's not the same the aura and the awe that we saw these guys when you see them walking through the auditorium at a guest posing or you know, you're walking up to that booth to buy a picture of the teenager, you're like this and [\h__\h] right? It's just that excitement's not there. Like Samson's doing like training seminars with Mr. Olympia. Yeah. Can you imagine like Lee Haney coming to Boston and you training with him? God, I would I think I would have died. You mentioned 89 Arnold. I had because that was on NBC. We're going to get to that later. By used to be on TV and I had I taped it on my VCR off of NBC and I watched that show oh my god 50 70 I don't know how many times. Bob Paris. It was Bang Bang by Sher. I can tell you every song that everybody posed to because I that that's how into it I was like I I just studied everything and watched it over and over and over. All right, let's get into the next one. We don't have a mecca anymore because bodybuilding is worldwide. People live all over the place. We got bodybuilders in Vegas, Tampa, Florida, East Coast. People don't leave home anymore. But back in the old days, a lot of the best bodybuilders in the world would migrate. They would either live in Los Angeles or Venice, Santa Monica, or they would at least spend a month or two out of every year. There was a hotel in um in Venice Beach called the Marina Pacific Hotel. It was uh it's right it's right on the beach and every it was wasn't regular rooms. Every room had a kitchen and all this and that's where these people would stay and uh you could see just walking back and forth. They because it was a two blocks from Golds, a block from World. You'd see them walking back and forth all the time. It was nuts. I'm going to show some uh clip of clip of Venice Beach back in the day. Dude, that was that was that was the magical place that we all wanted to go. Like as a kid, that's where you you dreamed and dreamed and dreamed of Venice Beach, bro. And you lived you live there. You were there. Like that's just amazing. But like I went there after the 98 USA after I got my ass kicked. We drove there. We stayed in Beverly Hills at a fleeing infested mansion. and a friend of ours was squatting and we we went to Venice Beach and Ron I swear to God I we it was like I hadn't eaten all day. It was after a show. I was bloated. I took a lasex. The burst of energy I got when I walked into that gym. It was just the most amazing experience. Is that Tanya Knight? Yeah. Experience. Sorry, get distracted. But everybody, it was just at the Mecca Run and got I'm so blessed to have gone there, to have trained there. Um Dennis James was doing a photo shoot there after the USA. Um Rico Mcclinton was in there. It was and went to Firehouse, had a Bob Bowl, some pancakes, but it was just it was a blessing honestly now at at my age just to to say I've been to Venice Beach. A bob bowl. Everybody hadn't been had that. It's not the same. It's not the same, man. But like just And I've never been to the world. You were You were lucky enough to go there, correct? Yeah. It's gone now. It's gone. RIP Tanya Knight. Yeah. So, I actually live that summer uh summer 88. I lived two blocks from Gold's Venice. Then I moved and I was four or five blocks away. But nonetheless, I was too chicken [\h__\h] to ever walk into Gold's Venice cuz like, oh no, that's the pros. I can't go there, you know. I'm too small. Maybe someday I can go there. So, I'm going to show This is one of the most classic classic bodybuilder VHS tapes of all time. It was called Battle for Gold. Yep. It was uh so that summer because the the Mr. Olympia was that September in Universal Universal Amphitheater in Los Angeles. Yeah. A ton of the people competing were staying out in Venice for the last like month or so. And I so I missed out on all these guys golds. I could have seen almost all the top Olympia competitors training. And this this was nuts because you you mentioned the Marina Pacifica and there's so many iconic pictures from that hotel like you remember seeing Barry Deay on that black rooftop, Lee Haney up on that black rooftop. Um, at this, you know, this, I think this to me, this Olympia with this video is probably the greatest Olympia ever, just because it was in in LA, Haney's fifth, they had this video available. They had the weigh-ins out, the weigh-ins for that show. Um, dude, I had literally I could memorize every posing routine from that 88 Olympia, right? Just you can remember seeing Momo, Shawn Ray, Phil Hill, the Beth Phantom of the Opera, you know what I mean? It's just, you know, again, Bob Paris with Tracy Chapman. It's just it's just this that Venice Beach is just an iconic place for us as as meattheads. And I don't I don't think it holds the same love that it used to because everybody's here. Tampa's awesome, dude. Yeah. I can go see Mr. Olympia like 30 minutes away, you know? Like Philip Clayar is right right down the road. So, it's just we're all spaced out now. But when we were that small community, right, it was just that was the place we all wanted to migrate. Louis Fre got popped at the 89 Olympia for for gear aric for gear. That's right. The funny the funny thing about that weighin, that's the only time that Mr. Olympia ever had a weighin. There's another guy passed away, too. And everybody was about 10 pounds lighter, especially Gary Strider than they they claimed to be. Dude, if you think about all those guys, there were a lot of 212s or that at that show. Labrad Marvel, Shawn Ray, Robbie Robinson. They were they weren't very Lebron was 178 pounds. Yep. Yep. That's unheard of. So, everybody was lighter than what they said they were in the magazines. Everybody like I think was 205. I think Haney was like 240. I think Haney was the heaviest guy. No, Ralph Mohler the actor was 67, but he was awful. But uh and Barry Demay came out with the I think this is what put Barry Demay this was Barry Demay's coming out party at the weigh-in. I think he came around hit that Christmas tree everybody's like oh crap Barry de May is finally in shape you know what I mean like and it if again not to digress but if this guy only had a back Gary Stra. Yeah. You know what I mean? even when he was big, really big, he just didn't have that back, you know, and he was just but he was peeled, but he was just never that threat to Lee Haney that everybody like the magazines hyp because remember in the m in late that 87 90 champions, he was really hyped up to be that Lee Haney challenger, you know, him and Mike Christian, but it just never materialized, you know, and ended up being like 205 pound Kaspari and 180 pounda. Yeah, Gary. So Gary was pretty overdated for this show, the 88 Olympia. He still took fifth. He was like 230 pounds. So he went on to that Vince McMahon's organization, World Bodybuilding Federation. He must have been 30 pounds heavier because twice the size he is here. It's humongous. Like ginormous. Ginormous. Look at that. So I mean, so yeah, the Venice Beach, you'd see these guys walking around like I I tell people because you I lived in LA for 10 years and I was I was down there almost every weekend. Um, yeah, you could go down, you could train a gold or world or whatever. The Firehouse restaurant, like you said, everybody would eat at the firehouse, the same damn restaurant. You'd see all the you'd always see a pro or two or three in there at any time you walked in eating. Um, and they were they were myth. They were like almost like godlike figures to us, man, because we didn't get to see them. And the magazines had that image to where, you know, Venice, they they portray Venice as that like super glamorous. You move there, you you turn pro, you move to Venice, you get a contract with Weer, you travel the world, you compete at the Olympia. Um, wasn't wasn't the greatest areas. You would be out there. The crime rate there was ridicul if your car didn't get vandalized or stolen. You were very, very lucky. Yeah. That made Venice, it's worse now. It's like a ton of homeless, like Gold's Venice has homeless camps all around it. But even back then, you you'd be pretty uh you'd have to be pretty dumb to walk around at night because it was all kinds of crime and gangs and stuff down there. It was And it's funny because when you when you're looking for it, you expect this kind of like glamorous type of I don't know what I expected, right? But you're going through like a warehouse district and you're looking and you know I mean and there it is. But I said when the energy when you walk in, right? Yeah. was just we must have trained for like two and a half hours there. Just amazing. A train. It was just one of the I still remember this. Best workouts I ever ever had. It was amazing. Yeah. The the first year I lived there, 91, I I would drive anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour to get there. That's where I had to train. I had to go to Gold's Venice. Couldn't go anywhere else. I'm like, if I can possibly get there, that's where I'm going. And um when so I was there by myself until we got married in June of that year, late June. And then me and Janet went there and we would go, you know, we wouldn't get out of work until five or six. And we wouldn't we wouldn't get to that gym sometimes till like 9 at night. There'd still be there'd still be pros in there. I remember the late Denise Rowski and her boyfriend always trained, too. So dude, it was it was magical. It was like this is why I feel sorry because these kids will never experience there is no centralized place like Venice Beach anymore. No, everybody out to the four corners of the world. And I think they're also the kind of desensitized to pro bodybuilding, right? Um there's a lot of pros now, right? So it's just they see them so often, right? And again, I'm not not to knock, you know, it's a great it's a great accomplishment, but there's a lot it's a lot of pro cards. So, you know, you almost have to put, you know, IFBB Pro pro on your jersey or or something. But back then, you knew the pros. You knew every single one of the pro who was who was doing the nationals, who's doing the USA, we knew the junior USA guys. We knew who was supposed to win, who was might win. So, it was just and now just you don't know that, right? And last Richard, I gota interrupt. Vic Rich is the first Nigerian Superman right there. He was ridiculous. Rid that again, you don't people don't realize how big Victor Richard was. You can't tell in this video, but that was a humongous human being. Yeah. He He trained at my gym. I don't know what he was doing in Pasadena, but for about six months, he trained at the gym that I trained at out there. And that that is him, isn't it? Yeah. He was that guy. He was so mad because our dumbbells only went up to 150. He could do incline dumbbell presses, like four sets of 20 reps with the 150s. And he was like bugging our gym owner to get 200s. And he's like, "No, those are a lot of money, dude. I'm not getting them for you for one person." And he was gone like a month later anyway. So remember the 30,000 calorie diet that was in the magazines. He like just 30,000 worth of food. Guom. Oh, dude. I'm spending a lot of time on the guys in the chat. We're going to get to all your comments. I promise. I I just want to get through some of these subjects before that video. But that that video, look at this video. Look at that. It just it's nothing but basic stuff. People training, hard work. And if you have not ever seen this video, please watch it. Ray Holllet. Yeah. Right. That see it's just you when you watch you see all these all these people that you didn't see and even remember people like Glattus Portuguese, right? Just that was like your boyhood crush and Alfie Newman. Just those kind of names that are actually on my Facebook friends list are now uh Sue Price, Dory Karns. Oh wow. Yeah, there's people and oh um Debbie Krook as well. Oh wow. The string tank tops. We'll get to the fashion. You know how many of those shirts I had? Geez. The they call them boat necks because the they were cut out to show you. Mike Christian. Mike was the first pro I ever met. Was he really? Yeah, because I that summer I worked at a video store. It was a vid they sold they sold cassettes, CDs and and they rented video. It's called Music Plus. He went there. Stridum went there. A couple other guys. And he walked in. I'm like, "You're you're my Christian." He's like, "Yeah." I'm like, "Oh my god, dude. I have I have pictures of you taped up to my wall. You're one of my heroes." He's like, "Oh, okay." And then the one time I walked past Golds and I was I told you I was too chicken [\h__\h] too. But I tried to peek my head in to see if I could see anybody. And who walks out? But Mike Christian goes, "Oh, it's the kid from the video store." I go, "Yeah." And I started to I think I ran away literally like scared. I scared my own. I was 18 years old. I was just But Mike, he was one of the nicest guys you'll ever meet too, man. Still looks awesome. He does. He talked to me for like a good like five at the 1990 Arnold Arnold Class. He talked to me for like a good five, six minutes. I signed sign a poster for me. He talked to me. And when you that those kind of things stay with you for a lifetime, right? This is and listen to me this will always be the goat because that's the era I grew up in. Um I think Lee Hay is one of the like the greatest. Ronnie's Yeah. Physically probably most impressive, but Lee is just he's who I who we came up on, man. And this the most he was so physically dominating. People don't realize how good this man was. Oh, I mean, eight Olympians in a row. Come on, dude. It's just it's it's just the the the the crucifix pose is and the thickness of the pecs. He was he just he's just a nice guy, too. Just a humble humble dude, man. Yeah, he is in Italy right now, but we've been talk I want because I want to get him on an interview because he's been talking, you know, I I like to interview Lee whenever I can. He's Yes. He's one of these guys I feel like physically, spiritually, mentally, everything. I feel better after I talk to Lee Haney. It's just he's an uplifting kind of guy. So, he's in Italy, but next week when he's back, I'm gonna get him on because that's awesome. I love How do you not love? He's one of my favorite people in the industry. All right, that's a lot of time I spent on Muscle Beach, but worth it. It was worth it. So, my next my next subject. Okay, we we didn't think gains were impossible without steroids. I didn't even know about steroids until geez I think I was like I had heard the word steroids but till I was like 19 or 20. Even when I was out there working with the pros I never talked to them about steroids. I never asked them about steroids. I was a real proud holier than n holier than now natty like I'm better than these people because I'm natural and I'm gonna get just as big as they just gonna take me longer. That was Yeah. Yeah. That that was so me, dude. I was so Because you think Mike Ashley and Paul Jion were the big stars. They were pushing the magazines and Ben Weeder was also pushing the Olympics and they were really pushing natural bodybuilding, drug free body and I was like, "Ah, I'm drug free. I'm Yeah. Then I saw Mike Wyinners at a show in two in 93 in Kentucky, right? right before he did the Junior USA and won that and I was like h steroids are in the sport but I never heard about it. I never it never crossed my mind. Um I I thought like with weer supplements and I can look like that. You did you didn't know right? You didn't know that it wasn't possible. Like I we were n we were just very naive bodybuilders. All we had was magazines. It wasn't. Now it blows my mind when I hear people in detail saying what they take on the internet where there's DEA agents, right? I that's how I think because I'm old school, right? That's how I think. But no, dude, we we were weer supplements, you know, dynamic muscle builder, twin labs. That's all you needed back then. Like we didn't, you know, cap try. I didn't I didn't even really hear about steroids till I got to Toledo. That's when I was like 19. Like I say about 19 years old, you know, that's when I really heard about that. Yeah. So, this is when I was natural. This is 25 years old cuz nobody told me you couldn't get big or or lean without and I was obviously I'm not like m pro pro bodybuilder size there but if I had had that mentality back then that I can't make any gains without steroids have to use steroids then I wouldn't have been able to even look anywhere anywhere near like that because mentally I would have been defeated that I that it was impossible dude and you know what's funny I I competed from 89 to 95 clean and I want overall NPC show clean natural in 95. I was 152 pounds. I was a lightweight but I won the overall right. I did nothing. So, but the next the next year Ohio I weighed in at like 168. So, it works. But I trained and dieted, competed that long drug-free. I knew my body. Like you knew your body. You knew how you knew we trained hard. You got an offseason. You dieted naturally. and you got in shape, right? It wasn't we weren't healed, but we got in shape, but we just learned our body and we pushed hard naturally and ate. So, we got a base. They don't get b they don't get a base. They just start off, hey, how much trend should I take? Not about like how many carbs, but let me just take some trend. Yeah. Hey, you know, it I I feel again I feel bad because if if you have that belief from day one that I have to be on steroids or I can't gain any muscle or you know, I don't I think that's a lot of it. It's also just impatience. You you want to you want the gains quicker. But still, if you have that limiting belief, then that's going to hold you back. I honestly you're going to hear people say, "Well, a lot of the pros started taking steroids very young and they're fine. They ended up being pros and everything." That's like the exception to the rule. I've known for every one of those guys I could name I knew like 50 other guys that started gear very young and they burned out really fast. By the time they were like 25, they weren't bodybuilders anymore. They had basically just given up. When you get really good really fast, there's nowhere for your body to go, right? Like you get to a point to where like you almost you've almost maxed out because you're so young. You really can't get bigger and bigger. You know what I mean? Like look at like Dexter. He just gradually gradually grew to be Dexter, right? And we just put in put in the work over time. But these kids now, like you think you feel bad because they're bombarded with drug this, drug that. Those are awesome pants, by the way. I wish I still had them. Those are great, Rob. Those are awesome. But they're bombarded with drug with drug information. You can't you can't start lifting weights without, you know, mentioning drugs. You know, it's not like food. They just want to hop on gear. And it's not like listen I don't know man it's just it's it kind of it just kind of sucks now because it just you if you're fit 17 18 pinning yourself all the time what fun is that you know I mean I I get the whole thing where you make quick gains and everything and that's rewarding but I think you burn out you burn out your body so fast if if you start out with heavy doses of gear and you're relying on the gear it's just not sustainable. You're going to hit a point pretty within a year or two or three at the most where it's just your body can't take it any. There's another thing Muscle Beach used to have. Maybe they still do actually. They have contests right there on the beach. That is so awesome. Uh every Memorial Day, July 4th, and Labor Day. So, this was a July 4th show in 97. I did that show five or six times. I only won it once, but it's it's free to the public. Obviously there's like features so you don't have like overly critical judgmental meathead fans going he needs cash dude everyone that walked up on that stage got like a standing ovation pretty much because the crowd was so awesome dude freaking you know regular people tourists and to them everyone they saw was oh my god look at this guy look at this girl so it was pretty cool plus you're out in the sunshine and everything and you're on you're in the same spot that like they built this over the original one where like Arnold and Franco used to work out back out in day and that's M it's Muscle Beach. I don't again do they know about do they even know about Muscle Beach? Like is it a thing now because that's like that was just that's that's like holy like holy like land for us, right? You know what I mean? That's just I walk past that I'm just I was in heaven just looking thinking about who trained there. Yeah. You know what I mean? Just that's that's an iconic place for meads. You know what I mean? And just do they is me head a term now? They still use meattheads. Are they still meattheads now? I I use that term all the time. Let's go back social media. So, social media, obviously, there's a million upsides to it. It's a great tool for so many people. We all use it every day for different things. But there was something to be said for just training and you didn't have to Nobody was taking pictures. Nobody was taking videos. Nobody even had to I don't want to say worry about it, but a lot of people now they sort of depend on Yeah. Oh, I need content. I need to post pictures today. I need to post a video today. So, how can you really train 100% focused on your workout when you're thinking, h I gotta I gotta get the right angle for my top set or, you know, someone's in my background, your tripods and this and that. It's a lot of distraction. Plus, you're looking at your phone in between sets. I mean, I'm guilty of it, too, because you we're addicted to our phones. We're getting notifications on 50 different platforms. It it's it's like impossible to even focus on your workout 100% when you pick up this little computer that's got everything. It links you to the world and everybody trying to reach you comment on posts and videos. Yeah, it's awesome, dude. Like listen, it's awesome that we have access like this of media. Like I love my spot. I love my YouTube music. I love it. I love, you know, I love my my podcasts and all that. But you remember even remember back in the day doing a set of legs like when training somebody a really heavy leg day like your partner does a set like he racks it. You got to get ready. You do your set. You're like you got to focus cuz you know it's heavy as [\h__\h] and he wants you. He did 20 like f him. I'm doing 21 and you get under it and you do it and you do it and you rack it and you both rest but you don't there's no camera to pick it up. You don't have to worry about was that a good shot. I just get under that that bad boy focus. Squat rack it. He goes, I go. And that's all it was, right? We just we we didn't we didn't have the tech. We talked at the at the gym at the before a workout, after a workout. We have our protein shakes. We shoot the [\h__\h] We sometimes go outside. You know what I mean? Like, but we had that was our social media. Like, we meet at shows. Hey, what time are you what time are you going to the show? All right. I'm gonna meet you there. Oh, you want to ride with me? Okay. Boom. We meet up. That was how we we socialized. Right. Right. that and I think that's why I think the training like people talk about people trained harder back then is because you weren't distracted. It's it's hard it's I guarantee it's hard to train when you got to worry about the shot. Is this the right angle? Um now and do they I've seen people in the gym take do constantly take photos and they didn't do anything. That's again I'm trying to be a better person for it own new leaf but Ryan it's just it's hard you we just we we we killed ourselves man you got in there especially after work we put our pages away when we had our pages right and we just busted our ass there was no distractions bro it just everybody now it's again it's addictive I like scrolling I like reals and YouTube but I think for us when you walk into that gym it's kind of a holy place, right? Um, no offense to anybody religious people, but you walk in that gym, all your distractions are gone. It's your stress place. The phone's stressful sometimes. Like text can be stressful. Like work text, personal text. Exactly. Like that's my sanctuary. No matter how shitty my day is, that's where I go and there's no problems, there's no anxiety, there's no stress, right? But when you're But now, are they having fun? Are you having fun when you got to worry about that in the gym? I mean, honestly, you know, Giles says he puts his phone away when he trains. I don't feel like I have that luxury. It's like I know unless you have a job that's demanding and they could, you know, until until like a year and a half ago, I did have a job like that where people needed to reach me all the time for things or if you have young kids, you need to be able to be reached. Of course. Of course. I started training and so did you. There weren't even I don't think I didn't even have a pager. So when I was in the gym, nobody could find nobody could reach me. No. Unless they knew where I was and they could call the gym and they say, "So and so you have a call at the front desk." Like, "Oh." But you didn't have to worry about uh oh, I remember those. You didn't get phone calls when you're working out. You didn't get text messages, you know. No, nothing was going to interrupt the workout. It was it was beautiful. You know, that's another thing where I feel sorry for these kids because they can't do that. someone is always able to bother them or distract them any any 24 hours a day, especially when they're in the gym. Every time they look at the phone, there's like group chats and texts and there's there's notifications going. It's so distracting. So, I remember I remember fighting with my girlfriend in college and then just going right to the gym. She couldn't get a hold of me. Nobody can get hold of me. And that was awesome. Can you imagine getting a fighting with your girlfriend now and going to the gym and where are you at? What are you doing? Why don't you answer the phone? You can't get away. You can't escape now. They can't escape. They can't escape, man. They can't like it's it's it's it's positive, Ron. Like, I get it. We get to see I get to see watch a bodybuilding show in Las Vegas and in Dubai, right? That's awesome. But you say that you you can't get away from it. And sometimes you got to use that gym, man. You go to the gym and just just train hard, bust ass, put that [\h__\h] down. Unless you unless listen, unless you have to, but again, if you're a content, I don't know if you're a content creator. I don't know how that works. If you create content, you have to, but yeah, are you training hard? All right. Well, I want to move to the next one because this it's all sort of tying together. We kept it simple. We didn't have we did have science back. Science isn't like a new thing that just just came about, but when it came to bodybuilding training, we have now all these evidence-based, science-based lifters. They're very very concerned about the latest study that showed 22% muscle activation if you turn your pinky this way as opposed to that way or if you pull the cable to the bottom of your earlobe instead of to the side of your earlobe. It's overly complicated and I don't most of these kids making those kind of posts I don't see a lot of muscle mass whereas back in the day we kept it very simple. I mean, here's here's some clips of the 90s training. Kevin, tons of just raw iron. This guy was just pushing and pulling thousands and thousands of pounds. Ronnie, and there's Scott, his training partner, and you know, he wasn't worried about, oh no, some study said I should I should do 11 reps instead of 10 reps. 11's better than 10. You know, the there's so much minutia that people get get bothered by now or or distracted by. Back then it was a basic movements, a lot of free weights, squats, benches, deadlift, dips, chin-ups, rows. And look, these don't tell me these guys weren't freaking massive freaks. All right. I don't think they can they can recognize how big they really were because of the videos. But listen, magazines magazines told us three to four three to four sets, six to 10 reps, um, high reps occasionally, incin dumbbells, flat benches, flies, dips, bent rows, seated rows, chin-ups, squats, leg press, deadlifts, leg curls. Simplicity, right? There was no like let me do the we I didn't know whether we there was no one arm cable that came later right but it was basic simple exercises and and that's how you got big look at Burle Fox's chest dude that wasn't cable crossovers dude that that was all presses they and they had a different kind of look a different like look to them right but it but we you know what we did too around we it was for us it was kind of monkey see monkey do with like we training like Haney then Jordan came along then we did the walking lunges but it was still basics man basic training basic diet we were kind of we weren't very scientific with diet was like tuna rice chicken rice oatmeal and oatmeal and eggs well here here's the thing if these science if the science-based lifters of today if they all looked as good or better than the guys from back then I'd say okay this is better I I would I wouldn't argue one minute. All I care about is results. The proof in the pudding, as they say. But I see a lot of these young guys posting about their science-based training and they don't even look like they train. So, what's the point of lifting all these weights and being you're so much smarter than everyone else and you're doing it more efficiently? Then why don't you have the muscle to show for it? And they'll say, well, steroids, a lot of them are on steroids. It's not it's not it's not because they're they're lacking for uh chemicals. Science has has had its place, right? It's got its place, but it's not the be all end all. It's it's basics and it's been shown over decades. If you Here's here's how you you debunk science. Look at what Sergio Lea senior did back in the 60s with not having bad nutrition, working as a butcher, you know, not having having not not the best training program. Look what he accomplished physique-wise, right? as compared to somebody doing like uh what's big now the the reps in reserve type dudes. Yeah. They don't want to train. You don't if you train too hard you're gonna overtrain and you won't get any results. But dude, if you look at guys the volume training it worked for so many people. You could say well they had genetics and they weren't steroids. Well anyone with great genetics and steroids no matter what they do they're going to look great. So it's gonna work. I don't know. Right. Like it's just where but where does that lead you to? What what is your ultimate goal? is is you do they do they enjoy training though? Like I enjoy training. It doesn't seem like doing all that science-based lifting is fun because you're always thinking. When I'm doing incin dumbbells when I used to be incin dumbbells, you weren't thinking. You just didn't want to get your head crushed or you you didn't want to get buried squats. You weren't thinking, well, let me do this rep in this fashion under control. Squeeze it. You were squatting down, getting up. Squatting down, getting up. Right. It was just It was just basic stuff that built big legs. I don't get it, man. Like, but again, I And I admit I'm a grumpy old dude, but I don't get I don't I don't understand how that's just fun. Like this. Not only that, but you know, if if you're basing your training around the latest scientific evidence, and every couple months there's some new study that tells you something totally different from what another one just said, now you got to go, "Oh, no. Well, now I got to do this." So, you're constantly worried that whatever you're doing is not optimal, and next week or tomorrow something, some new evidence is going to come out that's going to make everything you just did completely obsolete. I mean, that that's not to me. That would be just like stress, completely stressful. If they followed the weer muscle computing principle, they would have that problem. I don't want to talk too much about storage, but all we had were basic storage. We didn't have all these SARms and peptides. So, not only was it simpler, but steroids have been around for a very, very long time, longer than both of us have been alive. And we know the long-term effects. We know everything about them. Peptides and SARMs, they're still pretty new on the scene. Long-term effects, who knows? You know, I don't know. I'm not saying you're all going to die, so you're all going to have horrible, horrible disease, but we don't know because they they're still so new. And a lot of kids, especially younger guys, they're anti- steroid, but they'll load up on every Sarm and peptide that they can possibly get their hands on, which, you know, I I tell these kids if they're going to use those, I said just use steroids. Just use steroids. The thing is, Ryan, like they don't they don't think about being 45 to 50 years old using some re those you don't know what that you really don't know what you're getting, right? With with again, I'm not advocating anything, but with a basic with some dbol and some sauce, you know what you're getting, right? You you don't know as or peptides especially because that you've tried them, but you just I don't know. I didn't feel right doing it because with the GHRP, it was just a weird and I didn't see it right. I didn't see what was happening. Now you give some trying to acitate. I'm gonna see it. I'mma feel that. Yeah. You know what I mean? But we didn't have to worry about all that. We had remember we we had if you can get certain things back then, too. It wasn't like you had access. You had to worry what what your dude was getting who got to him first and how much you were get get how much he was going to mark you up by the time you got to it. Yeah. So, a 70 A-50 bottle $50 bottle of sip stair sip with the blue lids. Good stuff. By the time it got to you, maybe 110 bucks. Yeah. So, being stepped on a bunch of times by the time you got So, it was that's how it it was just different, right? And and god forbid if you got some like something exotic like Deco or what the the lower bowl and the cheap [\h__\h] right? So, it's just the dirty 50 mgram. Uh, let's I mean, I was in LA, you know, I lived in LA throughout the 90s and we got a lot of [\h__\h] from Mexico and a lot of was just veterinary like the Laura Laura was deca, right? I believe. Yeah. It came in A-50 milligram jug because it it was only 50 milligrams per milliliter. You had to inject three cc's of it just to get 150 milligrams a dec lumps on my ass like that big. But it was cheap and we were poor. Like you it was expensive back. It wasn't like now you know it's a lot it's a lot more a lot easier in these days and accessible, right? Because so it's just it's just how it is. But it was you had to go through channels, bro. It was just like cloak and dagger, right? You know what I mean? Like at my gym, there was only two guys that were dealers. It was a fairly goodized world gym. And we used to like do group buys. Like the guy would say, "Well, I'm going next week to get my stuff from my guy. Everybody put your orders in." So, we would all like order together and pull our money. It was like this whole big thing, but it was like a little secret club. You know, steroids weren't like mainstream. You'd be like all whispering to each other and you know afraid someone's super hush hush man like go to your friend's house to pick it up and I'll put it in a little I would put it in a cereal bag. So the crazy workout clothes you could say this was either a good thing or a bad thing. I'm not sure. But uh so we had this was this was Trent Mitchell at Start. We had the big baggy shirts. [\h__\h] It didn't really do anything for these women's figures. Look at I don't know what we're thinking. I'll show the Hotskins in a minute, but this was one thing. The bag baggy pants. Oh my god. Crazy wear, which was one of the top brands at the time. Fluorescent colors were a big deal back in the 90s. Just a lot of obnoxious clothing. A lot I wore that in public. Pink, lime green, uh, you know, all kinds of wacky colors. Fuchsia boat neck with the stringer tea showing. crazy wear baggies with hot skins underneath a fanny pack of the Atomics. Bro, I was ready for my go to a show. So, I guess you could say the kids today have cooler clothes like the Gym Shark stuff and whatever. But then when you wore these, you had to have you had to have a set of balls to walk around in public in these clothes because regular people would look at you like, "What the what is wrong with this idiot? What are they wearing these clothes for?" Oh my god. What were we thinking? Yeah. Holy crap. I listen I will say the hot skins were very comfortable. They're very good on leg day. Um, if you have big legs, it really did it did help accentuate your legs. That would I would say that. Um, T Michael, my traps were never very good, so that I probably shouldn't have wore those. Did not have the singlet. Did not venture off to have the singlet for the hot. I could not do that. And I will admit that I did wear the Hotkins in public a few times with a fanny bag. So, I went to Disneyland, that's one in LA, in hotkins pants one time when I was like 22 years old. That's how much of a dumb meat I was. I walked around Disneyland all day long in pink No, they weren't with a hot hot pink and black striped hotskins pants and a string tank top and and a baggie shirt with the with the traps cut off. That is so awesome. Yeah, but Ron too. Well, you you were in a lot of photos. We didn't have I don't have a lot of photos myself. You were out there in the media, so there were a lot of photos of you in these in these clothes. The one with the MC Hammer lookalike. That is probably the That is by far my f I think of pumps and a bump every time I see that photo of you with that dude. Pumps in a bump. I remember that. All right. We're gonna get to you guys in a second. the chat. Bodybuilding was on television. This is true. I know because that's how I got into this industry for seven and a half, eight years. I think seven and a half years. I worked for a show, a company called American Sports Network. We had a monthly show every it was an hour long called American Muscle Magazine. This is one of the segments from it when Kevin had won Kevin Leon had just won the nationals like a month before. He came out to LA and he hosted the show and this was like a workout segment, but we had profiles, contest coverage, a cooking segment with John Romano every month. Uh, dude, it was a it was a really cool show. And it was on ESPN. Not ESPN 2. There was no ESPN 2 yet. No. And we got cut down to 30 minutes, but for for years it was an hour long, dude. And that was on I would set my VCR because that show would be on like at 2 o'clock in the morning. Yeah. So something I would either set my alarm to get up and watch it or my VCR, but I would lose my mind. I have I wish I had the I think I had something on tape somewhere. But just seeing these guys, dude, on TV like cuz bodybuilder, listen, people bodybuilding wasn't like it it wasn't talked about. It wasn't very big. Um it was on on NBC, but but having a show on ESPN like this was humongous. Like it was a big deal. like this. Lee Haney's workout body shaping. There we go. It was a week. Was it weekly or was it daily? Every Sunday. It was on every Sunday. Okay. Lee Haney's championship. You had Mr. Olympia, the current M. He was the current Mr. Olympia. You had a workout show on. It wasn't ESPN. Was it like MSG or something? I mine came on ESPN. Oh, okay. Maybe it was ESPN. So, you could see Mr. Olympia working out. Corey Everson was on. There was another a workout show every morning called Body Shaping. Corey Ever, the Miss Olympia at the time. She you could see her like leading a workout with a couple girls on the beach of Hawaii every freaking morning and a leotard. Leotards, Kiana, some really hot girls of the year. Cory, love Corey. Oh god. And Flex Magazine workout that was awesome. There you go. So here we This was another show. I don't think that was ESPN. But these were all on cable. Sean and Boyer were regulars and they would bring in like Linda was a guest on this particular one and it was they would take you through a whole body part workout every every week or I think it was I want to say it was more than once a week. every Well, it was in ours. It was every Sunday. Like Lee Haney came on first, then he came on, and then then Sean Ray came on Flex Magazine. But dude, it was just we was we we were seeing these bodybuilders on TV like our idols were on tele like on television. I could see Shawn Ray work out on television. Yeah. So, it was just it was un unheard of at the time because you just didn't have this kind of access, man. like Boyer Cole was it was Boyer Cole. Yeah. I mean, you know, now we have pay-per-views for the Olympia, the Arnold back then because I used to work on we had, you know, I told you ABC and NBC at different times would have the Olympias on or the Arnold Classic. And during the 90s, I worked on like that 95 Arnold that you were at that I was at, Mike Franell won. I was there that year and I was there the next year when Kevin won covering ESPN. We did one-hour specials for the Arnold, uh, the Olympia, the Mr. Olympia had a one-hour special every year. The Miz Olympia, these were on ESPN. You didn't have to pay. If you had ESPN, you could watch it and tape it and watch it over and over again. Miz Olympia, bro. Miz Olympia. Yeah. I mean, it was just a crazy crazy. Remember the junior the junior national when Kevin beat Paul Deo was on ESPN? The junior nationals was on ESPN. The Exactly. I mean, all right, it's time we get to these guys because they've been waiting very patiently. See if if they love you, hate you. Well, let's see what to say. So, let's see. Your mom's flip-flop. He's 17. He's in Germany. So, he's way before any of that stuff. People like me or Jenzie will have a lot of fun. Oh, this is before we even started. Mike is in here, too. He's pretty cool. Reps rumors. Thank you. Sports pros can happen. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, social media bummed. Bummed that up at mouth. Okay. sometimes. Uh, I missed the crew. Mountain dog was a good bloke. Yes, he was. Oh, he was awesome. John Meadows. Rest in peace, brother. Nostalgic of time. I wasn't even born. Yes, that is crazy. I can understand what you guys mean by club. Like back then, Gold had that aura. Same face of people. Yeah. I mean, like I said, I used to walk in there. It was like walking into a magazine. I can remember walking in at different if you went like on a Saturday afternoon, that was a time when you could see a ton of pros. I remember. Gosh. like Mike Quinn, Jim Quinn, Gary Stridum, Flex Wheeler, Chris Cormier. Oh, just I think that's absolutely insane. I would lose my mind gym. They were all in one gym train together at the different some sort of version of old. Yeah, you can't go backwards once you open can't shut it again. The Tales of Glory days a temple gym. Oh yeah. Yeah. You were there. I I got to train there. I should I say once with Dorian and then I trained I came back another the next day and trained with uh Simon Fan who him and Dorian ended up having a big falling out. But yeah, I got to train there twice. It was a dungeon, man. Smelled like mildew. The bathroom was disgusting. I was like ah I think I had to take a dump there and I was like oh no I don't want to sit good luck. But I had to. The magazines were super sick. Yeah, dude. I missed the magazines because dude my when I when the I made a lot more money when the magazines were put it that way. So how thick they were though like MD was like a couple that was so MD and Flex when they were doing their thing they were so thick it was just like you would get you're like oh my god I would read it so slowly very slowly. I still got them in I got a bunch of these in plastic still. Oh so nice. Year is this? That was 2005. This is 20 years old. Damn, dude. I got You know how many magazines I have? Oh, I do. I I had I had thousands. Like just I wish I would have kept most of them. Like we had to get everyone removed, but it was there was so many, bro. Just I got a few in the garage. So I still have Here's a good uh So people used to say there's too many there's too many uh ads in these magazines. So yeah, because like MD and Flex both were over 400 pages for a long time. probably like a five or six year period. Yeah, they were like freaking telephone books and they were half ads but that's how that's how they made all the money. Subscriptions I later found out in news stands were like a fraction of the money that they can it was mostly from the advertisers and that's why the magazines went away. It's because advertisers had the social media now. Some guy has a million followers. Let's give this guy, you know, 10% of all his supplement sales from a discount code or let's give him like a big box supplements a month and a little bit of money and we got an ad every day to a million people. Why are we going to pay a magazine? Because at one time a full page ad in like Flex for Muscle and Fitness was $10,000 back then. Whoa. Whoa. Page. So if a magazine's 400 pages and 200 pages of ads, you can do the math. It was it was a good good amount of money back then. I think Joe Weider would give some of his athletes free ad space. Yes. Um because he he was very shrewd with his advertising too. He was very very shrewd with the people Joe was he was a shrew he was great for the sport but a very shrewd businessman right he didn't like to pay bodybuilders. He did not but thank Vince Vince McMahon changed that for everybody. Yeah. Then he had to Yes. So the athletes show their physiques way too much. Yeah. So we only saw the athletes in the magazines when they were in shape and I thought they always look like that. Right. I thought, "Oh, these guys are always veiny and shredded. That's crazy." But we didn't know that. That was how they looked for a few days out of the year. Yeah. They did photo shoots and stuff. But now we see these guys fat. We see them water bloated with water. Sometimes some of these people that don't even compete, they stay ripped and shredded year round because that's insane, man. They have to. They're like, "Oh, no. I can't show myself not looking incredible." So, they're on gear like all the time. They're always on a diet. They're always doing a ton of cardio. are always on like Clen and T3. It's not a healthy, but there was but there were there was something about seeing a really big offseason bodybuilder. Like I saw John Pierre F's guest post one time. He was his gut was huge, but he was so big. It was just so cool to see. He was like 30 pounds overweight, but he was so big. Yeah. Fuks done is impressive. Ignore Bible. Uh, does anybody's posing remind you of the guys back then? I'd say for me it would be Ruffin. Oh, not even. Yes. Ruffin by far just would fit in back in that era. He's just And even man, he he's approaching probably one of the greatest posers of all time. Like both eras, everything. Like he's just he's just that good. He he he does have that 80s flow that you know that Muhammad Makawi type flow to him. He's currently uh on a tour around the UK with Giles right now. So they're yeah they're hitting up all these gyms and doing seminars and training with people. It's really cool. Vegas might slowly become the mecca. Uh I think it would have already that's like the first place guys started moving because LA got really expensive say by the mid 90s and people like they couldn't afford it anymore. And Vegas was still pretty cheap at that time. People were buying houses like three-bedroom new houses out there for like 150 200 grand. Oh, that makes me sick even here, dude. Sick of my stomach. That time in LA, it would be two or three times that amount. So like Cutler was one of the first guys to go out there. I remember Sean Ray went out, he bought a condo out there. They started migrating there. Uh in Florida where you live, that's also a big a big place. Yeah. Oh yeah. But dude, you can't you will never be able to replicate what Ven what goes Venice had. Like it it'll never be no matter how big Vas is or how how great the gym there's so there's too many gyms. They train too spaced out. Everybody was at one in one place. Gold's gym Venice font tattooed on my right form. Oh boy. That's hardcore. Dedication. Seriously. So I've I've actually I haven't been to Gold's in a long time, but even the last couple times I was there uh geez it was like 10 years ago. It it wasn't it was nowhere near like the way it used to be. Not the same. No, man. It's just it's hard. Well, and remember in the co everything was outside, wasn't it? CL. Oh, yeah. Well, they had the they had a big workout area. Even my gym in Pasadena had an outdoor workout area. World gym Venice that the that Joe Gold that was like his. They had this awesome deck outside. Bunch of machines, cables, benches, uh, and you could smell the ocean. The ocean was like a block a block away. And they had mirrors out there. And there's nothing like uh if you're if you're there at the right time and the sun's in the right angle. You look just so jacked in those mirrors. Don't you look awesome, too, in those mirrors. So, please don't attack me, Miss Clayart. What? I don't know. Apollo gym Miami, Sun Gym, Miami, world. These are all Miami places. Oh, damn. I don't know. Dude, Florida at one time Florida was huge. like not I mean it still is but back in like the na 90s and ' 80s even kind of when I moved here not as much when I when I moved down here but like the 90s the southern states were just like stupid stacked the southern states the cal those shows were just like insane dude that cuz and to to think you know back when you were first started going now you were in Ohio still but I can remember covering the southern states and shows like that and shows out in LA Orange County we would have like 200 to 300 competitors in just just men's and women's body loom because there was no figure. So they likeund 150 men and 50 women teenage classes would be like 20 30 kids they bent court I remember watching chick benton court on American muscle. Yeah. Yeah. 13 to 17 year old classes and 18 to 19 they had to bring it up. There was so many damn kids 13 to 17 that's the first there was like in my first show there was like five in that class. It was it was crazy. I remember one team show there was enough we had two like two guys on both sides we had call outs it was nuts training right now full body oh 18 hours fasted I don't like to sell I don't like fasting your body have to work hard in the gym absolutely oh my god yeah stop using my phone to track each set old school yeah I my son he's got he just he never tracked his workouts he's gonna do it on his phone but geez I was trying to show him oh I had a book too bro I had a log book I got I got one right right up here old school little notebook with just the the workouts and stuff and but you know this I would sit there between I had a pen right here and I would after write it down yes I would like set goals this is what I this is what I want I want to squat this much I want my weight to be I want my arms to be this dude it was you know a phone you have I got I've got polaroids that I took to where me doing compulsories like circling where I want to be better more delt here, more lower back here. It was I was like 16 years old, like not hardly no muscle on me whatsoever. But it's just it's just when that bug bites you as a kid, especially as a teen, when you dive head first, it's a different type of love, bro. It's a different type of feeling. Phone stays in my bag. And this kid se for a 17-year-old to have a phone not in his hand at any time is pretty amazing. You know, I don't want to I don't want to make it sound like it's a Gen Z thing. I'm freaking I'm addicted to my stupid phone. I have anxiety if I don't like check for messages every 10 or 20 minutes like I'm doing this I'm like oh no who's who might be messaging it's not so bad now because like right with them when I was with MD legitimately I would have to worry that somebody might be trying to reach me about something but now it's not as bad I think we all agree training can be up if work hard is what counts yeah if you're not working hard if you're not progressing and make getting stronger and you're getting bigger you're not what are you doing you know why I think too like if you're net training naturally now there are a lot good supplements now and a lot of good information diet-wise to where if you're natural, you can make decent gains, right? There's there's you can like to build a decent base now. Yeah. Yeah. And I, you know, I don't have any evidence to prove this, but I honestly have always believed that if you build a really solid natural base longterm, you're going to be so much better off because, well, just think about it this way. if you hop on steroids and you still don't really haven't figured out training and nutrition your body yet, how are you going to make the the optimal gains? Whereas, if you wait a few years, you get all that [\h__\h] nailed down and you've already got some good size and strength, then you can really step it up to another level once you add the gear in. But if you try to short circuit that process and start with the gear right away, I don't think that it's it works out as well for most people in the long run. No, and dude, it back then it was a big deal. Taking gear was like a big decision. Like taking that first shot was a big that was like your heart was like it was you know what I mean? It was just it was something to think about and it was it was just different though. We called it going to the dark side like Yeah. But you know 18 pounds and eight weeks later I was like this is pretty cool. Crocs. I think in the 20 years from now people look back at Crocs and like what were these idiots thinking with the Yeah. It'll be one of those. It'll be it'll be hot bro. You know how you know where Crocs actually came from? Huh? Do you remember that movie Idiocracy which was a comedy about how how stupid America became in the future? Yes. All the smart people stopped breeding. So they were when they were doing like uh the wardrobe design or the whatever those people are called. They was thinking we we need to find like a footwear that's like so stupid like who would actually wear this and that's going to be like what everyone in the future wears. And they found this little company that made these shoes called Crocs and like these look really stupid. Let's use these. And people saw them in the movie and they started like where can we get these? And that's how eventually Crocs became a big thing and people people all bought them. Holy [\h__\h] Zubas. Those were the big Wow. Loho. I don't know. I don't have any rice. No questions, man. We've been going for over an hour, man. So, uh I think that think that's good. We had a good time today, dude. Loved it, guys. Uh Mike and myself, we're cranky old man. were not boomers. Just to put that I know boomer is like a it's like a generic term. They don't go by the actual definition of when when that when those people were born because boomers are like 1965 and before, right? 1946 to 1965. We are we're like 66 to 77, right? I think Gen Gen X goes up to like the 80s because after that Oh, yeah. Does it? I think so. I think Gen X lasts a long time. The millennials and then Gen Z, but I know they call us boomers and they old heads. Well, that makes sense. We are old. Yes, we're oldheads. I Yeah, I'm oldhead, but they call us boomers and I don't have a problem with you could call me a lot worse things than a boomer. Exactly. Oh man. So guys, leave some comments in if you're watching this on the replay. We did this live, but leave some comments about why you think bodybuilding is better now. Or maybe, you know, maybe you're jealous and you wish you had been around in bodybuilding when me and Mike were kids because I wouldn't trade it for the world. I I feel so blessed, so lucky and especially because I got to be in LA for I was out there for a year in the late 80s and I came back for the I was there almost the whole 90s. That was like the tail end because that was like the end of that era because after that people started leaving LA and going to places like Florida and Vegas. Magic, bro. Staying wherever the hell they were and not worrying about going out to the Mecca. There was no Mecca anymore. So Oh god. Awesome. I'm very grateful. So I feel sorry for these guys, these young kids because they're never going to get a chance to live through what we live through and experience a lot of those things. Bodybuilding's not nothing's really nothing's really magical anymore. It's like no, the Wizard of Oz. It's like the curtain's been ripped away and there's the wizard. You know, there's there's no secrets. The bodybuilders are just regular people. We see them every day shopping for their food, you know, talking about their bowel movements and, you know, it's not like it used to be. It's not magic. The emo the emotion you get when you think about that or when even you see like a Lenda Murray, right, or like you or Shawn Ray, you get the chills just or talking like just talking bodybuilding with with old heads like with you and Giles. It's just we like Bob said, you had to be there. Had to be there. Uh, last question. These are not the same glasses. These are my These are new frames I got. They're a little thinner. Mike's got the little These are mine. I got I had a cooler pair, but like I just can't see. I'm worried about seeing not being cool now. Oh, I mean, I just got these because my vision got worse. So, in the distance, things are starting to look a little bit hazier and now it's it's Yeah, you and Mandy. We're old, man. Your vision, guys. It's never going to get better as you get older. Your hearing is not going to get better. I'm sorry to tell you it's buckle up, kids. Macular degeneration. Anyway, uh Mike, man, thank you so much. Had a great Thank you, dude. Great time going down memory lane with you. Loved it. Yeah, we we come from that golden era. Well, to me, I think every for every bodybuilder when they were when they were young and coming up, starting out, that's the best era. That's they'll say that was the golden era of bodybuilding. No, it wasn't. Ours wasn't. Maybe these kids now, 40 years from 30 years from now, they're going to be talking to the youngsters and going, "Man, you should have been around when it was Sebum and Sam Solic and those were the days you young snappers don't know." So, yeah. Nothing. Yeah. Cool, man. So, that's it, man. Thank you, Mike. Thanks everybody for watching. Guys, if you're watching the replay, drop us drop me a comment. I love to get the feedback, good or bad. I only delete the very most insulting comments, which are pretty rare. So, that's it, man. Thanks, Mike. And thanks everybody for watching. We'll see you next time.