What's up, guys? I feel I do owe you all an explanation. Uh Matt from Muscle Discord made a post pointing out that when I spoke on his podcast, Muscle Discord, with him and Phil Clayhar, on the Monday evening after the Masters Olympia in Tokyo, I did tell him, "Yeah, I had Phil winning the show." Now, I should have had more balls. I should have been more assertive. Here's what was going on in my head at the time. I didn't see either Phil or Dorian as a clear winner. They each had things the other didn't. Dorian condition was lacking, but I prefer his physique. It's more balanced overall. Thicker, rounder. Uh Phil's got a very good physique himself, of course. Uh I could not overlook after looking at the videos and pictures later on. The midsection, it protrudes. It's got a little bit of a turtle shell look. And his legs from the back, they're very, very weak from the back, not from the front. Anyway, uh, while I was talking to them and because I didn't have a strong opinion either way and Phil was getting upset anytime I tried to point out that Dorian won this pose in my estimation or anything like that, I caved in and I should have had the balls to just say, you know what, no, no, I I should have stood up, spoke my mind, no matter how angry he was going to get at me, whatever. And I didn't do that. So, that's on me. It's never going to happen again. Uh, as I was talking to Dorian today, I expressed my opinion that I've formed since then after having more time to look over the videos and the photos. And that is that even though Phil didn't fall apart, I don't believe Phil changed drastically at all from the final from the judging to the finals, which is only three three to four hours. It was a very short window time. Uh, Dorian did sharpen up. Um, I still think it was very, very close, but in the end, in my opinion, I do now believe Dorian was the right man for first place. It was It's It sucks for Phil. I'm sorry. Sorry that he was so far ahead in the judging and fell behind at the finals and uh he's never going to accept that decision. And you know what? He doesn't need to. It's a it's a subjective sport. There are criteria, but in the end, it comes down to personal preferences, opinions. That's why it's judged. It's not a sport like basketball or football or any of these other sports where it's how many balls go in the hoop or how many how many balls go over the end zone. It's not like that. It's it's it's more like a pageant. So yeah, uh I will never again cave into anybody even to their face if I believe that they were not the rightful winner. I'm just going to go ahead and say that. So uh my apologies because uh I should have had more balls. I should have just stated my opinion. Even then, I was leaning a little bit toward Dorian, but because I was talking to Phil face to face, I caved in and I I spoke spoke something that wasn't really my 100% honest opinion. Um, so my apologies to those those of you that have followed me for all these years and expected me to do better. And moving forward, I am going to do better. So, that's all. Thank you all. See you later.