What's up everybody? Welcome to Power Hour with me and Giles Tiger Thomas. We've got a lot to talk about. The miracle bear Urs Kachinsky blew us all away by winning his uh open bodybuilding debut, which I didn't see it coming. You didn't see it coming. You were being a doubting Thomas. I was being a doubting Harris. But look at this, man. I mean, who would have thought uh somebody could go from 227 pounds to probably close to 260 in less than a year, maintain the condition, and I personally like his physique so much better now. Uh full disclosure, I was I I was not a huge fan of Ursa's classic physique. I loved him as a person. I loved his presentation, certain body parts, but I always thought he was a little narrow in the shoulders. Uh the arms were a problem for me. The back was a problem for me. And this version of Urs. Wow. Cuz uh let's let's remind people this was less than a year ago. This was the Olympia October 2024. Not a huge guy. This is a guy that you think one offseason's not going to be enough for him to be a an open contender to do any damage in an open show. Um, yeah, I'll I'll open the floor to you now, Giles. Go ahead. >> If you can hear me. >> Uh, oh, hang on a sec, Ron. Is that the microwave? I think that's the microwave, mate. Um, that's my I think that's my hat. I'm about to eat it. >> Well, what were your predictions? I think we said, you know, probably top five. I think we were thinking top five based on shape, comp presentation. No, >> I didn't even have it in my top five. In fact, on the Sunday morning, I had it in my head, you know, I kept get these visions and 99% of the time they're usually bang on. I was like, I've got a feeling is going to be eighth place. I'm I've got a feeling he's going to be beat by all the other German guys. Tim Beshine, Matias Hullwick, um, who was the other one? Tim, >> who's the other one? There's another one. Emier Marajic. I thought I just don't see this happening. Um, so yeah, I was unbelievably shocked because like I said in 30 years, I don't think I've ever seen quite something like this. I know in like I said 2001 2002, you know, Ronnie came in for sorry 2002 2003 Ronnie came in 40 pounds heavier, but over half of that was was muscle he lost in the last four weeks before he did the Olympia in 2002. So not a lot of it was new muscle. Same with Dorian. 92 to 93. He he lost some size in 92 to really go for condition. So, a lot of it was regained size that he didn't lose during those last few weeks of prep. But with Z, I just I didn't see this one coming, mate. I've got to I've got to hold my hands up to this one. And thing is, like I said to you, I genuinely like being proved wrong. I was so excited on the Sunday when I saw that he' done this. And I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] the kids gone and done it." Because, and thing is, I was looking at the social media. I was looking at um I I saw some footage of him in Italy and in his clothes he just looked the same sort of size and I thought I don't see a guy that's claiming to be 30 30 35 pounds heavier you'd be able to see it. >> So um and thing is like last year I actually I didn't like his classic look. I preferred it in 2023. So for him to make the switch because I think 22 and 23 I felt like he had his best classic physique because remember classic and bodybuilding should be judged differently. And for me I have a different criteria. But for um for open bodybuilding um I think this was the right move because clearly his body wanted to grow. Clearly he was having to diet off a lot of tissue. Um but um do you do you want me to get to the um all the plus sides? Do you still want me to get to the negatives or the all the or the constructive critique or >> Yeah, I mean obviously he's a work in progress. I don't think anyone >> Yeah, I do hear people saying top five Olympia like ho ho ho, slow your >> Yeah, give him the guy just did his first open show. Come on. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Um he can still get a lot more detailed and a lot harder from the back. Now the problem is now I I realize um some of the fans will be saying I'm completely crazy but the thing is if you look at the footage that was put out online you know footage of the live stream and people posting straight from the video um a lot of them a lot of it was sharpened up >> yes >> I don't know whether you noticed I did I saw oh god they're sharp enough and in those videos yes he looks absolutely insane but um I waited till Jonathan Mario's uh photo the high resolution shots which are unfiltered I waited until they came out. So, if you go to them and zoom in, you'll see that he's actually not that hard from the back. So, it means he can still get a lot better. So, I do expect him I'd love to see him three or four pounds lighter in Germany this weekend because from the front and the side, yeah, full, you know, full bursting full thick round dense, you know, a lot of thickness, good good condition, but from the back he he can get a lot more details, mate. I mean, there there was quite a bit on his back to come off. I mean, if you like I said, if you if you want you want me to prove it, go to Jonathan Mario shots. >> I'm going there right now because I didn't I'm so glad that I didn't even know he was there. Thank God because >> I didn't see any real All the pictures I was seeing were just iPhone pictures from like the third row. >> But the thing with Jonathan, he posts them really fast. So, it's not like he's there editing each one and trying to filter them and sharpen them. It's like I've seen them. I've been sat next to him when he's um when he's at the show and he puts this thing in his phone and he he selects them all and he uploads them and then he's he gets back to photograph because I used to be a photographer, you know, you don't have time. You don't have he doesn't have somebody helping him. He literally does it on the fly, you know, in between in between categories or whatever. So, um but if you go to if you go down go down go down go down. If you go to the shots, >> have a look at the back shot because I I zoomed right in, Ron. And um there's quite he can get a lot sharper from the back. So, it's good because it means then he's got something he can fix and improve on in a week. Um, it wasn't so much those shots. Um, well, any shots really from Mario. >> These are great shots. >> Look at the other shot. Go to go back the front shot. Go too back. You can see even around his midsection like that there. That looks a bit That looks a little bit watery to me. He's not exactly as dry and shredded as he looked on the sharpened up videos. Basically, that is my point. So, it kind of makes it exciting for Germany this weekend and it also makes it exciting for the Olympia because he's going to look at that with Stefan and all his all his team and they're going to say, "Guys, how can we get better for the Olympia? How can we crack that top 10 in our first go?" And I think I I mean, anyone with a with a good set of eyes is going to say, "Look, you need to get a little bit harder from the back. You need to get crisper. You know, we've we've done this." I mean, I don't know what his body weight was on stage. I mean, I maybe he didn't even weigh himself, but it looks it looks considerable. But um I'd like to see him drop a few pounds to get that condition. Um I know you can do quite a bit in a week, but I think for the Olympia if he really wants um kind of second call out, because I don't think he's a first call out guy yet, >> but I think the second call out um you know um to keep out of that third and fourth call outs, he's going to have to sharpen up from the back. >> I wonder did Jonathan do any video because he's got that 4K kind of video when he does. >> I don't know. There's quite a few photographers there. videographers there. >> Yeah. So, here's a now there's been some really good there's been I should there's been a lot of uh references to Dorian Yates comparing comparing you don't laugh this is true they've been saying and you know he I do see some similarities some >> he need same hair no he needs a back uh he needs to be a lot thicker front to back in general chest and back I think and the tries still need to come up but I I could see like a a comparison to a young Dorian I He's only 26. >> I think we forget that, don't we? I think we I think that's something we need to remind ourselves of that he is 26. I mean, that is that's why I think maybe that's maybe subconsciously that's why I didn't see what happened happening. I just didn't see it happening. I just I was literally, you know, we go up on our experience and what we've seen in the past from thousands of athletes, pros and amateur, and I just um I really did not see this one coming. So, um, but in terms of the, uh, similarities to Dorian, if you squint, I kind of get it. Like a young Dorian, maybe, but let's not forget how good Dorian was. And obviously, I'm obviously say the obvious. Dorian from the back. You can't really compare Urs in the back and Dorian from the back because Dorian >> basically won some of his Olympias purely on what he was delivering from the back. That's why he beat guys like Nasser and Dillet and you know and that's why people like Shawn Ray and Kevin Ron came close to him because they were that conditioned and detailed top to toe from their from the ears to their ankles. Um but um personally I I wouldn't say I think I was arguing with someone online actually and I looked at his profile. I thought it was a young kid and he obviously wasn't even alive when Dorian was around. I saw Dorian on stage. You saw Dorian on stage. Yeah. So, we know how good he was. And the thing is, photos didn't even do him justice, but I'll kind of I'll kind of give him I understand why people are referencing that, but um personally um he's not there yet. >> Yeah, I do want to say, like I said, I like this version of Earth better. Not just because I don't believe that bigger is always better. I I think better is better, but as a classic guy, uh you know, I saw so many issues that like the shoulders, his delts are double the size now that they were as a classic guy. >> His arms, uh his biceps are much bigger, his even his triceps, which >> you know, as someone born without triceps, I cringe when I see people that have biceps that lag behind, they they've come up quite a bit. He's a work in progress. And um like I said, another thing I want to commend him on, he's the only person that didn't post any update videos or photos in the leadup. So he was doing what Dorian did, the shadow. You didn't see Dorian. He was all covered up and then boom, you'd see him on stage and your jaw would drop. >> And that's why we were full of doubt. That's why we were saying, I don't know, 30 pounds in one year and he's going to be in condition. I don't know. >> Didn't see it. >> No, we we just we didn't we've never I've never seen that happen before. And this is this was the best surprise. This is akin to was it 2022 when Derek Lunsford guest pose in Pittsburgh and everyone freaked out. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think that's fair. I think that's a fair comparison actually. Yeah. Because I mean we were like the shock what I had from hers on Sunday was like the shock. In fact the um Chris Cormier's guy who does his um messaged me and he said bro he says looks insane. He text me what's me and I looked at the picture and I went oh my god I was completely wrong. But um what do you think about the rumors? Um I know people are just people on Instagram are annoying, but what do you think about people saying that he's got suspicious looking biceps? What's your take on that? >> I don't think so. Well, you know what? He never had a bunch of splits and crevices and striations in his biceps anyway. >> Yeah, >> it's not like he lost them. Let's let's let's take a good look. >> I don't think so. I don't think so. You know, who knows? You can never rule it out because people inject things all the time and if you go deep enough in the muscle, but Uh they don't they don't look suspect to me. They're perfectly they same shape from one side to the other. >> I I know it's only one photo, but looking at that photo, you can like if you said if you showed that to Dorian and said Dorian, people are comparing him to you. Dorian would just roll his eyes and say he's got he's got a few pound to come off yet, mate. >> Oh yeah. I mean, and you know, I've been reading his posts and Urs is pushing for better condition. Good. >> That's one reason he was going to do Germany anyway. For him not to do Germany would be ridiculous. whether he lo whether he won the show or didn't, it's his home country and it gives him and and Stefan one more one more peak week with this new mass to figure things out before they before they go to the Olympia so they can make notes on what works and what doesn't. But I agree. I think he could sharpen up a a couple more pounds for sure. Two or three pounds. >> So say say he takes off five or six pounds for the Olympia. Do you think he's a top 10 threat? >> Top 10. Sure. >> Yeah, but come on mate. Look who we've got. Look who's in this Olympia. If you bring up the list and we went through it and actually took say five 10 minutes to go through it, take uh point by point, I think you'd um I mean, yes, no respect, this was a fantastic lineup, but we're talking about the Olympia here, mate. >> See, have you seen the updates from some of these athletes? I mean, you know what we're seeing and and actually how many names are going to be at their best ever and nowhere be nowhere near the top 10. I mean, let's be realistic. Let's not get over excited here. Um, personally, I'd like to see him at his best. So, I'm curious to see if that would make a dent in the top 10. If he could beat the guys like Tony Burton, Akim Williams, you know, because I tell you what, I've never really been a Regan fan, but I'm telling you, I'm quite impressed with what I'm seeing from Rean recently. There's something there's something new coming from him coming down the pipeline, and I think he might maintain his top 10. Then, you got guys like Brandon Curry, you got Bull Bonak who's who looks like he's just getting better and better as the year goes on, and he's had a fantastic year. So, let's let's just let's just sort of rein it in a little bit. Um, I I think top 15 if he if he came in with a really beautifully crisp, sharp back because thing is I was thinking about this as well when I first saw the the footage and I started studying all the Mario photos. >> I think we um I I don't want to mate Lford syndrome where everyone thinks that person's in condition because they've got shredded glutes. >> True. True. Because guys now are training and they're developing and really doing so much to get the shredded glutes and the hams. It's like people were saying, "Oh, Sam's at the guest posing. Samson look better here than he did at stage at the Olympia." It's like don't be fooled just because his hams and his glutes are more conditioned because these guys will be like, I'm not saying you can spot reduce, but they'll be doing what they can to get those areas in condition. They'll go overboard on it. But then if you actually zoom in and look at the rest of them, it's um I think people get carried away. And I think Lwood's one of those because you know remember the days when people were conditioned if they were conditioned from the front they were conditioned from the back. They were conditioned from head to toe. They didn't have areas of the physique that was conditioned and other areas that had no detail like Derek you know Derek's arms his chest but then his glutes and his hands are shredded. And people think people automatically think oh my god look at his condition. It's like, yeah, well, if you actually really actually scrutinize the physique from top to toe from every angle, um, you might uh, like I said, don't be don't get over excited by the by the shredded glutes. And I think I think Z has got that as well because I wasn't I wasn't that impressed with his conditioning from the back, but yes, his glutes are shredded. >> Yeah. I mean, I you could see some of the back shots. It's a little bit of film or something on the actual back. >> It's fat. >> It's fat, but the the glutes are completely dry and shredded. It's very hot. >> It is cuz it is that's the when you see it like that's the that's the first thing I think almost people are looking for for in terms of condition and I think the athletes have exploited that over the last few years because now you know like it in all categories. I remember with women physique I remember like it was looking at top sixes and if you didn't have shredded glutes you weren't in the top six. Doesn't matter how the rest of your physique looked. I think sometimes um I think sometimes we we we put a bit too much onus on having shredded glutes and then you look at the rest of the physique and we kind of overlook the fact that there's bits of their physique that isn't also as detailed in the shred. It's basically my point I'm trying to make. See, that doesn't make any sense to me because from my own experience, and I don't know, it seems to be most men across the board, the glutes are the very last place to lose fat from when I know that my my whole body could used to be shredded to the bone and it would still take me another five to eight pounds to get the glutes in. Whereas >> Yeah, mine too. Mine too. Mine too. My my my ass was so full of windstrol though. >> So much windstrol in my ass because I obviously um I practice what I preach. which I never pinned my adults, which a lot of guys are doing nowadays. So, um I think it's I think people are doing that now because I think they're just taking more gear and more frequently and I think they just literally can't pin their asses every single day. And I get it, but I still hate it. >> I mean, that oil has got to go somewhere. But yeah, there there are people, and I have seen them, their glutes can be shredded, dry, all kinds of striations, and you'll still see a little bit of fat in the lower back or in the midback or the hamstrings aren't really that that dialed in. theory. >> Yeah. What is that theory? I'd love to hear it. >> I have a theory. Look, think about it. Um 20 25 years ago, what did the guys do for cardio? >> Uh jogging. I don't know. Treadmill. >> No. Think about say Ronnie Dorian standard. What was the what was the two things they know? No, not even that that recent like literally 20 25 30 years ago. What was it? >> The stair master. The stepmill. >> No, they never did the treadmill like the sorry the stepmill 2530 years ago. That was kind of more the Phil Heath era era. Oh, I mean, Ronnie, >> did you ever see Did you ever I don't think I I I did once or twice see Ronnie on the stepmill, but it was always on his treadmill in his in his bedroom >> and it would be on the flat and there'd be no tension on his glutes and his hands and then what kind of the Phil Heath era came in and obviously the the the conditioning in those areas was absolutely uh crucial if you wanted to succeed and it was everyone was on the stepper. I remember Phil saying slow stepper, you know, with big strides every 45 minutes will really bring the condition in your legs, in your in your glutes, your hamstrings. I know I'm going to catch some [\h__\h] for this, but I'm telling you what, this is something I've been observing and uh and it's something now because how do you explain Samson having shredding glutes, but the rest of his body not even in the same condition that he was in the Olympia last year, but those areas at six weeks out were in better condition. How would you explain that? uh just a different body fat distribution for him. >> The body just decides to do something different this year. I'm gonna take fat off my ass first instead of last. Come on, Ron. >> So, anti-estrogens. >> I don't Well, I I know in my case, I had to use uh aromatase inhibitors at the very end or else my glutes never came in. my glutes and hams stayed kind of kind of blurry unless I drop unless I did the AIS and a diuretic at the end, which was disastrous, but that's what it took for me. I don't know if that's just my personal experience or if you could apply that across the board. >> I when I wanted my legs to get in condition, I would apply a second leg day, but it'd be like a light instead of heavy basic movements like squats, leg press, and everything else. I used to do things like glute ham hypers where I'd squeeze, I'd do leg extensions, higher reps, peak contraction. I used to do slow negative leg press with my toes off the off the platform and within literally two to three weeks my legs would be deeply separated and ripped and that was even before all the fat had come off. So there is ways to train and I think do cardio and also things with like um I think anti-roens as well because um that's why women um have to take them the last who compete in various categories have to take them the last four weeks >> because the the women uh you know their hormones basically they hold body fat and water in those areas and they save the anti-estrogens for the right at the last minute to basically kill the estrogen and take the and get basically get the condition in those areas. I mean that's that's kind of an unwritten role, isn't it? >> Yeah, but I mean also what you were talking about with your from what you did sounds like spot reduction. >> No, I I think it was developing certain types of the muscle as well. I just like I said I like cuz my first show I had the triangle glutes and I had the separated hamstrings and but it was all like peak contraction different ways of training rather than just heavy basic movements, you know. >> Yeah. >> Um so anyway, that was my personal experience. Anyway, >> let's uh let's recap Italy real quick because we're going to move on to Germany. It's it's all the same people with a couple additions and like just a one or two subtractions from it's a 30man lineup in Germany. But this was the uh the final call out in confirmation round. A very very very strong top five with Urs Quint, Mark Hector, Sergio Leva Jr. and Lewis Breed. I was happy to see Lewis up there. >> Did did you agree with the the way the top five were placed? >> I had s I had um Lewis Breed ahead of Sergio purely on his density and his condition. I get that Sergio has a better structure and his condition was good. Um, but I just think my eyes kept going to Lewis, especially in those back shots. I mean, his side, his back shots, I know he doesn't have the most aesthetic physique from the front, you know, in the frontal bicep, the front lat spread, but the side and the back shots. Um, I thought he looked I I like the density, the conditioning, that kind of branch warren Dorian thickness, density, that granite look. Um, but I mean, it wasn't like AI wasn't like appalled by it. I mean, I thought Sergio looked fantastic. I think it was the best I've seen him in a while. But um yeah, I did have fourth and fifth fourth and fifth swapped. >> Yeah, I could see that. You know, Sergio, who was not doing the German show. I don't know why. Uh he posted we could look at it. Maybe he posted photos where he looked a lot better a few hours before. >> He decided >> Yeah, he did. He decided to eat more. I don't know if that was his own decision or or Boss of Outlaws, but his midsection did get a little bloated. He he smoothed out water. Little bit of spillover. I don't know how much difference it would have made. I He wasn't He wasn't going to beat, you know, Earth was winning this. >> How many times have we heard that? Oh, you should have seen me a few hours before and I just roll my eyes to be honest, mate. I've just I'm that long in the tooth with this. >> I mean, yes, I've seen how a body can change, but not drastically and not with the same guys using the same kind of excuses over and over. >> Yeah. >> God, I'm gonna get some hate out this week. >> It is. It's a cliche in bodybuilding. It's a cliche. We've heard it before. should have seen me last night. O >> or the day after, but it's usually you should have seen me yesterday or or Wednesday. I was looking perfect. >> Look, I look I think Sergio looked good. Um I just I'd love to see more chest and back. I just because his legs are great, his arms are great, shoulders are great, but I just I and his structure shoulder to waist is beautiful. He's got those nice big full calves, you know, nice kind of X-frame, but um the chest and back, I just wish it had a bit more pop. >> Oh, I agree. I mean, it's it's anybody that has the strong limbs, you immediately notice if the chest and back aren't at same level. And you know, it's same same thing with Öz's chest could be better, and his back could definitely be better. >> The limbs, the legs are phenomenal on Earth. He's he's >> Go ahead. >> The thing is with um Z, his lats from the front are beautiful. I mean, he's when he lifts that when he has a front lat spread or a front door bicep or even the especially the ab and thigh, the way his lats flare out is absolutely I mean it's to be honest that makes that that pose. I mean look at the other guys they don't have that same Quint's got a bit you know nice kind of lines but your eyes are immediately drawn to he's got those nice big thick chunky actually Dorian type lats from the front. It's just from the back, you know, you could see he needs more width, more detail, just basically more just means needs more of everything, more development. But, um, like you said, if he's 26, I He's 26, 27 or whatever. I mean, the fact that he's already at this this point and he's beating guys at this caliber on the first one out and he won it straight first as well. It was a straight score. >> Yeah. >> Um, then um then that's incredible. Also, um, do you want to talk about the the the straight scoring again? Because I saw that on the score sheet. You notice that? Sure. I mean, you could. I mean, yeah, I saw the Well, I mean, they So, he got a a score of a three in the judging and a score of three in the finals, which means >> So, there was five. I assume that means there were five judges. >> I don't know how many there were. >> Cuz don't they drop a high and a low? >> They do. They do. But if you look at every single placing one to 15, every judge was unanimous. >> Oh, well, that's good. They were all >> When does that I've seen that happen more and more. And to tell you what, you never see that happen on when Tyler's judging. >> So, it was like a hive mind. Maybe they were all kind of thinking the same. >> I I think they're um I think the head judge has a little bit too much say. >> I don't know who the head judge was at this show. >> Jack Sullivan. Fantastic judge. Very well, very great reputation, but um I just don't it doesn't there's something not right about that for me when you see every judge agreeing on every score. I like to see like it was at Pittsburgh with Nick and Derek. I like to see the scores up and down, you know, because it means then when they're rejudged at night, the judges really are paying attention and they're actually giving their own individual opinion. That's what I want to see. Um I don't I for me, um if you're going to have five, six judges up there and it's basically hive mind, you know, basically agreeing with wherever the head judge places them or wherever the head judge tells them he wants to who to be, I think just have a head judge. Don't even bother. Don't waste the time with the other judges. >> Fair enough. All right, let's take a look at uh we need to get into Germany because it's the last chance to qualify for the Olympia, the 2025 Olympia. >> Um and Quint is he's hanging out. He's staying there over there in uh I guess he would have gone back to uh Samson's house in the interim here in the few days before. >> Um so he again he came up short. Uh he wanted wanted that Olympia qualification. Get rid of this uh invite. Sorry, I lost it. Share screen. So, let's take a look at him because uh my my favorite look from him so far was Tampa a few weeks ago. >> Yeah, me too. >> I I thought he looked a little bit flat in some of the shots. His from the front, this is the two shots that really bothered me with this front relax, the front lid shots were good, back shots, >> I still I still don't like his side chest. I still don't like it. M >> it needs it's better. It is better. But for me, I feel like for a guy that size with a with a frame that big, I feel like he still needs a bit more. Like I look at the front relaxed and I think he just needs another 10 pound on that upper body, >> you know? >> Yeah. No, I agree. He's he's got such long limbs kind of like Andrew Jacked, >> it takes a lot more mass to fill out. But >> but but Ron, that front front relax, where does your eyes go to? They just for me it just goes to his legs and his upper body looks like it's not it's not matched. I think what it is, I think his body is getting obviously because he's been prepping AI think his body's getting tired now. >> Agreed. Agreed. I mean, and if I obviously here I go again. If I were him, I I I don't know why he's doing Germany. I guess he's already over there. Why not? And he just a lot of fans want to see him. But his body looks it looks like it's just it's been on prep too long. It's just not responding. Uh it's losing the the pop, as we say. He just doesn't have that. >> The fullness is not coming. back looks really really shallow here. >> Yeah, he just he he is getting better. He's impro I mean I over last year he is improving. I love his ab and thigh but I wish he'd tilt his hip slightly, you know, to give those kind of crazy lines. >> Yeah, >> because I think he because he's got such a beautiful silhouette. He's got such a lovely structure. Um but he's he's getting better, but it's I don't really like that shot on him as well. I think his ch his shoulders over overshadow his um his chest and I I prefer the hand on hip one. I think. And that lacks detail for me. >> Are his trunks different colors? I thought you couldn't do that. Huh. Oh well. >> Probably probably the finals. You can do what you want. >> Yeah, the finals. They don't care what you do in the finals. Yeah. I mean, I could see here he's just it's a little bit of film. It's just not the upper body is just losing separation. Uh what do you think about him? Obviously, this is up to his big brother Samson. What do you think would happen if he stayed over in UK with Samson for like four, five, six months? I know. God, that's a that's a long house guest. But do you think that would help him? >> No. >> As far as No. Okay. >> No. Yeah. But it might help Quint and it might hinder Samson. You don't know. Or or vice versa. You don't know. It might be great for them. Or it might be, you know, because if you've got to literally, you know, because I I can't imagine you still I know they got this huge house now, but I can't imagine you'd want a house guest for six months when you're so used to just being you and your wife and your dog and in your routine. You know, you've got you're conscious of having a house guest. I don't I think I don't think that would help him. Um, look, the guy is is is incredible, Quint. Um, and he's he's improving. He just needs to go home after this. Um, if he wins here and qualifies, then he just needs to just just keep doing what he's doing because he's moving forward. And also, the Hernie is a little bit distracting, isn't it? >> I see. It's small. I mean, mine's much bigger than that. I didn't even notice it until people start pointing it out to me. It's like the size of It's not even as big as a golf ball. tastes like a little acorn. >> But obviously if it gets worse, he's going to have to have that taken care of. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, it's just I I think he's got he like I agree, he's made improvements, but I don't think his body can stay in prep for weeks and weeks and weeks without starting to show signs of deterioration. I think that's where he's at right now. >> I was expecting major improvements for this show. And and in some I don't I don't know whether I just I've studied then is and in some pictures I was like, "Oh, he's better." and other ones I was like, "No, he's not as he's not even as good as he was, like you said, at Tampa." >> Yeah. I mean, Tampa obviously he was a little bit flat in Tampa. The condition was bang on. Then Texas, he came in noticeably fuller. Condition was less. >> So, like you, I expected, okay, well, this third show, he'll figure it out. He's had people around him like uh Samson, Marina, Marosasi, he had some really great advisers around him. I expected this to be the best version we've seen of him out of the three shows. And to me, it was the wor I I'm a hater. I'm going to get hate. This was the worst. I I preferred either Texas or Tampa to this. >> Oh god. Okay. >> Uh and he also I when I saw the the final I think the finals was only like a couple of hours later. He faded. >> So he's got to really nail that coming out strong and fading like like he said exactly what happened at Tamper. He came out if you see like I said the Gilko footage we brought up before on here. >> Yeah. Yeah, >> when he first came out, he looked amazing and then he just kind of he just kind of just falls off as the day goes on. So, he's got to learn how to come out and somehow hold that peak through the day because if it is close and say he's it's it's it's neck and neck proc and he comes out better and the other guy doesn't see that I mean that's thing is it's it is tricky when the lighting's different. >> Yeah, this lighting is I like this lighting better. Yeah, I mean he just but he looked I mean I was like wow when he first came out here in in in Tampa but see there even the frontal bicep he looks kind of he looks kind of better I think at the uh the the the show. I don't know. It's it's tricky. It's really tricky. >> Well, we got to we have to point out this is Gilko footage too. We were just looking at somebody's iPhone footage. >> So obviously it's going to be a quality difference. But I I like this look a lot. I was very impressed with with Quint in Tampa and still structurally, shape, everything. It's an amazing physique. It's it's destined to be one of the greats if he can just make the improvements he needs to make. And he's still a young guy. He's still 31, I think. 33. >> It's kind of like I said before, he's kind of like that 20 22 Samson where we're like, "Oh, the potential. Look at the potential. Look at the symmetry. Look at the shape. Look at the balance." And I wonder if he can take that next step up and really and then obviously what Samson did in 23 and 24, you know, is uh you know the record books. But um I'd love to see I really want to see Quidd do that because he's he's he's on the verge of becoming really great like a really great top level bodybuilder. And I just I just don't want it to be one of those cases another couple of years we're still saying the same thing because new guys are coming in and you only get so many you only get so long to make an impact because he's got a beautiful genetic shape. He's got beautiful balance but um the real hard conditioning and fullness and stuff is it you know that comes down to the density of the muscle the the peaking process. So he really needs to he needs to step it up now I think. Um, but I'm not sure whether keeping on going to just try and go and not make top 15 Olympia. I'm not sure whether this is a really really wise thing to do. I would have personally shut it down after Italy. But then again, because he's only have to go up against anyway and I don't see anything can get better as well. We know that if drops a couple of pound this week, he's probably going to win Germany. So, I'm not sure there's any real >> benefit. Here we go. >> PTSD. You should make a t-shirt with benefit. >> Do you know somebody wanted to make some merch about that? Me saying that. >> Oh, I believe it. It's actually a bad idea. I was hoping >> go 5050, bro. And I'm like, no, no, I just want to forget the whole thing, you know. >> So, um I mean, in what universe do you think do you think that the roles could be reversed? Do you think Quint could be this week? Do you think there's any chance of that? >> Stranger Things have happened. I love that phrase. Stranger things have happened. >> Look what happened last week with us. I mean, it would it would be most unusual. It would be highly unusual. >> I mean, I'll be running out of hats next week if that happens. >> No, I mean, like I said, if it would take is not going to get hers isn't going to get worse. Is going to look better. I'm very confident when I say that. >> Oh, yes. >> Uh, and I don't know if Quint is going to I don't know if his body is it's just >> I don't shutting down sounds like he's having a medical emergency. I don't think that's the case. But >> he could slip. He could he could not even get second here because I mean Mark Hector was right on his heels here mate. >> Yeah. And Mark's Mark's headed to Germany. All these guys are headed to Germany. The only one is not is Sergio. Yeah. I wanted to talk about Mark. So people were and I was doing some some live videos during the day and people kept knocking on Mark's one lat is is noticeably high. You only see it in the rear lat spread, but one lat comes up much higher than the other. We know he had that shoulder injury and the surgery and I don't know if that's affecting how he hits the pose, but it was still a very very strong showing. I mean, third third place in this lineup. >> My take um I mean I I I'll say negatively I don't like his front wall bicep, but I think that is durude purely down to his shape and also the the shoulder issue because um remember when I took Terrence Ruffin to Cuba's um annual thing and it was on the last day of the the Terren Ruffin Olympia Allstar Tour. >> Yeah. Um they were Cuba was on the mic and he was trying to get all his all his athletes all the ones he preps and his coaching team and there was like there's like a hundred people there um and a lot of the lads were competing or on prep. So he basically got all of them stripped them all off and you know and they basically went on stage in their underwear and also put did like a massive pose down. >> Yeah. >> Now um he was I think I can't I think he hinted that Mark was going to be getting up there. Anyway, Mark was kind of sat to my left with Kerry and he was eating his food and he walked over and he and he kind of whispered something to Mark, sorry to to Cuba and Cuba went, "All right then, mate. Okay, don't worry." So anyway, then Mark gets up on stage and he starts going through all the compulsories and he's, you know, he's doing the Steve Weinberger calling the compulsories and um in the rear double he didn't hit a rear double bicep. You there was a there was a couple of shots he didn't hit because I think that's what he said to Cuba that he didn't feel comfortable hitting those shots because of his shoulder mobility. you know, obviously when he's on stage and competing, he has to hit those shots. >> So, um, yes, I think that because like I said, it's front with bicep. It's a shame because that's the first pose you hit. That's the first pose that's called for and it's that first impression you need with the judges to kind of catch their eye because instantly soon as you're walking on stage, they're making their decisions of like, you know, they have like the rate, some judges have like a rating system. They'll have like a like one to 10 and then that's how they decide who their first caller. That's how they managed to do it so quickly. I've spoke to them. >> Yeah. So, um, but Mark I think looked absolutely fantastic. Um, I like the I thought his I thought his side shots were incredible. His most muscular because he's got those nice big full stripey delts, the nice tiny little waist. The shoulder to waist is insane. Um, his legs, as I said, whole lower body actually, in fact, is completely come up. Um, so like like everyone, he had strong shots and he had weak shots. Um, but um, I think this was a really really good showing for him and um, and don't be shocked if he beat Quint this weekend. >> Oh, I wouldn't be. I mean, the only I'd be shocked if whoever took like 15th beat Quint or something, but >> yeah, >> but yeah, you could see it right there. And Mark, I mean, you could see one lat does come out and that's >> I could see Look at the shoulder difference in the rear lat. I know it's not a perfect shot to compare to, but you could see that's a should that's a shoulder mobility issue from, you know, he had mass it was what he have really bad arthritis or do you have a cuff tear? I can't recall what >> he's had a couple of surgeries on it, man. I mean it really could have really put him out the game for for good not just like a year or two but he still managed to compete last year at the big man weekend. Was it fourth he took at in Spain? >> Yeah. Yeah, he did. >> Yeah. And that was off the back of like you know like surgeries and stuff like that because I message him all the time and I said look m I says really really because I I can imagine what that you know somebody on there up on you know that crucial stage of their career. Why don't you go to the next level the next level and you know the Olympia and then you know sorry win a pro show and then get to the Olympia and do well. It's like there's a lot of levels to this this sport. So, um, and I can imagine that was a real, especially see also I think I think it plays a part as well when their partners who also compete are doing better than they are. I think it's it's nice to have that support either way, but it must hurt him to know that he really kind of is expected to be further along by now. So, an injury can injuries can sometimes finish people, not just physically, but mentally. Uh, remember the first time Zack Khan said he got under the squat rack after after he blew his knees out >> and he posted a vid I remember he posted a video and he said that's the first time I it was four plates on a Smith machine. He was squatting. >> Wow. He said like he said and it was a video and it was all about the mental side of what it took to get him what it to get himself under that four plates to squat it and he did it perfectly because his knees were healed but he said it mentally he said it was there's this there's some sort of like you know the the subconscious saying don't do it don't do it you know kind of PTSD from what happened when they when his legs pinged so I I really I really applaud Mark for um for coming back after that and uh it's it's an achievement in itself so but it's good to see him improving good to see him getting a good placing And um I really I mean I'd love to see him win this weekend. I mean possibly with winning straight first. I don't see it happening. I think maybe we might see a repeat of the top three, but um yeah, I'd love to see it happen. >> Of course. Of course. Uh Sergio's not in not doing Germany, but I thought it was not notable to to to look at how he did look. So he's this is a comparison from uh the Dubai show. >> No, I'm sorry. FIBO show in April on the left to Italy on the right. And I do see much improvement there. Obviously, quality of the photos is drastically better in the Italy shot, too. But yeah, I mean, this is a guy I keep I keep Oh, he's got a whole medley of rear double bicep shots. But, uh, you know, I This was the This was a post about the timing. So, this is what he looked like four hours before prejudging. Mhm. >> Uh, and the midsection was flatter than what we saw on stage. I mean, right there, he definitely wasn't this sharp on stage. You know, obviously, look at this. Is beautiful lighting. You know, this is not stage lighting. Stage lighting is very unforgiving. But he didn't bring this level of sharpness to the stage. And it's because he decided to eat more. Completely blew out my stomach. And just looks like another typical Sergio showing. >> I'm not buying it, mate. Sorry, >> you gotta buy it. He says it. >> Sorry. No, because I think I think you know when athletes kind of make these I think a lot of it is I think they believe it. I think they do believe it because they're in the good lighting in the hotel room. There's no the nerves aren't there and you you're backstage and you get the tan on and the adrenaline's hitting. It's like sometimes you can feel a bit disconnected from your body in the in the respect that in your mind you think you're not as good and you tell yourself you're not as good and that's what happens. And also a lot of people, you know, you've seen you've how many pros have you seen over the years look amazing like Flex Wheeler used to look incredible at the at the Arnold Classic when he'd win it. >> Yeah. >> And then every time at the Olympia he never quite looked as good and he actually he admitted once he said like he said yeah he says he said psychologically the Olympia was kind of it psyched him out, you know. So um maybe in his head I mean yes he look of course he looks fantastic in that picture there. He looks amazing. Um, but um, I don't I don't think you can I think a lot of it psychological, mate. I really really do. Um, but I thought he looked good. I thought he looked really good. Like I said, more chest and back, but that's uh that's just my own personal nitpicking, you know, so because I we got to assess his physique. >> And I'm going to throw this out to the viewers because I I only remember him winning one pro show, Sergio, the 2017 New York Pro, which his debut, >> but it's I saw a reference where I asked AI. It said he won something called the Europa pro uh in and I couldn't find it anywhere, but he might have won two pro shows. I don't I really can't say >> because in 2018, remember he came second to Alexis Rivera and then he was second to >> Michael Lockett. >> Michael Lockett. Yeah. God. Yeah. Yeah. Michael Lockett. Yeah. So, and he didn't make it didn't make it to the Olympia that year, did he? No, he didn't. >> No. And that's the year that it's I I saw the uh on it said 2018 Europa and I said I don't remember him winning a show that year. I remember because I was at both of those shows, the Tampa and the Chicago, and I felt awful because I think he could have won either of those shows. >> Yeah, it was close. I remember they kept calling him out and out. I think did he make it to the Olympia on points that year? >> He did because I remember when Nathan Remember when Nathan launched at him at the press conference and he says, "Nate, he says, Sergio, why are you even here? You didn't even win a show." And I tell you what, I got to say, I got I love Nathan and I, you know, and Sergio handled it. He fought hate with love. I know what Nathan was trying to get the crowd going and stuff like that. But I tell you what, Sergio handled that really, really well. >> He really came back. He was very calm. You expected him because I think Nathan was trying to get a bit of back and forth, you know, like the UFC type stuff, you know, the boxing stuff. >> That was and I Sergio kind of turned it on its head and he did not what I expected. I really respect him for that. >> That was a really good uh Liverpool accent you just did there, too. >> I saw Nathan I told you I didn't say um I saw Nathan the other weekend at Ultralex. Oh, okay. >> Yeah, he was he's tore his hamstring. >> H not again. >> But but he said um he pulled up his shorts because he was done doing some side delts on the side delt machine. He says, "Oh, I popped me hamstring." And he says, "Four weeks ago." He says, "Four weeks ago, I had a massive." And he got his training partner to back him up and he says, "I had a massive hole in my in my in my hamstring." So he pulled his shorts up and they looked absolutely fine. There was no bruising. There was no hole. So um I said, "They look all right to me, mate." And then went off and trained legs. Let's call him Wolverine, I guess. >> Well, yes. So, yeah, but he's looking big as a house as ever. He's um he's planning to open seven gyms. I think he's up to three now. >> Good lord. All right. Well, staying on the UK trend here, we got Lewis, the brick breed. And >> I said, I I don't think anybody could have been in much better condition than this guy was. He packed so much muscle per square inch on that frame. Obviously, he wasn't given the really pretty gifted structure like some of the guys, but good lord, he has maximized what he has. And >> I to me, he was probably one of the I think he I wouldn't say the most, but he was one of the most impressive guys on the stage. He was peaked perfectly. >> Yeah, >> he was bigger. He was harder than I've ever seen him. I mean, because I messaged I texted him, I think the day before, and I said, "Right, time to give those uh those other guys a le a true lesson lesson in in uh no, a harsh lesson in true conditioning, true European conditioning." And he said, "Oh, don't worry, mate. I plan exactly to do that." He says, "You know me, I'm always coming on ready and stuff like that." I mean, but um I mean, you know me, I love I love conditioning and um I love the He's making the most of what he's got, and I really respect him for that. Yes. I don't there's a couple of shots that aren't I wouldn't say aesthetic because he looks a bit straight up and down but I mean you can't argue with that level of density and conditioning and I mean I've seen him in saw him in the flesh when I took Terence Ruff into that um Dean Whites gym back in May and he stripped off and I was training shoulders and I kind of looked over and I kind of saw an angle and when you see these guys in the flesh especially guys like that who maybe photos don't actually do them justice. You just see how [\h__\h] huge he is. It's just it's it's awesome. I mean, he's just he's bursting full, this guy. And it's quality conditioned muscle. >> Yeah. This is an older video, but it's still representative of what you're talking about. >> Amazing. >> So full, dense, vascular. I mean, if you're if you're a a hardcore mass monster type of fan, you're all about the muscle and the conditioning. This guy ticks all those boxes. >> And if you could read my mind, what would you say that I really like on his physique? >> Stripey dots. No [\h__\h] going in them, mate. >> Yeah, I there's a few people in the show had really really nice stripey delts. >> Do you remember Mark Hector in the in that most muscular? Like literally the hands class most muscular. I mean his delts are just like they're the size of his head each one and they're just beautifully detailed. And also the tie-ins with the the bicep and the tricep, you know, where it come ties into the arm. It was like somebody had like cut it with a knife. I love that. So, Germany's Matias Hullwick. He uh told him Yeah, you called that one. I didn't know if he was I didn't know if he would have the mass to hang with these guys, but even even without being as massive as some of them, that shape and the conditioning and the I'm sure the presentation, it really carried him through. >> Next shot. That's the shot. And the next one. And the next one. >> Yeah, look at that. >> That's Urs. He stole that from Urs. That one. That's an old shot. The archer. >> He looks like that Estabban the 212 guy in that shot. And this is uh Somerfeld hits this shot all the time. >> Yeah. >> Beautiful, isn't it? Beautiful. >> Yeah. Great physique on this guy. >> And and thing is he's come up from classic as well. >> Yeah. Wasn't last year his first his first year as a classic. >> He was he was classic in 23 because I was in Prague doing the commentary. I think he was I've got second in my head. I might be wrong. >> Um and then he showed up in um in Prague last year, took fourth place because Clarita was third, Sebum was second, and then Martin was first. This guy was fourth place. I mean, like I said, he was crying backstage. He was so happy. You've never seen when he got first call out. I mean, that guy was he was so happy. And um I think I mean, look at that beautiful symmetry. Flawless. Look at his calves. Wow. Look at that. >> Yeah. >> And the way just the way everything just it's just such an aesthetic physique. He's managed to retain those classic aesthetics with you know the kind of I mean he's not quite as big as say Lewis or you know or even hers but um he brings a beautiful package this guy and I'm really I'm really happy he got a good look. >> Okay. So next on down the line I'm going I'm going basically on how they they placed in uh >> Also another thing did you see that only the top five got to pose? >> Oh I didn't know that. And another thing I that struck me as kind of odd was Urs won $10,000. You can see it clearly in the check >> I saw. >> I thought, correct me guys. Correct me if I'm wrong, Harris. I thought they said the minimum for open shows there was some sort of post that had to be $15,000. >> I saw that too and I I I I spotted that as well, mate. >> But no, I guess not. I don't know. Yeah, because it new is it if I'm correct me if I'm wrong guys new tech have sponsored all the open shows and it basic basically meant that any because the minimum they can give for open in prize money is 10 and I believe as I understand it from what I what I what I saw and and read few what month last year or whatever >> every single pro show would at least say so if it had 10 it would be now 15 and so on so I wonder what happened there mate >> yeah you know Lee Priest was on my live and he said, uh, he saw that Lewis Breed in fifth place only got $1,000. >> He said, "Why don't we just give the winner 20 and no one else gets any money and you know, we both love leaving?" I said, "Come on, dude." So, somebody takes second place and it's like a onepoint decision and they make nothing and the other guy gets $20,000. No, can't do that. >> Um, I think top Yeah. I mean, I suppose it's I think is these shows are expensive to put on. I mean, that and also some of the I heard that like sanction fees on open has gone up. Um, why do you think there's so many classic shows? Because the the sanction fees are um a lot less. >> Oh, yeah. Bikini and Classic. I mean, every weekend, if you look at the IFBB Pro schedule, every weekend there are sometimes two or three shows with classic and bikini going on around the world. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, that's um and also I don't understand why only the top five was allowed to post because then the show finished by about I'm sure it was around about 8:00 p.m. That's what I've got in my head. So, I mean, just to let the top 10 because people were really upset because that Mattius Hullwick is a beautiful poser. >> Oh, he didn't. >> And I saw the comments saying, "Oh, I'm gutted. Um, Mattas didn't make top five. Obviously, he was sixth place, >> so he didn't he didn't get to pose." So, I felt really because that would have been a real treat for the audience. And thing is like Theo in seventh. I mean, Theo's a really good poser. He doesn't practice his routines. He just puts it together on the spot. But, he's that competent a poser. you can put something together that's always entertaining and is going to and especially at the end of the day when everyone's amped up and there's incredible lineup and you've got there and all the all the all the hype around that and then only the top five get to pose. I'm not feeling that one mate. >> I'm wondering why Theo doesn't have one picture or video up from the show. Obviously, he didn't get to do the finals. >> Look at his coaches page to see if there's anything in No, nothing. So, >> I don't know. >> I don't want to speculate like maybe he's upset, but he's can't be that upset because he's still competing. He's still doing uh >> he's still going off to German to Germany this weekend. >> I I I'm to my knowledge, apart from the Olympia, that's the first time he's ever been out of the top five in any show. >> Yeah, I think you're right. Yeah, you would know. Interesting. I mean, like it was a tough tough lineup. We don't want to say people got overlooked. When you have a bunch of really great guys up on stage where the second call out looks almost as good as the first call out, people are going to get quote unquote overlooked, but they're not really overlooked. It's just the quality of the lineup. >> I've seen Theo I've seen Theo a teeny little bit sharper. I mean, I only saw some very limited stuff and I don't think it was even high resolution, but I zoomed right in and obviously, you know, working with what you've got to, you know, in front of you. Um, I have seen them just a tiny bit sharper and a bit more pop. I think maybe as Germany um and France. Um, there's no show in UK as well. >> Oh, I I I looked I hadn't realized how many post Olympia shows there going to be. There's quite a few. >> I do you know what I heard? I heard Kriso might be doing the British. Oh, so that would be before Prague, two weeks before Prague. >> But thing is, do you think do you think Kris is now making a decision because he's heard of who who's doing Prague? Because maybe when he because obviously he didn't carry on prepping to qualify for this Olympia. He just he instantly announced he was doing Prague. Do you think he heard and then said, "Oh [\h__\h] am I going to my easy my potential easy qualification isn't going to be so easy?" I think maybe that's do you think that's a factor in him deciding now or or thinking if it's rumor if the rumors are true that he's now going to go and do England because you know maybe that's how he wants to get his qualification for next year's Olympia. >> Oh I mean 100% I think that's a very very possible scenario because Keon is an we're going to get to that but Keon's an amazing bodybuilder. >> Wow. >> We were actually we were actually arguing about this in our group chat yesterday. Big Mike Cox says it's still bodybuilding. A good big man always beats a good smaller man, but I still think Keon is so damn good. I could see him beating Kriso. Yeah. I Yeah. Yeah. I probably I suppose the Yeah. I mean because thing is don't forget that I know Keon is absolutely incredible but I mean I spoke to Patrick and he said Pat it was only 200 201 on stage last year. Now, if you put that next to someone like a 270 280 pound Kriso or a 300 pound Samson, we all all everyone looks at unbelievable on their own or in their own category. But you've seen it where we've seen 212 lineups and you're absolutely blown away and then you see him in a few weeks later in an open show and you you're not as blown away. Let's be let's let's just put it that way. Yeah, this I guess I'm interrupting our regularly scheduled Germany preview to to just mention Keon because this was posted yesterday and people lost their minds. >> I did. I did. >> He confirmed open debut. Everybody's going open. Everybody classic eyes, 212 guys, >> but I I you know like we I didn't think he was going to I don't think he'll go open at the Olympia for a couple more years. >> No, no, no, no. I think is if he's he's going to be bigger this year, but um thing is now we've seen these guys putting 20 30 pounds on like uh I mean is he going to is he going to be like 206 by the time he hits the stage at the Olympia or is he going to be ready at 220 because he's just he's just his body is just unleashed now and you know and he's got everything he needs and he's literally putting 100% in every single day because sometimes these like guys like have proven that their bodies just explode when they don't have the restrictions. That's why I think like Wesley should go open and there's a couple others like um you know Ramon and stuff should probably try open because we want to see the best version of their physiques. So like Keon now if he does Prague I mean realistically if he's only like four or five pounds heavier than he was at the Olympia last year. He's not going to be doing what Bumstead did and come in six or seven eight pounds heavier he's going to be looking pretty much similar right >> and being a similar body weight than he was at the Olympia. It's like Clarita when he did the open he was like 180 185 you know he was never going to come in like 230 because he hasn't got the 212 limitation when he's way under the weight limit. Does that make sense? >> Yeah. And I don't think he's he has that much mass and body weight to come in 220 to 225 yet. That's why I said I I think it's going to be a couple years before we see him on the Olympia open Olympia stage. >> I Yeah. I I think he's going to do what Karita did. I think he's going to keep doing the 212, try and build his legacy. try and rack up those Olympia titles. And I think what because I I think Keon if Keon wins Prague, I think he'll jump in the Arnold Classic because of the prize money. Because if he's because because I think he because I heard that he felt a few months ago he wasn't yet ready to jump up to the open, but I heard that he's been encouraged encouraged encouraged and now he's kind of got the belief in himself that he can go into the open and uh and do well. So if he wins Prague, I would I would bet anything that he does the Armor Classic. >> Why not? It's going to be $750,000 for >> Exactly. Exactly. Cuz thing is like you can't but argue when people are telling like you know did you see what Phil he said in that in interview in London last weekend? >> Yeah. >> He basically hinted that um one of the guys that's competing in the other division should be competing in the open. And I think he was referenc I think obviously he was referencing Keon. So, you know, if you got people like that telling you and reinforcing that, you know, you mate, you're ready for open because thing is I think he's going to look quite different to how he did last year because last year he looked fantastic, but he was 200 pound. I think this year on on a on a guy that height with the kind of mass that I'm seeing, I think he's going to be I think he's going to be either bang on the weight limit or very very close to it because think about it. When guys that height put even four or five pounds of muscle on, it shows. Like if Samson went and put five pounds on, you you you'd struggle to see it. But when you know, you have to put like 20 30 pounds on to really be noticeable. But someone like Keon, if he hits if he puts on 11 12 pound, which he'd need to to hit the limit, I mean, that's going to look and in condition, which you know that Patrick Tur is going to bring him in into great condition, he's going to look absolutely [\h__\h] nuts at 212. And that's going to be and then then the conversation starts that he's going to be very competitive as an open. So it' be interesting to see um do you know I would love to see Samson jump into Prague as well because then we'd get like an Olympia overall. >> Oh boy. I mean what >> can you imagine that? Can you imagine if Ryan Terry stuck some trunks on say Keon and Samson both win the Olympia categories and for the first time ever where it would be like the 70s where you'd get to see the the short guy and the tall guy going into overall. That'd be the closest thing to like an Olympia overall that we'd ever seen. I think what we're more likely to see and you because Dorian used to do the Olympia and then he would go fly the next day back to UK and win the British show, the British Grand Prix or whatever it was called. >> I was there and that's again the Olympia Olympia takes place on October 11th, the finals, and the British Grand Prix is one week later. I think he's going to jump into that. I mean, why wouldn't he do that shot? >> So, Samson. >> Yeah. >> No. Well, well, then again, I didn't think he I think he was going to I was shocked when he said he was doing France. >> So, I mean, you know, with Samson, he's quite unpredictable. He's not >> he's unpredictable in the respect that he does things that, you know, we didn't see coming. Um, so yeah, maybe maybe and thing is he's, you know, if he got asked and stuff and come and do it. I mean, maybe he's thinking, oh, well, it's 20 grand or whatever, I'll go pick it up and get another win. And because I think he knows that he he's he's got his entire career mapped out right till the very end. He said he wants to be done by the time he's 45. >> Wow. >> So maybe if he thinks, well, a Mr. Olympia or, you know, I'm assuming he's going to win it again. Um, why not go into Yeah. Yeah. I could see it happening, mate. >> Yeah. All right, let's get back to Germany. We got a couple more guys heading into Germany. >> Time to some Germans. Uh, German pride here. So, Tim Budam didn't do didn't get the result he wanted in, uh, Italy. Ninth place. Does he even have any photos up? No, he didn't post any photo. Well, no, that's not true. What am I? Damn it. Wrong. >> Eight. >> Uh, I show him as ninth. It was Roberto Buenom from Italy. >> Oh, of course. Yeah. Yeah. Patrick's guy. Yeah. Yeah. I was surprised he beat Tim actually because I thought Tim was a level above >> and he's not doing Buenomo is not doing the the Germany show. >> Well, that was a good result for him. M. Robert Bumman. He's good, but he's I didn't think he was if you would have if you'd have maybe put money on it, um, I would have said that Tim in shape beats him all day long. But fair play to that Robert. He must be happy with that. >> Yeah. So you've seen Tim many times. How And this was the first time we've seen him this season, I believe. Correct. >> Yeah. >> What were what were your impressions of Bhutan? >> I thought he looked amazing. >> Yeah. Great condition. >> I thought it looked amazing. He's had some he's had some injuries that he's come back from. >> Um the only thing is he's got to watch that midsection >> because it spoils the pitcher, doesn't it? It spoils the picture. You see in some shots it's like it's just it's just on the very very edge of being acceptable. Um but um I mean look at the I mean look at the legs, the condition, the the skin the skin thinness. Um I think he I thought he looked great. I I really rate um Tim Basham. I think he's absolutely fantastic. So um yeah, I mean yeah, ninth place is probably it's probably harsh for him, but um you know it was it was incredible lineup, was it? >> It seriously was. Let's go to 10 minutes. I'm gonna find 10 places. Amar Omaric. >> Oh god. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> And I hope he put some pictures up. Let's see. >> But thing is thing is Ron with with guy with guys. It shows you how deep this lineup was that guys can come in and not be off. Guys that have been like top three or one shows, you know, or or been like seconds and thirds, you know, regularly top threes and they they constantly bring in the condition. It shows you just how deep this lineup was that you can come in. He wasn't off and he got 10th place. I mean, that just tells you the the the absolute depth of this show. Absolutely amazing. >> He did not post any pictures. So, that's the end of talking about you, Aaron. But I wish him very well. >> Yeah, >> I would keep talking about you if you posted some pictures. But >> he looked good. I thought I thought he looked good. I mean, I I Yeah, he looked he looked good. He always looks good in me. I I really rate him. Um, I think he's like you think is you got to when you see him in the flesh, he's just it's he's got this crazy fullness that you don't see in other other competitors and his conditions very very consistent. Um, oh, Kaggbo. >> Kogbo who was seventh at the Dubai show. He's reappeared. He's trying one more time to get to Olympia. Uh, yeah, he's I was hoping there were some better pictures of him. >> I like him. I like this guy. >> Yeah. I mean I was hope I I had him in my top five for Dubai in our predictions. >> That was the thing is he was he was what fourth the year before. I mean I think he's I think he's um he's one to watch because again he's another guy that's kind of almost hitting that next ceiling and um he's but he's he's he's kind of one of these these quieter guys that's in the background quietly improving improving improving. But um he's like I said, I think he's he's on the verge of depending on what he does in the next year or so. He's someone that could be uh um you know really really rising in the next year or two. >> Yeah, certainly has a lot of mass those round muscle bellies that we like to see. He's got some got some great tools to work with physique wise. >> And he's in that kind of like um it's Dubai, isn't it? It's from He's from >> Yeah. where he lives. >> He's in that kind of Dubai Q8 kind of um what's that word? The the environment where there's no distraction. And it's kind of in his >> like a boot camp. >> Yeah, like a boot camp. Yeah. You like like Brandon Curry when he used to go out there and um um Yeah. Brandon Curry when used to go out there and basically just lock himself in and then basically Nathan the Asher. They go out, there's no distractions. It's train, eat, sleep, train, eat, sleep. Kind of like Andrew Jack with his job as well. They kind of, you know, nobody bothers him in the gym. There's doing their own thing, but they're just locked in, you know, uh fully focused. No distractions. I think those are the guys you got to kind of um got to keep a close eye on. >> Yeah, there are some good shot. Here's some He looked really good in Dubai. >> A monster. >> Yeah, very I mean this gives me gives me like Phil Heath vibes. That shot right there. >> Yeah. Yeah, I see it. I see it. I do. >> Condition was right on. So, you know, he could be a surprise. He definitely could be a surprise. >> He'll You'll definitely He'll be in the mix. >> So, who showed up? Who popped up on the list that I was not expecting? Roman Fritz. Where are you, Roman? So, Roman, a very popular athlete from Germany. Fantastic physique. Is this a How how recent is this? This is a week out. So, let's take a look at Roman. So, this was It could be the lighting. I'm not like loving this condition at a week out. >> What? >> Ron, I I thought when he posted because I saw a couple of weeks ago, he said he was back and he was starting prep. Now, that was only a couple of weeks ago. >> Huh. Um, and I know the guy is always in condition and I know he's coming off um, is he coming off some more surgery? I saw was it because I know he's had the hip surgeries, but I saw that he had time off because of some other surgery or an injury or something. >> Um, but the thing is with the thing with Roman, he's very deceiving because when I first saw him, I think I was doing the live stream commentary in Prague and Romania and I always had it in my head that he was a guy with great legs but like a small upper body. But when I saw him in the flesh, he's he's a lot bigger than he looks on here. Like if there he doesn't look impressive to me there at all. I mean, the legs and the hamstrings. Yeah. And the calves. A lower body looks amazing, but he doesn't look like a factor. But he's one of those guys he's quite deceiving. When he gets on stage, you um you kind of raise eyebrows a little bit. And I don't think he's a guy that get on stage and not be ready. So, I don't know whether some of the stuff he's been putting out has been timed deliberately because it was a few weeks ago and maybe he's trying to put but um there there's he's very consistent with his conditioning. I'd be very surprised if he was off. >> Yeah, I mean I've I've seen him compete a couple times and he was always always in great condition. So, I don't expect him that's what he's known for. He's known for some of the best conditioning. That's what I'm trying to find. I remember like the hamstrings, the glutes, the back just super detailed. >> He's good. No, he's really good. He gets good placements as well. So, good luck, Roman. Hey, of course, this is going to be a Here's a here's some good posing. It's going to be quite a treat for the German fans because it's it's almost all the great German bodybuilders are in this show. >> Yeah. Oh, god. Yeah. Tim, Amir, him Roman. Um, who forgot I forgotten? Oh, uh, >> yeah, he's pretty good. >> Let's not forget him. >> He's okay. >> Yeah, he's okay. He might do he might do well. Last guy I want to mention because he's a big giant dude from Canada >> from Canada. Morgan McDonald. So this is how he's looking yesterday. Very consistent with condition. He's a tall heavy man. I did he tell you he was 300 pounds on stage or something like that. >> Jeez looks it, doesn't he? He's looks huge. Big frame >> because I've seen him I think he's about 6'2. >> Wow. >> For a bodybuilder that's like seven foot tall. That's very very tall. >> And he's got good legs. >> He does. Yeah. So, the last thing, so well wishes, that is actually Sunday, guys. The German Pro. Uh, it's actually called the Europa Pro, but everyone's calling it Offenbach or Germany. I'm just calling it German Pro. Uh, it just helps me remember things better. So, >> should we call it the Ramstein Classic? >> So, not everyone even knows who Ramstein, >> what if you're watching this, you don't know who Ramston is, click it off straight away and never come back. >> Yeah, you're the worst. >> Never darken our doors again. Uh so the last thing I want to mention was uh we had a mandate a few months ago announced by the IFBB Pro League where every athlete who had been inactive for five years or more >> would have to re-qualify to get their pro card. And the first person that we saw do this uh this was over last weekend I think same day as the Italy show was Ronnie Raquel. And he's got to be about 50 years old at this point. I'm thinking >> it's over 50s. He won. >> He's young. Won the over 50s at at an amateur Olympia. >> Yeah, cuz it because obviously the amateur Olympia will be on the Saturday. The pro shows on the Sunday. So they put the events together because obviously the amateurs bring the amount of money that the amateur show brings in almost bloody pays for the pro show. So >> yeah. So, the reason the reason I just find obviously, you know, they're not going to make they're not going to break uh break the rules for him, but just to remember this is Ronnie was at sixth place at the Olympia in 2010. That was his best year. He won >> he's won four pro shows. He was uh top 10 in the Mr. Olympia three times, top 10 in the 212 Olympia once as well. And this was his best best year, 2010, sixth place. Fantastic physique. It's not quite the same anymore as you know, Father Time. He always wins Father Time, but Ronnie uh Ronnie was one of the greats. >> Ron, he beat Lee Priest on home soil night. >> Wow. In Australia. >> It was it two it was I want to say 2006 or 2005. I know two. No, I think Lee won it in 2005 because he beat Cormier and Cormier was upset even though Cormier won it for three years before. >> Yeah. >> And then uh I think Ronnie Raquel came in 2006 and beat him. >> You're right. He won the 2006 Australia Pro. >> That's right. Yeah. >> 2010 European Pro, 2011 European Pro, and the 2014 Ferraro Legacy >> uh which became the the Legion Fest show over time. >> Yeah, he won um he won the 2013 Europe, the one in um Madrid that um MD sent me to. I covered and Roelly was second. Ro was second >> and that was another really really good lineup. He won it there as well. And then he came came back as a 212 because uh the division >> he moved on to 212. He won the New York Pro. He won the Toronto Pro. And he got >> seventh place in Olympia all in 2017. And then we didn't hear from Ronnie Raquel for So what year is this? 2025. So was that nine years? >> Um didn't he win the 2016 Dallas? Because I was at that one. >> I don't have it on the >> I was there. I was there. You won the You won the 212 because I remember I was chatting to John Meadows backstage and John Meadows up close was impressive, but his upper chest was incredible. >> Oh yeah. Yeah. I go to a site called Muscle Memory that stopped updating a few years ago because people weren't donating to it. Okay. >> I should have donated more. Maybe the site would still update. But yeah, it doesn't always have every single win. But yeah, so Ronnie is the first bigname pro from the past who has come back and re-qualified. This is not current. Hang on. >> You're right. His 2014 San Marino. He says it right here. >> Hang on, Ron. >> Yeah. >> Are you Is did he have to re-qualify for his pro card because of the not competing for five years or because he I heard that he guosed or competed with a different federation and they took it off him. >> Oh, I did not know that. >> I think that's what I heard. I'm not sure. I mean, you obviously we read a lot of [\h__\h] online, a lot of [\h__\h] but um I think that's what happened. I heard that he guest posed or competed with a different federation. I think it might have been the NAC possibly and they they basically took it away from him. I don't think this is I don't think they took it away because of the um you've got to re-qualify for your pro card. >> I I might be wrong. I'm hoping obviously people will correct us in the comments, but um I think that's how I understand it anyway. But um if so then what are they how are they going to get this Masters Olympia thing going with any old names? you know, how are they going to get some of the because the idea with the Masters Olympia originally was to get all the great coming back like 20 years later and compete it. But thing is the Masters Olympia to succeed needs kind of needs those names to get the pull surely >> 100%. >> So how are they going to otherwise guys are going to be like well I'm not like I mean just throw a name say like Vince Taylor I know he's too old now but he's not going to go oh I really want to do the Masters Olympia again and win that. Oh I've got to go get my pro card again and go through all that again. I I just don't see how I don't see how that is conducive because the end of the Masters Olympia is going to benefit from having names that, you know, uh from 10 years ago that come out of retirement that maybe just slightly into their late 40s or early 50s that have the potential to still look pretty good. Um do you see what I'm do you see what I'm getting at? >> Oh, 100%. I mean, and I I got some flak for not covering the Masters Olympia because it was the same weekend as Texas. >> Oh, come on. >> There just wasn't a lot of interested. I wasn't that interested. There's a few guys I was rooting for, but the lineup did not have big names. I mean, we've had if we had Brandon Curry in it, William Bonak, if Roland Roly would come back. >> Yeah, >> Victor. I mean, there that would have brought a lot of excitement and notoriety, I would have covered it then. >> Hang on, Rob. What's your dream Masters Olympia lineup? Victor Martinez, Kamal, Sergio, Brandon, >> Phil Kai, >> Phil Clayar, Bonak. >> No, Phil Heath. >> Oh, okay. Okay. Yeah. I mean, we're talking about a dream, like a dream. >> I'm assuming. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Phil Heath. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Phil Heath. Kai. I mean, obviously just say like a sponsor came and says, "Right, I'm gonna throw a million dollars of I mean, you know, literally what we said like, okay, there's a million dollars on the table. You But, you know, this is hope because, you know, that's going to attract the big names then because Phil and Kai ain't coming out of retirement for 20k, mate." >> No. I mean, I don't even know if they've come out for 100k. I don't think that would do it. >> I thought Kamal was going to do it though because it looked like he was getting in shape. I was watch I follow his Instagram. I was comment cuz I some good friends with I've known him for like 20 28 years. >> Yeah. >> And I was I was thinking, "Oh, he's geared up for something now because, you know, he's he's obviously want to, you know, he's going to shave off that awful beard and he's going to um he's going to hate. It looks like a terrorist beard. Looks awful. Say that. >> Sorry. Sorry. I'm feeling very unpolitically correct at the moment. I've been watching too I've been watching too much Ricky Jace." >> Ricky. Well, guys, that's that's Tiger sense of humor. Don't take it too personally. >> Yeah. So, uh I'm excited about this show even though I I kind of see the same outcome. I see Urs winning again. >> Uh I don't think he's going to look any worse. I think he's going to get better and I don't I don't know if it's if it's possible for Quint to look better. I don't know if his body is going to cooperate. I'd be you know, we love being proved wrong. I'd love to see Quint show up looking wow, holy crap. And just blow the show away. That'd be great. That'd be a because Urs is already qualified for the Olympia. He doesn't need this win. >> It's a shame he can't pull out really in. And I I because I want to see him I'd love to see I mean I I personally, you know, I would want to see a little bit sharper. Say two or three pound this week. Comes in even better than he was last week. More fully confident, you know, because he knows now how good he is as an open. You know, he's bursting for the confidence. The crowd's going to be going the home crowd's going to be going absolutely ballistic for him. I'd love to see him maybe just sit this one out ideally, you know, to give somebody else a chance to qualify because this is the last chance to qualify. Rob, >> true. I I I agree with all that, but I think the German fans would be so so upset. >> Yeah, >> they're way they're so I mean I'm there's so many posts like they're in German. I don't know what they're saying, but they're clearly very very excited about coming to Offenbach his home. >> And is a genuine superstar in Germany. I mean, he is a like I know he's got the the large followers, but we we know, let's be honest, we know loads of guys with loads of followers that that can go to even a bodybuilding show and, you know, maybe have three people want a picture with him. That's the real superstars of the industry, you know, are the C bums and the, you know, but guys like, I mean, he's he's he's got a legit fan base, like an absolute fan base that are really like Nick Walker, do you know what I mean? Those old Hadty fans and they're just absolute it's like a religion to them. >> Oh, 100%. I mean, and I I I'm all that that's why I I don't, as much as I would like to see someone else get the qualification, not in a million years would I expect Urs to sit this one out. He even said in his story, I think he he he had a rundown of the reasons. Yeah. Why? Why could he not compete in Germany? It's my hometown. German crowd is a 10 out of 10. More data to collect to bring a better package. >> Yeah. Yeah. No, I totally No, I totally get it. I just on one hand, I I'm I want to see it, you know. I'll be happy for him if he wins. I'll be like, "Yeah, it is." But a part of me wants to see somebody else qualify purely because it's the last qualifier, man. >> Yeah, I get that. I get that. But you know what? We don't want that. We don't want too many people on the Olympic stage anyway. We're so snobby like that. >> And he ain't going to be pigging out celebrating and then come in and get fifth place, is he? That's never going to happen. >> No, no, no. You know, I was wrong. Ron Harris, when I when I did my video about the point system coming back, it's not back for open. >> Yeah. It's only back for the divisions that had 25 or more shows, uh, which was bikini, men's physique, classic physique, and wellness. >> Bloody good idea, isn't it? The way they the way they structured that is absolute genius. And I bet I bet Jake Wood's checkbook is sign is signing a big sigh of relief right now because they have to all hotels and flights and per DM, you know, the was it 75 or $100 a day they get or something. I don't know whe they still do that. They did years ago. >> They should. Um but um you know that's going to be that's going to be a way off this plus for the judges. I mean imagine judging I mean thing is it was climbing and climbing and thing is like we we've seen 60 in the classic. Who's to say with all the classic shows that's not going to go even higher? >> I think there were over 90 shows to qualify for the Olympia in classic physique this year. >> Yeah. Bikini was up there too. >> 90 >> 90 a staggering amount. >> They need to bump up the sanctioning fees. >> Probably could be like a good idea. Well done, Charles. >> You can prove it. Of course, I can prove it. But let's see. So, the schedule >> I believe you. I believe. >> I mean, there'll be a couple that'll be winning more than one show, but I mean, that's still that literally as soon as those shows are laid out, you know that you've got a problem at the Olympia then. >> So, let's let's just see how whether I was wrong again. Wrong Harris. Okay, you can see it now. So, >> I'm not counting them, mate. >> No, I'm not. at the at the bottom it'll say they're not all qualifiers. Some of them are for like master shows, >> right? Okay. >> And some were natural, but there are 99 and some of them are post Olympia. >> So, they're not all Olympia qualifiers, but there are 99 classic shows this year, >> 2025 alto together. >> I bet you they put I bet they put put up the sanction phase as a way to mitigate the the amount of shows. But then again, I suppose they've done this point system now thing for the Olympia. So, I suppose problem solved, isn't it? I bet they reagonized over this. I bet they went back and forth back and forth trying to fix this because I like I personally even though we used to complain about the point system when it went I was kind of like oh actually I quite liked it. >> Yeah. I mean it was fun because it's it's only five more guys. It's not like it was sending 30 more guys to the Olympia. Top five in the point standings. And there was that sense of excitement where you'd look every week after a show who went up and down the who's the top five now because it would change all the time. And you didn't know until the very end of the season until the three four weeks before the Olympia when the qual the last qualifier was held, who was actually going to go? >> So let's let's hypothetically look at it. If they did the point system for the Olympia this year, >> yeah, >> who throughout the year would now be going to the Olympia because of the point system? Who can we definitely say who's had Quint? Quint would be one. >> Yeah, Quint would be one. >> I was I would I would have said Sasan, but but he went and won two shows. >> Yeah. Yeah. True. True. See, he wouldn't have had to have done six shows, but then again, it's good for the promoter to have these athletes in their shows. So, there's there's there's there's there's plus and minuses for all these points, man. >> Yeah. I can't think of Is there anyone else that had a lot of really strong showings? >> I can't think of it, but I'm sure there are. Sassan was a Sasan's a good one because like I said he was he just kept going and going and going and going >> but in the in the past he wouldn't have had to do that. >> You know he probably would have gotten because I think it was three or four three or four shows prior to that he was second and third. >> Yeah. >> So he would have got it. >> He would have picked up a load of points but um like I said but the thing is if you really really want it you'll keep going and going and going into like a Sassan like that's why Sassan I think is really his stock and his and his fan base is really remember when like Samson went to Korea you know and I I interviewed him several times. I said, "Sam, I said you don't really." I said, "You got to look at the positives, mate." I said, "Even if you've got more fan support and you've got more interest and more kind of people talking about you from being second in Korea than if you'd have won and gone to the Olympia and probably didn't make top 10 that year, >> 20%." >> So, sometimes you got to look at the there sometimes, you know, sort of um good things can come from bad situations, you know, on the certainly on the on the out on the outset, you know, the on the outside looking in, that's how that's how it can look. But um yeah, so >> I mean and in terms of fan popular popularity with the fans and building a fan base sometimes getting second where it's very controversial >> tremendously boosts your fan support. >> I agree. >> Nick Walker went from a lot of people after the last Olympia a lot of people didn't they were Nick talker and Nick Nick sucks he's done. As soon as that Pittsburgh show was over >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Dude, I I guarantee you Walker Nation had a substantial increase in its numbers. >> Very good point. Very good point. I mean, like, you know, because I think we all we all knew who won Pittsburgh. >> Yeah. And everyone's rooting for Nick to to at least to be second. I hear a lot of people saying Samson, Nick, Hottie, Derek. >> That's my top four. That's my top. >> Yeah. I mean, a lot That's >> a year ago, would people have had Nick as high as second at the Olympia this year in their predictions? No. No way. >> No. I mean, as the year's gone on, I mean, I'll I could write it down and post it and after the Olympia and say, "Look, you know, there's the date. This is what I thought." I'll put on the group chat so we've got a timeline so I can prove it because like my my my opinion's um changing quite a bit as the year's gone on >> as they can. You know what? We don't have to People get mad when we change our opinions, but that's that's what an opinion is. You can change an opinion. >> It's not set in stone. So, all right. Well, we've been going for a while. It's been a power hour and 20 minutes almost. So check out >> now. I'm exhausted. >> Yeah, probably. >> Oh [\h__\h] I want lunch. >> Okay, well time for lunch. So thank you, Giles. Uh guys, I'll be doing some coverage Sunday of the Italy show. So please keep your notifications on. Check that out. And uh also don't forget tomorrow night, 700 p.m. Eastern is the very first episode of the Meatthead podcast. We're going to go live. It's going to be myself and Big Mike Cox. And our panelists for the very first show are Lee Priest, EP09, and Leo Marhoffer. Leo is Austrian Powers on Instagram. Leo was Ursa's first coach, and he turned pro. So, he's going to have some really good insights on on Earth, Leo. So, look forward to that. Tomorrow night at 7, guys, please join us live 7 PM Eastern. It's going to be a good time. >> I wasn't cool enough to be invited. Uh, I I can't in my heart of hearts I can't say. I know it's gonna be a midnight one in the morning, but come on, Giles. >> No, no. I I EP09, he he invited me on with him and Lee Priest the other week, and that was like a midnight one, and I was like, man, it's just I I don't want to say yes. And then, you know, I don't want to let people down. I like to be 100% reliable, you know, because that's that's very important to me. So, yeah, midnight, I don't think I'm going to be like my night time. I only have an hour or two when I get back from the gym and I'm candles on and cats and Lauren and stuff, you know, and chilling Netflix and stuff. So, I don't that to me is like really really kind of like private time. So, >> Oh, I mean, we're we're we're older guys. I mean, I'm on a if I'm not in bed by 11, I'm just I'm just miserable. >> I don't want to be up that late. >> Yeah. Oh, I finished uh finished Gangs of London last night. I think you Americans will love that. >> Oh, okay. Might check. >> Very good. It's on Netflix. Check it out. Um very very very good. Very brutal. It's Gareth Evans. You know who did The Raid? Yeah, >> Gareth really good fight scenes and stuff. Gav, check it out, guys. It's absolutely brutal. And that and if you like the old the old gangster stuff, you want to watch Kin. It's Irish. It's got some very very f you know, the guy who plays Daredevil. >> Oh, yeah. Uhhuh. >> Charlie Cox, he's in it as well because he's he's got a really like thick Irish accent. That's very good as well. So, check that out if you like if you like drugs and gangsters and stuff. >> For the horror fans, I want to steer you guys away. If you if you haven't seen The Conjuring: Last Life, >> stay away. It sucks. It was awful. >> No. No. Oh, I can't believe you said that, Ron. I heard it. Oh, I really want to see that, mate. I heard it's okay. I heard it's good. >> No, it was terrible. Terrible. >> Oh, the first one in the Enfield Road one. That was They were brilliant films. >> I was so disappointed. I was like, "Oh, no. I was waiting for it to get better and it never did." It's got some jump scares. It's got some, you know, it's got some of the typical elements, but god h what a what a what a terrible way for the conjuring the it's, you know, there it has other Annabelle franchise and the nun, but this is the last conjuring movie with Ed and Lorraine. >> Yeah, that's what I heard. It was a terrible way to send it off. >> I I managed to get I managed to get it halfway through one of the um the Exorcist films. Not not the classic original that still stands up today. Still that still terrifies me. But the one where they're out in the middle the Middle East or something and it's the Scars Guards, you know, the the guy. Yeah. He's in it. I mean, it was terri I got about halfway through. I was like, I'm going to really stick because I was by myself and Lauren was away. I was like, I'm really going to watch this. I'm really going to watch it. And it was just the CGI was like I mean, you could do better on your phone. It was so bad. And the acting was so bad. it and you know when films just don't get going. I just thought I'm not willing to invest any more of my life into this because this is and it just because you know that it's going to attract it's like um remember that sequel to Blair Witch and it was like with actors. >> Oh, I like that. >> Blair Witch 2, Book of Secrets. >> It was terrible. >> Book of Shadows. Book of Shadows. >> Oh [\h__\h] >> I liked it. >> I watched it in the cinema and I was like, "What was that? How dare they put the Blair Witch name on it?" Like sometimes when they do that and they they know that e like they slap that name on it, you know that that that classic like you know like Evil Dead or something like that. You they know that they they um uh Chainsaw Massacre. They know that people are going a certain amount of people are going to watch it so it's profitable even if it's terrible. >> Yeah. And uh what was the I guess just to end the Exorcist thing. Exorcist 3 is excellent. I've seen it probably 20 times. >> I I might go rewatch that. I might go rewatch that. >> Exorcist 2 was awful. the prequel that you just described with Bill Scarsgard. Awful. But actually one is the is the the GOAT and number three is excellent as well. So there you go. All right, enough movie talk, guys. We're going to wrap it up. Thanks for watching. Thank you, Jles, for taking the time. And uh again, join me tomorrow night on the Meithead podcast, Wednesday night, September 10th, 7 p.m. And of course, Sunday for the Ital, not Italy, German, the German pro coverage. That's it. Thanks for joining us. Are vegans allowed on your meatthead podcast? >> They can if they really want to. I don't. >> There's no vethead. >> Well, if you're a bodybuilder, but there's not too many vegan bodybuilders. >> You don't have they basically they struggle even getting out of bed because they're so weak. >> We can have that argument another time. >> Let's go to >> All right guys, thank you so much for watching everyone. We will see you on power hour next