 So well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well well It's like nine days away at this point. And tell me the rest of the story so I don't have to set it up. Right. I want to caveat something because I don't want you to take the hit for this one because I've agonized over this last night from receiving the pictures to contacting you last night on WhatsApp. Basically, because I've been voice noting Kamal back and forth, you know, just basically, you know, so we can give updates on the Power Hour and, you know, because obviously he's a friend of mine. I'm good friends with Andrew now as well. I'm touring with him, doing two tours very soon. So, but at the same time, I don't like to bombard them with messages. But Kamal's been very generous. He's been sending, like, really detailed voice notes back in return. So anyway, we were doing text and voice notes yesterday. We sat watching TV. I was just having my steak and sweet potato before I went to the gym. And then he called me at the blue. And I thought, oh, well, I was thinking my heart sank actually. I was thinking, oh, shit, what's happened? And he basically, we were on the phone for a good, like, 45 minutes. And he was kind of, you could see he was trying to almost, like, contain his excitement. He was trying to be sort of, like, guarded. He didn't want to give too much away. And then I think halfway through the conversation, he just gave in. And he said, and all of a sudden he thinks that he said, Giles, have a look at what I've just sent you. He said, but look, he said, it's fine to send to one or two friends. He said, but please, please don't post these anywhere. And I was like, hang on a minute. Have you just sent me updated pictures of Andrew? You know, I was like, and he said, yeah, yeah. And I was like, holy shit. So, but they were really zoomed out. So I had to really zoom in. And my reaction was like, I was like, oh, my God. Like, you know, everything we want to happen, everything we've kind of, you know, we've speculated that might happen, you know, like the, like when Ronnie started working with Chad Nichols and the magic started happening. That final piece of the puzzle where everything just works synergistically. And it just, it was just that one thing they needed, that right team, you know, like when, like Rami in 2020, when he finally went over to work with Dennis James and he got rid of all that, the hangers on and it was just him and Dennis in camp DJ. You know, just something where they just, there's something, there's not holding them back from achieving their full potential, but there's just something missing that, you know, and obviously, you know, since he's been working with Kamal, we saw what he did in Romania. We saw what he did. I mean, they didn't really, there was a little bit of difference at Olympia. So anyway, so we sent me the picture and I was just like, oh my God. I was like, I was so excited. So, but then he started sending me more as the conversation went on. And I was like, holy shit, mate. Cause he was sending me different angles, you know? And I was like, what about the back? What about the back? And he sent me like one from the couple from the side, which I'll send to you now. So I just thought, okay, so how can I not betray his trust? But also I can't really keep these to myself completely without, but I want to find it. I wanted to find a way where I could do it, where I could kind of keep everyone happy, but also kind of get the word out. Cause I'm really, this is going to really build hype for the Yarno classic because I'm telling you what, I mean, I'm hoping that you'll have the same sort of reaction because I was super impressed and I was everything. Like I said, we've wanted to happen for me, for what I saw yesterday, it is happening. So I've got, what I want to do is I want to send you the pictures one by one live on here on, on WhatsApp. Now I want to get your reaction, genuine reaction. I don't want to fake it. I don't want to, you know, over egg the pudding, but I, I want, I think you're going to see some of, some of the, you know, some of the effects of the kind of training that come on. And also I want to give Kamal some real credit here because what he's done, I mean, he's, he said to me, he said some days, I mean, he rang me, he said, Charles, I'm just leaving the gym and it's at four o'clock. He said, he'd been at the gym since 10 AM because he trains himself first. Then he, then, and then when he finishes training, Andrew comes in and then he trains Andrew. And he like literally every set he said, Charles, I'm even putting the bike, the guy's bloody weights away. And he said, he's a strong old, he's a strong boy, you know? So I was thinking, so basically I, I really want, I want Kamal to get a lot of appreciation and acknowledgement for what he's doing for Kamal here. And also for all us bodybuilding fans, because I'm telling you, if, if he holds onto 95 or 90% of what I was seeing in these pictures next week, I just think it's going to be, I think it's going to be quite a groundbreaking moment for, it's going to be like when, you know, like when Ronnie came out at the night of champions in 98, when he made all those improvements or also, also, I know people give them the honey Rambod shit saying he's only ever worked with champions when they were champions and they've got great genetics. He's never worked with somebody with lousy genetics. I think, I think when honey Rambod worked with Bumstead in 2021 slash 22, I was at the 22 at two Olympia. And for me, when I thought Bumstead couldn't get any better, like he, he, that year he worked with honey, he went to another level. I mean, do you remember, do you remember the back shots? Remember when he had the, yeah, it was in one, it was like one year and it didn't even look like the same bodybuilder. And you think, well, what's the thing that's changed? What's the only thing that's changed? He started worse than training. So I think it's really important to give credit to these guys when they do something and they put so much of their time, energy and expertise into helping these athletes. And it just, and it gives so much to the sport. So guys, if you're annoyed, but you can't show the pictures, but you can see Ron's reaction. And also Ron, once you've done it, I want you to delete them. I know. Yeah. So I'm, I mean, listen, I mean, I've had so much shit thrown at me this year. I mean, it's just, it's water for ducks back to me now. So I just thought I've got to find a way that we can kind of get the word out without, you know, without betraying someone, you know, someone who's, I've been friends with since 1997. And I love and respect very much. Come on. I love the guy. So, but I just want to, I want to send these to you. So I'm going to send them in the same order that I received them. So, yeah. So this is the first one and I've cropped them for you as well, but just, just tell me your thoughts. Tell me, and also, and also go through what you, you know, like the effects of that kind of training, what it's done to his physique, because for me, it's difficult for me to say, I mean, I think he's added, I'll say one thing. I think he's added real density, which on a guy with that frame, because I think with, with Andrew, he's always had a great frame, the wide shoulders, white clavicles, the small waist. Remember I showed you that picture of when he was younger and I said, who's this guys? And it was a young Andrew Jack. You could see he had that, you know, the, the crazy stuff. He's got the beautiful muscle bellies, the tiny insertions, you know, the thin wrists and it just, so yeah. So I'll stop talking. Yeah. Come on. Come on, Giles. Yeah, let's go. Right. I'm actually nervous. I think I've had too much caffeine as well. Yeah. So that's the first one. Okay. So we've got a hands class, most muscular. So, okay. What we're, what I'm looking at, can I, can I show it like this? Can I flip over the phone for a second? A little bit. Yeah. Go on. Tiny bit. They'll be zooming in, mate. They'll be zooming in. So I do see a difference in the quality of it. He, he just has a, a density to the muscles. Uh, the people saying oil, oil, oil, when they see these pictures, if these pictures get posted, they're going to stop talking about oil because I'm seeing so much detail, so much separation in the shoulders and the arms. I could see separation between the biceps, the brachialis, the brachialis. Yeah. The bracket thing is, I'm sorry to, he had that in Romania and that was from work. Cause I'm going to meet that most muscular. I was like, where that, he never had that before. And you can't get that from injecting or whatever. Like that comes from hard training and precise training and, uh, targeted training. Now I did ask, the one thing I'll say is I did ask Kamala, I said, do you know what he's weighing? And he said, I think, he said, I don't know for certain as he, as he, I'm assuming he hasn't seen him stood on a scale. He said, cause he, cause he communicates. He said, he speaks to Chris Asito about three, four, five times a day. Like literally they, they, cause Chris Asito said that he said, um, uh, Kamala said, you're, you're helping me sleep at night now. He said, because the pressure this close to a big show with, with an athlete, the caliber of Andrew, he said, the feedback you're giving me is giving me so much peace of mind because it means I can do my job better. I'm worrying less. He says, and we can make adjustments. Sorry. So he said three 10. Wow. Yeah. So he won't, he was, what was he at the Olympia? Do you know? Uh, I know I heard two 96 in Romania. Okay. So that was the bigger version. So I think he was up, he was up a few pounds from the Olympia. It's not about body weight, but I mean, this is just, you know, we, we saw guys like Ronnie go to that next level over time. We saw a lot of the guys, like I was thinking even Phil Heath didn't come out of the, it took Phil Heath a few pro seasons to become the Phil Heath. It was unbeatable. Yeah. So I think we're seeing that now. This is Andrew entering that, that stage of his career where it might be, it might be a case soon where nobody is, nobody is able to beat this guy. Not Samson, hottie, Martin, Nick, nobody, but yeah, I'm looking at the quads are nice. Obviously separated. See some good cross trations on that, on that outer head of the quad, all the way up from the bottom to the top of the list. Yeah. Send me another picture. Another one. So just, and what's the one thing I like? Stripey delts. And he's got them. Yeah. And they're bigger, but they're actually more detailed as well. So that tells you that, that comes from quality, hard, heavy, consistent, quality training. That comes from quality training. Cause like, to me, he's, he's taking on more of like a three dimensional look now. Yeah. It's like, it's like, he's, he's, he's always been wide, but some guys, you know, the wide guys, when they turn to the side, they're like, uh, you know, they, they, they go a bit like that. They're like a plank, you know? Um, but he's, for me now, I'll show you the other shots, but he's getting more like proper density now, like, like that branch Warren, that fullness and density. And I'll show you the next shot. But also, um, I mean, I'd like to see his legs get a bit dry, but you know, this is probably like what two, two weeks out. So I'm not expecting his legs to be bone dry. And I said to Kamal, I said, Kamal, I said, the one thing that I said, you're going to be able to hold onto those legs because we've, I've seen pictures of him two or three days. I, Andrew sent them to me like before the Arnold, was it last year? Uh, cause his legs looked a bit like, like stringy that last year's Arnold. So I said to him, you know, and he said, so basically I said, you know, you've added a lot of density there and like sort of, you know, depth to the legs. Are you going to be able to hold onto that? So that was my main, that was my main thing. But, and also what about the forum? Cause if people criticize him for forums, it looks like he's got decent forums. Yeah. There's one guy, every, every video that I make where Andrew's mentioned, he goes on a long post about, his calves shouldn't even be allowed on the Olympia stage or the Arnold stage. Cause his forearms and calves are so skinny. Granted his forearms look good. He's got his hands like at this angle. I don't know what they're going to look like with his arms up, but his calves, his calves are enormous. And also, you know, you can't see the midsection in this picture, but you'll see it in the, in the next one. Hang on. I like, I quite like doing this actually. I think it's quite good. Cause it's, it's, it's as a fan, even though I'm frustrated watching now that I wouldn't be able to see the pictures, I'd be quite excited to know that, you know, you've got two guys that recognize and know this guy's physique inside out. Okay. Next one. Oh, sorry. That's send. Okay. Next picture. Okay. Now I'm looking at an ab and thigh shot guys. Zoom in guys. Zoom in. So this has always been a good pose for him. Let me see. I need to expand it. I think it goes directly into my camera roll. So that's where I'll have to be deleting these from. Please. Please. We've got to, we've got to, I don't want to get into trouble. Okay. So here we go. Now it's on my phone. Yeah. Tight abs. Arms look ridiculous. So full and round in that shot. Quads. Quads look good. I don't like the way his, he's, his legs are a little bit too far apart for my taste in that pose. But I, I do like the, the deep cuts in the quads. Separation. I mean, unless we have, unless Hattie Choupon pulls a rabbit out of the hat and comes in looking better than we've ever seen him. I just, I don't see anybody beating this. That's, that's what, that's the $6 million question, mate. I don't think Hattie's going to beat this, mate. In fact, in fact, I actually think if Martin comes in, I was thinking about this this morning while I was making breakfast. I was thinking if Hattie, sorry, if Martin comes in as good or even one or 2% better than he was in Prague, I actually think he has the potential to beat Hattie. Oh, I do, but he's not beating this. Yeah. No, I honestly, because I think, you know, you, you think about this and don't forget, like this is, I said to Kamal, I said, Kamal, this isn't a guy that's five foot eight or five foot seven. This is a guy who's six foot two. Yeah. You know, this is like, and there is something about when you see those guys and they've got this tight waistline and they've got the condition and the separation, and they're not missing anything. There's something that your eye is just naturally drawn to. You're just going to look over those other guys. I mean, Hattie is incredible. I just don't see him beating this mate. I don't. Cause the thing is, I want to see his legs a little bit leaner because to me, his quants look like in the condition they were in Romania. Yeah. They could be drier. It could be. Yeah. So he's got two weeks, you know, you can do a lot in two weeks. So I think, I think right now he's exactly where he needs to be. The body fat levels look really good for me. Um, so, but, um, I think I, I'd be very happy in terms of his, his, his conditioning, you know? So, so hang on. And, uh, okay. Next one. Yeah. Excited. Okay. So we have photo number three. Ah, the famous double bicep shot. Wow. Double bicep, double bicep. Yeah. That's, that's his money shot. Nobody beats him in this pose. Looking crazy. He's, he's looking like Romania size, but I think he's going to come in Romania size, but tighter with the condition. That's all I want. If he could be as conditioned as he was at the Olympia, or maybe a, a, even a one, 2% better with finals, the finals finals, but the fullness that he had when he won Romania, that that's unbeatable. Uh, unless somebody else gets way better than they've ever been. But this is a, this is an insane shot. This front double bicep, but look at, look at the chest. His chest is thick now. Like he's, he's always had a pretty good chest, but it like in the front double bicep, you can see he's actually got proper density and, and fullness and thickness there. Well, the thing is that suppose that if you don't have a, don't have a lot of thickness and density in the chest, it goes away when you put your arm, it lifts up. Yeah. It disappears. Doesn't it? It vanishes, but it looks like now he's holding onto, like, cause he's added so much like sort of dense, dense muscle, you know, which you, you know, and, um, I mean, Kamal said, he said, he said, he said, he's, you know, he said, he does train hard. He says, but when I'm with him, he says, I make sure he's nothing on the table. Like he said, I said, I watch every single repetition that guy does. He said, I make sure everything is absolute maximum. He said, you know, he's, um, he said, he's really, you know, he said, just at the end of the sessions, he said, I'm exhausted. He said, cause I'm really like so engaged. He said, I'm not sort of putting this point. So I'm just looking around and checking his phone when he's doing this. Set. Like he's really, he's really, uh, he's really sort of paying attention, close attention. So, yeah, no, this is, I think it's like too much, because I want to get, I don't, I don't want to get in trouble. I know. I don't want Kamala, Kamala breaking off a friendship of 20 years over this. No, that's it. You got, you got another one for me? 30, 30, 29, 29. Yep. 29. And then this is the last two now, the last two. Now, this is the one that for me shows the, the, the kind of the, the density. Okay. So this is sort of a three quarter. It's not really a pose. He's just standing upright. And Kamala's got him sort of from the back at a three quarter angle. Yeah. He's not flexing at all. Yeah. Just totally relaxed. You could see, you could still see glute. You can tell he's not flexing his glutes yet. You can still see striations running down the bottom of the glute there. But like for me, I looked at like the, the, the, the roundness of the lats, the rear delts, the traps, like it looks like even when you've relaxed, then you can really see how much kind of density and actually, you know, sort of qualities added, you know? So, right. It's the last one now. Yeah. Yeah. So, but this, I like, I love this shot. This is a good shot. Don't show, don't, don't show too much. Don't show too much. Yep. So this is what he's worked. He's sitting like when you're about to go into a side chest. Yeah. The transition there. Delts look incredibly full tries. Yeah, guys, this is a, I'm so sorry, guys. I apologize profusely. I can't show you these, but he's looking insane. This is a, this is that next level. He's, that's what we kept saying is Hottie is maxed out. Hottie is phenomenal. And all champion, incredible, not taking a thing away from him, but he hit his full potential a few years ago. And we're seeing Andrew, who's only in his fourth pro season, two, three, four, five. I'm sorry. This is, he's starting his fifth pro season, I guess, because he turned pro four years ago at the Arnold, but we're seeing him make the improvements and get up, stepping up a level over time. And I think he's, he's entering that, that era of his prime. It took a few years. I mean, think this guy's only been competing for four years. That's it. Yeah. I mean, in fact, it's the Hottie. I mean, he was around many, many years as an amateur. Cause I remember Kamal showing me pictures of when him and when Kamal, when Hottie was a middleweight. And cause you couldn't even recognize Hottie, you'd have to recognize the shape, you know? And, but the thing is, Hottie had a long amateur career. So he was kind of good right out of the gate. When we saw him in 20 or 17, as a, you know, as a two 12, we saw him in Korea. He was good straight away. I mean, many people think he should have beaten, you know, Flex Lewis at that famous career show, you know, and I, and I feel he should have won the open in, against Cedric Millen at the, at the San Marino 2017. So he was good straight away and he's maintained that. And he's brought a lot of different looks. So for him to even maintain that level of excellence, and he has got bigger, he has developed his physique. I mean, in 2022, when he won it, he was 10, but he wasn't quite as hard, but he was full, thick, dense, you know, he had that kind of, you know, like what we're seeing now in like, in Andrew's shoulders and chest and everything. It's like, he's getting that real, you know, the sort of, you know, that sort of that extra, that extra, extra layer of kind of thickness and density and sort of, you know, that sort of, there's just that extra little bit that will take you to that very, very top level, you know? So what, what, what do you think, Ron? I mean, if he's going to be better than he was in Romania, in terms of, even if he's only a couple pounds, if he's like one pound more muscle, he doesn't even really need it. But the Romania look with a little better condition, it's lights out. I don't see anybody beating him. So, so, so let's say for argument, say he was 296 as reported in Romania and say, he is in those photos that we're looking at now. I've just shown you today, 310. What do you think, what would you see? What would you see him coming on stage? I could see him coming on like a good nine, 10 pound heavier than Romania. So you say it was 296 in Romania. Yeah. And he's got to carve up as well. Cause I know it obviously one, you know, when you carve up and dry out, sometimes the body weight just kind of, holds, you know, you dry out, you carve up, you're filling full of glycogen, you know, you lose pounds of water, but then you gain the glycogen. I mean, I've had it where I've, where I've been carving up and now my body weight drops and then it goes back up again. And, you know, over a period of like four or five days. So, so I, if I, if he is 310, I mean, you know, it's not, I mean, that's basically what we can only go on what we're going on. I could see him. I could see him being, I can see him being a legit 300 pound with a waistline that looks like something off a bloody men's physique competitor. Yeah. Yeah. That's a fair, that's a fair guess. I mean, 300, 298 to 302. Let's give him that range somewhere in there. I mean, look at the, like compare that up and side to the up and side I've just shown you. It looks like he looks a lot bigger now. Yeah. I mean, he's, I don't know how much weight he's put on, but you know, muscle, muscle density gives the illusion of more size because you have more detail in the muscle. Yeah. Of course, sometimes guys wait, an athlete's weight might not even change from year to year for a while, but they have a very different look. Sure. They got that detail. Cause it's like a, it's like a fine cut, a raw diamond versus a fine cut diamond. You know, there's just so much more details to catch your eye in the, in the diamond cut. Well, well, Sean Ray over that 13 year pro career, his body weight was pretty much always around what 205, wasn't it? Yeah. But he, he got better over those years. I mean, you look at him in 94 and 96 and compare him to like 1990, 91, he was a much better bodybuilder, but the scale might have not shown anything different. Right. I mean, you can say the same about guys like Labrata, a lot of the, a lot of those guys that were in that weight, that range. Yeah. Well, Flex Lewis, I mean the, the two 12 guys and a lot of the classic guys, you know, they, you know, the classic guys now, you know, they, they, they're like bump step was probably the limit when he made those improvements. And he was the year before, but you know, they, you can, you can improve a physique with your body weight, not actually change. You can come in harder and just different. Like you said, density can give an illusion of creating, you know, looking like you put 20 pound on just because you've, you've, you know, you started to like, like Dorian had that, like Dorian, even at the body weight, he was always looked, he had just a different look to his physique compared to like, you compare like see Dorian Yates to like Paul DeLette. They had a different type of muscle. It just looked different. Yeah. I agree. All right. Right. You want to talk about hottie for a little bit? We haven't, we haven't mentioned. Yes. Yeah. Cause okay, Ron, cause I'm, I'll be honest. I've been going back and forth. I've been putting all the time and going back and forth with people. And I, I'm kind of seeing very strong arguments from both sides, but I'm still, as it goes on, I'm getting more and more confused. So I wonder if you can clarify, you know, it's just, it's getting really confusing. Cause I don't know, I don't know which side I'm sitting on because I'm kind of flip flopping and I'm seeing very good arguments come from both sides, but I don't know. So it's hard to get a handle on what actually has happened, whether it's justified or I just, I'm really confused, mate. What's your feelings? Well, I mean, I was, I've been talking to a gentleman in Iran and I, he wanted to tell, he wanted to talk to me, but he wouldn't do, he won't do it on the rec. He won't do it on camera. I said, what if we could play your, uh, go on WhatsApp and I could just have your audio. He's like, no, no, they're, they're terrified over there of their government. Absolutely terrified of what their government's going to do and reprisals for anyone that, cause he was going to let me know exactly what the situation is with how the government is oppressing and murdering their own people right now. He was terrified. He wouldn't do, he still would be willing to do it as long as I'm not recording anything. And I would just have to take notes or anything, but the problem is that this guy, this poor guy, Hottie, I say poor guy, because when has anyone had to literally hide away while they were preparing for the biggest show in the world? He's in the USA at a secret location. We don't know where in America, not even in Iran. You can see, you can understand if it was in Iran, but he's in America now to give like undisclosed locations. Yeah. So this is the gym. Cause he's posted, he's posted a couple of videos now, uh, Instagram stories. Nobody knows what this gym is. It's some drab. It's got all the weights he needs in there, but it's not a big, I don't think it's a big name gym. It could be anywhere. He might be in Ohio for all we know. He might be in Florida, Las Vegas. You know, there's no way of him. I've heard speculation that the, uh, Arnold people are keeping him in Columbus and they've got security on him. I've heard, I've heard others speculate that he's staying with flex Lewis, but clearly he's not staying in a, he's not training at the dragon's lair. It might be a, it might be a private gym. It might be somebody's home gym because like, I don't see any people in that gym. I mean, it's, I don't, it's like, I mean, that is very, that's drastic to think that he's actually like his safety is in question. Cause if that's a, I mean, that isn't, that's not a private gym. Is it? That looks like a, that looks like an actual commercial gym. It's so my theory, I still have no idea where this is. I, I, I did a live show and people started speculating, but every time I pulled up the gym, it didn't match the way the wall looks. So that's what I'm going on. Some, some off white wall with red stripes. Maybe we shouldn't. No, I mean, he's his, his life is in danger. There are people, there are Iranians in the USA who are so upset with him that I've heard they're threatening with violence or worse. So this poor guy, they're going to have very tight security, extra security details. Arnold. I wonder if he's even going to be at that meet the competitors event that they do every Thursday night, because doubt it, doubt it. You know, if so, they're going to have to go screen everybody with metal detectors when they walk in. Cause you know, who, I can't imagine what a horrible scenario would be. If something, somebody actually tried to or successfully harms this champion bodybuilder right before he's going to go on, you know, the day before he's going to take the stage. You know, and they'll spray with acid and all sorts. I mean, imagine if somebody went up to him and, you know, cause a metal, you know, a bottle of acid could get through a metal detector, you know, somebody, I mean, it's just, it doesn't bear thinking about, you know, that guy, that, that, what was it called? Somali lady, the politician guy sprayed it with a syringe. And luckily, I don't think it was anything dangerous in there, but it could have been. Do you know what I mean? He could have sprayed her right in the face. Oh, it's just so, and I mean, just the fact all he wants to do is compete. So let's, let's break it down. Now I understand that it's like, it's some, it's like the Germans didn't know about a lot about the Holocaust, the German people, they found out after the war was over, you know, so you could say the Germans supported Hitler and the Nazi party because they're only fed the information that they know. So I'm just thinking like he said, he's there, people are saying he supports the government. He's been on TV. And apparently that, because I heard that it was an old, old dancing on, on, on sort of this, some chain thing or something. It's like, is that, is that old? Is it new? And when you say you support a government, like I could support a government, but then if I found out the next day, you know, if I was part of say like, you know, part of that party, I was a member or something. And then you find out the next day, they've just gone and killed 10 to 1000 people. I kind of probably wouldn't support that party anymore. But if he then sees that, I mean, maybe, maybe he had friends and family as part of those, you know, so, so if then he then, if then, you know, like I say, friends and family are part of that, what is he supposed to do? Is he supposed to speak out? Because in my understanding, if this government is willing to slaughter tens of thousands of people on the streets, but protesting, if he then as a public figure with influence, then speaks out, surely isn't his life and his wife and his three children's safety. Isn't, isn't that in jeopardy? Because as I understand it, that's what my brain is telling me would happen. So people now want him to speak out against the regime, a regime that would have no problem. You know, they cut like in Vita Vendetta, the black bag in him, you know, literally bundling him into a van and that's it. He's either never seen again, or he wakes up, you know, with a thousand yard stare and he doesn't want to speak about what he's been through. So just tell me what you think, Rob, what we threw at. I think he's been, I don't know. How much support he has actually shown for the government. So I don't want to pretend that I do. Yeah. But the government is, they control everything. They control the internet. They can take down the internet. They have done it so that nobody can make any kind of social media. I heard they could freeze his bank account as well. They could do anything. This is not, this is not the USA. You can, you know, people in the USA, we can go out and protest and, and spit on the federal agents. And, you know, we have, we have a lot of entitlement over there. I even heard, and this is insane. Some Iranian told an influencer. I just saw the, I saw a thing on Instagram where they said, if the U S invades or, or starts a war with Iran, that the, the, the, the military would slaughter their own people rather than see them conquered by the form of the USA. They would actually just bomb and murder their own people, which it sounds insane, like impossible. That could not possibly be true. But when you think that 40,000 people or more have already been killed, just protesting against the government. And how many more Hitler, Hitler, Hitler in the final days in that bunker in Berlin, he turned on his own people. He basically said, well, they're weak because they haven't helped me win the war. So basically Sodom, you know, I don't care anymore. Like, so it's like, it's kind of that kind of mindset where they're really like, we, we, we think governments are here to serve us and, you know, and, you know, they work for us and they're, you know, they're here to make our lives better and look after us and look after us when we get sick. And, you know, so, but this is like an anti-government. I mean, it, to me, it sounds, it's like a, it's like a modern day country that has a, has basically it's not, it's, it's a dictatorship. It's a, you know, you turn against them and that's it. They're not going to just, you know, like you see, like I see these videos in America, people spitting on ice and, you know, the ice people and, and also police. I've seen videos, you know, and then the police actually, one of them, you know, rustles them to the ground, but it's like, they can, people feel, it's the fact that people feel that they can go into the streets and do that. I mean, like I was watching, but this, the last BBC journalist left in, in, in, in Russia. He's been living there for 10 years. He's a, he's like a Russian correspondent, speaks Russian, lives there. And he was, you basically just go and interview people in the streets. And within minutes, he went into some obscure town and within minutes, the police are coming up and they're like, they're asking him questions and, you know, and he's having to show his ID and, and they're basically following him around for, days. You know what I mean? Stuff like that. So you could do that in America, but you can't do that in Russia, Iran, these countries, they just, they're it's. So I think people are playing the mindset of what they're used to in their country, but we're talking about a completely different ball game here. So why, first of all, I'm thinking, why would Hady speak out? If Hady speaks out, then I'll be, I don't know about you, but you know, my people, if he considers my, his people, the Iranian people, I'll be honest. I, I would, they would be secondary in my mind. If I had a wife and three children, if it was their safety, you know, and if they could freeze bank account, so they can basically, they can do, they can control Hady. So they can, you know, if he speaks out, I, I, I, I'm, you know, I can't say for sure, but to me, it sounds like he, his family, his businesses, everything would be affected if he did so. I think it's what difference would it make? What difference would it make if he spoke out? What would it, would it, would it get a million people onto the streets protesting? The tank sounds to me like the, the government would have no problem wiping them out as well, because like you said, if they're, if they're willing to, you know, if America was going to start a war or something, they'd turn on their own people. Then to what, like what good would it do anyway? It would accomplish nothing. It would just, I think it would make them feel like he's, he's supporting them that he's, he's part of their cause. But again, what would that accomplish? The government, they, they clearly, they're not going to bow down to the protesters. They're not going to say, oh, you know what? You guys are right. We're horrible government. We'll, we'll step down. No, they're never stepping. Nothing's going to be done. And yeah, as a, as a guy with a wife and two kids myself, of course, I would never, I would never risk their safety, their lives by speaking out against the government, particularly when I know there's, it's not going to benefit anybody or anything. It's just going to get them on their side. And I keep hearing that Iranian Americans are going to harass and intimidate him at the Arnold Classic. What? They're intentionally plotting to do that. You heard that? Did you hear that? Yeah. I think even Kamali is, I haven't watched too much of the, Kamali has been very adamant. He is not, he's not a hottie fan. He's a, he's the opposite. He doesn't like hottie at all. But what's had he supposed to do? I don't understand. It doesn't make sense. Like, like, okay, before all these people were killed in the streets, like, how was he supporting his government? Well, I mean, what, what exactly did he do to be right? I'm for this government. I'm behind them. Because, you know, you can, you can support someone, but then if they do something, you know, say, you know, when your kids goes and, you know, shoots up a high school or something, you're not going to support that. You know, you love them, but you're not going to support them. You know, it's not, it's, it's like, I don't understand this. It's a very binary, narrow focused way of looking at something like you either with them or for them, against, for or against them. I don't, I don't understand how he said he's caught between a bit of a rock and a hard place here. So I, if I was him right now, I mean, the thing is they can affect his visas. I mean, I thank God he's already out of the country. Well, the thing nobody's mentioning is if he speaks out against the government, they could easily say, you can't leave. We're not letting you out of the country. So he's screwed. So, so right now the fans wanting to speak out against him and effectively commit suicide and sacrifice his family, his friends. I think it's to what length will they go to? Well, they, you know, like in, like in like North Korea and stuff, like if, you know, they, they, they can, they can reach your friends. They can, you know, if you don't play ball and you don't sort of toe the line and the party line, if you know, they can, they'll go for people, you know, not just friends, family, but they'll, they'll, they'll go to such lengths to, you know, to basically make an example of it. And if you are a public figure and you have influence, they'll, they're not going to, they can example of him. I mean, it just, it's terrifying. I mean, to be honest right now, if I was him, if I was, if I was at the country, I'd be quietly in the background, getting my wife and kids and I'd be getting them on a plane. And whatever you got back home, I'd have some family or whatever, a friend to say, look guys, just wrap everything up and just get me out of it. Cause love for a country does not transcend love for your friends, for your family. And also the right to live. Because if we're effectively, if these people are asking him to effectively forego that, you never ask him to sacrifice himself. I just, I, maybe I'm missing something, but I just, I think they're asking a lot of it for somebody that they probably likely never met anyway. I mean, they're just, you know, they, they might be his friends and supporters or whatever, but I mean, are you a real friend? I mean, Ron, if I asked you to stand up for me, but it effectively meant you meant you committed suicide. Is that really, am I asking too much? Yeah. I'm not going to kill myself. Come on. I also want to point out something. I don't know how supportive he's been of the actual regime or if he has or not. Yeah. You look at this video and at the end, there's the Iranian flag and he puts the weight down and he salutes the flag. And he says in the post, Iran, my mother, I swear to your joyful name. He loves his country, loving you. Yeah. Is very different from loving your government. You can be, you know, you can be a proud Brit or a proud American and think whoever happens to be ruling your country at the time is, is full of shit. They're awful. They're awful. So I don't know. I've never seen, I've never seen a post. And a lot of what he posts is in Farsi. And I don't always look at the translation, but I don't know if he's ever been supportive of the actual regime. Guys in the comments, especially those of you who are Iranians, let me know, give me some concrete examples. Cause I've, I've never seen it, but that doesn't mean it hasn't happened, but I think he's a proud patriot. He loves his country. He loves the people of his country. I don't think he necessarily thinks the government is a great, but you can't speak out there. You don't have that luxury like other countries, especially the USA. We can, we can talk all kinds of shit about the government, the president with, with impunity. Nothing's going to happen. We don't have to worry. They're not going to break down our door at three in the morning and put hoods over our heads and haul us off to jail. Start waterboarding us. It's easy to virtue signal when you're, you're, you're sort of signaling from the, from the safety and the, and the, of your couch living in a free country, living, you know, there's quite a difference when, you know, it's easy to say, Oh, how did you do this? How did you do that? But you're like, okay, well, okay, then, well, maybe you put your life on the line to sort of, for what you're, because he's operated by a different set of rules here. Ones that we can't even comprehend because we, we've, you know, we're, we're kind of, we're, we're living in luxury really compared to what could happen here. You know, it's like, I mean, people can go on the streets and protest Trump and the administration and, you know, and whatever they just, what happens? Nothing really. You know, it's, if they get a bit out of line and they get physical, they'll get arrested maybe. And, you know, get a fine or, you know, I guess a short jail sentence or a caution or whatever, but over there, you just get, you just get bloody bullet to the head. I mean, it's just, it's like I said, it's just, you can't, I don't understand why people have been so, so like, he should be doing this. He should be doing that because I feel really bad for him. I just, I just, people say he's a sellout and all that. And I don't understand how they could see that. So like you say, he's a proud patriot, loves his country, not his government. The two are very different things. Exactly. Exactly. You know, I've heard more. There's so many rumors have been swirling around this. I'm sure 99% are fake news or fabricated. I hear that. Well, he's still secretly with Evigen, meaning they're paying him, but they don't want it to look like they're still, that he's still a part of Evigen because the Iranian people are so upset with him. Well, I can imagine that Evigen has taken a drop in sales. I can imagine that would have happened. But then somebody said like, look, the prices of the products, you know, in somewhere like Iran, you know, they put most people, most people on their, the average salaries on that couldn't afford to buy those products anyway. So it's not going to affect them. So I don't understand why, is Hadi expecting Hadi to, to like, I don't understand how he expects him to show support, you know, for the people, because I don't see how, had he can. And like you said, what difference does it make anyway? So I'm really, I'm really confused with this one, Ron really conflicted mate. And I just, right now, I just hope he gets his family and his friends, wraps everything up back home and just gets the hell out of there. And, you know, and also if Evigen is going to drop him, then, well, that's their loss because maybe, maybe American company telling me an American company wouldn't scoop him up, you know, because he's probably got, maybe he's got three, four, five years left as a, as a, as a, as a top placing pro. He's still, he's, you know, I don't, I don't see him placing any lower than second at the Arnold Classic next week. He's always going to be a contender for the Olympia. So, you know, there's, I just, I'd also be interested to see, say he wins at the Arnold Classic next week, be interested to see, what happens with, you know, his fellow Iranian people. If they, if they do, because if they are, if they're that wishy-washy and they just go with the wind, then, then that's bad as well, because it's like, okay, they're just, these people don't really give a shit about Hadi. They just care about what he does as an athlete. You know, will they be, will they be sort of flying the flag for Iran when, if he wins, you know, and, you know, oh, he's an Iranian, he's one of ours. It's like, because he's, because he's successful. You know what people are like. It's, they only sometimes clap for you when you've actually, when you're actually succeeding, but, you know, and I just hope it doesn't affect him when he comes on and he gets like fifth or sixth or something and his physique is clearly, you know, the stress, because I'll tell you why it takes a certain type of mental strength to, to overcome that. I mean, no one would have blamed him if he'd have pulled out of the show, but you know, the fact that he's still digging in and he's probably going to look incredible. I mean, I mean, imagine if he turned up, what a story it would be. Imagine if he turned up in his best ever and he did win. I mean, it just, what, what message would that send? So, I mean, I really, like I said, there's, there's maybe there's, there's, there's details that I'm trying to, I'm trying to understand because you try, you got to try and see it from all angles here. But what a, what a situation, what a situation to be in, Ron. I mean, guys have prepped for shows going through divorces, having lost, you know, a family member's passed away or there's all kinds of circumstances that can be followed. These are all, these guys are human beings and things, things happen, but I can't remember anyone in fear for their life to the point where they had to hide away because somebody might come assassinate them. I mean, it's, that sounds ludicrous, but anybody who reads the news on a daily basis about world events, U S events, these things happen. There are some crazy people out there. Yeah. And when, especially if they're, Tony Beck, they're justified by some cause or some belief, you know, I, I would, I'd be having major security on how to chip on a The Arnold classic. I mean, look at someone like Charlie could. There was a guy who was, I don't see how anyone couldn't see with a brain that the, he was a force for good. He was trying to someone who was trying to open dialogue, discuss all topics, no matter how contentious, you know, there's, and yet, you know, he takes one psycho with a, with a long range rifle, just to sort of, with a good aim to sort of do what he did, you know, look at some, look at Trump, you know, with the, he got shot in the ear and everything. I mean a centimeter to the right, it would have been his brains everywhere. So all it takes is one, one psycho just to do what is, I'd love to be a fly on the wall to see what Arnold thinks. I would genuinely, genuine, cause he will have it. Cause obviously he was a, he was a politician himself. I mean, he was a governor of California. So he, he's someone that will have a political, not just a political view, but a human view. So I'd be interested to see. And also I'll be interested to see at the Arnold classic, if it's addressed, like in his speech or something, you know, at the start when he comes out, I'd be interested. Cause like, you know what, you know, they're going to try and leave this alone, but I, and also I hate to say it, but there's, there's people out there who will be trying to make this commercially swing in a, in a, in a commercial way. You know what I mean? Like the whole story, like trying, they'll try and monetize it. They'll try and, you know, think, is this going to, is this going to bring more people to the show? Or is it like, I just hope it doesn't, I hope nothing bad happens. I really do. I hope nothing bad happens because there's, you know, there's, you know, a hundred thousand people at the expo. And I just hope that nothing, nothing awful, awful happens because it just, because people could get hurt wrong. Not just had it. Yeah. I don't see him going, showing his face at the expo. Yeah. I don't think he's even going to be at that. I'm just speculating. I don't think he's going to be at that meet unless the, the, it's not called meet the Olympians. That's the Olympia. The meet the athletes that we always go to a Thursday night in the, in that basement ballroom. So they would have to search everybody very well, everybody before they went in there to, to, to allow hottie to, to feel safe. And they want him safe, but getting back to, I hope they look after, I hope they look after him. I hope they look after, I hope they, I hope Brian and Arnold realize the magnitude of what potentially one nut job could sneak in. You know, I hope I, like you said, I totally agree with you, Ron. I think that they, I very much doubt he'll be at the, you know, meet the athletes. I think that would be, you know, it's a, and I think the other athletes will understand as well, but, and I'd be interested to see how much, what the crowd thinks as well. I think I've got a feeling it's going to be in his favor. And if he wins, then I think that's going to be, I'd be very interested to sort of, sort of know what behind the scenes, what happens, because, it's a, because obviously there's the RGK as well, because he's going to be doing the RGK. So it's going to be, you know, so that's going to, that's going to happen as well. So it's going to be, it's going to be very interesting, but what a story, Ron. If he wins and, you know, I'm rooting for him. I love Andrew and I'm rooting for Andrew too, but I'm rooting for Hadi just because of all this. How can you not root for this guy unless you're an Iranian, who's very upset with him, but if he wins, then Arnold goes out there with the microphone and, you know, I don't know if he's going to have a translator because his translator has always been, this is a gentleman that works with, with honey Rambod for even, you know, that's been the translator all these years at the show. So I don't know how that would work. Cause Hadi does not speak English at all. Arnold certainly doesn't speak Farsi, but you know, I think, I think the Arnold organizers are, they could locate someone to translate if they really wanted to. I would love to see him win and give an impassioned speech, maybe tear up a little. Uh, and Arnold saying, you know, so proud, so amazing with everything going on in your country. And then maybe if, if Hadi could even, this is a, I'm, I'm, I'm really, this is like a fantasy scenario. He wins and he gives a speech where he explains himself. And, you know, I was never against the people of Iran. And, uh, I hate to see our people being oppressed and killed and, you know, something to get his fans back on his side. If that's even possible, how great would that be if he could win and win back some of those fans who have turned their backs and now they're just showing like hatred for him. I know. It's like, he can be so loved and then so hated. But the thing is, these are people that don't, they don't matter to him. They don't, they don't sort of pay his bills. They don't, he's probably never met 99% of them. Do you know what I mean? It's like people get, I don't know. It's, it's the thing is we're dealing with, with something that's effectively a different culture. You know, it's a different, it's a different mindset. You know, you see, you know, you can, you can spot the, the, Indian people, you know, because they have a very, they've got very strong views, you know, very strong to the point of, especially when you play, sometimes you press translate and, you know, they, they, they really, they really feel passionately either way about, about the situation, you know, and I've tried to engage with some of them and it's, it's really, it's quite, it's, you know, you feel the, the strength and the power of their response, you know? So I just, and what does it mean also, forget the art of classic, but what does it mean for the future for Hadi, for his, you know, I think it's people are like, oh, he's, even just dropped it. Look, he's, he's lost a couple of months salary. That's all. That's nothing. I mean, it's probably what, you know, 50 K or something, you know, it's probably, that's nothing. That's, that's, that's nothing to him. He's not going to be out in the streets. Do you know what I mean? So I'm more concerned about where he's going to, like what, what, what, what way he's going to live, where he's going to be, because I'd love to see him just quietly pack up. And then you find out that he's moved permanently to somewhere in America. This all dies down. Um, and, um, you know, he starts to learn better English, please. And he opens up a gym or something. And then just, you know, just rides out the next, you know, several years of his career or, you know, still at the top and, and, you know, and goes out on top, you know? So I just hope he doesn't, you know, I just, I hope good things for Hadley, you know, because it's the, we don't want to see, I don't see, I don't really see that he's done anything wrong. And again, in the comments, guys, those of you who are Persian, let me know, because we don't know. Giles and I, we don't even pretend to know the whole situation. what's the word? What's the word? Edify us? Teacher, let it, let us know in the comments because we don't know. And yeah, I would like to see a move. I think it would be easier for him to move to Dubai than it would be to the U.S. just for proximity reasons. And also, Ron, also, you know, when, when these like Iranian people, if they're letting us know, please don't be rude or aggressive towards us because we're genuinely, like I'm genuinely, I've got opinions, but it's based upon like, kind of shifting information. So I'm, I need, I need to be sort of enlightened here. I need to, I need to know how, how this works over there because I appreciate that it might work differently and people collectively think differently. So I really genuinely, I want to educate us. Do you know what I mean? Just let us know. And then sort of, and just, just, you know, sort of, you know, sort of let us into how the, how the mindset is over things like this, because it is different for us. We live in a different, we live in a different world, literally a different world to these guys. So, and I, and I appreciate that and I'm not talking down and I'm not sort of, I'm not saying there's a right or a wrong, you know, way to be because it's just, it's cultural. And that's, it's cultural. It's something you have to, you have to appreciate the fact that all, you know, countries are culturally different. So I just, I really, I genuinely want to learn, you know, more because like right now I'm just, I'm going back and forth. And I'm getting into these arguments with people and I'm just like, I don't know what's going on here. Yeah. I don't know. Nose is so blocked. Yeah. You're getting stuff here as we go. Yeah. I need to get stuff up my nose. I'll do it afterwards. Really get blocked. That's coffee. So again, you know, like I said, to reiterate that one last time is Giles and I both live in countries where there, there are a lot more freedom. We can speak out against our government and we don't have to worry about being taken away in the middle of the night or being shot. And these are, it's, it's hard to believe that cultures can be so different. So we are, we are at a loss. So please explain to us, those of you either from Iran or who have emigrated from Iran, let us know what the situation is, why you're upset with the Persian world. What exactly did he do that you can't forgive? And would you be willing to forgive him if he, he wins, you know, represents, goes out there with the reps, a Iranian flag around himself and gives an impassioned speech. Hopefully he's a translator. That's my dream scenario. Aside from, you know, Andrew, when I want Andrew to win too, but I'm so torn now between who I want. Joe, I want, I want a peaceful resolution for everyone. And I want to see, I just, I just, cause the thing is Ron, you know, all the decades you and I've been involved in the industry. We've never seen something, I suppose you could, you could put it under the banner of politically, where politically it started to affect potentially a competitor. Like, you know, people petitioning, Iranian people petitioning to not let him even compete. It's like, look, he's a bodybuilder. This is what he does. You know what you're going to, you're going to take that away from him because you disagree with something politically that he stands for. I just think that, I mean, I just, I, that's one thing I love about bodybuilder. Do you remember when the early nineties, the riots in California? Yeah, I was there. Was it Rodney, Rodney King? Was it Rodney King? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I remember reading one of the magazines and they said that the gym was like one of the only safe havens where literally you go out the door and there's blacks and whites and, and everyone's against each other. And everyone's like, you're, you're on this side, you're either on that side or that side. And then they're saying in the gym, you'd literally walk through the doors. And then everyone would just be like, okay, we're all equal here. This is all about training and bettering ourselves. And they were saying it was like, one of the wonderful things about fitness and bodybuilding and stuff is that, you know, as soon as you go into that, that, that, that safe place, the gym, you know, it's like, it is a safe place. It is a safe haven and it's where politics doesn't exist, you know? And, and that's what I love. That's one of the things I love about bodybuilding. And I love about the whole industry is that, you know, race doesn't really seem to sort of play a factor and things. And also it leads onto things like culture and politics. It's like, it should enter the sport we love. It should never, it should never enter that. And I, I, I'm really nervous because what next, you know, it's like, where, where, where does it, where, where will it go then? Will it be like, okay, you are a Republican or a Democrat? Oh, we know, can't have you entering the Tampa show because you, you know, you, you're, you're sort of, you know, for this side of that side of what's ending that way. I just, I think it's a slippery slope. Yeah. I really, I can't understand the people who are, and there's some guys in the comments who have already on my videos say he should be, he shouldn't be allowed to compete. What? What are you talking about? Stupid. Yeah. Cause he, cause he's not sharing. We're supporting your political beliefs enough. He's not speaking out enough to your satisfaction. He shouldn't be allowed to compete in a sport that has nothing to do with politics. And they say the IFBB should ban him. I'm like the IFBB, this has nothing to do with what they do as a company, as an organization. It's, it just boggles my mind that they would even think that that's a legitimate, a legitimate argument they could make is he should be banned and not allowed to compete. Rob, the reason somebody gave the other day online, I saw on Instagram, they said, Oh, I think, I think Nick will beat Martin because I think Martin's recent antics of the way he's been behaving. I think they'll punish him for it and mark him down. They think they'll, and I was like, no, it said, it shouldn't be like that. It shouldn't be like that. And I said, you shouldn't even suggest that because that's certainly in my mind, I'm pretty sure that's not how the judges and the federation will think, you know, because it's like that should never, ever enter the mindset or the psyche of, of the judges, the officials. And it's, I don't believe it does anyway, but someone was like, yeah, I'm pretty sure that they're going to let Nick beat Martin, not because he's better, but because of Martin's been acting up lately, you know, and he's been talking this and doing that. And, you know, everything we've been discussing the last few weeks. It's like, and I was like, well, no, no, that's not, that's not how it is. And that's not how it should be because it's like I said, where does it end people's behaviors at what, because we're such a, we're becoming such a, especially with social media, becoming so judgmental as a society. We're becoming so like, you know, like I was one, I'm too worried about, worried about my own behavior and my own conduct to worry about how other people conduct theirs or what they think or what they believe. It's like, you believe what you believe you, you do what you want to do. But you know, me, I'm going to, I'm just going to focus on controlling myself because I think that's, you know, they say it's easy. It's harder to rule yourself than to rule a city. You know, it's because people, people, you know, we, we, we spend so much time trying to fix the world and, you know, do this and, you know, and sort of, but sometimes, you know, maybe just worry about fixing yourself and maybe just making sure that you live your life properly rather than worrying about what so-and-so thinks of politically or, you know, their beliefs or what religion they follow. It's like, it's just, just, just, you know, live and let live guys, you know, I will say this, whoever's hiding Chupan, hiding Hati is doing a great job. Because our industry, everybody knows everybody. Yeah. Social media. All it takes is one person to catch a glimpse of him, take a picture and post it. And within 40 minutes, you know, beyond the stage, Suleos, RX, generally, everybody would have it on their Instagram page. Hati is in. I hope not. I hope not. I hope not. Even if they like, do you know what, Ronnie, just say, right. Just say like on here, like I felt like I got those pictures of Andrew and stuff. Like just say, I did know. I would be like, I wouldn't, I wouldn't share that. I wouldn't share that. Cause you're talking about man's safety here. That's a man's life potentially. Cause like I said, it takes one psycho and you know, I don't, I don't be fun. Don't even get, don't even get me started on America's gun laws. It only takes one psycho with a, with a gun, a pretty powerful gun to do. Cause everyone's got one in America. I know you all have, you know, I said again, culturally UK to America. Like I can't tune into the whole, the whole mindset of guns yet. You and I, like, I don't even try to engage with Americans or America. I've got a lot of American friends. I don't even, cause I have tried in the past and I just, I end up getting very frustrated because it's a different mindset. So, so the point is culturally, you know, there's UK and USA, you'd say arguably very, very similar in terms of, politics and the way that the country's run. It's a free country, but then there's, there's certain differences there, you know, but, and then you've got something like the middle East, like Iran, and then you've got like America, you couldn't, they, they, they, they could be more polarized. Different world. I want to give you two statistics that might shock you, or maybe not. There are more guns in the United States than there are people. I know. I know. And we have more guns, firearms combined in the USA among private ownership than all the militaries of the rest of the world combined. That's true. Wow. Google it guys. It's true. So I'm not, and it's the kind of guns you've got. I mean, you've like, you've got, I mean, it's just crazy. And any idiot, any psycho could go get one, you know, tomorrow. It's just, it's just, you know, let's not get started on that because it will, that will blow the comments up because I mean, I personally, I just hate guns anyway. Like, I don't like, like, like I go to America and I'll be at the airport and I'll, or I'll go to a mall and you see like the, the mall cops or whatever, like the security guys, they don't look very well trained. Some of them. Yeah. And they've got like, they've got guns on them. And I'm just thinking, mate, you're one, you're one bad day away from, you know, something really bad happening, you know, it's like, or, or something kicking off and you just pulling your gun, you know, with your poor training and something going horribly wrong and somebody getting shot innocent, you know, it's just, I don't know. But yeah, I just, I really hope, I hope it gets resolved peacefully, but I really, cause I don't like all this. It's not, it's not what we should be talking about a week out from the Arbor Classic. We shouldn't be talking about the safety of one of, one of Mr. Olympia. You know, we should be talking about who's going to be Andrew, Nick, what's Martin looking, you know, who's, who's the dark horse, you know, this is what we should be focused on. And instead where, cause it is a, it's a huge topic of conversation. It's a huge topic. And it's, it's very concerning because like I said, if this is the start of this kind of thing happening, where's it going to go? And, you know, at what point is it going to infiltrate bodybuilding? And is it, it'll just pollute it and it'll just ruin it. Yeah. I mean, and there's also a very, very strong likelihood that the U.S. and Iran might be at war by next Friday. Trump's got all the troops over there ready to go. The planes, the ships, the aircraft carriers, he's got them positioned. I mean, poor Hadi. He's, what if he's competing in the war literally just broke out that day and he knows his millions of his people are going to die sooner, you know, eventually. I can't imagine the stress. I can't imagine the stress he's under right now. It's just, if he, I'll tell you what, if he comes in looking fantastic, dude, I will stand up and, and cheer for this man. Like, like never before. Cause that is, that is resilience in the face of so much adversity. And I, and I hope people don't kick him. If say it affects him and he comes in and it's like, Oh no, his physique's like his, he's, you know, cause stress will have cortisol. And, you know, you know, it could ruin you over your physique in a matter of hours. If it does, I hope people don't kick him when he's down. Because like, if he gets like, if he could fall to like six, seventh place, if he comes in and everything's gone wrong. I mean, it could, it could happen, man. It could happen. Look, I was not the same guy of the year before, you know, and that was, it could happen. I mean, we would give him, we would certainly understand and give him a pass. This poor guy. Cause clearly anytime that he's, you know, he's even been in situations where he didn't know if he was going to get the visa. He flew here at the last minute. He still looked pretty damn great. You know, we've just other athletes. We've seen athletes who trained for shows like Beirouz to Bonnie from Iran, where he couldn't even, he, he trained for the Olympia three years in a row and they, he never, he was never able to make it. Do you, do you think Hadi will after all, after these two shows are done, do you think he'll actually speak out? Because I think, I kind of feel, do you think he should like online for like, say the bodybuilding community? Do you think he should speak out? Or do you think he should just stay quiet, do nothing? I kind of feel like he should get something lined up, like a podcast with someone that he trusts, somebody he respects and they can sit down and they can properly. Yeah. Like, you know, it's like you are in a studio, like get into a studio somewhere, you know, like, like here, you know, like, you can be sat face to face. Had you coming up, coming up, I'll film you in here. I'd say like, you know, so I could get him face to face and just go through the topics and say, look, just explain to us, you know, what, what's going on, you know, explain to us how this works. What was your thinking? How are you supporting supposedly, you know, just go through it and also have it. So he actually answers honestly, and it's not scripted because I really kind of want to know. And also how he's feeling because like, like he's, he's probably staying quiet for the safety, not only himself, but like I said, his friends and family as well. There's kids like that's, that's, you know, he probably really wants to get his, get his side across, but right now he's not able to. Yeah. I mean, like I said, if he wins a week from Saturday night, I think we're going to get one of the most emotional, moving acceptance speeches, assuming that there's a translator there that we've ever seen in the history of the Arnold Classic. I can't remember anyone winning all these years and then explaining some awful circumstances that they were dealing with. Oh, I tore my lap. Everyone's crying. They're like, Oh, okay. Whatever. It's not the same as people threatening to murder you. This is next level. This is next level. Cause like really there is, I mean, obviously I'm not saying, like I said, I'm not trying to monetize it or like commercialize it or, you know, but like, imagine if they'd done like a behind the scenes documentary, secretly filming something. Imagine if like a documentary came out and it was all documenting, everything. I mean, you know, imagine if this dropped on Netflix in a couple of months. I feel like that's a human story that anyone not even interested in body bottom would be wanting to watch. Like I like watching, I like watching biopic films about, you know, the F1 and the other thing with Brad Pitt. I like watching stuff like that, but you know, the, the Mickey Louder and all the, the race car drivers and the boxes and all the films with Christie, but because there's a human story. It's like, there's something that he's something that really had to overcome, you know, like it's a, I think there's a real, there's a real story here. I mean, I don't know. Maybe I'll make a movie about it one day, but the thing is, we don't know how this is going to end because we're kind of in the midst of it right now. So I'm just, I'm really, and I'm not a religious person, but I'm kind of praying now that he, he's safe, that he gets to compete. And like you said, if he won, then what a, what a story that would be. Incredible. I mean, you know, like I said, I would be so happy for Andrew. I would, and I would be so happy for, for hottie. We're always happy for the winners. Cause we know how hard these guys work. It's a tough, tough sport, but for hottie, man, this is, I can't recall anyone dealing with, with challenges meant, you know, the, the stress at this level, you know, we've, we've seen guys injuries, illness, things like that, but we've never seen anything where his life, his life and his family's lives are literally in danger. And a whole country, a whole country has turned against him. It's insane. I mean, it's not like he could retire because just go back to Iran and just get on with his life. Because like, I don't know. I don't even know how it, how he, how he is in his own country. Now, when he goes back to his own country, is he safe? Is he safe? Having said nothing? Or is he like, is he, is he under pressure? Is he being followed? I mean, like in Russia, if this was Russia, he'd have his phone tapped, he'd be followed. He'd be, they'd be monitoring 24 seven. So, I mean, his social media, I think really he needs to just have that handle right now, because imagine if he did, I mean, I think he's quite a strong person, but imagine if he said something emotionally, you know, like when, didn't Ravi post something a year, a couple of years ago and everyone launched it in for it. Was it some, something happened like in the news and he spoke about it and he just got attacked. It's like, okay, maybe, maybe just keep your social media as like a promotional tool. Maybe like, cause you're telling me, I'm sorry, but I don't think Chris Bumstead writes his own posts, you know, these deep meaningful posts. I don't think, I think that's all handled for him. And I think that's probably partly, I think partly of why he's become so successful because he's been, he's like the rock. He was, he was morphed and handled. And I'm not saying he's not a great guy and he's a, you know, he's, he's, he's, he's, cause you see him in podcasts and he's very, he speaks beautifully. You know, he really, he's intelligent, deep thinking, soulful guy. You know, I think he's a good human being, but I think a lot of it is, you know, it's kind of like, you know, like, like, yeah, yeah. Like a lot of like politicians or famous people, like actors, you know, a lot of their social media, like they don't go near it. You know, they have a public, you know, celebrities have had publicists for decades and decades. And now with social media, plan down, plan down, you know, telling me the rock does his own post. I mean, come on. He probably has a team of people like Kim Kardashian. You think she handles her own social media? Come on. Exactly. It's all planned out. It's like a marketing team, you have a marketing team, you know, because you have the day, imagine if the rock went online and said something really political or something really stupid. You see, you see celebrities get canceled all the time for doing something online, or they say, they tweet something and they're drunk at 2am and they write it and that's it. They're done. They're gone. Their careers are over because, you know, Mel Gibson, you know, when he started speaking out about, you know, Hollywood and stuff, he was canned for about 10 years. He couldn't get, he couldn't, I mean, think of a superstar as big as Mel Gibson for like 10 years. you know, Hollywood wouldn't want to touch him. And now he's starting to get his way back in, you know, but like, you've got to be careful, man, when you're, when you're at the level, I think is, Hadi in America is like, what's he, what would be the equivalent? I mean, cause bodybuilding is like a national sport over there. It's like, it's, it's as big as like American football in America. Like what would be the equivalent in America of Hadi in Iran? Like you talk in terms of sports people with the amount of influence and, and how well known they are. I mean, I don't know. I don't follow sports that well. No, but I could say a few years ago, Tom Brady, the quarterback for the New England Patriots. Yeah. Yeah. He was the biggest, I think, I believe he was the biggest star in sports for several years. The number one celebrity. LeBron James and Shaquille O'Neal and those kind of, the Michael Jordans and all these, you know, Mike Tyson in boxing, you know, it's kind of like that level, you know, where like they're just, they're just, you know, I think, I think Hadi's like that in Iran, you know, cause like, in certain countries, bodybuilding, cause bodybuilding is a very kind of, it's very macho sport, you know, that strength and honor and, you know, and, and, and sort of masculinity and stuff. And the Iranian, you know, the, the Middle Eastern people, that's like, that's part of their culture. It's about, you know, like, like, like in the Nordic countries, strength is really respected. Yeah. You know, like they're the big strong men and stuff like that is, that's huge over there. They, you know, cause they, they're all genetically like they're all genetically massive, strong people, you know, cause they have to be to endure those bloody, those freezing cold, you know, they're tough people, you know, they're Russians, you know, they, they picture videos of them wrestling bears and stuff. And in minus 60 and all that, they're right. Shorts and t-shirt, you know, minus 20, like, oh, this is summer, you know, it's like, and yeah, so they just, yeah, it's a cultural thing. So I, I can understand why, why he's so well known and well respected. I think it's how do you, that's, I've never really, I've met him a couple of times and been backstage with him and stuff. And he, he always has a nice way about it. He's got a nice vibe about it. He's always like Robbie. Like he seems like a really, he seems like a really nice guy. I mean, I, he's always smiling. He's dancing and stuff. And he's all, he's just seems like a really cool guy. And I think maybe he's been a bit naive. Maybe, I don't know. Maybe he's been taking a advantage off, you know, with his, with his, with his position, you know, maybe he's, maybe he's completely unaware of what he was being dragged into. I don't know. Yeah. Well, good a place as any to call it. So guys drop some comments. How angry you are that I didn't show you the pictures of Andrew. Sorry. I got it. It's me. It's me. Kamal, Kamal did swear him to a secrecy on that. And of course, drop some comments on the hottie situation. If you know more about it than we do, and I'm sure some of you do. So let us know. I like, I like to have clarification on issues like that. And that's a beautiful thing about YouTube and social media is we can, we have a reach. We can reach people in these places that we would never be able to speak to or hear from. So let me know guys, explain it to me, break it down and tell me, tell me why you're upset. And what the, what the real issue is with hottie and the government and how you feel about it. Cause I'd like to know. And we'll be back next week with our final show before the Arnold. We are going to do another Arnold watch party. Poor Jalus will stay up late again. He's not obligated. He does all this kind of kindness of his heart, but it is on Eastern time, which is still five hours behind you job. But at least it's not another three hours. Like the Olympia is in Las Vegas. And it's free. It is free. Arnold sports.com. Arnold sports.com. Reg, they just want your email address so they can send you some, scam you with some emails every now and then that's all they want. And they're giving you a free, free stream. Good idea. I wonder if I wonder if other like the Olympia will ever jump on that. I'm thinking, okay, should we go for the email data capture and the advertising possibilities? And, you know, I wonder which one, I wonder which works out better financially. Yeah. I'd be curious to know. I mean, the Arnold's been doing it. I want to say this is the third or fourth year that they've done it free. Yeah. I think third, third. Yeah. Well, yeah. Thereabouts. Yeah. It's been at least, this is at least the third year. I know that because yeah, I've had this channel. I've had, I've resurrected the channel in, in late, late 23. So 24, 25. Anyway, so that's it guys. Drop some comments below. Giles, I thank you so much for taking the time and dealing with your dodgy, the wifi that gets dodgy. Yeah. Sorry. That's it. We will see you right here next week on power hour. Thanks for.