Hey everybody, welcome to the Ron L report. Very special guest today coming to us all the way from Colombia in South America, women's physique pro Mariana Guaya. And helping me out with the translation because my Spanish is pretty bad, her good friend Jacques. How are you guys? >> We're doing well. So, how did you become a bodybuilder? Arnold, Mario, Okay. Uh, have to go. I was gonna have to ask you to speak up a little more because I can like barely hear you guys. >> yeah. Sorry to make you yell, but Okay. Um, next question. Um, you turned pro as a bodybuilder. What made you decide to switch to women's physique? No woman physique. Okay, >> Jacques, what was that? >> There I go. She won her bodybuilding card as woman's physique. >> Okay. Okay. 15 days after winning it and uh she actually was able to compete and open because her and her coach thought that it would be best for her and uh and that she would have better results. >> Um but few months down the line they made the decisions of you know due to her health to actually go down back to women's physique and now she'll be competing in Mexico and women's physique. Okay. Um, yeah, I I saw she wants to qualify for the Olympia and the contest in Mexico is a qualifier for next year's Olympia. Why didn't she compete in something to qualify for this year's? Because she looks like she's in contest shape right now. for Mexico. My coach and I make the decision that uh that we would wait and be patient and prepare for the Mexican pro and uh be able to qualify for the Olympia in 2026. And I usually listen to what he says. So therefore, I will decide to be patient and wait. >> Okay. Um, so the big the big question, the reason everyone knows who you are is because you let your facial hair grow, which most women competitors don't do. What made you decide to just let the hair grow? Foreign speech. Foreign speech. Okay. >> So, I tried letting it grow over time and, you know, to see how how I would look with beard. And I also use an oil that they sell that's called minoxidil. >> Oh wow. >> And uh to have it, you know, to have a more abundant beard. And I've liked the look and that's why I've kept it. >> I use minoxidil every day on my bald spot. >> Um yeah. So, uh, it it's it's Do you get tired of people because a lot of people assumed you were, uh, a trans man. Do you get tired of explaining that you are a woman and you're not trans? I don't know. The woman Uh I'm not tired of explaining it. I just don't care. Uh I do not let it affect me. I don't let other people's opinion affect me. uh we cannot hide behind the fact of the use of anabolics and the effect that it can have and the impact it can have in the woman's body. I understand that many women shave and many of them do get laser to remove their hair because they don't like it. Um but it's it's it's taboo already. We all know the effects of it. So we shouldn't be hiding behind a mask when we know what antibodies can do to your body. Okay. Um, does she find it ironic that some of the women uh in the comments section on social media were saying uh she looks masculine when they're women on a lot of hormones themselves who actually look facially more masculine than Mariana? Let's practice. I thought it was very ironic actually. And uh when I receive uh that type of comment from competitors or even from Lee, I'm assuming she's referring to Lee Priest. >> Yeah. Um and uh when you are deciding that you want to compete at this level, you need to love the side effects that actually comes with everything that you take and everything, you know, and and every supplements that's actually used because the side effects is actually pretty extensive. >> Okay. Um, I looked at the rules for women's physique and I didn't see anything about femininity. Did she look into the rules and see if it's something she needs to worry about that she might get disqualified for? the NPC and the IFB actually um suspended my pro card a few days ago and I had to contact them and they actually sent me an email on where they made me agree to all the rules and regulation uh that the IP have in place and I never intended of competing in stage with you know with the beard and those were the rules that I needed to abide by for them to activate my pro card again. Uh so therefore I've always competed as a woman and I intend on in competing as a woman moving forward. We should make clear for the record that they've already activated my pro card again uh after I agreed on all the rules and guidelines put in place by the >> So basically she had to agree to shave for the for the contest. Is that right? >> Yes. >> Wow. Okay. Wow. Had no idea. This is news to me. Um, >> no, it it happened what, two days ago? Happened two days ago. going to uh sign her up for the show and it said that uh her membership was suspended and and that she had to uh contact the IFB. And once the email was sent, uh, they got back to us the next day and basically saying that, uh, the reason why it was suspended was because she was making too much noise with her beard and social media kind of thing >> and, uh, that she needed to abide by the rules and guidelines and agreeing to that, uh, they would activate the uh, the prof. >> Um, how does Mariana feel about that? Is is she okay or is she upset that they're forcing her to do this? I feel good. I was just, you know, I was just struck by it because and worried. I was worried in fact because uh I didn't know what would happen with my pro card and if I would be able to compete or not. Uh but once that was resolved then you know I do feel good and and uh the comments of of people in social media I would never let that affect me. >> Okay. Yeah. I was I was concerned that she would have a physique that deserved first place but because of the beard they might give her 10th place or something. Did did that thought ever cross her mind? Okay. Basically what she was saying is that uh the judges should be judging the physique based on symmet. symmetry, the density of the muscle and the level of body fat and vascularization and not um uh the beauty of the you know the facial beauty because it's not a beauty contest. >> Yeah. I mean you tell her I've been in bodybuilding industry 35 years and I've seen a lot of ugly men win contests so nobody cares about the men. Yeah. Okay. See, so uh uh uh I want to know what Col what Colombia is like in terms of the reaction that you get and you know do people treat you well or is there a lot of negativity because I only know what it's like in the US and I think even the US it would be you'd get a lot of a lot of negative attention. Is are things better? you would know better than me, Jacques. You you've lived in both countries, but I'm curious curious to know what her experience is like there. just just so I have your question clear and not you know and I'm not missing it. Are you asking specifically about bodybuilding or is there anything specific that you're asking about >> like general the general public? How do they how do they react to her out in out in public? Do they or they just assume she's a male or do they get upset? I mean, you know, I don't know if Colombia Col Colombia is more accepting or less accepting of certain appearances than the USA would be. lost you again. >> Okay, we're back. >> Okay, we're back. And So be so the few people that knew me before I embarked on this journey actually still treat me as she as Mariana as Maddie and uh they're very nice to me but people that actually don't know me they think I'm an And after I go through the process of explaining uh my story then they do get it understand and you know they show some acceptance. >> Okay. Um she just had a birthday. How old is she now? >> 30. >> 30. Perfect age. Okay. So, uh, man, um, you're already in contest condition now. Did you get into shape very early for this contest? Because you look like you could step on stage tomorrow if you had to. Yeah. Yes. In fact, I believe that we actually started a bit early. Uh the reason why is because I did change with my coach in the process of prep and since he did not know my body so well then I guess uh he didn't know that my body could change very fast. >> Okay. Um I guess uh we we'll wrap it up. I want to know um what she has to say to the people who have been supportive of her. Obviously, everybody's a keyboard warrior on Instagram and everything and they'll leave negative comments, but there have been some people who have been supportive and encouraging. What would you like to say to those people? Well, I would like to thank everyone who has showed me support and I'm very grateful for that because I live for bodybuilding and there was uh three or four other lives I would pick the same the same path. Uh, I live for this. This is my priority in life. I enjoy it. I love it. And I just want to thank everyone that has put me any kind of support because this is this is what I chose to do. >> Okay. Um, I guess I should also ask who are who are your favorite pros right now in women's physique? Natalia Natal. Yeah. >> And Rachel from Brazil. She's a good friend and she has an amazing physique and I hope she's the winner this year. >> All right. Yeah. Okay. Cool. Well, uh I want to thank you both and wish you best of luck in your competition and uh you know, thank you for your bravery because you didn't you you stood up against a lot of people being very negative and being very mean and you know, you're still there with a smile on your face and staying positive. So I think that's awesome. Well, to everyone who's watching her, uh she just want to say thank you. She hope that she's motivation for everyone and uh she definitely enjoy these kind of cases where she can actually give some motivation and express herself and explain to people that if that's what they want, they can, you know, they can do it as well. >> Awesome. So, thank you, Jacques, for uh for your help here because I should be speaking better Spanish. I've been married to a Cuban for 34 years, but my Spanish still sucks. So, thank you guys. And thanks everybody for watching. Ron Lep report with Mariana Guada. We'll see you next time.