On one end of the spectrum, you have squats. A compound movement with a ton of synergist muscle involvement. And on the complete opposite end is leg extensions, an isolated movement that just targets your quads. But I doubt very many of you would argue that these are better at building your quads than squats. But what about a heel elevated squat or even a Smith squat? One that I love, a [\h__\h] squat, or everybody's personal favorite now, a somersault squat. I guess the real question is, is there a way to perfectly balance between isolating the muscle and overloading it? And I think the answer is yes. You sure about that? Let's get after it. My goal with this video is to take my 23ish years of experience, probably like 25. I don't know. I started when I was roughly a 14-year-old girl. I was a little [\h__\h] Distill that down and help you make better decisions. They're still going to sit on your nuts from time to time, but that's just that's going to happen. It's also probably easier if we section this off by the body parts that are a little bit more difficult to train. That will just make this easier to digest. It's going to be a lot. Starting out with legs. What I found that determines if an exercise is actually a good one for somebody really comes down to what their limiter is. If every time you do a barbell squat, you're constantly fighting against your own poor coordination, mobility restrictions, you got low back pain, or I don't know, you were born with freakishly long femurss and you just look weird, then I wouldn't program a squat. I know it's blasphemy. When in doubt, add stability. Where the only thing you have to focus on is your effort. Whether that's leg press, hack squat, pendulum. When something's on a fixed path, it's a lot harder to screw it up. I mean, I've seen it. You can do it, but it's harder. What it also allows us to do is be a little bit more deliberate with what we're targeting. I know Chris Bumstead got a lot of [\h__\h] for picking a Smith squat over a regular squat, but I agree with him. but for different reasons. If I remember correctly, his justification was something along the lines of it's just easier on your knees. I I don't really care about that. My thought process is it's easier to balance overloading with targeting a specific muscle. For example, let's say you want to bias your quads. You can generalize that process down to limiting hip flexion and increasing knee flexion. And yes, you can do that with a heel elevated squat, but you can exaggerate it on the Smith. Side note, I tried to make some merch. I don't know how well it's going to sell, but I like it. It's for a very specific demographic that identifies as chubby chasers. I also made a whole bunch of other messed up ones, but we'll wait for that. Here are some of my favorite quad exercises to program that allow you to crush them and overload them either with weight or volume. Both are just as effective, and you don't have to worry about anything but your quads actually doing the work. You don't have to worry about any other limitations that you might have. The muscle group I often see most people have trouble with is the back because there's so much built-in redundancy and line of action overlap. Not to mention, the muscles themselves are incredibly complex. The traps can do everything from scapular elevation, retraction, depression, aid in upwards rotation, posterior tilt. You can understand why it's so confusing to train back there. Not to mention, you can't really see what's going on, so you have to feel it. Good luck. This is where I think that subset of people that say, "Hey, you're overthinking this. It's not that hard. Just lift up heavy weight." are missing out because bend over barbell rows, for example, are hard as hell. Especially as you increase the weight, but there's also so many points of failure. It's also a weird exercise because your hip angle dictates what part of the back you're actually targeting. So, you can start by hitting one part and finish by completely missing and turning it into a upper trap movement, which is what most people do. [\h__\h] The best way I found to train back is by segmenting it and then figuring out the highest and best way to train each of those. You'll also notice that I don't have rear delts pictured here because even when I'm doing a pushpull legs on pull day, I think of it as a shoulder exercise that I tack on. It's not a back muscle. And in spite of what most people think, a high elbow row is not an effective way to target them because as you bend your elbow, you lose torque on the rear delt. Stupid. Let's say for a second your goal was to get a thick back. lats are predominantly your width and the thickness comes from the superficial mid trap as well as the deeper romboids making them look even more prominent. So the question is what's the most effective way to train them? This is one of those philosophies for me that has evolved over time. Previously the way I'd structure my back day is two lat focus exercise where I keep in the sagittal plane even crossing over the midline to bias the lats more. one scaffolding exercise, which just means I'm hitting the erector spin muscles, and one or two high elbow row. But knowing what I know now, I wouldn't do it that way. I have a hard time now justifying programming a high elbow row when I can do the same movement as a shrug. And I probably should elaborate on that because when most people hear the term shrug, they think of just scapular elevation. But you can shrug yourself into retraction or even depression. Think about it this way. Would you ever program an upright row which inherently has a lot of unnecessary movement that really the goal is just to elevate your scaps versus a barbell shrug? Which one do you think is going to do a better job at turning you into a unit? The same principle applies for the mid traps. Cut out all the extra movement and just retract, which has completely changed the way I train my back. Instead of doing several sets of high elbow rows and then tacking on one shrug set at the end just to make sure I got it, I do the opposite. The majority of the sets are scapular retraction shrugs and then I'll tack on maybe one high elbow row, but sometimes usually not. No way. One quick tip on these because I've had several people reach out and say they have a hard time connecting with a shrug style movement. Make sure you don't lock your elbows out completely. If you do that, you're going to feel like you're getting jammed. So, you actually want to start the movement like you're doing a high elbow row and start bending those elbows until you get a slight bend and then shrug from there. And you'll find that sweet spot for you. For some people, it's a fairly bent elbow and that allows them to retract those scaps. Speaking of traps, I spent years doing face pulls and weird low trap variations that didn't really do much. Feels like I wasted my entire life until I applied the same principles to the lower portion of the traps, which is pick a shrug style movement that forces depression and overload the [\h__\h] out of it. My favorite being a V-bar handle. Again, slight bend to the elbows. Phenomenal. You can also do it with a straight bar. Still fairly good. And I know I've said this several times, but I feel like this video is a culmination of all the little Hershey kisses of knowledge that I've [\h__\h] out along the way. So, I'm going to say it again. When you want to grow your lats, the more you train in the sagittal plane with your elbow fixed the entire time, the easier it will be to grow them. On a V-bar lat pull down, these are all the kinesthetic feelings and/or things I think about as I go through it to make sure I get the most out of the movement. I'm just going to eat it. During the eccentric, I want you to think about punching with your serratus anterior and driving that elbow forward as you stretch. And as you contract down, you're not going to pull to your chest or even your nipple line. and you're going to pull underneath that. Whatever allows you to keep that perfect right angle with your elbow. And one thing you'll notice if you pay close attention is that line of pull. The cable itself doesn't change. It's straight up and down. I manipulate my form around it. Leaning forward to get a deeper stretch. Leaning back to get that perfect angle to pull down on. It's phenomenal. I would say the most progress I've seen over the last few years have been with my delts. So, let me walk you through some of the changes I've made to my training for each individual head. for anterior delts. My previous thought was you don't even need to target them directly. They get so much work during your pressing movements, but that is stupid. That only works if you suck at training chest. The best way I found to grow them is with a press, but with a few different tweaks. One of those being the incline of the bench is a lot less than you might expect. Right now, I'm sitting at a 60. And you might think we're going to get a lot of upper chest, but I'm pressing in the scapular plane to more bias the anterior delt. If you wanted more chest here, you would tuck your elbows in. I digress. The other thing that I don't see a lot of people do is I cut down the range of motion significantly because if you just look at the press from the side, you'll see that the end range is mostly your triceps finishing the job. And I don't I don't want that. So, I really think about my press more like it's a front raise driving that elbow forward. And when that delt's done contracting, that's it. You don't win an extra prize for pressing it all the way up. So, keep it in the range where it's exclusively that anterior delt. I think the biggest change for me happened though back when I was looking at a lot of cadaavvers. Yeah. What I realized is the fibers that originate on the lateral chromium that are perfectly aligned to abduct your shoulders out to the side is a very small percentage. And the reality is the cap of your delt is mostly anterior and posterior fibers that wrap around. Since that point I haven't done one traditional side lateral. They've been all variations where I find a way to pull in more anterior fibers. Like the seated machine side lateral. I'll do it single arm at a time. turn into it significantly and do it that way. And for rear delts, I won't go into it too much because I just made a video on it. I'll just link to it, but it's all about pulling into protraction. So, instead of finishing the exercise like this, it should look like this. I'm going to call it right there. I know there's a lot of body parts I didn't go over, so if you like this, I'll make a part two. I want to make these videos shorter so I can get them out more frequently. But more important, I want to start working on the next one, which is the supplement testing app. And I still need to buy a bunch of supplements, rent a cop car. There's a there's a lot to do. As always, if you haven't bought one of the programs, they're all only 20 bucks. There's even one that's just a weekl long program that just destroys you. I'll link them in the description. Get after it. Heat.