 It's finally done. The supplement testing app is live. And holy hell was it a lot of work. The first thing is I had to get a vehicle to procure all these supplements that I felt represented what we're trying to do here. So the obvious choice was a short bus because we're cleaning up the supplement industry one window licking company at a time. That was the easy part. The tricky part is to figure out what methods we wanted to use to test these supplements. It would be nice if you could just throw a sample into a machine and it poops out the result, but it's way more complex than that. You have to choose the specific analyte you're testing for, source the reference standard, build a calibration curve, dial in the sample prep, and that's all before you even run the test. Hell, I even bought an HPLC a year ago just to kind of learn the process to understand how it works. I still have no clue. Don't worry, we're not using any of my results. We sent everything out to third-party ISO certified labs because I wouldn't trust me. The hardest to figure out that led to any sort of meaningful insight was protein. But I think after a man-bear pegging a bunch of methods together, I've got it. But I'll let you decide. The standard way that proteins quantify to meet label claims is by measuring total nitrogen. And you don't have to be an expert to see that there could be some fuckery. Companies could easily sprinkle in some cheap nitrogen-rich amino acids to boost the numbers or some non-protein nitrogen sources like creatine. Those additional amino acids aren't useless, but it's not what you paid for. If you wanted that, you just buy a cheap bottle of BCAAs. So the first test we're going to run is to see if any of those amino acids that are commonly used to spike nitrogen are floating around in our precious bag and or jug of protein. There better not be. The second thing, which you may not know, is that every type of protein, whey, hemp, pea, etc., is made up of distinct bioactive protein fractions. Whey isolate, for example, contains a fairly tight range of these fractions. 45 to 55% of beta-lactoglobulin, 15 to 20% of alpha-lactalbumin, and so on and so on. Each one of those fractions carries its own research benefits. It's the reason why you'll pay a premium for a whey isolate and not a dilapidated bag of free aminos. Here are just a few of the well-documented benefits. I'm not going to go into detail on them. It should just make you realize these protein fractions are important to have intact in your whey isolate. To me, this is the true test of quality that we're going to do on all types of protein. This also helps me figure out my travel plans for the next few months, because once I figure out what companies are screwing us, I can book my flight, eat Panda Express the night before, take a hefty shit in a brown paper bag, and light it on fire, and put it on their warehouse doorstep. Because, fuck them. And the last test I want to run is to check the lactose content in these protein powders, because I don't know about you, I can get one batch and it's perfectly fine. The next batch, I'm fighting for my life. It's not even like explosive diarrhea. I would welcome that. IBS is life. It's a discomforting, painful fart in my chest. So I wouldn't be surprised if some of these proteins that claim to be lactose-free aren't always lactose-free. So we'll see. So here's a recap of all the tests we're doing for protein. And I'm always open to criticism. So if we need to make changes on the fly, we absolutely will. But at the same time, this was a pain in the dick to figure out, so shut up. Speaking of difficult things to test, botanical supplements were a whole other bastard to figure out. For example, let's say you want to test ashwagandha. The raw plant material on its own can be a roll of the dice. It's the specific active compounds which drive all the benefits. And in the case of ashwagandha, it's the withaniloids. That's why you'll see some of the more competent companies that aren't trying to hide anything put a standardized percentage on the label. Because a higher percentage of actives equals a better product, right? Not always. I know, this is frustrating. There's so much shit. Because you can have two products with the same overall standardized percentage, but very different individual with aniloid profiles. One could be hiring with Afrin A. The other could be hiring with aniloid A. And they do very different things in the body. Future me here. I started to get back some results from the testing and I wanted to go over those because some are good and others, eh. Borderline. Fuck. The bulk supplements ashwagandha had the most well-rounded withaniloid profile. The Walmart brands were decent. Better than I expected. Both of the gummies came back with similar profiles. Two of the withaniloids were lower than the detectable limit. That's a nice way of saying. Which most likely means there are some degradation issues caused by the gummy itself. Which brings up the question, why are we putting supplements in gummies? You're an adult. Take your supplement and then buy gummy bears and eat those. Those should be two separate tasks. To me, the most interesting, and I will say interesting because I'm trying to be nicer, was thorn. Just so you understand, with aniloid A, it's the active that has all the research behind it showing benefits for sleep, anti-anxiety, cortisol, stress. And withafrin A, has none of that. The research shows potential anti-cancer effects, but none of the stress, cortisol, anxiety, etc. So the frustrating part is if you look at all of thorn's marketing language, it says it's for stress, calming. Even the back says there is root no. There is no with aniloid A. Period. Which means it's most likely all leaf. Again, not a bad thing if that's the active you want, but most people buy ashwagandha for those other benefits. So, I'm not mad, just disappointed. Slightly furious. The same principle applies for most all botanical supplements. We're just testing for different actives. Here's a little cheat sheet for you. Another reason this took so long is there's a lot of things that I personally just wanted to test for myself. For example, B12 is known to degrade fairly quickly. Obviously, it depends on the formulation and what it's mixed with, but I thought, let's go to Costco and see how the Kirkland brand stacks up. And while I was there, I started grabbing other shit. Then I figured, why not go to Walmart? Because there's no way in hell their supplements are any good. Also, sometimes I drink an energy drink, it does nothing. Other times, small heart attack. So, I'm curious if the labeled amount of caffeine is actually what they say. Surprisingly, they all nailed it. Guess it's not you, it's me. I'm a little fucked up. Then, I found one of the supplement shops near me was selling different forms of oral peptides, so I thought, I'm going to test those as well. Because can we trust them? The fact that one of them was a CJC-ipomerelin combo in an oral form is already a huge red flag. I just got this one back and, wow, they actually put it in there. Now, there's zero published clinical evidence that shows that these peptides survive oral ingestion intact, breach the bloodstream, and produce a biological effect, but at least they put it in there. That was nice. Maybe try suitcasing them. Wait, I shouldn't have to say that was a joke, but I probably should. Don't shove those pills up your ass. And I know from your perspective, it might seem like I just want to watch all these companies burn. But that's not necessarily the case. To me, it's just as important to highlight the good guys as well. A good example of this is I made a teaser video about this video coming out, and Derek Moore Plates wants to saw it, and his product in that video that I was going to test, and you can tell he puckered up. He sent me a very long, drawn-out message about the testing that he does. I have no clue if it's true. We'll find out because I sent a couple of his products in for testing. But I like the fact that he's concerned enough and transparent with what he's found so far. That's a good sign. Either way, that's why we're doing this. The results don't lie. And it might have got out of hand because I ended up with quite a few things to test. I think the thing that I'm most excited about, though, is we built this app for the people. That's why it took so fucking long. Going forward, you guys will pick what we test. Let me explain how it works. Every 10 days, you guys vote for the supplements you want us to test next. We take the top 10 most voted for supplements, and we send those out for testing. This is how it looks in the app. Now, if somebody's grandma gets on here and starts requesting cat food over and over again, and she gets to the top 10, probably going to take a little while for us to test that. I don't even know if we can, but fuck it. We should try. I don't know about you, but I think it's awesome. And I'm proud to be an American. I'm not trying to go full Babe Ruth and call my shot and point my prick into left field, but I think your wife and girlfriend will also love this because we're going to start testing skincare products as well. If you think there's fuckery in supplements, skincare is disgusting. We started by checking a few vitamin C products out, and wouldn't you know it, most of them didn't have a clinically effective dose of vitamin C. And to give you a little inside baseball, we don't even know how to monetize this yet. We don't have that figured out. The original plan was just to set up some sort of affiliate stuff on the back end. This would be a clean front end store. That way we can take all the affiliate commissions and use that to reinvest and test more products. Because just to give you an idea, one protein powder I want to test for all the tests I want to do is over three grand. So, fuck my life. Maybe down the road we'll do some sort of little subscription. I don't know. I just think it's important to get this information out there because if companies are screwing us, you need to know. We all need to know. So we can get our brown paper bags ready. And I got something brewing right now. Holy hell. And since everybody DMs me asking where I get my peptides from, we're going to test those as well. We'll eventually layer on more extensive testing like endotoxins, but this is what we sent out so far. We ended up ranking them by price. A couple of these sites are no longer with us, but there's still some good resources here. I was told the protein results will be ready in roughly two weeks because apparently no one's ever wanted to test protein this thoroughly before, which is crazy. In the meantime, the app is live in the Apple App Store. Download it and vote for what you want us to test next because we are going to test everything and clean up this filthy fucking industry. We'll see you next time.