 This is a great example of an anterior pelvic tilt, and most physical therapists will tell you that this is a bad thing that will eventually lead to back pain that needs to be corrected, but I think that's complete bulls**t. The truth is, there are two separate versions of this. One that I would call a collapsed anterior pelvic tilt, where your hip flexors and lumbar extensors are constantly shortened. The other is a braced anterior pelvic tilt, and this is built from a place of strength, and due to the fact that your programming has an extension bias. Have you ever heard of the ASIS-PSIS angle? It's what therapists use to determine whether you have an anterior or posterior tilt to your hips. If the ASIS is lower than the PSIS, anterior pelvic tilt, if it's the opposite, posterior, you get it. And to whatever degree that is, gives insight into the severity of the issue. But that obviously disregards the question we've all had since we first started tugging it, is that hard left my prick takes from me not switching hands my entire life, or was it predestined to? Is it nature, or is it nurture? It's the same thing that PTs fail to ask themselves. Not only do we have different training styles that affect the alignment of our hips, but what about the actual structure of the bone? Are our hips just inherently different? They've actually studied this. They took 30 cadavers and perfectly aligned their pelvis to identify the bony landmarks of the ASAS and PSAS, and found there could be up to a 23 degrees difference between them. Meaning the shape of your hip bone, specifically in this case the ilium, can vary from person to person, so it might not be the best tool to diagnose pelvic tilt. That was just something I wanted to highlight. It's not the point of the video. What is, is the fact that I believe an anterior pelvic tilt isn't a bad thing. Here, do this. The next time you're in the gym, go full creeper and start looking around, and you'll realize that every woman with overdeveloped glutes also has an anterior pelvic tilt. It's almost like it's a prerequisite because it basically is. Don't quote me wrong. Most people that have that gorilla-like posture are fairly messed up. They have adaptive shortening on some muscles to the point that they couldn't take those through a full range of motion, even if they wanted to. My argument is that you can have both. A tilted posture that allows you to be glute and quad dominant, but also still functional, so you don't live with horrible debilitating back pain and want to go walk in front of a bus. So this is more about building up those often neglected muscles or muscle groups to help obviously build bigger glutes, but more important than that, avoid back pain. And I've witnessed the benefits of training these often neglected, dare I say, ginger muscles firsthand. This is a three-year-old MR image of a lady who I often train with. You can see there is a 1.29 centimeter disc herniation. So you might think what I meant by train with is I had to put her in a wheelchair and wheel her around, and she had to just watch me do exercises. Because that is awful. Surprisingly, she could actually train like that. She just, she sucked. And this is the updated imaging, and that's all from doing stabilizing exercises that we will get into later in the video. And they're not boring PT exercises that everybody hates. Now, this very easily could have turned into an exhaustive list, because in our pursuit of hugeness, we neglect a lot of body parts. So let's stick to the three most important. One of those being your primary hip flexors, the iliopsoas complex. Which is basically just the iliacus and psoas major. These two bastards right here. Good game. As bodybuilders, we completely neglect them and only target them on a squat, for instance, where we kind of eccentrically load them and contract them on the way up. But it's really an afterthought because there's so many other large muscles involved. Or you might accidentally target them when you're trying to train your lower abs and doing them incorrectly. A sprinter is a good example of the healthy version of an extension bias posture, mostly due to the fact that they have such strong and dominant hip flexors. Because they actually train them. Does that mean you should be doing high knees before every leg day? No, that's ridiculous. Here's a good test. When you're done taking a shit, stand up, bend one of your knees, and lift it as high as you can go several times in a row. If you can't even get to 90 degrees or even worse, you feel some sort of pain and restriction, you need to start programming for this. I shouldn't have to say this, but I feel like make sure you wipe your ass first. Think about it this way. The best version of a squat isn't one where you go down fighting restrictions the whole way. It's when you're using those agonist muscles like the iliopsoas complex to pull you into a deep squat. There's several ways to train these, but one of the most popular is just throwing a dumbbell under your foot, grabbing the opposite leg, and drifting back on a bench. But this one is very, very hard. The less horrible option is what most people should start with. Throw a band around your foot, lean back on a bench, and do it this way. Which brings us to the next most neglected bastard, the tensor fascia latte, TFL. It helps with hip flexion, abduction, and the reason you should really care is that at greater degrees of hip flexion, it's one of the stronger contributors to internal femoral rotation. As you descend, you absolutely externally rotate and abduct, which is easy for most people, but the true test of an uninhibited squat is that at roughly 60 to 90 degrees, you actually need to internally rotate, which I know sounds wrong. But if you don't have enough internal rotation tolerance or control as you descend, more often than not, you're going to feel a pinch or block on the front side of your hip. And while the TFL isn't the only player involved here, if you feel that, it's usually the issue. And this is just an observational note, but anybody you see with a phenomenal squat and great legs are usually accompanied by a tumor-like muscle growth on the top of their leg, which is just an overdeveloped TFL. There are several things you can do to target it, because again, we're just trying to find ways to internally rotate the femur. The most common being sitting on the edge of a table, putting something between your knees and wrapping a band around your ankles and working one side at a time, but I hate those. I don't know about you, but I have a hard time getting excited about any sort of band exercise because the progression is so slow, it's just not fun. So while I might be initially pumped because I'm fixing myself, by day two, day three, I stop doing it. And eventually, a week later, I forget the exercise even exists. Then down the road, I see somebody doing it and think, oh, I should try that. That's a great exercise. Shit. I was supposed to be doing that. The exercise that I like to do for internal rotation I know looks awful. You look like the kind of guy who would show up to the gym ready with his post-workout girl cheese sandwich in his cargo pants if you know what I'm saying. Wash it down with a nice chocolate milk. So if you're like me and you're not worried about looking like an asshole, the hip abduction machine is perfect to kneel on and internally rotate both legs at the same time. And you can progress the weight little by little. But yes, you are going to look like a gaping asshole. But I would say the most neglected of all muscle groups are those erector spiny muscles. Because even if you're someone who programs deadlifts consistently, you still could be training these incorrectly. It's the reason you can pull 500 pounds, but go pull three or four weeds from your yard, and then you have a back spasm and you're screwed. And when we're talking erectors, I'm also going to lump in the deep stabilizing multifidus, but I should also add the quadratus laborum as well. Because if you neglect those, they can be real fuckers. I'd argue that one of the most important prerequisites to getting as big as possible is having a strong low back. And I know that's just a general phrase. So specifically what I mean by that is being able to control your pelvis as you squat, not allowing that dreaded butthole wink, which also bleeds into every single posterior chain exercise you do. When you're trying to load your glutes on an RDL or your hamstrings on a stiff leg, and your back isn't a limiting factor, those muscles are going to grow a lot faster. More weight. You can overload them. You get the idea. It's the main reason I invested in this bad boy right here. There are a plethora of studies centered around training the erectors and multifidus and looking at everything from increasing the cross-sectional area of the erectors, improving strength, endurance, reducing pain, and reoccurrence. And there is zero consensus on what is the best way to train them. Some show more improvement from isometric contractions, while others dynamic. There's even one that showed the most benefit from pausing at the top and bottom of each rep, which, again, is weird because every single other body part does not respond. There's no tempo. It doesn't matter. So what the hell? Either that's just a bad study or the multifidus is just a weird-ass muscle. My stance is you need to program both. Isometrics to increase tolerance, which just means how much you can take before you turtle head out your spine, as well as dynamic movements, which increase strength through the range of motion in which you train, which translates more to your everyday life. For improving strength and endurance, my go-to is a hyperextension that I progressively overload and maintain an isometric contraction on those erector muscles. While I'm constantly pushing the weight, I am doing sets of 20 because I don't think a set of four would be great on this. You would feel that in your knees. And other times, I'll do the more dynamic version where I keep my hips locked into place, forcing more flexion and extension in my thoracic spine. Same, same, different pain. And there's two variations I like to do in the reverse hyper. The first one where my feet are neutral. The second one, my toes turned out, which turns into a more glute dominant movement. And I know that seems counterintuitive because by turning your feet out, you're now shortening the glutes. So how could that be more targeted to glutes? But think about it this way. You're basically setting up to how you want the contraction to end. Don't worry, that weight will take you through a full range of motion. You don't have a choice. On both of them, I'm pushing away with my upper body, maintaining an isometric contraction with those erectors to ensure that the movement happens around the pelvis. And the reason I'm such a big fan of this specific machine is because it's one of the few exercises that directly translates to that dumping of your hips on a deep squat. Whether you want to call that building a mind-muscle connection or rate coding, doesn't matter. This helps fix that. And I should say, I do these two separate ways. Sometimes it's very controlled. Sometimes I just throw a shitload of weight around. My personal back pain came from me neglecting my QLs, which threw off one of my SI joints. And you'll know if this is you because you have a pain that kind of feels like your low back, but also into your glute and runs down the side of your leg. So for me, I start every leg day with butt walks. That fixed it. It's another fun exercise to look like an asshole. And since so many of you emailed me that you want the Hell Week program I released in the Black Friday deal, I put it up on the site for you sick, sick bastards. Also, I just dropped a short with the Red-A-True-Tide testing results. It's, it's, uh, huh, yeah. I'll obviously link her Instagram just in case you guys want to do your own research. Because, obviously.