Alright, today we're going over some leg training tips that are specifically for hardgainers because the last thing you want to happen is woman. Take off your pants and tug on your leg instead. So if you're ready, let's get after it. I always feel like everyone can benefit from a good heart to heart, and a reminder that you could definitely be training those legs harder. But for Hardgainers specifically, there's some unique insights that I can give you that you're going to help you get those legs growing. The first thing you gotta do is what the hell you're supposed to be doing, because every time you see somebody in the gym that's just killing themselves on legs, but none of the results to show for it. It's because of one or two reasons. Either it's early in their lifting career or the second more likely is there screwing up every single exercise. They're moving the weight and not contracting it up, and I know it may seem like insignificant difference and you probably want to punch me in the d***, but hear me out. Let's take an exercise like a split squat because you can easily see the difference between somebody's engage with the muscles that involved versus somebody just wants to get it over with. Kind of like the way my mother in law can (wfie hated this joke) because my wife told me I have to. Which is fine. Just know that three days before she comes, I'm going to binge watching all the home alones and our house is going to be riddled with booby traps. So as you slow down the movement, you can section it out and really get the most out of every part of it as you go down, you can dictate what muscles are going to put more stress on, and we're going to exaggerate the stretch For quads, If you shift that knee over your toe, it's going to stress those quads more for glutes. If you shift your weight over that working leg, it's going to get more activation in those glutes. If you open up that knee, it's going to force that stretch into those adducteur muscles, and not only does it simply affect what you're stretching, but also what muscles are going to call on when you're ready to contract up. For instance, as you open up that knee, that's going to put more onus on that vastus medialis to get involved. As you're driving up and for the critic that says there's no discernible difference between this. And this. I apologize for taking some of your precious time away from World of Warcraft to watch this video, and finally it's important to be conscious of what you're contracting. If your goal is seen as much engagement of those quads as possible, then you want to position your foot and body in a way that allows you to continuously fire through that quad and limit the involvement of the supporting muscles. And if you want to turn this into an all around, ask her, then you want to get a little transverse movement involved. So at the bottom you know turn towards that working leg that we can get more of a stretch on that glute and hamstring as you contract up you straighten out drive through that quad and at the top you open up even a little bit more so you can flex that glute. And then right back down. Now I know you didn't sign up for a master class in split squats, but I think it was important to do that much depth to make you realize how aware you have to be of what you're doing. You can't continue to throw on some Katy Perry. Get under some heavyweight and do quarter reps squats like an a**hole and expect good things to happen. That's one of the reasons that people do compound sets or giant sets, because it forces him to connect with the muscle. Even if you're completely oblivious and you're bouncing up and down singing. You're a firework. If I put enough exercises in front of the target, the same muscle back to back to back. The only way you can screw it up is by cheating on the form itself. So what I would do is. Put your legs up into two separate days because let's face it, when you're training quads, glutes, hamstrings, not even considering doing calfs on that day, at least one of them is going to get neglected when your legs are growing, you can just pick which one is going to be the odd one out by pointing at the end of the workout, but when your legs look like they should come with one of those rubber awareness bracelets, you can afford to half ass anything. Split him up to where one day you're doing quads and glutes, and then three to four days later. Hit hamstrings and glutes and then add those calves on an easier training day. And when in doubt, do more... more compound sets, giant sets do more volume overall. And I've heard people say the reason they're not growing is because you're overtraining. False, I've never met anybody who worked their ass off train their legs like crazy and didn't get great results. Even the people I've met who clinically suffered from exercise, bulimia. Have had great legs because your legs can take it, so if you've got a chance, check out the 30 day program. I'll leave a link below. It's 30 days, 20 videos, 20 bucks. It's pretty simple and if you want these two videos, watch those next. Most importantly, subscribe, hit that notification Bell and get after it get growing. Talk to you soon.