I've looked through all the research surrounding the upper pec and I've realized we've been training our chest wrong this entire time. Check this out. Everyone from Jeff to your friendly neighborhood exercise scientist to really anybody who's ever made content about the upper chest depicts it being either a quarter or a third of the size of your chest. But the problem is that's not correct. Exhibit A, cadaavvers of the pectoralis major that show us that the clvicular head might actually be a lot smaller than we previously thought. Now, I understand that most cadavers are dehydrated old people that look like one of those Tony's pizzas that you forgot in the oven because you got too high. So, it might not be a good representation of what the actual chest looks like, but we can also look up MR images of a healthy pectoralis major and see that the clavvicular head is so small it pisses you off. It's important to understand that the clicular head only originates on the medial half of the clavicle. Some people will show it connecting all the way down to the manubrium, but that's not that's your sternocostal head. If we bring back up the omega level chest of Franco Columbo and repaint that thing by numbers correctly, even though it looks like there's a clear upper and lower half, what most people fail to realize is the sternocostal head is actually made up of six, sometimes seven individual segments. That's what we're looking at here. That much development. And if we zoom in, you can see his upper chest is actually right there. Here's a fun little exercise you can do to yourself. Touch your neck vagina, your jugular notch. Go up on one side and find the peak. From there, draw a straight line to right above your armpit. That makes up the inferior fibers of your clavvicular head. Now, half your clavicle and go down on that same path. That's the superior fibers. And now you should be [\h__\h] disappointed. Okay, so the upper chest is predominantly superior fibers of the sternocostal head. But the real question is, does that affect how we train it? And I think the answer is yeah, because it's not just random YouTubers that got this wrong. Some researchers did as well. like this one, which is fairly significant because it's one that a lot of people cite when they give their recommendations on how to grow the upper chest. It concluded that the best way to target the clavvicular head, the upper pec, was to set a bench up at 30° and press with your elbows at 45°, which you might have heard of before because everybody says that. Also, everybody's upper chest sucks. So, there's that. The only issue is if you look at where they placed the electrodes, knowing what you know now about the origin and insertion, they [\h__\h] missed. So, oops. Now, by all means, if your chest is growing, then keep doing what you're doing. Mine, on the other hand, always sucked and never grew. So, for me, this newfound understanding changed the way I trained my upper chest. And pairing that with the increased range of motion I got from focusing on retracting my scaps with every single movement actually got it to grow. And by no means is my chest now huge. But you have to understand I have zero chest genetics. This is me as a kid. There is no chest. It's all it's all nipples and they're not even good. They're like utters. Somebody should have milked me. So, one of the things I've changed in regards to targeting the sternoc costal head is that previously I would max the bench height out at 30° and keep my elbows at 45° because that's what I rip. But now that we know that the upper pec is actually mostly attached to the sternum, when I train upper chest, I'll go as high as 60° sometimes and not worry about the anterior delt jumping in because that's more dependent on your ability to retract your scaps and move those shoulders out of the way. Most of your upper titty meat is just the superior segments of the sternal costal head. And I treat it as such. That means not pressing with my elbows at 45°, but actually abducting as I go into the eccentric and then adducting as I contract up. I've also changed the way I train my clavvicular head as well. Because even though it's small and stupid, if you take a look at your grandma's dead body that you thought would be a good idea to donate to science, not knowing they would hack her up into little pieces and test the 18 muscle sub regions that cross the glenoumeral joint, finding that the clvicular head outpaces the anterior delt you take your arm through flexion means that an exercise like this, as dumb as it looks, is great for targeting that head and has made it into my rotation, even though it feels real stupid. That also means when I'm pressing on an incline but not trying to target those superior sternocostal segments and want to hit my clavvicular head, I will keep my elbows as close as I can to my body to make it a flexion dominant press. Because the anterior delt can create the most leverage when pressing in the scapular plane. So when people press with their elbows at 45° and then complain that they feel it all on their delt, no [\h__\h] that's going to happen. So the big takeaways, number one, most of your upper pec is actually attached to your sternum and manubrium and is part of your sternoc costal head. So don't be afraid to increase the angle of the bench and abduct your elbows to create the most length on that head. Number two, the clavvicular head, albeit small and stupid, is best targeted when taking that arm through flexion. So you can do that dumb exercise I showed you or just make all of your presses flexion dominant presses. And that's it. Once you start doing those two things, your upper chest will suck a hell of a lot less. And if you're one of those people that think you've gotten a lot bigger in a short period of time, it's increased frequency. If you want a program that does that, get the upper lower program. It is rough. There's a garage one as well, just in case you live at home with your mom. Yeah.