Have you ever wondered what the mind muscle connection actually is? And more importantly, does it even matter? I thought I had a fairly good understanding of what it was because I've read all the studies that compare training with an internal focus. Really just means you're trying to isolate and flex that target muscle versus an external focus. An external focus just means you're trying to disassociate, not focus on the muscle or feel the pain. So, you think of something to distract yourself like all the buttholes of the kind of women that shop at Lane Prime or whatever works for you. I don't judge. If I had to summarize all that research, for smaller muscles like the biceps, an internal focus has been shown to produce more hypertrophy. While bigger muscles don't see much of a benefit from either one. And if your goal is to push yourself to absolute failure on a set, then an external focus has been shown to consistently crank out one to two more reps. But the reality is that's not all the mind muscle connection is. And I learned it the hard way. first by getting a bulging disc in my neck which caused atrophy and dysfunction on my left side. Specifically, that left pec would not fire correctly for I don't know how long. And then I somehow tore the inferior portion of my left lat. But worst of all was when I split my calf in half. And I'm still trying to get this thing to stop looking like a small little piece of [\h__\h] And as much as I appreciated my anterior delt jumping in when my pec wouldn't fire so I didn't have to use a life alert to get off the floor, I didn't want that synergistic substitution forever that that wouldn't have done anything. >> But I think the most fascinating thing I found out is you can actually measure the difference in the mind muscle connection between two contrlateral muscles. If you used a surface EMG like this one, the injured side would either show lower activation or a slower onset because you're measuring a voluntary contraction. So, it encompasses everything from your brain all the way down to the muscle. Pair that with an E stem device where you put a pad on each side and if there's a stronger contraction, now you have another piece of the puzzle because this skips the entire brain and all the wiring and goes directly to the local nerves and the muscle itself. You could literally take those two results, compare them to each other, and figure out exactly what's wrong with you, assuming you have access to those, which you probably don't. So, that that was not helpful. My bad. On the other hand, most of you are probably not as injured and messed up as me, so you don't even really care. Most of you just have a hard time connecting with the muscle in general. It's like a mythical overly hooded clitoris that you just can't seem to find. One sec. The good news is there's evidence to show that you can actually structure your training in a way that will improve it. So, we can essentially turn that hard to find mind muscle connection clitoris into one that more resembles a female bodybuilder that abuses anabolics. And it gets so big it looks like a little thumb and then when you flick it, it kind of flicks you back. It's a It's a lot. I should probably take this off. YouTube is not going to appreciate my education style. First, we need to define it. What exactly is the mind muscle connection? The general and useless definition is the ability to bias neural drive towards a muscle during a task tells us nothing. What is insightful though is if we break it down into its functional components. What's going on in the nervous system under the hood? The mind muscle connection is more of a sum of these three things. The ability to recruit higher threshold motor units. Bigger units equal more force potential. The ability to recruit them faster. So, rate coating and finally reducing leaks. So, antagonist muscles aren't fighting against you and secondary muscles aren't jumping in becoming the primary movers. If you have an issue connecting with the body part, it will fall into one of these categories. To understand why some of these changes to your training will improve your mind muscle connection, you need to know how this works. Let's pretend for a second you're trying to flex your quad on something like a leg extension. Simple enough, RIGHT? WHAT AN IDIOT. It's actually an incredibly complex process. The primary motor cortex is what hits send, but it's not a one-way signal. It's a constant real-time feedback loop between the motor cortex and the planning centers in the brain as well as the cerebellum fixing any errors and the basil ganglia asking, "Are you sure this is what we meant by that?" and sensory input coming back in telling the brain exactly what's happening. And they've actually mapped out what parts of the primary motor cortex affect different parts of the body. And it is nightmare fuel. And in reality, it would look even worse than this because there's even more overlap. But that's bad enough as it is. I digress. The upper motor neuron signal drops down the cortical spinal tract through the brain stem, eventually crossing over to the other side. That's why you hear that the left side of your brain controls the right side of your body. Right side controls the left. And before you say, "Oh my god, I knew that's why I was such a creative person because I'm left-handed, so I use more of the right side of my brain." Shut up. That's just something that elementary school teachers told you left-handed freaks because they didn't pony up the money for left-handed scissors. They've studied this. There's no difference in creativity. Cool story. And if you're curious on why I'm so messed up, I throw with my left hand, golf left-handed, right with my right, kick with my right foot. I believe the technical term for that is confused pubes. That upper motor neuron eventually hands it off in your spinal cord to the lower motor neurons, which go out to your extremities. In this case, the quad fires it. Bob's your uncle. And it kills me inside how much I left out of that because your attention span by this point is already cooked. Just know there's a lot more going on. Reciprocal inhibition, the reason your hamstring doesn't seize up and fight you the entire time. The constant feedback loop between the ephrant and afrant neurons, not to mention ion gradients, voltage gates, neurotransmitters, receptors, [\h__\h] The more you start to understand this, the more fearful you get that you're going to start buffering every time you start to get a chup. Now hopefully you have a little bit better understanding. We can come back to this list. Start figuring it out. Recruiting higher threshold motor units has to do with Henman size principle. I'm assuming most of you are lifting heavy enough weight and taking lighter sets to failure. So that's not an issue. We can cross that out. I'd argue the main issue for anybody developing a mind muscle connection has to do with the leaks. Poor coordination, a trained altered range of motion, synergist substitution. It's one of those in that category. Yes, we can technically improve rate coding, but that's more explosive training. A lot of us don't do that. Some of you would probably break your [\h__\h] playing softball. We're not going to get into that. Also, that improved firing speed doesn't transfer over when you voluntarily slow down the movement. So, it just doesn't apply to us. When I talk about leaks, what I'm really referring to is an altered muscle recruitment pattern. And you see this more often than not on a pressing movement when you're trying to target the chest because you could have an injury to the pec itself, scapular dysfunction, or maybe you've just had bad form your entire life and now it is ingrained. So instead of your chest being responsible for the press, your shoulder tips forward, your anterior delt jumps in and halfway through your tricep takes over. So your chest just [\h__\h] off the whole time. And it's not just chest. It can happen on any body part with any exercise. I see it a lot with biceps where instead of locking themselves into place, curling with that bicep the entire time, their shoulder tips forward at the bottom, their bicep starts to engage, and they finish it in their anterior delt. That's that's bad. Don't do that. The best way I found to combat our horrible learned dysfunctional form that all of us have in at least one or two body parts is to first identify the primary actions of that body part and then program one or two exercises that allow you to limit the secondary muscles as much as possible. It's what I would call training wheels. One example of this is something I do every single chest day, which is take a tricep strap, put it above and below my elbow, wrap my arm around my back, walk out till I get length on my pec, and then focus on stretching and only using my pec to contract and flex up. It's not the most exciting exercise, but it's one of the most reliable ways I can get my chest to actually contract and flex up the weight instead of just being involved in a press kind of sometimes whenever it feels like it. Part of the idea here too is retraining you and giving you that kinesesthetic feedback to let you know what it feels like to contract the chest to move the weight. It transfers over to your pressing movements. And a lot of you will benefit from just opening up your chest in this position because it requires you to retract your scaps. That's what you want to do when you're pressing. Again, you can put training wheels on any body part you have trouble connecting with. So, if you're somebody that does tricep extensions and you feel them in your traps, then I would probably throw your elbow up against the bench like this and make sure you're just flexing your tricep to get the weight up. Another thing I started implementing was a few isometric sets where the muscle is at length. The idea being it allows you to perfectly set up in a position where you know the muscle that you're trying to target is what's producing the force. And because you're not changing the length of the muscle, you're probably not going to screw it up. On top of the fact we're training the muscle we want to fire correctly, we know that isometrics can induce hypertrophy. So why would you not? Hey, what are you doing back there? And because the transition from the eccentric to the concentric is where most of the [\h__\h] can happen because you're trying to slow down, break, reorganize force and contract up and you could have joint angles change, synergist muscles take over. Bad things happen. It's where most lifts go wrong. I've started to program at least one exercise per session where I hold that transition period for at least 2 seconds. It's not magic by any means. It just ensures that the muscle that you intend to target actually gets hit. One of my favorite ways to implement this is with a hinge style movement because during that transition period, you can easily roll your back. Not what you want. But when you control it to the point you have to hold it at length for a second or two, either that target muscle is going to lift it or it's not. And if you screw that up, I don't know. There's no hope. And if you want the hardest week of workouts you've ever done in your entire life, I will link them below. 10 bucks. Many of you will try.