Now, before you say, "This guy's full of [\h__\h] I progressively overload and I think it's the way to go." I'm not here to argue with you. If it works for you, keep doing it. Just for me, never worked that well. So, if you're watching this and you feel like you're busting your ass, but you're not getting the results you want and you're focused on what I would deem the wrong thing, which is how much weight you can lift, it's not going to work for you either. Because I've had so many comments, let me go in a little bit more detail because it's more than just lightening the weight. And if you are somebody who progressively overloads, you have a body part that's lacking. I guarantee if you do what I'm about to tell you, it's going to grow. And by the end of this video, if you still disagree, just leave your address and your favorite color. I'll have a bag of dicks sent out to you by this weekend. Let's first talk about how most people progress to the sets of an exercise. Let's use standing dumbbell curl for example. They'll walk to the rack, do an easier set, and they'll go, "Okay, I'm going to go up." They go up, it gets a little tougher, maybe they go up again, and they go, "Oh, that's too heavy." They either keep that same weight, they drop back down, and that's their exercise. To me, that's all wrong. I think a better way to look at it is after that first set, instead of just unconsciously thinking, okay, I need to add more weight, instead just think of how can I connect this exercise better, or how do I make sure that this is the best exercise for me to do? By all means, if you have an incredible connection to just regular curls, add more weight, and blow up those biceps, you shouldn't have a problem. But I still think it's a good idea to always test different angles, tempo, mechanical disadvantages, range of motion, because you never know what you're going to connect with that day. And for me, connection is everything. That's why I never understand why some people say, "Why can't you just do regular exercises? Why is he trying to reinvent the wheel?" Same reason you don't use those water bed style dumbbells or the plastic ones with the concrete on the inside. When you drop it, it cracks in half. Cuz they [\h__\h] suck. There's a better way. Also, this is a long-term play because you can't lift heavy for years. It's only a matter of time before something gives out. And I don't know about you, but when I squat heavy, I'm done. My central nervous system is just cash. I feel like I spent half the morning jamming my prick in a light socket, and all I want to do is sleep and eat after that. I think what it came down to for me is when I let my ego go, as well as some of those old ingrained beliefs that I got from an old high school coach that wore way too short of shorts. Things like you're going to grow the most from compound lifts. I don't think that's the case. I think it just comes down to whatever stimulates that muscle the most. If you can do it with a compound lift, great. But I'm still going to argue that you're going to get more out of tweaking the form and tweaking the exercise than just stacking on more weight. Because once you lose the ability to purposely engage the muscle you're trying to work because you're obviously trying to get that [\h__\h] weight off your back, the benefit of adding weight doesn't outweigh the loss of control. Let me give you a checklist to follow. First, at any point during an exercise, if you lose the connection or you start to feel other muscles jump in more than the one you're trying to work, you've gone too heavy. Second, always test. see what you really connect with that day because your only goal here is to kick your own ass. So, whatever works the best, that's what you should do. Finally, collapse time. The person that just hammers out their sets gets more time under attention, more total sets, more exercises. It's going to grow a lot more than the person just sitting there waiting for their rest period because they're going to add a little bit more weight. If you like this video, here's a link to one on heavy versus lightweight. Also, another one of my favorites. Most importantly, subscribe, hit that notification bell, and get after it. Get growing. Talk to you soon.