 naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, n Yeah dude. I'm proud of you. Holy shit. Guys this is tough for me to say. I've been lifting for years and years and years and it's time. I was waiting until I hit a PR because it feels right for me to say this. The announcement is that I'm retiring. I'm retiring from being retired because we are so back. I was waiting until I hit a PR and that's why I didn't celebrate it too much when I did it. Because honestly I feel if you celebrate too much in the moment you could become too content and satisfied. And I truly believe the best is yet to come. We're moving up in weight. Things are feeling really good. This felt quite frankly pretty dang easy. And so I just want to focus on that. Focus on getting better. The journey never ends until you say it ends. And so we want to build. We want to recover. We want to get even stronger than ever before. Send to new heights. So I just want to say thank you to every single person who's been following me for years and years and years on this journey. I hope your journey is going well. Let's get after it and on to the next chapter. Thank you.