 What's Cracking, guys? Omar Esauf here. Back with another video. I guess we gotta do it. My response video to Greg Dusset's response video about my original video talking all about measuring one's body composition. Why I went to one of the most advanced facilities, Texas Tech, in order to measure my body comp, why I think there is a high level of utility in doing that, and why at the same time, I wouldn't recommend it for most people, and that trying to evaluate your body fat is quite hard, and not what you should focus on, even if you want to become bigger or get leaner. Let's discuss this. To me, it's sorta like this, okay? What Greg said in the video, it's sorta like someone saying, you know, many governments, they don't do right by their citizens, they're corrupt. And like, I'm like, okay, yeah, we could broadly agree by that. And then the next point he'll say, we something like, that's because aliens control the government. It was aliens! And I'm like, okay, okay, we need to pause. So it's a little bit like, yeah, we could broadly agree on this. Here's why I disagree. Let's talk about the broad agreements. And that is body fat, measuring one's body fat, especially as a natural lifter, it's very hard with the tools available to you, okay? The at-home body fat measurement tools, as we showed in the original video, they're not very effective at accurately measuring your body fat, so you shouldn't be using them. At the same time, things like measuring yourself, so self-reported, you know, tape measurement sizes, also not super useful. One, there's that human room of error that can occur, the margin of error when you're trying to measure the same size, let's say bicep, thiosome, and so forth. But also, if you're scaling up in weight, how much is actual muscle mass and how much is just the combination of weight being gained? In other words, is it a bicep? Is it a fat step? What's going on there? For natural lifters, there's certain ranges, like 13 to like 18% body fat, where you kind of look similar, let's say 18 to like 22 or 23% body fat, where it's very hard to evaluate. You can't use photos, the lighting conditions, it's very hard to determine what's going on. Think about it, at the most competitive level, if you're like a natural body builder, right? So Eric Helms, who recently competed, he's not trying to think to himself, what's my current level body fat as they lean down? You're not trying to get a number on the screen as like, that's what I want it to be, 4% guys, got it, peace. It's a look you're after, probably, right? Like, if you want to lean down for summer and you want to get abs, if you got a measurement site that said you're 10% body fat, even if it was accurate, but you didn't like the way that you looked, you'd probably get leaner and leaner still, right? You're after a particular look, the intersection between the muscle you have and how lean you are and where that muscle is. And that is the broad agreement between my original video, Greg's response video, that people shouldn't focus overall on body fat percentages, even if they want to get leaner and even if they want to build more muscle. Where I disagree is the utility of body fat percentage measurement tools in general. In particular, we're talking about the Dexascan, the Bodpod, the other things inside that facility at Texas Tech where Dr. Grant Tinsley and his students, that's part of the research that they do, body composition measurements, amongst many other things that they do at that facility. But there can be that high level utility because you want to see either changes over time, you want to measure as Greg was completely, he was flummoxed, he could not believe his eyes, finding out that your boy, the surf clam, his bone density was 4.8 standard deviations above the norm. He's like, that simply cannot be. Does he really have the bone density of Wolverine? I'm sorry, Greg, the fact that I am the living embodiment of the Canadian Wolverine, that I've adamantium in my bones, that indeed I am the elephant man. And that was one of the things they brought up, like suspiciously, that can this be so. And actually, yes, because it is over a distribution, they're measuring the density, which is accurate, and then they're comparing it to other people that have come into the facility and how does that compare? And I think that's a good testament, honestly, to lifting over time. So it's my genetic response to lifting. It's my natural bone density. Maybe I just got denser bones in general, but I've also been lifting heavier. That could be a factor. So really, that is a positive quality potential of lifting for over a decade. So a lot of these things, a lot of these tools, like the DEXA, there was that human room for error that we'll see. So that's what we're talking in particular at a university used by professionals. First, I saw Alex Eubanks, let's see Andrew Eubanks do this, where he went and got his body comp measured in DEXA scan, and the practitioner said, hey, you're like 7% body fat, I think it was. And even he knew, Alex was like, there's like no way I'm 7% body fat. And that is more the human error occurring rather than the actual piece of equipment. And that's what I wanna emphasize. Does he really have the bone density of Wolverine? Let's use a ruler. A ruler is a measurement tool in order to try and define the length of something. But if we don't know what we're doing, if we're trying to measure something, it's not on a flat surface, and maybe the ruler's at an angle, you could get an incorrect measurement. That's not saying that a ruler is ineffective for its purpose, is that it wasn't used correctly. In the same way broadly, we could talk about all these body fat measurement tools. And so at the end, when we got 13.7% body fat, did I say, or was he saying, him being a scientist, oh my, this is exactly your body fat percentage within 0.1 or 0.2. No, that based upon all these measurements, what we know from other people with these equipment that we're able to utilize, this is roughly what we think your body fat is. And that is what I wholeheartedly accept. Because I think it's important in a natural community, when you have access to these things in order to hold yourself accountable. I don't wanna just say I weigh this and I think I'm this level body fat. I think that's something that Greg essentially brought up. You know, in the eyes of a skilled coach, they're probably more accurate. And again, I would agree with the statement than an at home body fat measurement tool. Meaning right now, Alberto Nunez of 3DMJ, if you were to ask him a random lifter, hey, what body fat do you think this person is? And then you could turn them into a cadaver and measure with the highest level of accuracy what body fat they are. I think Alberto would be pretty damn accurate. Like honestly within one to two percentage. And that's amazing. That's more accurate than the at home body fat tools you can use. But not everyone has access to an expert. It actually is hard sometimes, especially as you get softer and softer, higher level body fat. Greg noted he's like, I think Omar has more than 3%. Body fat in his legs than Eric, but I wasn't posing next to Eric. Eric was posed, I wasn't posed. And that's where this variance, this room for error can really be magnified over time and can become a problem. And why we want to use these tools instead of a human, which always has a subjective element to it. And that's why I said for the natural community, anyone that has, let's say like over a hundred thousand subscribers that's interested in getting their body fat measure, they can contact, you know, Dr. Grant Tinsley. I would pay that's why I said, not that grants can say, no, you have less than a hundred thousand subscribers. But me like, I would pay if you want to go ahead and get evaluated. Because I think it could be very powerful for the community, especially people that are making progress to go there, go their year from now and see how they are doing. But it's not something that a lot of people should focus on. It's just that when we self report certain numbers as lifters, we can exaggerate. And I think it's important in order to be optimistic about things, but at the same time being realistic. And that's fundamentally what my message was. If people want to know whether or not they're making progress, they only have to look at their performance in the gym. If you're becoming better, lifting more weight for the same amount of repetitions. So eight reps, 10 reps, 12 reps, 15 reps. If you used to do two or five per set of eight, and now you can do it for 235 with the exact same technique, that is actual progress. You are making gains. That's what you need to focus on. And I think that's the part that was under-appreciated in that video that we really want to talk about. Because there's a difference between what we have access to, what we can measure, and what the person watching the video should be focusing on in order to see whether or not they're making progress. That's all I had to say. That is the video, guys. That is my response to the response video of Greg being utterly perplexed by my bone density. Does he really have the bone density of Wolverine? Incredible. He could not accept it. He was thinking himself, no, this cannot be. This sounds like aliens once again. I'm not saying as aliens, but as aliens. And so hopefully that clarifies everything in the original video. And for some people that may have been confused by the response video, my thoughts. Let me know your thoughts down below. If you liked the video, make sure to like the damn video. And I'll see you all, you guys, in my rascals. In that next one, peace. It was aliens. Yeah. I used PEDs. PEDs. I got the book up. Introducing PEDs. Performance enhancing dinner. Rascal Jants, aka Jeans Made for Lifted. You can squat in them, deadlift, and even practice karate. Jants so powerful, they should be illegal. For my rascal jants, I was a virgin. And now I squat 405. Rascal Jants come in four stylish colors. Pale thunder, blue steel, concrete gray, and midnight magic. My wife said it's me or the Jants. I hope you're doing well. Wear them inside the gym or outside. Whatever your peach desires. Rascal Jants, because your booty deserves better. For my rascal jants, I was a virgin.