 wascracking, guys. Omar Isaf here. Here with a full Kariakos Grizzly interview, Malord himself. We had the privilege and opportunity about two months ago to bring Grizzly to the Arnold Expo. He is a Rascal athlete. We had his apparel line. I got the chance to hang with him for about a week, really get to learn more about him. And this interview is going to answer many people's questions. Why is Malord so full? How did he get to be so heavenly? Why is he so strong? What's with all the yelling? So, if you like this video, make sure to like the video and we have a full training video coming up with Grizzly where he will share his insights into his training methodology. What's crashing, guys? Omar Isaf here. Back with another video. Back with an incredibly special guest, Dr. Pac here with the one and only Kariakos Grizzly. Grizzly, how are you doing? We trained today and it was an honor to train with you. How did the workout go? It was really fun training today with him. Is that kind of how he trains more typically these days where it's like warm up, do a lot of reps and then that top set where it's like it's tough and then you move on to the next movement. Is that kind of the general idea of how he does it? If you see my video on my YouTube channel, it works a lot of reps. A lot of reps. Yeah, if you see him on his YouTube channel, obviously things there for those that don't know are from all over the years, so it's like an archive as well. He tries to keep things more light and do more reps. But back in the day as you, as most people know, things are also much heavier. And a favorite exercise that he's done has been the zurcher shrug, right? Let's put some respect on his name. It's like, as I understand that set where he did 140 kilograms for five repetitions on a curl. I don't think I've seen anyone do more than that. And there's been some notable lifters, some arm wrestlers who have not been able to match it. Let's give an example how strong he is. And we see like we're training with him today. We could say like it's legit. We both have trained a lot that like he's using for all the movements when he trains like full stacking it. We tried the form alterations as well. A common criticism is that momentum, but even us too, with the momentum, we didn't manage to... Also keep in mind he's 50 years old. He's A-50-year-old. 50 years old, injuries, and he was still able to completely annihilate us on the lat pulldown even though we're much younger and pretty strong ourselves. Today's pro-wrestling, we're like the players of the city. It wasn't pro-wrestling that I did for the last 50 years. How does it feel though to get the respect from a lot of serious lifters such as Eddie Hall when they watch all the people that are like the strongest or the strongest, Ed Cohen, whether they give or not? How does it feel like other like top level lifters like the greatest, the greatest when they watch it? They're like, oh yeah, this dude's legit. That's how I want to say I had a good talk with Shed, a Jujimufu, where he was, I think he was one of the first ones, Jujimufu, where he saw it and he was able to recognize it and he's like, hey guys, this is legit. So like people like us, people that actually live, we could see it, but people that are more casual, they don't understand it. So respect his, let's say, Jujimufu. And just to touch on that, he's training, sure it's unorthodox, but he does he does away away from that conventional sense of strength is confined to the three movements. 100%. So you did a kirokos, you did a lot of movements that you haven't done for a long period of time. So as you said, dumbbells, I believe you hadn't used in least over a decade, would you train differently if you had more equipment at your gym in Greece? Yeah, sure. Like what would be some of the things in an ideal world for Greece that would be nice? 50. Potential sponsor, if you're listening, is Kirokos. You're like, hey, for those that might not be aware, can you just give like a brief overview of some of the injuries that he's had so people understand? How long was the rest of the gym as an example? He had at the Arnold Expo pretty much the longest line of people, like when it came time, they were wrapped all the way around the booth, shout out Rascal, like there was like hundreds and hundreds and like people had so many nice things to say, like genuine things to say, a wide variety of different people. He even knighted someone like how did it feel because it's his first time experience like to interact with all those people and so many of them were so genuine. It was notx I'm not crazy and I'm a god! It's been an extreme honour of mine. It's been one of my highlights. Like this whole thing and getting to know you has been a highlight for myself. And the one I met was a great monument. And for me it's a great honor. Same, same. And to thank him for everything. Yes, we need to have a clear mind. What does he want to do? We need to have a clear mind. Not to be a mess. It's like he doesn't have a clear mind. We need to have a clear mind. He's the best of all. He doesn't have a clear mind. How do you want to do it? You talk about overcoming some of those things, those obstacles. You say you're lifting, you're about to lift and you're getting nervous. You're eating and you can't eat anymore. But you push past that. What do you do to push past it? There's a few very memorable quotes from Grizzly over the years. So one of them, you have to live it. Can you explain that then? So you just talk about mindset, push it past it. What do you have to live it all about? There's no other way. The road is one. You push past it and you're there. To be ready for everything. To be ready for everything. Keep in mind, his background is not just in lifting weights. He's somebody who has had to be ready for everything. For him, is there something he just want to communicate to people? Now there's an opportunity for like, not a new audience, but you know what I mean, like a different segment. Any parting words for the fans or anyone out there, like we saw all those people at the expo, like, it was fantastic. Anything he wants to throw back their way and just say like a message. Hey, let me just say Kirok, it's been an extreme honor. I want to thank you for everything, everything, everything. And I wish you nothing but the success in the future. Thank you. I'm still looking for load. You know, it's really hard because I have muscles. Some men get intimidated by that. Or maybe they like them a little too much. Please, I won't ask you to crush me with your beautiful thighs. Please mommy, I'm a good boy. Yeah, no. I thought I found Mr. Right. We're perfect. But something was missing. What I really need is the strong silence type. Someone who's not afraid to show emotion. I think my search has ended. She's the one. Grab our limited edition Grizzly Tea to make your heart full.