! What's up guys? Omar Isoff here. Today is a special video because I had the opportunity to train with the last living Greek Titan, Kiryakos Grizzly. And to say it was a memorable experience is an understatement. One of my goals with this content is to humanize a beloved meme that is Grizzly. First, I highly recommend that you check out the interview that we did on the channel where he answers a lot of the most common questions from the internet. I say this because I think, like many stories, there is much more that meets the eye. Grizzly is more self-aware than you think. Some things he plays up for the memes. His training as an example is also far less outlandish than outsiders would claim. Grizzly is nearly 50 and he has put his body through the gauntlet throughout the years. Like many of us, he enjoys pushing himself to the limit. Earlier in his career, he did weightlifting and lifted some crazy weight on movements like front squats. I think he front squatted almost 600 pounds, maybe more than 600 pounds, but that weight is absurd. It's a testament to his years of dedication. What we see him lift on the internet over the last decade is more what he is able to do now instead of what he necessarily would regard as optimal if there is even such a thing. Keep in mind, he legitimately lives in a smaller village in Greece and there isn't access to a lot of equipment. It would be cumbersome for him to make a long trek to another gym so he makes do with what he has. Considering his age, injury history, disposition and equipment availability, it explains his training. As one small example, he really enjoys fluidity in his movements, using some momentum because he finds it easier on his joints now. He curls the way he does because he completely tore his biceps, not because he thinks it's absolutely the best way. And perhaps the biggest most surprising reveal is how he coached me during our session. I came in ready to train for the difficult to try to lift the full stack, half rep to failure. Training for myself has been going really well, the bulk has been bulking, I was feeling great. But contrary to every assumption you'd have about Grizzly, when it came time to coach a fellow lifter, as I did heavier and heavier sets in his own style attempting to emulate Malor, he advised me to lower the weight and do a few reps further away from failure. That's right, I'm going to state that again. The man known for training for the difficult told me to go lighter and leave a few reps He also said that about some other lifters training with us during the session. How he advises other people to train is not how he trains, this is some of that self-awareness I was referring to earlier. I think he plays up certain aspects because he knows it gets a favorable reaction. The young is genuine, but he's developed his own mean language that is internally consistent and has its own lore. I think he's so beloved because he represents the purity of a lifter who has sacrificed much in the pursuit of what he perceives to be worth attaining. He's gained the weight, incurred countless physical injuries, jokingly says he's lost his mind in the process all to push himself to his own limits. In our world, nobody asks you how much you pull down or can you do whatever random challenge for X amount of reps, it's usually SBD. Even this has turned into a little challenge. It's not necessarily a workout with a specific purpose, it's just ok. He's not going to failure, we are because we're trying to follow his steps and at the end of the day we're still going to get plenty of stimulus, we're still going to do stuff and it's fun. But as you can see there's no real sense of direction here. He just likes taking things to the extreme and he likes feeling drained after the war. That's why he does these absurd, prouder sessions. I'm also building standpoint, whatever. As an endurance and general strength exercise, great. He just does it so that he tires himself to the limit. And I think what people underscore is just how much passion he has for the iron. How many other adults can you say are still truly getting after it at age 50 after almost lifting for 40 years? How many retired bodybuilders do we see understandably take it easy after a lengthy career? Many people seem to do the loud yells and the same lifts but at the end of the day in his purest form I think grizzly represents an aspect of ourselves we can all relate to. Two outsiders are pursued a lifting more weight, getting more jacks, spending all that time in the gym might seem a little outlandish or absurd but their opinion is inconsequential because as my lord has said, you have to live it. And I just want to express some gratitude first to my friend Dr. Pack for organizing all this, for introducing me to grizzly, for facilitating this entire trip, translating a grizzly could not have done this without you. And then also of course I have to express a lot of gratitude for my lord himself, Kiryakos Grizzly for making this trip his first trip outside of Greece to meet everyone at the Arnold to work with Rascal to film these videos to share his knowledge, his story. It's nothing but respect. Make sure to check out his channel. That will be in the description. Thank you so much for watching this video. If you enjoyed this video, make sure to like the damn video and I'll see all you guys, my rascals, in the next one. Peace.