 wascrackingguys, Omar Esaufer, back with another video, back with Dr. Mike, how you doing? I've been better, but not by much. So us sitting together is not one of those ecstatic moments, is what you're saying? It's a moment of incredible serenity and near-totalistic life accomplishment, but I wouldn't rank it up with ecstasy, especially the sexual kind. But if I play my cards right... A few minutes from now, a few hours from now, a few years, I'm going to wait for the long game. For you, I wait. Well, Mike, you are playing the long game, man. Welcome back to the channel. Thrilled to have you on board. You've been crushing it with your content. You're one of the premier voices in the space. I want to ask you this question, Mike, because there's sort of been a debate surrounding volume, right? The role of volume as it relates to hypertrophy. Is there such a thing as doing too much volume? What is the role of volume as it relates to hypertrophy and what should one focus on? Volume is a measurement of how much stimulus you drive into the muscles. Volume gives you two things. One is it gives you the stimulus for growth. Every time the mechanotransduction molecular mechanisms sense that you're producing force in your muscles with every repetition, with every set, they communicate to other parts of the cell like, assholes, wake up, and they start the fucking machinery. You know, and by machinery, I mean, very 1910-esque children in the gears, kind of like 12-hour shift, smoke stacks. That's how your cells work. Right. The children are in there 100%. It's a travesty every time you lift weights. Generally speaking, up to a certain point at which the signal has been completely saturated, the more sets you do, the more the signal says, stimulate the growth, put the growth gears into motion, begin the process. There's a certain amount of volume at which any more signaling doesn't even signal more growth because it's like message received. It's like, imagine if you're flirting with a girl at school and she's like, she does something nice for you. And you're like, I think she maybe likes me. After she sits you down and she's like, I'm in love with you. Is there anything more superlative she can do that will really prove it? What do you want? It's not that simple. What do you want? She sacrifices herself for you and you're like, holy shit. This is, you know, this is no topping that. So it's curious and important for us to find at which volume level we have fully driven hypertrophy. But that's not the only consideration I said there were two. The other one is fatigue. Every single set you do causes a stimulus of muscle growth, but minuses out some fatigue and adds fatigue to the system. He just gives always the time count is five minutes. So I resume like, don't ever fucking interfere with my process of speaking. I'm a fucking grown man. You're a grown ass human. Can we keep this in? Yeah. She's Dr. Mike's. There is not actually a cap to fatigue. Maximum fatigue as you die. Fatigue has an exponential relationship with volume. So what's going to end up happening is at some point for 10% more stimulus, 10% more muscle growth. You end up receiving, I don't know, six times the fatigue. And so it becomes the thing of like on paper, technically speaking, yes, 15 sets grows more muscle in one training session than four to six sets. But the fatigue is so insane that you would only be able to train like that for maybe two weeks and you would need a deload, which looking at it in other ways, like that means a third of your year you spend deloading. What the fuck are you doing? We don't want to go that high. And much before that, the ratio of stimulus to the ratio of fatigue incurred has to have some close to optimal balance. So you talked about, you know, training hard, the proximity to failure. We're assuming that all sets are taking two around what when we discuss this. Anywhere between three and negative one RIR. Got it. Yeah. And negative one is when your bro grabs you. I mean, really grabs you. Everyone's waiting for that moment, you know. And he's like, he gets into your ear and he's like, one more. Right. And you're like, for you, the world. Right. So then what are then some of your general guidelines for how you approach either various muscle groups or training throughout weeks? Like what are these guidelines on the bottom end? You start training one set of chest per session. Once a Monday, once a Thursday. How do you know that you might be okay to stop the session somewhere between starting fresh and getting really pumped and really tired in the muscle? Or so tired systemically that you're like, I don't want to be here and I can't physically curl this way. No more thought that I'm out. You're done. But that's the bottom end of minimum effective dose. The next question you have to ask is what's the top end? Cause like, you know, a lot of us, we're here for the shit. Like I want to be in the gym. I'll do as many sets as it takes to grow. Why not 20, why not 50? My best hypothesis as to where optimal volume is close is within any given frequency, the amount of volume in that last session that just. The day before you train it again, you recovered your strength and that same day you no longer had any more delayed onset muscle soreness. I do just enough volume to heal roughly just on time to be super strong for my next session and have no soreness and make an awesome productive next session. Because it doesn't fucking matter how much muscle you grow in one session. It matters that you get enough volume out of that session. So you can't tell yourself a story later. If I just worked harder, I would be more jacked. Well, if you just barely heal from soreness and strength, it's not a story that accurate because what else can you do? That is the basic philosophical foundation of high tree volume. So to me, numbers are secondary to that entirely. This kind of heuristic model also incorporates genetic differences in individual variables. Like some people, they train biceps with three sets and they're sore for three days. Some people train biceps like myself with eight sets and then nobody lost, nobody found. And I still have some alarms. But because my biceps are so difficult to stimulate and they never have a problem recovering, I can actually do a lot more biceps work. And that's best for me. But if I try to copy Arnold's bicep program and he had genetically really responsive biceps, it might not be a good fit. So people that are copying during Yates or Mike Menser, there's a very decent chance that both Dorian and Mike Menser had incredibly fast twitch muscles, which did not recover very quickly for a variety of genetic reasons. And for them, lower volume was exactly that ticket of just recover just on time, just enough. If you look at the research studies on training volume, you'll get what are called non-responders. This is really creepy. So if you hear this, you might be one of these people. If you're a non-responder, is it technically a not so great term because it's all variable response? But if they statistically can't tell apart your muscle growth from zero at the end of the study, that might mean you're just fucked. Like you're just going to have a Harry Potter physique the rest of your life, which don't. You just learn some magic and you're good. Get up and Hermione shit, whatever the fuck Harry did. I've never seen the movies. I assume it was an adult film. In reality, what's much more likely is you just need more of a stimulus. Maybe instead of two sets you need four. Mike, all that makes a ton of sense. So various body parts, is it once again an individual response you'd say, or are there general heuristics we can follow for various muscle groups? We don't have enough data on enough varied groups of people to figure out what individual volumes are for muscles. This also is very highly dependent on exercise selection. So for example, like if you do two sets of stuff like a deadlift, you might not walk for a week. If you do two sets of leg curls with a partial range of motion, like you might walk right out of that session and feel like nothing ever happened. There seems to be a very big mismatch between local recovery and systemic recovery. Generally, on general numbers, roughly four to eight sets per muscle per session a few times a week in a whole body context seems to be where the average person gets the most benefit. On the other hand, if you do a specialized routine where you radically reduce the volume of certain muscles, you can increase the volume of other muscles. To at least 20 sets per week on average, but probably more like 30 and 40 in many cases. But again, someone's like, well, how do I know what's good for me and what's not? Start on the lower end of all of that. And if you feel like you're way over recovered, add in more. If you feel like you're under recovered, take some away. How should one's volume trend over time? Is the general trend slightly upwards? Or what does it look like as one becomes more advanced? Yeah. So what you should do is try to find the volume every week, every month, every year for you that gets you close to pushing your limits in recovery, but not over them. And that number is what it is, what it is. It could be going down, it could be going up. For individuals, it changes like crazy. For example, if you get really strong, if your technique gets a lot better, your mind muscle connection gets a lot better and the muscle gets much bigger, you actually can drive way more stimulus with not as many sets. You might end up being Mike Menser after a few years of training just because you did your goddamn training so well. On the other hand, as your muscles get used to volume, you become more generally tolerant of work, your physical work capacity goes up, your ability to be limited by your respiration and stuff goes down. You may be in a situation where now you need more volume and can benefit and recover from it. So we used to be able to just do six sets for quads as a beginner. Now you kind of need eight sets because your quads are like, nah, we don't grow like we used to, we need more of a concrete message. Generally, beginners have a very low volume, mostly because they just don't need to go any higher because they get growth off anything. Intermediates typically have very high volumes. Advanced people typically go through a phase where because of my muscle connection and technique is improving and they're getting bigger and stronger. But they're quite used to lifting. They experience a flat line in volume requirements and then the ultra advanced can experience a dip in volume requirements because of the real escalation of like fighting out what exercises work for you, really getting in touch with your body, perfecting your technique. And also for those folks, they're reaching limits where your age is interfering with that. After age 35, 40, 45, your recovery abilities are going to be a little bit lower than they used to be. So your systemic window shrinks a little bit, but that's where it's a good idea to open up your body into specialty routines. You take your legs and your back and your chest, you put them all in maintenance, which is actually very small amount of volume. It's typically one third or less of your maximum adaptive volume, which means like if you think it's six sets twice a week to gain at roughly very good rates, two sets twice a week is more than enough for almost everyone to completely maintain their muscular size. And it seems kind of intuitive, like get the fuck out. Like, yep, it's real talk. You take all that shit down to maintenance volume and you take your biceps and your delts to like as high as they go until either your systemic fatigue caps you out or until they're just too sore or too tired to keep going. You may find that you get into the 20s, 30s or 40 sets per week and you will see consistent gains from that. Absolutely. Is there anything you want to say in closing? I think you did a phenomenal job. What do your calves look like Omar? At the end of the day, nobody gives a shit, right? That's why you don't train them. Thank you. It's interesting too when people compliment your calves. Like I have decent calves, like dude, your calves and I'm like, eh, Jared Feather has like some of the biggest calves ever. And he's like, oh yeah, there they are. He doesn't do anything for them. That journey with a lack of fulfillment, man. Yeah, and that's not even a journey because you know, it's Adam. You don't even have to earn the shit. You at least didn't turn it through a not journey of not achievement. No work. Yeah. Sat myself out, got no results, feel nothing about it. Jared had it and viewed upon him. Doesn't feel anything. You, work for it, got it. Still feel nothing. So calves are meaningless. Thank you. That's the video. And we're done. People are like, I was really into that volume discussion and they just cut it off with an anti-caf rent. Like where can people find you? I'd rather they didn't. I think they're all good. Yeah. But if they want to learn more educational content, you have a fantastic YouTube channel. You're pumping out a lot of really great information. And I think you do a fantastic job of disseminating real information, evidence-based practical experience, synthesizing it with a great personality. Like, thank you so much for being on the channel. If you like the video, make sure you like the damn video. And I'll see all you guys, my rascals, in that next one. Peace. For my rascal jantz, I was a virgin. And now I squat 405. Rascal jantz come in four stylish colors. Pale thunder, blue steel, concrete gray, and midnight magic. My wife said it's me or the jantz. I hope you're doing well. Wear them inside the gym or outside. Whatever your peach desires. Rascal jantz. Because your booty deserves better. For my rascal jantz, I was a virgin.