 Omar, would you like to do calves with me for the first exercise? No. Let's do calves and then we'll see how you feel afterwards. No. Good. We'll do calves now. What's cracking, guys? We are so back. I wanted to make this video when I had plenty of updates and that's exactly what I have. There will be a string of videos featuring some really cool collabs coming to this channel as well as detailing my personal progress because your boy has been putting the time in the gym. I posted that video, the all-time deadlift PR, but we've been building some muscles. We've been gaining glutes, alright? This first one, which actually was filmed back in November, is a great start to the bulk. I had the opportunity to train and film some content with Dr. Mike Isretel, who's actually on a D-load when this video was filmed. So you'll get an insight into his own personal training methodology, the reasons why he lifts, and then from there actually we have some very cool videos featuring my lord and savior Kariakos Grizzly. We had the opportunity, the privilege of bringing him to the Arnold in March, so just a few months ago. We have a whole interview that was translated by my man Dr. Pack that's coming on the channel as well as training with him. You'll see the bulk progress. I gained a few pounds. I was about 187 pounds in that video. And then we have another collab with my man, Bald Omni Man, coming to the channel. And that will bring us pretty much up to speed with the present day where I have broken the sound barrier, 190 pounds. Like I said, I've been training. I've been enjoying a lot of things behind the scenes. I'm really excited to share this content with everyone. So without further ado, this is the first one in a string of videos that have already been filmed and edited featuring Dr. Mike Isretel, myself training with him on a D-load. If you enjoyed the video, make sure to like the video and let's get started. I'm actually deloading my part of my upper body, which means we're going to do a chest exercise, a tricep exercise, a shoulder exercise, and then a bicep exercise. I'm only doing two sets of not that many reps, pretty far from failure. Just to give the muscles a little bit of a stimulus, help them recover a little bit. And then I have basically more than half a week of almost entirely time off. And then I start my last five week push into my mock contest prep little peak diet situation. People just need to know that I can do this. Prepping. I'm prepping. When I train chest every single session that I do, which is twice a week, I always put my calves before my chest work. And I know that a foam master, or anyone thing, it's having calves so large that people argue about whether or not they're made of 100% symphol or just 99% symphol. So I will say this, that you're challenging me on a fundamental ideological level with the first movement because I do think we should be in defense of lost causes. I think not everything should be rational. So I personally don't enjoy training calves. Because I never have. Turn around. Go stand on this thing. So, you know, half your foot on half off and then tilt your hips as far forward as you can. So you can lock your knees out and pre-stretch your calves. Yeah. Good. But come down slower. Up quick, down slow. Wait for it. Up quick, down slow. Wait for it. Up quick, down slow. I'm like a child. You need to explain every rep to me. I can see. Yeah. Are you good? You're good. That's good. Good enough warm up. And then we can hop on the leg press to do leg press calves. Milo Wolf, Dr. Milo Wolf, has been pioneering research and thinking about how much does the loaded stretch matter. And it seems like a lot. And so I took that insight and I changed my calf training recently from emphasizing the peak contraction and full-ranger motion to kind of doing a mail-in peak contraction where I'm like, eh, I just push a little bit. But they spend most of the time in that deep stretch position. I'll tell you this, my soreness has been fucking outlandish in my calves. My growth has been like better than it's ever been. So I'm loving it. So that technique that I'll illustrate here is precisely to emphasize that deep stretch and not the peak contraction. I'm going to hit a set. You switch in and right back in, back out. Yeah? Sounds great. Okay. I know this is a calf setup so don't be scared. It's just another opportunity for you to fail. Yeah. Could you just do bodybuilding and find personal fulfillment? I've already done that. Done. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So what is the act of competing that creates another layer for you, let's say? I want to get it right. I want to peak properly and show my best possible physique on stage. I haven't done that yet. I came close one time. When? Uh, 2021. Yes. Sit longer at the bottom. Oh, it was fake. So you just want to be able to leave your mark or within yourself to be like, I'm satisfied with the effort that I put in over X number of years and this is me. A culmination. Yeah, of all the years I get done. And you know, if I get like a Master's Pro card, I wouldn't fucking hate that either. Yeah. Well, Helms was talking about that where he recently became a natural pro. I know. Right? And he like, yeah, it's a very nice word to say about like you, like the conversations you had, I respected it. She thought I was just going to joke all the time. So what's the punchline? Nothing. Your physique. My favorite kind of punchline. Hey, your mother, whoa. Yeah. But I do, but I do like, so you got to make them comfortable. And then you have to realize, Mike, tell me about your bodybuilding. I would like to take a couple more facts and a Master's Pro card. Yep. And then at age roughly 42, I will quit bodybuilding entirely. Gives me a decent crack at the over 40 Master's division, but also doesn't severely impinge on my longevity. If you win, could it extend it further? Or you're like, bro, 42 is like the magic. So 39, you get at 40. Things are actually looking good. You're making a new level of progress. That's unlikely. Well, let's just like, you get the pro card, bro. You're doing great. No matter what, it's 42 though. If between now and then incredibly powerful, non-handrogenic, non-steroid, and abolics are invented, then I can get my hands on them. Yes, I will continue. Sure. Okay. But short of that, no. Okay. Okay. And you came up with 42 win. Like a round, like that's just the placeholder. It could be 42. And I was about 35. Oh, okay. Okay. So this has been like, so you have this timeline. Do you feel then more motivated now? Just consider, let's say 39 versus 35, a little closer to 42. No. No. Okay. So you don't feel anything? What are feeling? I feel feels. No, I feel quite motivated in any case. I just want to do it, right? No, I get perfectionists' classes. It's art. Ballet is something you train for to get better at soccer. How do you expect to move with a ball and other people if you cannot even move your own body? Yeah. Look at that. That was really some Romanian ballet type of stuff. Thank you, Svetlana. Try my best. Do you think this is your artistic outlook? It's really the way you partially express yourself as your physique and the effort that you put into it? I never understood the onus on expressing yourself. My body is not a message to anyone but me, so it's not a matter of self-expression. Okay. It's a matter of I love the process of change. I love the look, and I love the process of progression. I like to pull my shirt off at the end of a workout session, flex in the gym, and scare myself. That makes me happy to look at. And so that's why I bodybuild because I got a glimpse of that when I was 16 and I was more. I just wanted to look more and more like a tank, something that could run through a wall, like a branch warren type of look. And that's why I'm still at it. Mike, that all makes sense, and I appreciate that. Because Kalm's has a viewpoint of various people, like why they do what they do. He has a first name. Unfortunately, with Iron Culture now, we have two Erex co-hosting, Erik Drexler. And Erik Kalm's brought him. Is he co-hosting Iron Culture? Yeah, yeah, I'm very happy. Trekcer, I gotta give it, Erik Trekcer's my guy. So it's Helms and Treks? Yeah, so that's what we had. Is there a problem for having a basic name? Now, back to you. You only do it for yourself. You don't view it as an artistic outlet. Understood on both fronts. It's art, but it's for me. But for you. Because there's art that's performative. You want other people to see it. I give a flying thought to other people. So there's zero element for you, Mike, then when you step on that stage, because for Helms, and I don't want to speak for him, just like what we've had in like 200 episodes, right? Part of it is stepping on stage, and like people seeing it and him being able to pose. I hate that part. I just find no appeal in it whatsoever. So Mike, what is it about? Is it that you need that? It's not objective, but other people, because you could view yourself, be like, yeah, man, I'm making progress. I think, like, I'm looking better. But the act of then winning something, it's not the winning, it's competing against other people, or it's just the judges acknowledging the work where you want to like tether your viewpoint to something else. So what is it? Like I get everything you said, man. The only reason I compete is to illustrate to people that marginally more than they would otherwise believe the methods that we espouse at Renaissance periodization are effective. So transparent. I like, so you think for yourself right now, Mike, with everything, if you didn't have a YouTube channel, you're just like, or business, I should say, you're not like a YouTube, like a business. Oh, so that's a YouTube. Hey, but he's an influenza, okay? There's influencers, influencers, there's TikTokers. So let me ask you this then, is if you didn't have that, and you're making this progress, you still said 42, would you compete if you didn't have a business tied to it then? But you still motivate. You got into this form to business because you love training. Would you still then compete? Let's say you're a person. Probably not in bodybuilding. Yes, you're a person. You're a jitsu, I'd compete all the time. Yeah, so you're absurdly, like that. So you would be done then. Well, I'm already absurd. Yeah, that makes sense then. So for you, you just want that final kind of chairing on top. Like boom. And I do get, like I do appreciate you saying that because I think what you say is very important in this space, very important. And you put it so eloquently together. But like kind of your body and your accomplishments is the first foot in the door in ways for people to be like, oh, Mike, like if Mike was 135 pounds, Mike the exercise scientist. Lane. They'd be like, uh, okay. Marginally more, Lane. People think, people think I puke in the videos because I'm a hardcore, but it's really because I have a sensitive stomach. Hi. Too much gefelte fish, Omar. I mean, that's basically me. It's going to be me tomorrow with the puking. Am I warm as this bullshit? I'm trying to. It's a full round gym. I'm trying to get it up. We'll take some Viagra's or something. I need to see all this man. Viagra's kind of, all right, get the fuck out of here. You're done. You're cut off from. You're cut off from. Yeah, further exercise. We tried. Yeah. That was actually trying. So yeah, this and then you said biceps very much. Biceps. Biceps. Bicep curls for the bicep curls. But do we need the validation of anyone else? Or should we just do it for ourselves? What's the Mike retirement plan that I thought was the feet? I thought we had a really good idea with the feet. The feet's more of a passion project. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, do something for the soul, right? Exactly. So my, sorry, technique on this one. Keep your chest upright for a nice little stretch at the bottom. A little pause down there. Come up, a little pause. Just controlled. No rotate. So Mike, just kind of like this? You can rotate if you'd like. Omar, pretend that you're Picasso and this is a world of paint. I'm just doing it. Don't lean over, lean back. Even more, Omar. Chest up and lean back so you get a big stretch down there. Yeah, there we go. No easy days today, sir. You are a sir, aren't you? I'm a Mr. Doctor. Do you have a pronoun preference? Yeah, it's Dr. Mike. Dr. slash Mike. I use the same one. Well, it's because we're fraternal twins. Oh, God. Honestly, man, it's like a huge disappointment. Someone's like, I have a twin. I'm like, oh my God, really? And they show up and say, bitch, that's your sister. Because I can't but we're in the same amniotic blah, blah, blah. I don't just tune it up. That was good. That's good. Mike's like, save the energy for tomorrow. What exercises? You could keep it a surprise. Don't worry, for tomorrow. It's really kind of like a how do you want to die? I knew which way. Belt squats. Like it. Do you have healthy knees? Yeah, yeah, that's why I'll deadlift before. But I've seen your leg work out. If it was a free standing squat, it's a failure. That shit sucks. Like on the back belt squat. Great. You're going to die. I like it. Final question for you about this one. Is there anything else about the competitive aspect that you enjoy? So like, I'll give you an example, Mike. Just like counter. Some people, they like the asceticism. So like the deprivation, almost like a religious pursuit, a spiritual pursuit, right? So like the act of fasting, it's a denial of oneself. As a means of understanding other others and so on and so forth. Like other people have spoken about that when it comes to the bodybuilding prep, that it forces them to take a hard look into themselves. None of that whatsoever. It's more like, okay, here's my physique. Here's where I want to be. Boom. I'm doing this for myself. That's it. There's no other part of the competitive element that appeals to you. Bodybuilding competition is strange. It's not really directly competing against anyone. You just stand there next to them and the judges tell you you're ugly. You're going to have a small dick. No, wait, wait. That's my dominatrix. Yeah. I'm not going to be a big fan of you. That's my dominatrix. Yeah. That's Smythlana. Smythlana. Look at you. Pathetic. I'm getting harsh just thinking about it. And you said, how pathetic. At some point, that level doesn't do it anymore. But go on. Sorry. I'm not going to change it. No, no, it's okay. So bodybuilding competition, to me, like so when I watch bodybuilding competition, like I was just there watching and I looked very closely at everyone, the males, the females, whatever. Um, I just love the physiques and I love the artistic value of the beauty of the physique. And I do not give a flying fuck if it's a hottie or if it's Derek or if it's Samson. I just want to see each one of them do their individuals. And even in comparisons, just like, fuck man, that's so sweet. Because then it motivates the fuck out of you to train. Because I want to build something that looks something like that. My own absurdly fallen version of that. But nonetheless, impressive for me relatively. Because like when I was a kid, I was a jacked or some shit. Now that I'm jacked, it's fucking cool. I'm like live inside kind of like a supervillain's body, which is fucking sweet. That's what bodybuilding is to me. The act of competing and winning in a bodybuilding competition against someone. It's the least manly form of competition. Because like, you're not even playing a fucking sport, bro, like breakdancing competitions more manly than bodybuilding. Also when our bikinis were oiled up, or painted a different color, the whole thing is fucking strange. But it's beautiful for other people to see. And for that, it has value. And some people love that part of it. Some people also get competitive. Like, fuck this stupid asshole. He said something unkind on Instagram. I'm going to beat him on my next show. We're not really competing against that person. You're competing against yourself. And if you beat enough iterative versions of yourself, then eventually you become as good as you could have been at bodybuilding. And that's, I think, the real beauty for me. So the stage to me is kind of cool. Competition is cool because it's really your opportunity to display your best look. But I don't like the fact that it's inconveniently far away, that I have to put a bunch of oil on. I would love for bodybuilding competition to be just like right here under these fucking dope lights, catch a really sick push, just tricep pumps, and just take a bunch of fucking pictures. That's good enough for me, man. That's, I like that better than competing itself. But you're just, the competition is different. Because then there are other people walking around that think they're better than you, and you're going to prove wrong to them. They don't know how to fight, and they're going to suffer. And that's fun. Are you saying that bodybuilding is in the closest approximation to one's masculinity? What are you trying to say, Mike? I just totally zoned out and misspoke. And I think that's what I was going to say. Because I was curious, I remember you made that documentary we posted on the channel. But you're very cool about your jujitsu endeavors, like everything and like how you said, I'm an input output machine. And I do see like just various aspects of yourself. And I do think people endeavor to do various, like hobbies or interests for a wide variety of reasons. And so I respect like, I think you have a cohesive thought process 100% on why you do it. And I'm more viewing it like as an outsider, let's say, Mike. So I understand your perspective, let's say like a Helms. And I get like the validity of both of them and other ones that exist within bodybuilding. Yeah. Mostly the reason why you bodybuilding competition is like, I've built a pretty cool physique. And I want to show it off and have other people formally recognize like, oh, he's a very muscular lean man. And maybe I'll buy his RP hypertrophy app. Or like only feet. Remember that folks, coming soon. That was fun, right? Eat your vegetables, eat your vegetables, eat your fucking vegetables.