 balmithiiriririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririririr and leaders who have made IDA what it is. A beautiful thing about IDA is that it's been a home for artists across several generations. IDA has made me feel so welcome. You have to find your spaces. You can really meet with other people who are just doing cool stuff. I really want to help you. If I have questions about my artwork or things that I want to do, it's like, connect with this person. He also is working on a magazine, or she's also working on a magazine. And then that's how you get that connection. This community is full of a range of people. Just in my classroom, we have people who are doing computer science, mechanical engineering. But what we all unite on is art and the different ways we express it. It's just wonderful knowing that I'm a part of such an amazing legacy where people can come and just be themselves and shape the world in so many different ways that they weren't expecting. Our students are deeply involved in the disciplines that they're bringing to bear on their work. Anything from the live artists who are working in, performance art, theater and dance to visual arts who are making beautiful sculptures, paintings, video art and installation to the writers and the poets. It's all here. And I think what's really exciting about the students that are drawn to IDA is that they also have room to play. We move with the belief that no matter what a student might major in or what they want to do with their career or life after undergraduate, that every student deserves and ought to have meaningful experience with the arts. Whether that's as having an arts practice of one's own, thinking about arts leadership or issues like curatorial. We have classes that allow you to deep dive into the way that art affects culture. And then we have public programs where we collaborate with other organizations to bring folks onto campus. What I hope for the future is that students who look at Stanford and want to be artists, they know exactly where they can come to find a home that Stanford attracts more artists, and that our artist programs continue to grow, and that we continue building artists that make change in the world, that change their industries, that change our perspectives of who we are and open up new possibilities for who we can become.