 instead of waiting for the brain to fail, we really want to understand how to make it succeed. It's like building the human genome project for the aging brain. The NIT initiative's mission is to preserve brain health and to old age, and the Brain Resilience Lab creates the roadmap to do so by providing the molecular understanding of the process. We would like to answer some questions, like why some people reach their 90s with sharp minds while others have struggles. Are there any molecular switches, genes, and pathways that triggers aging? Is there any way to stop or maybe cure brain aging and the related neurodegenerative diseases? Brain aging is a complex process. It's a major risk factor for most of the neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and many other. But it also affects our mood, our cognitive abilities, and our independence throughout the lifespan. We're trying to create this blueprint of brain aging. This would allow us to really start thinking of new therapeutics or new approaches that we could use as a prevention rather than the treatment of the disease. And of course, a big part of our group is the work of clinical experts who can understand the consequences of those molecular changes. We are focusing on more than 100 regions of the brain and trying to understand what changes in different regions of the human brain is the age from 18 year old to 100 year old. In order to study disease, you must study a healthy human brain. So we're looking at the cellular and molecular signature of healthy brain aging. By forming a molecular atlas of a healthy human brain, we are perhaps able to unlock the mysteries of aging and also of disease. We can look at it from how your genes are expressed and how that changes over time. We can see how the protein content in your brain changes over time and we can see how the lipid content in your brain changes over time. So we can provide the most comprehensive explanation as to what is going on during typical brain aging. The people who work at a brain resilience lab bring with them a vast array of academic background from physics to biology, from math to artificial intelligence. In the wet lab right now, they're producing data sets that have like millions and millions of data points. Using machine learning, particularly for unstructured types of data, you can draw out patterns that you might not be able to do purely analytically. Right now I'm working on building a chat system that connects our data set on different gene expression levels in the brain to a bunch of other data sets on things like drugs and drug targets and diseases, cell types, brain regions. The hope is that you'll be able to talk with this chat system and develop hypotheses that could sort of inspire new research directions in the field of brain aging. For me, brain resilience is more than avoiding disease. It's brain's capability of folding onto what makes us us. It's our memories, it's our identities, our creativity. One of the many themes of the night initiative is optimism, is hope. We have the lofty goal of going from treatment to prevention, from pathology to protection. I think people want to be healthy, independent, they want to be cognitively sound. We want to provide this opportunity for individuals either through therapeutic approaches or potential interventions.