of the podcast, which was back in May 2024. So it's been a little bit, but people really liked it because it allowed us to cover a variety of topics, it allowed us to summarize them, and it allowed us to kind of look at them and apples to apples comparison with what we know about them and how people should be thinking about it. So in today's episode, we are going to look at some geo-protective drugs like GLP ones, things like Ozenbick, SGLT, two inhibitors, both of which we talked about before, we're going to look at Methane Blue and tell them your length and eat supplements. Those are kind of newer. We're going to look at what we know about low dose aspirin and cardiovascular disease prevention. And then we're going to look at interventions that can help improve muscle mass things like protein, fallostatin, gene therapy, etc. So hopefully a good variety of things for people, hopefully kind of a way to go through it where people can kind of look, get clear, clean takeaways. With that said, anything you want to add before we get wrong? No, but maybe I will just remind people or folks who are new to the program, what these categories mean. So you mentioned sort of five, and we're starting from kind of the most promising or the closest to quote unquote truth, which we're calling proven, although I put proven in quotes because technically nothing in biology is proven, right? It's not like mathematics where you prove something and write QED at the end and never have to think about it again. So proven would be as close to well-established claim as you're going to find the implication for us, of course, as you've got lots of high quality consistent data. The category beneath that would be promising. This is a category where the claims look good, there are data to support it, but maybe we're still waiting on replication or maybe there's, you know, most of the data are moving in one direction, but not all of it or something like that. The category beneath that we call fuzzy. And this means there are some data around the claim, but they are really inconsistent and incomplete. So overall, you would say the data quality here is not that great, but there's probably a signal. Beneath that we have noise. So here we have something where there are just frankly no real meaningful results. So, you know, noise is something that it's not that I'm saying you shouldn't pay attention to it, but you clearly don't want to be distracted by it, and it's best to wait and see if noise declares itself by going up to fuzzy with the presence of some data as it works its way up the chain or whether data actually emerge that put it in the final category, which is actual nonsense. So again, nonsense means we actually have data, right? And the data refute the claim being made. So as far as we can tell, this is as close to disproven as you'll be. So again, those are the five categories. Just kind of keep that in mind as we apply our judgments to these things. And keep in mind as well that these are fluid things can move up and down these chains in the presence of new information. Yeah, and I think I always like to anchor people to this. And so we've talked about it before, but I do think it's helpful, which is sometimes I think in today's day and age where people are very confident in their opinions and usually kind of stick to them. You see it a lot in nutrition where it's like you just get in a camp and you stay with it. You just want to talk a little bit about your idea of like strong convictions loosely, how then why you think it might be counterintuitive when people like change mine and something goes from proven to promising or goes up and down. But just how you think about when new data comes, you just have to be an emotional to it and just take science for science. Yeah, like I think first and foremost, that's an attribute of great scientists. So if you look at what separates good scientists from great scientists, that would probably be one of the characteristics. Right? A great scientist is not married to being right. They're married to knowing what is right and they're going to go wherever the data take them. But honestly, the first time I heard that expression to have strong convictions loosely held was actually from a friend of mine who the time was running a hedge fund. He's he's since retired. But he said, look, that's the key to being a good investor. Is you have to have strong convictions because you're going to be putting a lot of capital at risk. But those convictions have to be loosely held. So the moment that data emerge, the change, your thesis for investment, you have to be flexible enough to move as opposed to double down. And the reason I think that this is such an important part of investing is in science if you're wrong, the price is not that severe. With out calling out or embarrassing anybody, there are lots of people who have taken positions on things that are just so patently incorrect, you know, 20 and 25 years later. And yet they just can't let go of their baby, right? They can't kill their baby. And so frankly, they just make fools out of themselves continuing to cling to ridiculous beliefs. But there's actually no real price they're paying for that, right? Other than within the scientific community, they're laughed at. But you can't be an investor. You can't be a money manager with that type of mentality, because you'll be out of business, right? And so in the final analysis, the dollars talk louder than anything else. And if you continue to double down on horrible positions, you will lose the money of your LPs and ultimately you will be broke. So I think that's sort of why it's a great idea to be thinking about through the lens of how an investor functions. And so I think we just have to all try to do that. It's hard to kill your babies. But that was the expression. Those were the exact words that were used when I first showed up in the lab and first started doing experiments. And first started getting my data and trying to put hypotheses together and make sense of what I was seeing. It was you can have the most beautiful, beautiful hypothesis ever. And it can be categorically slayed by ugly facts. And that's paraphrasing a quote. God, I don't remember who actually said that quote, but it's a sort of famous quote in science. Yeah, I think it's just good for people to kind of anchor that too. So starting off, if you had to put the following statement into one of those categories, where would it be, which is the next in-house tournament, Peter at the takes first place. You're not going to let this go. Listen, um, I believe I have the potential to beat my young boys in chess, provided I don't get distracted by the smack talk, right? I think in all, in my defense today, by the way, just I know you don't play chess, but just for you understand, I promoted upon to a second queen on the 25th move. Okay, do you understand what an advantage I had in this game today? I've got two queens on the board and I was ahead on material before that promotion. This was a blood bath. And then he starts yapping so much and makes what looks like an idiotic blender exposing his rook to one of my new to my newest queen. So of course, I take the free rook. But I was so dumb when I did it that I didn't notice that he moved his bishop out of the way what looked like a blender so he sacrificed his rook to put his bishop in a way to basically create what's called a battery against my king and the next move he checkmated me. So you know, you could say, okay, I got beat. Yes, I did, but part of it as I was distracted by how much he was yapping. So all I really need to do to up my game is just not get distracted and then I think I have a good chance to win the next in-house tournament. I do love your kryptonite. Is second graders who talk trash. Whether it's chess, whether it was the kid who has just given you tons of crap for drinking a diet soda at the school lunch. Wherever it is, there could literally be a sitcom of me going through my life just getting broken down by eight year olds just just getting put in my place. It's like the sign felled up a sod where like the shrimp comment were a day later he re-thinks of what the comeback should have been. I just anticipate that's you like going to sleep at night being like, oh man, when Eric said this, if I would have responded with this, I would have got him so bad. Next time, next time I'm not going to let that eight year whole talk that trash to me. So good. All right, well real thing we're going to start with geopertective drugs. So there's a lot of questions about drugs that have metabolic health effects and what that means for anti-aging. So instead of just looking at this improved metabolic health, is there something special about those that can also be anti-aging? And on a side note, just it'll be good to explain what geopertective drugs are we've done it before, but I think it's good for a quick reminder, but outside of that, the biggest drug that is in the news all day every day, geop ones. OZEMPIC, TRUSEPA TIE, and we go V, you name it, everyone's heard of it. We've done a lot about that. So the question is, do we know anything if they have a unique anti-aging effect that actually improves lifespan outside of the metabolic health effects they have? Thank you for viewing this sneak peek of an Ask Me Anything episode of the Drive. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive and much more. Become a premium member today at Peter at teahamd.com forward slash subscribe. The two for professional medical advice diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay and obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should see the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the company's eye invest in or advise, please visit Peter at teahamd.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

What's impressed me the most is the rate of change of AI. And when I look at how quickly it got there, I'm sort of thinking to myself, where is it going to be in two years? Where is it going to be in four years? For today's episode, we're going to look back at previous ones with Jeff English on all things mental emotional health. What Jeff talked about was that in trauma, too often people focus on the what happened, but he thinks that it's more important to focus on the how did I adapt? I've never met a person who's addressed their negative adaptations and come out on the other side and said I wish I didn't do that. Ashley Mason, all things related to getting better sleep. I can think of one example in particular if a guy who's sleep was so destroyed, even I was like, I'm not sure this is going to get fixed. And within six months, it's guys normal sleep now. This stuff works. We have Sanjay Menop looking at radiology, radiation. Very low or moderate dose exposures to radiation, seem to be completely negligible in terms of long-term health risks and maybe even beneficial. We have Sean Mackie. All things related to pain. It's not a signal from the body, right? But it's an experience that's influenced by many factors. And then Sue Desmond Helman, there are not many people who have experienced and done more, where we ended was really talking a lot about oncology and AI. She's on the board of open AI. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Peter, welcome to another quarterly podcast summary. Ask me anything episode with Peter Atia. How you doing? Very well. You excited to be here. I am? No place you'd rather be. No place I'd rather be. Nothing I'd rather be talking about. Even a race car. Mmm, maybe. Okay. Well, it's good. It's good to know you're still being honest. Ha! So today we're going to cover kind of looking back at recent episodes on the podcast. As a reminder for people, these quarterly podcast summaries, they are away for us to kind of talk about and gather insights from you on what you learned from previous episodes, where you're behavior changed, where you're thinking about things differently. But they're not necessarily a replacement for these episodes. What we often find is people kind of use this accompanying listening to that episode or even going back and listening to some sections again based on these insights. And so for today's episode, we're going to look back at previous ones with Jeff Englisch on all things mental emotional health, trauma, therapy, Ashley Mason. All things related to getting better sleep and some, yeah, CBTI as it relates to it, improving sleep. We have Sanjay Menop looking at radiology, radiation, different ways to look at how that can be used to cure cancer and also interestingly arthritis. We have Sean Mackie, all things related to pain, chronic pain, and getting over pain. And then Sue Desmond Helman, which was an interesting episode kind of looking at her career, but ultimately looking at cancer oncology, drug development, and even an interesting segment on AI and medicine. A lot to talk about, a lot of different topics, which I think speaks to who we have on the podcast, which is a variety of people for a variety of angles. So I think it should be a good one. A lot of different things to chat through anything you want to say before we get started. No, what's dive in? Perfect. First one, Jeff Englisch, all things, trauma, mental health, therapy, etc. Do you kind of want to walk through your insights from that episode? This was an episode I was really looking forward to doing. We discussed in the episode, obviously known Jeff for many years, I owe him a great debt of gratitude. This is one of those episodes where between the time we recorded and the time it came out is probably 8 to 10 weeks. During that period of time, I sent the unedited straight audio file of it to know fewer than 15 to 20 people. I couldn't even wait for this episode to come out to be sharing it with people. So I think that probably tells you something, I will be completely comfortable stating that that will be a record that will last for some time. There's no scenario I can think of where taken a podcast before it comes out and shared it with so many people. I would say that most of the people I shared it with, not only found it to be incredibly valuable, but actually wanted to engage with Jeff on a personal level, a professional level after that. Again, that's one of those podcasts where if it resonates with you, it's really important, you're going to share it a lot. What was this episode about? It really was a great episode about understanding trauma. It's such a loaded word that I think it's understandable why people might have some skepticism around that. I think the word does get used a little bit too much. Jeff has a great definition for it and I jotted it down, which is that trauma is a moment of perceived helplessness that activates the limbic system. This can be a wounding event, a major event, or maybe a series of smaller events. And those typically get referred to as big tree and little tea traumas. So a big tea trauma is something really obvious, big the victim of a violent crime, for example, and little tea traumas are like a thousand paper cuts, like a parent that was there, but just really wasn't paying attention to their kid. And those can be damaging in different ways. So what Jeff talked about was that in trauma too often people focus on what happened, part of the equation, but he thinks that it's more important to focus on the how did I adapt part of the equation. And as he talked about it, you know, the sinquanon of trauma is that there's a disconnected version of a person that shows up to life relying on maladaptive strategies to replace connection with something else. I think that is a remarkably succinct way to explain things. And it's not judgmental, right? It's just saying that something happened a series of things there have been adaptations. Those adaptations have led to disconnection. And maladaptive strategies this could be things that are perceived of as quote unquote bad like alcohol, drugs, gambling, but it could be also things that are perceived of as good, such as work or perfectionism. All of those things replace the sense of connection. So again, I think, you know, this is just an episode that I think you have to go back and listen to. But you know, to me that was the most important takeaway. You know, he spoke about implicit and explicit memories. So people can sort of explicitly remember an event and think, well, it, you know, objectively as I think about that, it didn't really impact me. But implicitly, it is impacting them through anxiety or some other type of discomfort. He had a great saying, which is if it's hysterical, it's historical. So I think about this often when I overreact emotionally. When I calmed down, I'm usually asking myself, what was that really about? Like was it really about the thing that you blew up over or was there something deeper that this is sort of reminding you of in terms of a vulnerability or something like that? You know, very important distinctions here between guilt and shame. Guilt is about, you know, as he described it, making a mistake, shame is about being a mistake. Some people refer to this as healthy shame and unhealthy shame. Again, it's not necessarily one way to think about this. Okay, we talked about the trauma tree. And this is again, I've heard so many different people talk about trauma in so many different ways. I still think this is one of the better models. And it's a tree because it has roots and it has branches. And the roots are below the ground and the branches are above the ground. And that is a metaphor for the fact that the roots or the causes are not necessarily visible while the adaptations, the branches are indeed visible. So again, very important to understand in this model that intention is not a requirement for the roots of a tree. What do I mean by that? Sometimes the wounding events, I.e. the roots are not intentional. They weren't, you know, they're not driven by people who are intending to hurt. This is, I think, a very important thing for people dealing with trauma to understand because it's very easy to minimize an event that had an impact on you as a child. For example, if you believe that the person who was responsible for this wasn't trying to hurt you. And that's often the case. So keep that in mind. So what are these? So the five roots are broken down as abuse, which can be physical. Typically that is pretty deliberate. Emotional, sexual. Again, obviously these are generally quite deliberate religious. So there's an example where it might not be with a mal-intent, but of course it has, it has bad outcomes. The next would be abandonment. This can be physical abandonment, literally someone being abandoned by a parent, but it could also be emotional. A neglect, which is obviously distinct from abandonment, even that the care provider is still present, but is not paying attention to the child. In meshment, which is basically boundary violations, the emotional incest. This happens when kids have to grow up far too quickly to be emotional caregivers or peers with parents typically. And then tragic events. These are pretty obvious. Typically not subtle. Again, we talk about war. We talk about things of that nature, violent events. Okay, so then we have the branches. And again, the branches or the adaptations here. And the important thing to remember here, and I think this is really helpful for anybody thinking through this for themselves or for others is that adaptations typically work very well for the child that has been wounded. And again, I use the word wounded as kind of a broad emotional term. The problem is they tend to become maladaptive later in life. He gives a great example of a father who is physically abusing the mother of his child. And whenever this happened, the child would run into his bedroom out of fear, right, because dad is getting violent. He's hurting mom. But one day, the child's fear that his mother was going to be hurt was so great that he ran into the bathroom and pretended that he was sick as a way to distract the father. So the father, you know, screams at the mother and says, look what you're doing. You're your hysterical whining, his major son's sick. And this temporary distraction actually prevented his father from injuring the mother. So that was an amazing adoption. That child basically learned that he could be deceptive and manipulative and it actually worked. It was a really good adaptation. And it probably will serve that child well for some time. The problem is it will not serve that child well as an adult. So, you know, he describes these adaptations as old friends that serve you well. But lose their utility and become destructive as you age. And so again, what are these four branches? These four branches are co-dependency. So, you know, which, which he calls an outer reach for inner security, addictive patterns. Again, these are the most obvious in some ways, so substance is, but also work process obsession, things of that nature. Attachment issues where the common thread is sort of insecurity. So there's kind of an anxious attachment, a void into attachment, disorganized attachments. He goes into these in details. And then just kind of a bucket for all other maladaptive strategies here. And I'm sure people can think of many examples. So, you know, I think I've learned a lot over the past seven or eight years on this. But I think Jeff sums it up so well. And I've seen this over and over in myself and my patience. When you're working through trauma, or if you're on the fence about whether or not you should work through trauma, it's worth remembering. You're either going to deal with it or it's going to deal with you. These things cannot be, cannot be buried. They're going to always like a whack-a-mole thing, always show up at some point, and you can't play whack-a-mole indefinitely. So, you know, the first step, I think is just accepting that that's the case and that there's a better way to be and that these coping strategies well incredibly valuable are probably not helping you that you may indeed be passing on maladaptive behaviors to your kids if you're a parent. And, you know, dealing with, you know, something that he describes as putting the adaptive child out of the driver's seat and into the back of the car. So, yeah, I think, you know, those are, probably some of the important things I would take from that episode. And, again, I don't think that this summary even remotely serves as a substitute for listening to that. So, if you missed that episode and anything I said is even remotely peaks your curiosity. I think you've, you've kind of got to go back to it. Aside from the insights, are there any behaviors that you changed? Maybe from your relationship with Jeff even prior to this or even that like behaviors that after people listening to Jeff could start to apply in their own life if they're trying to kind of figure this out for themselves. You know, to practice, we've talked about this in other podcasts, but practicing or understanding what your practice looks like to expand your distressed tolerance window. I write about this quite a bit in the final chapter of outlive. But it's sort of knowing the things that you do that give you a greater operating window. So, for example, for many people, meditation is a great tool to increase the probability of responding as opposed to reacting when something happens. You know, learning the language of eye statements, you know, basically taking ownership for, for what you think, what you feel, what you do. Working, you know, kind of through this triad that he describes as the, the triangle of vulnerability. So, sadness, shame, and fear, and trying to be curious about where you are on that triangle and and being more responsive to your your own emotional vocabulary around these things, noticing what your coping skills are. Again, I, I, I talk and often joke about some of mine that still exists to this day. You know, e-shopping is an enormous coping skill for stress. I just can't stop buying stupid things online when I am stressed out. I feel fortunate in some ways, because there I know that, you know, I'm really glad that it's not drinking too much alcohol, but it's still a distraction. And, and even if it, even if the worst thing it does is set me back a few dollars, it's, it's preventing me from connecting and it's preventing me from accepting and dealing with what it is that's happening. So anyway, I mean, I think there are other things, but I think those would be, those would be a great place to sort of start and obviously we talk about so much more in this episode. And someone who, let's say, has listened to that episode and are listening to us and they're like, you know, this is something that I've maybe been ignoring in my own life or kind of pushed aside and decided to up to this point, not to deal with it. I know you also patients who are like that. And so when you're talking to people and trying to encourage them to take the first step and to figure out this journey from themselves, any advice you have for those people just in case they're on the other end listening here. I just can't say enough about it. And I, it's one of the things I enjoy talking about with patients more than anything, because even though patients come to our practice because they want to improve their lifespan, they also care about health span and it's easy to forget that emotional health is a piece of health span. And I think when a person is sort of caught in the vicious cycle of what's often the response to in the adaptation to traumatic events, not necessarily exclusively as children, but often as children, they're not, they're not living this connected life that Jeff talks about. And again, I can just share from personal experience that being disconnected versus being connected is all the difference in living. And it's not like you flip a switch and everything is fine. It's a process. It's a journey of course. But I've never met a person who's a dressed, their negative adaptations and come out on the other side and said, I wish I didn't do that. This is a question we get asked. A decent amount to the website. So it's here as well. In the book, I've openly talked podcast that you went to two centers to kind of like do in-depth work on this. Lough and times people just ask, hey, what are those calls? So they can look them up as well. Obviously, these aren't the only two. But do you just want to kind of state those where people are looking for a first place to start to that you found beneficial for you? Yeah, the first place was called the Bridge to Recovery. I went there in 2017. That's actually where I met Jeff English. We talked about that a lot in the podcast. The second place I went in 2020 was called PCS Psychological Counseling Services. And I would recommend both of those places very, very highly. And I think PCS focuses on more than just trauma. But it's also, you know, it's very trauma-focused. The bridge is really, is really a trauma-based residential program. And again, I'm sure there are others out there that are maybe equally wonderful. I know that for many people, because I obviously I've encouraged a number of people to go to these locations. And many have everyone acknowledges as I did upfront. Like, are you kidding me? This is why don't I just, how about I just keep working with my therapist for, you know, an hour twice a month? That can work. But sometimes it doesn't. And sometimes you actually need to undergo kind of immersive therapy. I was going to have you kind of give this metaphor, because you've talked about it before, but I think it clicks with people, which is the idea if you want to learn a language like one hour a week, tutoring classes, good. But sometimes moving to that country and being forced into that is how you're going to learn better. Yeah, exactly. Last question on this, just because I need to do it, and there's probably people wondering, have you ever bought anything in one of those shopping stints? And you've thought a week later, like, oh, this was actually awesome. I'm glad I did and if so, what was like the best thing that came out of that? I mean, truthfully, and this is obviously terrible rationalization. I think most things I buy in my eShopaholic bursts. I mean, I'm pretty happy with them. Not all of them. I have bought some really stupid things. And what I tend to do is give them away so that I don't see them again, which is actually counter productive, because I should keep more of those things as a reminder of my bad behavior. In other words, I should surround myself with more of the consequences of those actions. It's a great answer. I spoke in like a true shop of Hollik in my spoken like, I'm actually, actually these things are all really awesome. And at the end of the damn really glad I have. Right. It's a horrible selection bias. I keep the things that are awesome. I give away the things that are not awesome. It's awful. Yes. So does that mean anyone who's ever gotten a gift from you should think that this is actually Peter getting rid of stuff that he doesn't want. Or it doesn't quite work that way. I give away much more than just my non-assum stuff. Okay. That's good. Good to know. Okay. Moving on, Ashley Mason. This was a great episode on sleep in Somnia, CBTI. How do we improve your sleep? Very, very interesting. I know we talked about already wanting her to come back for part two because we didn't get through near everything we're hoping to do. So do you want to start with walking through your biggest takeaways insights from the episode? Yeah. Boy, Ashley is a force in nature. She, yeah, we, we, again, we, we had sketched out a lot of things we were going to talk about. But we never got out of insomnia and CBTI because I felt like it was just too important to stay there and gather all that information. So yes, definitely we'll have to have Ashley back. So I learned a lot. And, and honestly, what I came away with is thinking that okay, I feel like I almost know enough to help people through part of the CBTI playbook without even having to refer out to CBTI. And I think that the takeaway from this episode should be that you can do a lot of CBTI on your own, which is not to say you shouldn't reach out to a practitioner if you're struggling. But, but the good news is so much of the heavy lifting was, was covered here. So, um, first of all, let's just start with the semantics, right? So insomnia must persist for months. It must interfere with life and it must cause distress. This isn't just a few nights of bad rest. So we don't want to sort of over pathologize this. So we're really trying to focus on a meaningful reduction in sleep. CBTI or cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is one of the most effective tools for addressing serious insomnia. Uh, 50 to 60 people who utilize this achieve a complete remission and 70% show improvement. There are lots of contributing factors to the development of insomnia. Um, so you have predisposing factors like genetics, past experiences, you have precipitating factors such as life crisis, divorce, enormous stressful experiences at work. And then you have perpetuating factors or coping strategies like what you do when you are in this state of insomnia. Now CBTI only focuses on the latter. It does not concern itself with what your predisposing factors are. Doesn't even care what the precipitating factor is and doesn't try to stratify people based on those things. It basically says, you're here. You're having significant insomnia. What are you doing to cope with it and how do we address that? Um, so in that sense, the treatment is independent of the first two. So, um, you also, of course, I should just sort of say this before we go on. You do need to address any sleep pathology like restless like sender merciless sleep apnea, um, before engaging in this. So you have to rule out that kind of stuff. Okay. So, um, CBTI is really about addressing this triangle of, like, thoughts to feelings to behaviors, so picture a triangle, thoughts, feelings, behaviors where each one is sort of influencing the next. And the, the discussion with Ashley was really a great way to kind of go through all of the behavioral changes to mitigate insomnia, um, which fall under the themes that are, I think kind of bucketed as sleep hygiene, stimulus control, time in bed restriction, cognitive techniques, and relaxation techniques. Um, so let's just talk about each of these. So sleep hygiene is something that, you know, listeners of this podcast are very familiar with. Um, these include things like keeping the room temperature cold in the mid 60s, even if you need to wear socks, keeping the room as dark as possible and using an eye mask if that's necessary. Um, it means not drinking too much fluid, after dinner to reduce the probability that you need to get up and pee at night. Um, this means, you know, addressing prostate issues if you're a male, things of that nature. Um, it means getting rid of down-comforters and heavy blankets, which disrupt the circadian temperature rhythm. Remember, when we're in bed, we're supposed to get into bed and rapidly begin a process of cooling to get into our deepest sleep before we begin to warm a couple of hours before we wake up and again, uh, really, really, uh, well, she had a discreet. She said anything with dovet and it should be banned, right? So basically anything that's going to keep too much heat in is a bad idea. Um, okay, what's stimulus control? Stimulus control means limiting the bed to only two things, sleep and sex. Everything else happens somewhere else. That means no phone. That means no reading. I mean, well, those are obvious. The other thing she made a really clear point about was no worrying. Now, you might say, well, I mean, who's who sets out to worry in bed? Um, but what she really means by that, and I think this is very important is that you don't want to spend time laying in bed awake. So if you're laying in bed and you're awake, especially if you're worrying, you need to get out of bed and do something else. Um, so she talks about people who suffer from insomnia. Um, one of the important things you have to do is get them out of bed for 20 to 30 minutes to do something really low key. She had a funny description of get out of bed and do something that you would be embarrassed if your colleagues at work saw you doing it. In other words, don't get out of bed at three in the morning to go and work for 30 minutes. Get out of bed for 30 minutes to read a, you know, some trashy magazine or watch some silly sitcom, but something that's not really activating. Um, and allow yourself to get a little bit sleepy and then come back to bed. By the way, I not long after the podcast with Ashley, and I rarely experience insomnia, but I went through a couple of days when I was kind of being jolted up at two or three in the morning and could not get back to sleep. And my inclination was sort of just sit there and just fight it and fight it and fight it. Um, and finally on the third night, I was like, why am I not just doing what Ashley said? So as soon as it happened, I got up, went out to the to the couch in the family room through through down an episode of Silicon Valley, which is, you know, even I talk about this all time, like one of the greatest shows of all time, and then just went back in and went to bed. So that's an example of something that's super low key that, you know, it kind of allowed me to get back into it. Okay. Um, the next one here is really, really hard for people to wrap their head around some time. Um, but it's called time and bed restriction. Previously, people refer to this as sleep restriction, which, you know, the name of that is obvious. So, um, why, why would, why would you do such a thing, right? Well, the problem is for many people within Psalmney, they're actually spending too much time in bed, and their sleep efficiency is really low. Um, they're spending a lot of time in bed because they're tired because they're not sleeping, and it becomes a vicious cycle. Now, anybody who's used a wearable for sleep, or uses anything that measures sleep, probably notices a calculation that gets spit out called sleep efficiency. Sleep efficiency is time-sleeping divided by time in bed. You want to be able to hit at least 85% here. Um, I should say you want to be able to hit about 85% here. So to be clear, if you're hitting 95%, uh, you're not giving yourself enough time in bed is almost assured, leave a case. And if you're, you know, hitting 75% you're probably spending too much time in bed. Um, so to restrict time in bed, you want to first understand your typical time asleep with a sleep diary. And then you add a 30-minute buffer to get your target time in bed. So you can also determine the ideal wake-up time and base your time in bed off this wake-up time. So if you base your wake-up time, so, so getting your wake-up time right is key. This is the thing that you want to be fixed. And then your bedtime starts to take care of itself as you build up sleep pressure over time. Um, you probably heard me talk about this on the podcast before the more consistent your wake-up time is even on weekends. The easier it is to control sleep hygiene. The term of, you know, people who let their sleep schedules move on weekends and they sleep in a lot later, which is understandable, right? Like if you work Monday through Friday and you're getting up at five in the morning, it is a real tempting on the weekends to sleep till 8 or 9 o'clock. The problem is that process of social jet lag is devastating for your circadian rhythm. So, um, you know, she, she describes focusing on process S, which is sleep pressure to, um, standardize what she calls process C or circadian rhythm. Um, and, um, we talked a little bit about sleep trackers. She does not recommend using them if you're struggling with insomnia and I couldn't agree more from our own practice. We, one of the first things we do when people are struggling with sleep is we get them to take their sleep trackers and at best put them away at worst throw them out. And because if you're, if, once this kind of gets in your head, it becomes a brutal cycle. So, so you don't need this to fix the problem. Okay. Cognitive techniques, I found this to be very interesting. Um, schedule time for worrying. Uh, again, for many people, the, the, the, the waking up part, then triggers the set of roominating thoughts. Um, and so ins, insomnia is, you know, sometimes arises from not processing information enough during the daytime and spending too much time in bed roominating. So she has her patients schedule worry time by intentionally putting something on the calendar where they literally write down all the things that they are worried about. And they, you know, they might have 20 minutes a day to do that. Um, and, uh, you know, then they, sort of don't have to feel the need to process this at night. So, you know, you know, he's thinking about the things that you would normally think about laying awake in bed. Um, and, and all of a sudden it gets a lot better. Um, tracking, she does something called tracking the degree of belief, which means asking yourself, how much do I believe this is true? So, um, a lot of times people will find the things that seem absolutely certain in the evening may turn out to be kind of unlikely during the day. Um, they just feel more certain of it before bed, which increases worrying. So, again, these are, these are, these are some of the, the techniques I won't go through all the other stuff. There's some stuff she talks about on relaxation, which I think is helpful. Um, and, and, you know, she also talked about AB testing other things that are probably less effective. She wasn't a huge proponent of blocking out blue light. Um, but she said it's always worth trying, right? If, if wearing, you know, red light or blue light glasses in the evening helps, she's like by all means great. Give it a shot. Um, obviously experimenting on timing of caffeine, medication, supplements, all great. Um, but, you know, her view is just test those things out. Um, so, um, yeah, I would say those are kind of the big things. And Peter, remind me, did she talk about anything on like sleep supplements, like sleep prescription drugs that people should think about potentially use if they're going through this? Thank you for viewing this sneak peek of an ask me anything episode of the drive. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to the full AMA episode you just watched a sneak peek for. Our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcasts summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter at EMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthcare services, including the giving of medical advice. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay an obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the company's I invest in or advise, please visit Peter at EMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

by absolutely thing pharmaceutical advertising should be abolished. Today is gonna be another quarterly podcast summary episode. Huge variety of topics, whole off, talking about training, performance, VR2 Max. It's very quick and tempting to just say, I must be just using drugs we haven't figured out yet. Another explanation in the one that I find more appealing is that they literally figured out how to double the octane of the fuel. Ralph looking at insulin resistance, type two diabetes. For me, the biggest surprise by far. I mean, I had to pick my head up off the table when he said this was Piglidism. Some looking at healthcare. With all that is back to up, I said some. I still don't fully understand why the hell we pay two X per capita, what every other country pays. Traena looking at autism ADHD anxiety. She's like, look, I'm really not interested in the label. I'm interested in the impairment. Mike looking at resistance training. Everybody needs to know what it feels like to go to failure. And everybody, therefore, needs to get familiar with what is it feel like when I was one rep before that. Hey, everyone. Welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Peter, thanks for joining us on another AMA on your own podcast. We appreciate you coming back. I always appreciate being here. Thank you for having me. Anytime, anytime. So today is going to be another quarterly podcast summary episode. Lot of words basically what it means is we look at past episodes, kind of cover what the main takeaways are, what your favorite insights were. Any changes you made based on like the behavior to yourself, how you work with patients, how you think about things, anything of that nature from those episodes. The other thing that says reminder, it's meant as more to like augment the episodes, not necessarily as a replacement. And we get a lot of feedback where people will listen to this and then read, listen to some of the original episodes and find a lot of value in it. So today we'll look at Olaf talking about training performance, VR2 Max, Ralph looking at insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, but form in SGLT2 inhibitors, other drugs, some looking at healthcare, trying to understand why healthcare in the US is nearly two times per capita of any other development. And trying to look at autism ADHD, anxiety, we have Mike looking at resistance training and kind of diving into everything revolving that. So huge variety of topics, a lot of different things. And I think people should find interest in and I think we'll get it started with Olaf. So do you kind of want to start going through? You're up so with Olaf. This was obviously the second time he was back on. Little behind the scenes we talked beforehand about, hey, let's try and make it a little less technical because the first one was pretty technical. And I think looking back, you probably made it more technical in the first. So I think that's just by nature how you and Olaf are always going to be. So maybe break down for people. What you learn and what your biggest insights were from that. Yeah, and before we dive into this, at least in as long as we've been doing quarterly podcasts some reason I will say this, this might end up being the longest because just by the nature of coincidence and which podcasts fall into the past quarter, this is probably the most voluminous set of notes I've ever taken across a set of podcasts. So in fact, I would say that two of the episodes that we've covered here, the one with Ralph and the one with some were easily kind of three to four X the volume of notes. I normally take and you know, in the input from that way you will, I've done my best to try to synthesize that, but nevertheless, there's just, there's a lot going on in this past quarter. Okay, you're right. I wanted to make the Olaf one at the outset just straight into less technical things and I could not resist the tractor pull of trying to at least explain subtechnical things. So we started the discussion by explaining the difference between things like functional threshold power and critical power. Again, I hesitate to bring these up now because I just don't think they're relevant unless you are a cyclist. But if you are interested, I'll just state it. The functional threshold power or FTP is the power that you can hold for one hour. That is one way to test it. You literally get on a bike, usually on an Erg, so it's a stationary bike. You ride as hard as you can without blowing up for one hour and whatever the average power is that you held as your FTP, much more typically, for example, when I was a cyclist, we would do this in a 20 minute test and we would discount it by typically 10% although Olaf suggested only 5% in my experience. 10% was necessary. There's something called critical power, which is very similar, but rather than it being the power you can hold for an hour, it's the power you can hold for 30 to 40 minutes. I think the more important distinction here is that you can calculate critical power much easier. You can do it from a set of curves that are derived from three to four individual tests that are much shorter. Why is this relevant? This is relevant because if you want to have other metrics beyond VO2 max for higher and a robe efficiency, you might want to know your FTP or critical power and critical power is much easier to measure. These days, in this ties into another insight, these days I don't spend a lot of time worrying about my FTP. In fact, I don't know what it is because I haven't done a 20 minute power test since none. Don't necessarily think I'm going to do one anytime soon, probably because I don't want to see how low it is. It made me realize maybe I ought to do a critical power test just so that I have another benchmark to be tracking. We talked about a few other things which I'm not going to go into and a robe-threshold and stuff. We covered a little bit of that in the first podcast. Another very interesting insight that came up for me in this podcast, which was really just a personal insight. Again, I hesitate to spend too much time on it. Because talking about the relationship between VO2 max and PVO2 max or VVO2 max. So if you're a cyclist, what does that mean? PVO2 max means what is your power when you are at VO2 max? Again, VO2 max just to make sure we're really no talking about. This is maximum ventilation, meaning maximum oxygen consumption. It's usually sustained for at least a minute when you're doing the test. So what's the highest amount of oxygen and leaders' permanent that can be consumed for? A minute and this has achieved during a ramp exercise. Again, almost exclusively done on a bike or on a treadmill stationary bike. And when you hit that VO2 max, if you're on a treadmill, you will note that, hey, there's a velocity assuming you're running flat. Or you might see, oh, actually, I'm on a bike and by PVO2 max is the power that I've achieved. Now some have argued that VO2 max or PVO2 max are actually more predictive of sport-specific performance than just the number VO2 max. And I think there might be something to that because I shared my numbers with all of. And the truth of it is, I have always had a very low PVO2 max to VO2 max. And I've stated in another way, I have always had a VO2 max that is higher than many people who are much better cyclist than me. What wasn't uncommon when I was training that my VO2 max was 15 points higher than people who had a higher FTP than me, for example. And what all I've suggested there is it speaks to really inefficient, probably overtraining aerobically, under training anaerobicly. So there's an inefficiency there and that inefficiency means that I am actually requiring more energy across the board to put out more power. Now, something very interesting that comes from that is there might be an association between people like that and a lesser propensity to gain weight. And it is true that every time I've done a resting metabolic expenditure test or any time I've done the more elaborate stuff, I've actually done the double labeled water test and the metabolic chambers. I always seem to have a through the roof energy expenditure for my body weight. So I guess for the first time that all kind of came together, which was, wow, on the one hand I have an advantage perhaps in that I have a very high energy expenditure. So relative to somebody else who eats as much as I do, I'm going to be leaner. Let the flip side of that is I'm actually quite inefficient at utilizing energy. So again, I found that very, very interesting. The thing that we talked about was, hey, is there anything that a person can do besides the obvious, which is training to boost their VO2 max? He mentioned something about beat route wasn't familiar with this, but beat route concentrates. He said, is rich in nitrates. Body converts it into nitric oxide and that of course helps with vasodilation, opens up capillary beds. It should be stated then of course that anything that impairs nitric oxide synthase and there are many things that do from home assisting to insulin resistance is going to impede it. Again, he said at the elite level, this doesn't have much of a difference, but in amateur athletes like the rest of us can be about a 5% boost. The other thing he talked about that I thought was really interesting was, and again, this was to me just more gamesmanship than anything else. And I can't wait to try it the next time I do a VO2 max, which by the way is probably going to be this weekend or next. He said, as you approach failure, do a few breath holes, and he said that that produces a significant boost in VO2 max. Again, it's just a reactive overconsumption of oxygen. I don't know if that means anything. One of the other things that I asked him about was the use of acedaminophen. Again, there are some data that suggest that acedaminophen use can boost peak endurance performance by 1% to 2%. And so I asked, oh, if Christian or Gustav used acedaminophen themselves during Iron Man, and he said they did not. And he raised a point that I thought was interesting, which is, well, acedaminophen or Tylenol can obviously reduce the perception of pain, which has been one of the arguments for why it boost performance. It may impair the athlete from giving off heat, from heat dissipation. And so he just questioned whether or not that that might be a worthwhile tradeoff. Of course, for me, that begs the desire to do an experiment and find out. Another area that we talked about, which again, doesn't appeal to or doesn't relevant to me in the way I train, but if any of you are listening and you are really high performance athletes, I think this is arguably probably the single most important takeaway from this podcast, is what the upper limits of carbohydrate consumption are well doing. Cardiode activity and racing. So again, if you're a triathlete, if you're a cyclist, if you're a runner, less applicable in running because the races are typically so short, but of course, if you're an ultra-marathon runner, that would not be the case. So again, everybody's kind of done this math, right, which is, okay, if you're running, if you're doing an Iron Man or something like that, you're probably depending on your level of fitness, expanding somewhere between 700 and 1000 calories per hour. Let's even be conservative and say you're really, really just kind of going easy. You'd be at 600 to 700 Kcal per hour. Now, we don't have that much stored glycogen, right? You've got maybe 50, 100, maybe 200 grams of glycogen if you have really big muscles stored, which you're going to run out of pretty quickly. That's going to supply you from maybe an hour and a half. So thereafter, you have to meet your needs from body fat and intake of carbohydrates. And the conventional thinking has always been that you can only consume about 60 grams of glucose per hour and 60 grams of glucose, of course, is only about 240 Kcal. This has always been one of my main arguments for why being fat adapted is very important, because if you're consuming that 60 of glucose and that's giving you whatever it's giving you, you have to get the balance from fat and you're only going to do that if you're heavily fat adapted. So you get into this cycle. Well, what we've seen unquestionably is, I think, the biggest, um, honestly, the biggest innovation in endurance sports like the Tour de France and Iron Man, over the past decade is the amount of glucose that these guys are able to consume. He talked about numbers I had never heard before, as some of you may recall, I interviewed Ted Day Pogatcha recently, the greatest cyclist on the planet. His numbers blew my mind of the type of carbohydrate intake that he was tolerating 150, 180 grams per hour. Well, I've said that they're now pushing triathletes at the world class level to 240 grams per hour. Again, this is unbelievable to me. And what that basically tells you is you can meet all of your glycolitic needs indefinitely through that. Now, again, just as Ted Day said, you have to train this system. These are athletes that are required to now consume gels and eat carbohydrates at a 12% mixture. What does that mean? 12% mixture means 12, pardon me, 120 grams per liter. 10% mixture is 100 grams per liter, etc. Conventional wisdom is that we can't tolerate, meaning our gastrointestinal system cannot tolerate more than a 5% mixture. And I know from me personally when I used to be doing ultra-distance stuff, I had a hard time going above 5 to 6% myself. But what all of said and what Ted Day has also said separately is you can actually train your GI system to double that. And so how these guys are drinking two liters per hour of a 12% mixture, which would be 240 grams, I simply can't fathom. But clearly that's what they're doing. Or they're doing it in some combination. So they're consuming gels plus water that amounts to that mixture. But I think when you look at the hyperbolic performance of endurance athletes today, it's very quick and tempting to just say, they must be just using drugs we haven't figured out yet. Yeah, it's also the fact that I think another explanation and the one that I find more appealing is that they literally figured out how to double the octane of the fuel. I mean, that's effectively what's happening. It's like a car that went from racing at 70 octane to 140 octane. And I'm not going to bother explaining what octane is. I'm not even sure if there's a 140, but you know what I'm getting at. So I would say those are probably the most important things. I guess the last thing that I would take away from this is kind of he offered a great protocol for how to make sure you're giving it your best when you do a VO2 Max test. This has already been something that I've started implementing a little bit more with our patients and making sure that for example, if they do a VO2 Max test, I've always asked people like describe the protocol and many times I'm not pleased with the protocol, but this was kind of like the the kind of I think really sort of super duper protocol, right? So you know, you want to do this at the time of day that is a normal time that you would be training, so you want to be well-rested, et cetera, minimize traveling the day before. So we try to tell our patients the same thing if you're coming into Austin for a VO2 Max test, point it would be really great if it was just a short flight the day before and if it's international, please you know come in more than a day before if you want to maximize the test. The warmup should be basically six minutes, very, very easy, six minutes zone two, three minutes at threshold or FTP, two to three times at a 10 to 15 second burst at about what you expect your PVO2 Max is, then a relatively short rest of 10 to 15 minutes, get a drink and then get on with it. Yeah, so I would say that's those are probably the most important things that I took away from this podcast. So Peter, just a few follow-up questions there, let's just start with the VO2 Max training. So in that protocol, it actually is like a decent warmup that you're having people do, right? Like I remember when I've been VO2 Max testing up, I don't know if I've even really had me do any type of warmup. You just kind of went, hit the treadmill and then started going. So you're having people go through a little bit of a workout before they get going. Yeah, and I'll tell you this, I do most of my VO2 Max testing out outdoors now. I use that VO2 master device, which I love. It would, I would. So I'm going to leave from my house. I'm going to ride 10 to 15 minutes to the place where I do my hill repeat. So that's a warmup in and of itself. And by the way, getting there, there are a couple of short little climbs where I'll do like 30 seconds of you know, relatively high power just to get up over a little pitch. I will do two to three full runs of the hill at escalating power before I'm truly going to hit my max. So I'll do like a four to five minute up at a, you know, like not like a, like maybe 85% of what my maximum power would be for that climb. Come down for the same amount of rest period, go up again at maybe 90% of what my maximum power would be come back down. And then maybe I would go and give it like that the third one would be out there. So by the time I've done it, I've really warmed up. And so the other day I was talking to a patient who did his VO2 max test at a facility. It was at a university that he went to do it. It was just like a place where you can go and pay to do it. And it was kind of surprised at what his number was. It was lower than I expected, given his training. And I said, tell me about the protocol. And he's like, yeah, I just got on the treadmill and they just started cranking it. And I was like, and how long after you started on the treadmill, did you hit VO2 max? And he's like, I don't know, five minutes. And I was like, yeah, that's a garbage protocol. They, you were not warmed up and ready to do that. And you mentioned you have a VO2 max coming up. Um, when was the last time you tested prior to this? In the spring, it's about six fish months. And there in the reason is like, because I like doing it outdoors, I have, I have noticed because I live in Texas. Um, how much of a performance hit I take in the summer, like it's just, it's a, it's a, it's a noticeable difference in the summer. So I'm like, yeah, I just would rather do it in the spring, fall winter spring is when I prefer to test. And like, let's say the month leading up to it. So the past month, have you changed your training at all? Are you doing anything in particular for it? No, not at all. I'm just, this is just a, a data check. It's just like, you know, I had my blood drawn this week, had my dexus scan a couple of weeks ago. I'm doing a VO2 max. In general. So if you haven't changed anything, this is a reminder for people, what is your, like, VO2 max training look like in a typical week? Is that one day a week? Are you doing a multiple? Just one day a week. Yeah, it's three days a week of zone two and one day a week of, uh, of, of interval training. But interval training at that specific sort of four, five upper limit, eight minute intervals. And I always like when we talk VO2 max training, I think back to one of the actually first video podcast we have a day with Alex Hutchinson. And do you kind of want to walk people through? I think a lot of times when you think of VO2 max training or to body training or like going all out, lot of times people kind of like lose sight at how hard that actually is like, do you kind of want to walk through? If you're doing actual intervals, real VO2 max training, like what that feels like once you're done and well VO2 max training hurts less than a true tabada. I mean, a true tabada is, again, that's where I think people have a hard time understanding what all out means. I mean, technically, I don't think the human body is capable of going all out for more than 10 seconds. So even at the level of a tabada, which is a 20 second effort followed by a 10 second rest repeated eight times or done eight times. Even a 22nd, there's just a governor that is like self regulating how hard you go. The reverse tabada where you go 10 seconds all out, 20 seconds rest for eight rounds. That's about the closest thing that I think we're capable of doing as a truly all out. And you will increase your VO2 max doing that type of an exercise, but not nearly, not nearly as much as if you're doing intervals in the 3 to 8 minute range. And by definition, if you're doing something for 3 to 8 minutes, you're not going all out. What you're trying to do is go as hard as you can for that distance and for that time. So, it's a different animal. Obviously, I think it hurts more because it's just, it's a lower level of peak pain, but it's spread out over a longer period of time. So the area under the pain curve is greater, but it's far from all out and at any moment in time, the pain is not the same. And can you remind people, like what's there doing a four minute interval? You're not starting at four minutes going as hard as you can and then trying to sustain it? Can you walk through kind of how you think about the energy you put out or spread across four minutes? Yeah. Well, now technically, the power is constant throughout the four minutes. So I know in my mind what I how many watts I want to produce and what I want my average wattage to be over the five minutes. So let's just say I want to do five minutes at 300 watts. Of course, you're outdoors, so you don't have complete control. It's always jumping around, but but I'm really watching the the three second power tracing and the average power to keep it there. Well, after the first minute, I barely know I'm on the bike. Like it's it should be really easy after a minute. If you're dying after the first minute, you've set your target too high. Two minutes in, you know, two and a half minutes in when I'm halfway done, I still feel pretty good. My heart rate is now going to be within about five beats of what its maximum is, but I still feel pretty good. It's really at about minute three, three and a half that the pain train starts to leave the station and that's when it really starts to feel miserable. And that last minute is really, really difficult. And again, if you've done this right, when you when you finish this, you're really going to need that four or five minutes of very, very easy pedaling to let your heart rate come back down to then repeat it. But again, the goal is not to have killed yourself in that five minutes, such that you can't do it again, because what I'm trying to do is actually preserve that power across all the intervals. Last follow up on this is you talked about the consumption and like the increase in performance as a result of like what they're able to consume when they're performing. How much of a difference like do you think that makes or how can you explain it to like a lot of lay people probably aren't thinking about that consumption or their mixture. I know a lot of endurance athletes are, but like how much of a game changer do you think it is to have that increase in what they're able to put in their body during events? Well, again, for people like me and probably most people listening to this podcast, this is not something that should be on our radar. Like I don't think there's ever going to be a day when I'm doing a 10 hour endurance event again. And therefore, I don't really need to worry about it. Like it's, you know, if I'm exercising for two hours, that's that's kind of a long time. So again, at two hours, I'm fine with just water and my, you know, and I'm living off my own glycogen and, you know, whatever. But it's very difficult now to think about people competing at a world class level in cycling and Iron Man, because what all of and many others have now argued is the problem of peak endurance is effectively an energetic problem. It's basically a question of how much chemical energy in the form of food can you convert into electrical energy via the metabolism of food back into chemical energy in the form of ATP back into mechanical energy. Like there's, it's just an energy transfer problem. Okay. And more energy input means more energy output. Right. The more in the more logs you can put into the fire, the hotter the fire burns, the more steam it makes, the faster the wheel turns. That's basically what it comes down to and what we've seen over the past decade is quite literally a more than doubling of the feet stock that goes into the furnace. All right. Anything else on all of before we move on? No. Perfect. So next is Ralph on insulin resistance, which I think you said was one of the more interesting interviews you've ever done correct. Thank you for listening to today's sneak peak AMA episode of the drive. If you're interested in hearing a complete version of this AMA, you'll want to become a premium member. It's extremely important to me to provide all of this content without relying on paid ads. To do this our work is made entirely possible by our members and in return we offer exclusive member-only content and benefits above and beyond what is available for free. So if you want to take your knowledge of this space to the next level, it's our goal to ensure members get back much more than the price of this subscription. Premium membership includes several benefits. First, comprehensive podcast show notes that detail, every topic, paper, person and thing that we discuss in each episode. And the word on the street is, nobody's show notes rival ours. Second, monthly ask me anything or AMA episodes. These episodes are comprised of detailed responses to subscribe or questions, typically focused on a single topic and are designed to offer a great deal of clarity and detail on topics or special interest to our members. You'll also get access to the show notes for these episodes of course. Third, delivery of our premium newsletter, which is put together by our dedicated team of research analysts. This newsletter covers a wide range of topics related to longevity and provides much more detail than our free weekly newsletter. Fourth, access to our private podcast feed that provides you with access to every episode including AMA's songs this feel you're listening to now and in your regular podcast feed. Fifth, the quality's an additional member-only podcast we put together that serves as a highlight reel featuring the best excerpts from previous episodes of the drive. This is a great way to catch up on previous episodes without having to go back and listen to each one of them. And finally other benefits that are added along the way. If you want to learn more and access these member-only benefits, you can head over to PeteratiaMD.com forward slash subscribe. You can also find me on YouTube, Instagram, and Twitter all with the handle PeteratiaMD. You can also leave us review on Apple podcasts or whatever podcast player you use. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice. No doctor-patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay an obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the company's I invest in or advise, please visit PeteratiaMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

Let's talk about polycystic ovarian syndrome. So what's the prevalence of it in, let's say, women aged, call it 15 to 30? Yeah, super common. About six to eight percent of women will have polycystic ovarian syndrome. Most common symptoms are irregular periods. Also evidence of high-endrogen levels, and that could usually present with acne or excess hair growth. We call that here's a autism obesity or being overweight. That's also part of the syndrome, not everybody who has any other. And the origins are specifically testosterone. Could it be just testosterone just the HAA, DHTE? Both. Yeah, both, but typically elevated testosterone from the ovaries. Yeah. So is that the cause or the effect? We don't know. We don't know, but it's definitely seen in almost all women with PCOS that they have higher androgen levels. And why is PCOS seemingly also highly associated with insulin resistance? Again, we don't know exactly, but we think the endrogens play a role. We think there might be some genetic factors that play a role. I don't know that we understand why, but we certainly have recognized in the last several decades that most women with PCOS also happen to be insulin resistance. So then the question is, what do we need to do to treat PCOS? Right. So depends on the goal of the patient. Right. So if they're trying to get pregnant, there's one set of treatments. If they're not trying to get pregnant, but they have PCOS, then we usually focus on their cycles. It's generally not a good idea to go too long in between cycles because what can happen is the lining of the uterus can overgrow. If it overgrow too much, it can become what we call hyperplastic, worst case scenario, cancer, or so you definitely don't want that. So it's important to be shedding that lining or to be on hormonal suppression so that that doesn't happen. If the goal is to treat the hyper-endrogenic symptoms like the acne and the hercetism, again, hormonal treatments, usually effective for that. And when you say hormonal treatments, you mean like spironalactone and things like that. Well, usually start with birth control pills. Birth control pills, very effective for most symptoms of PCOS. It'll regulate the cycles, decrease androgen levels, help with hercetism and acne, etc. Okay. So women with PCOS doesn't want to get pregnant. Right. Just wants to reduce the androgen impact and protect her uterus. A constant oral contraceptive is a great strategy. It's a great strategy. Yeah, there are others. You know, it could be a progestin, IUD. That's a hormonal way of IUD. Yeah. So there are a number of different ones or just taking progesterone every few months that usually will help protect the lining, but probably won't decrease the antrogen levels. So now let's talk about the woman with PCOS, but who is also trying to conceive. Right. What is your playbook? So we always count as these patients as well. I should mention whether they're trying to get pregnant or not, especially if they're overweight or obese weight loss helps, you know, with all the symptoms of PCOS. So healthy diet, lifestyle, etc. And how much of a role are GLP1 agonist playing in this now? How much more success are you having with treating PCOS that way? Yeah, increasingly. And they're very successful as you know, for weight loss. And there've been some studies on PCOS patients specifically very effective. But yeah, do you know any of those data? I'm not familiar with it. Yeah, they work really well. Just like they work. Can people with diabetes or people who with obesity without diabetes? Problem is you can't get pregnant while you're taking them in the current recommendation is to stop for at least two months. And pardon my ignorance. Why? Because we don't have any data on why they're safe. Yeah. And so FDA is saying when FDA, I forget the FDA's classification for this is like ABCX or something like that for every drug. Yes. I haven't looked for that one specifically, but I'm sure it's like X because we have no data. OK. So that's an important message for anybody listening. If you're trying to get pregnant, you should not be on a GLP1 agonist because we don't understand the impact of that. Right. You can be on it pre-pregnancy just the recommendation is to stop for at least two months. OK. Now having said that, there have been lots of you may have read about a Zempek baby. So like people getting pregnant on GLP1. So there is a registry. And so far to my knowledge, there haven't been reported birth defects in that type of thing. But obviously we're talking about small number. OK. So that's the other point. Now that you mentioned that, I now recall hearing about that. So presumably, these are women who have taken either semi-glutite, trisepotite, and presumably they get pregnant. Yes. Either intentionally or not. Right. OK. So that's a very interesting registry to follow. Right. Right. Now of course, once they find out, they're pregnant. Usually. There's just a council on this stuff. Yeah. So we don't know what would happen if you continue. I don't think anybody wants to do that. Study at the moment. Yeah. It doesn't make sense. We know. Certainly don't want women who are pregnant to not want to eat. Understanding that a woman who's got PCOS is going to be first counsel to make these changes that effectively help her lose weight and increase her metabolic health. Let's say she is somewhat successful, but still unable to address the concern. Right. So luckily, they're very good. Obulation and docy medications available. So what we would typically recommend for someone to PCOS to help them ovulate more regularly is a medication called lettrousal. The brand name is fromara. And it's just a medication you take for five days in your cycle. And then we can usually assess ovulation with the ultrasound. And what does it do? Basically it's category of medication called aromatase inhibitors, which blocks the... To virgin testosterone to the... Right. Androgynous to estrogen, that lower estrogen, somehow triggers the pituitary to increase the secretion of FSH and LH and that stimulates the ovary to again get one of those follicles. So you give the full dose of endometrial progesterone for five days. The second you take it off, it's the withdrawal of progesterone that causes the lining to shed. Right. And then we call that day one. And then you set on day five, we go ahead and start ripening the follicle, right right, right, putting the follicle with the aromatase inhibitor. Three to seven. Yeah. For five days. Okay. Wow. Yeah. And then we usually do an ultrasound around day 12-ish. And you could see one of those follicles starting to grow. Usually not all patients will respond. So sometimes we have to increase the dose or sometimes we have to try a different medication. But most patients with PCOS will respond to that medication. So would you say that every single woman out there with PCOS who wants to get pregnant has access to a doctor that understands what you just described and can do that for her? Or do you worry that too many women are being shunted to IVF too soon without an attempted something like this? I definitely think they're probably not enough people who totally understand management of PCOS, especially in the context of fertility treatment for sure. And even in the context of non-infertily treatment often what I hear from patients is they had irregular periods. Somebody told them to start going on the birth control pill. They never told them why. They didn't even know what they had PCOS, right? Happens to be correct treatments. So great. They've gone years now not understanding that they have PCOS and the implications of that, which as we talked about their metabolic implications, etc. So that's a problem. But once they want to become pregnant, very few general gynecologists are set up to be able to treat patients with either climate or electros, some of them do, but it's not like a fertility clinic with reproductive and chronologists because we're set up to do monitoring seven days a week in that type of thing. But not everybody has access to it for totally specialist kind of very dependent on where you live a little bit better now with telehealth, but still access to the salon. You have to do the salon Graham when you're doing this. You don't have to, but you want to know whether the woman's responding meaning that she's actually ovulating. There are other ways to assess that. If she gets a period at the right time, that she probably ovulated or if she gets pregnant, of course, or you can check a progesterone level in the Ludio phase, the second half of the cycle, if it's elevated, she probably ovulated. Yeah, we just happen to use ultrasound. It's just easier. And so you kind of alluded to it, but I'm guessing you're saying, look, we would give this three tries. Would that be a fair assessment? Usually. So we'd go through three consecutive cycles of this. And it's interesting. So there's two ways that this treatment could fail. The first is, each time we did the ultrasound, we just didn't see an egg. So not responding to the follicle stimulation. Let's talk about what the implication is there. Alternatively, you could say, God, three out of three months, we actually got ovulation. But we didn't get fertilization. If you were three months of that, I assume in parallel, you're doing the male work up. Because nothing would be a greater crime than going to a regular job. And then you figured out the sperm was the problem. But let's assume you have that box, check. Would you be more inclined to continue that treatment for another three to six months? Yeah. And someone who hasn't been ovulating, they haven't tried for a year, even. Have anything met the criteria for total? Exactly. So there's nothing magic about three months, but at least a check-in point where we say, hey, do we continue doing this? Or do we move onto something else? So if it's a young person, and this is like the first time they're ovulating in their life, then yeah, we give them more time on a less invasive treatment, less expensive treatment. Okay. If they're like 38-40, we probably move on to something else. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Do you have any concerns with long-term safety or anything other than simply the economics of the GLP ones in this current generation? Again, huge leap forward between Lira Glutide and Semiclutide. Yeah. And I've discussed briefly elsewhere on the podcast, what the roadmap looks like for how many of these drugs are in the pipeline. Oh, yeah. There seems to be no end in sight. We're going to look back at Semiclutide and say, God, that thing was pedestrian. That's going to happen. So what give us the bear case? Yeah. What should we be concerned with? What should we at least looking out for it? Yeah. I would say, overall at the present time, I would consider these drugs to be quite safe. The major issues, Jeff, they'll go slow because of the GI toxicity. Where is the controversy involved? And it's something that I'm involved with myself. When you lose 20 or 30% of your body weight, you lose muscle mass. Now, I just gave a talk on this to one of the pharmaceutical companies that involved in this area. I'm not going to name the name of the pharmaceutical company. But I started off by saying, look, here is now a study with real data. This is a gastric bypass surgery study, room-wide bypass. When the people lost, I think it was 33% of their body weight. And their lean body mass came down quite significantly. One of the problems is people make sure lean body mass, and that's not a real measure of muscle mass. In fact, it can be a very bad measure. You should measure muscle mass. But let's assume that the lean body mass largely reflects the reasonable assumption, muscle mass. So muscle mass came down. Okay? So why is that so bad? How much did it come down? Because if your total body mass came down by 33% but three quarters of that mass was fat. And only one quarter of that was lean, we would consider that acceptable. And this is where the controversy is. Because no one is really measured muscle mass. That's right. We're doing it. Okay. We will have it definitively. And you're doing that with MR. MRI. Yeah. Okay? So it's gold standard. Now I said, look, in this study, they measured absolute strength. You can do grip strength or leg strength. And absolute strength went down a little bit. Okay? Maybe 25%. Were these patients exercising during the period? No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. No. Then they said, let's express strength for weight loss. Weight. Yeah. Up by 50%. Per app in particular goes up by 50%. And then they said, how far can they walk? They went from walking 200 yards to miles. And then they said, one of the things is how many times can you get up out of a chair in a certain period of time? And it increased like three or fourfold. And they measured your VO2 max. Yeah. Yeah. Of course, which is heavily dependent on weight as well. Yeah, it all got better. But in absolute terms, the VO2 max get better, not necessarily. Yeah. The total VO2, not normalized per kilogram. No, everything got better. Okay. So I said, so why you guys? So it's counterintuitive, by the way. Normally when you lose weight, VO2 max and leaders per minute does not improve, because you have less metabolic tissue. But here, for whatever the reasons are, maybe all of the fat that's pushing on your lungs, so you can't oxygenate the epocardial fat that's not allowed in the heart that contract the fat that's in the heart is causing myocardial lipotoxics, which I believe is real. These things are all changing in a positive way. So again, it's a balance. Yeah. Yeah. So of course, they don't like this. Because if the people in the head all kinds of psychological questionnaires, why weren't they happy with these results? Well, because they, now the companies are all looking at developing drugs that will preserve the muscle mass or increase the muscle mass. But basically what I'm saying is that look, there's a huge, it's lean body mass. We have to say it's reflecting muscle mass. Everything gets better. The patient feels better. They can walk better, they feel stronger, et cetera, et cetera. Why are you so worried about muscle mass? Like I look all these gloomy faces, because they're all developing mice that inhibitors are event. And so then the next slide comes up and says, retort. Here's a good thing. So now if you lose all of this body weight and you improve insulin sensitivity and muscle and you improve it in the heart and they're cardiovascular benefits and you correctly improvement in all of the cardiovascular risk factors, now even though you lost muscle mass, if you've improved insulin sensitivity, there may be an enormous benefit of seeing the improvement in the muscle insulin sensitivity, even though you've lost muscle mass. And they do have some concerns about these drugs, these mice that inhibitors that actually may have some negative effects in the heart. My suggestion is actually you may find a big improvement in my cardiovascular function from these, where are myostat and inhibitors in their development, right? Yes, yes, yes. And of course, I think we've talked about myostat and before on the podcast, when you inhibit myostat and you increase the expression of striated muscle of which cardiac is striated muscle. It was through the event to A and to B system. Do you think that's a more promising pathway than the follow stat and pathway where follow stat and yes, I do. Increasing follow stat and inhibits myostat, but this is a more direct way to go about it. So you can either have their antibodies by my group of to myostat and or you can interfere with the signaling receptor itself. And we think that this can still be effective in a fully developed and mature adult. I mean, clearly this would be effective during development. And we see that in the animal. Yes. How effective is it? Because a lot of the animal work is sort of a character sure stuff. It's knockouts, right? Take myostat and knockouts and they look like body builders. But if you take a mature chicken or a mouse that's two years old and you give it a milestone and antibody, how robust is the response? Even more so, what about in a human? Yeah, exactly. We don't know the answer to that. What the phase two studies, obviously the toxicity passed in fast and phase one. Yes, yeah. I'm not concerned. There doesn't seem to be any adverse effect of these drugs. They wouldn't got through phase two. There are actually some fairly large phase. What's the indication? The indication? The circopenia? I don't know. You know, the FDA, if you have a sarcopenic disease, there are criteria that the FDA has established. If you want to develop a drug that you have to meet certain criteria, I'm not an expert in this. So I can't tell you exactly what these criteria are. But they're pretty well established. Let's say I put you on a gelp1 receptor, agonist in U-Loss 25% of your body weight. And I put you on a mice that inhibitor and that prevented the muscle loss. Didn't increase it, but just prevented it. So relatively. That would be ridiculous. I mean, if you took a 200 pound individual, who's 30% body fat. So they've got 60 pounds of adipose tissue on them. Yep. If you took 25% of their body weight off, you take them down to 150 pounds. But you're telling me, potentially, we prevent any deterioration of lean mass. Yeah. That means they're down to 10 pounds of fat mass on a 150 pound frame. So I'm making an assumption. This is pretty rare. This is remarkable. So let's say that happened. What would be the FDA's criteria? I'm going to give you a approval for this drug. I think the FDA would ask that you've also improved function in some way. Yes. And the function would probably be, have to be determined through absolute strength, not relative strength. It would be my guess. So I don't know the answer to this question. Because the way I think about these drugs is less about that situation. It's more in the, it's more in the sarcopheneic adult. This is the lead, particularly the older person. That's right. That's right. This is the elderly individual who's sarcopheneic, who's fall risk is enormous. Yes. And their risk of fall and morbidity and mortality is very high. And in that individual, I don't think the FDA will be satisfied with simply an increase in lean body mass unless it is accompanied by strength. Now, I think that some of the tests that are used here are silly. I think the six minute walk test should be folded up. This card put in the waist basket and never discussed again. It is such a stupid test. They do it all the time. I know they do. And kind of just makes me want to scream. Yeah. We need much more rigorous tests than a six minute walk test. We need a test that is actually more of a sub maximal test. So if we're testing cardiovascular fitness or some sort of peak aerobic fitness, we have to do more than walking. And if we're testing strength, I much prefer grip strength, leg extension, bench press. Again, these can be done with machines. They can be done very safely. But we really need to test strength. Well, you see, you're raising very important in critical issues. Because there are many, many companies that are going ahead with these drugs. That increase muscle mass. But to me, okay, increasing muscle mass, what does that mean? It needs to be some functional translation of that. And by the way, there could be other functional benefits that exceed strength. For example, glucose disposal could be a function. It's not that specific. That's the one to put it at the top of the list. That's right. Get rid of the insulin resistance. That they have to, they won't give them credit for that. I don't think. Yeah, but I think that, again, it's harder to tease out because there's more moving pieces. And they might argue there are easier ways to increase insulin sensitivity in glucose disposal. But one way to think about this is to go back to what if you did it the old fashion way? But if you got in the gym and lifted a bunch of weights, that's been done. Yeah. And it increases insulin sensitivity and functional strength. And so the question is, can we replicate that pharmacologically? And that is actually exactly the way I ended my discussion to these people. I showed them what resistance training did. And if you could show what resistance training did with your muscle mass increase, then you'd have something. You need to design this that is appropriately. And as I said, as you said, I don't know what the criteria are going to be that the FDA uses to judge these things. They do have a sarcopenia set of criteria. But that's a very different group of people that we're talking about. But this comes and hits on one of the things you asked me earlier. What about the lean person who's 80 years of age? Is this the right drug for that person? I don't know. Maybe not. But now let's say you have a healthy 80 year old person and everybody in the family lives to be 105. And they have diabetes. Well, they're at risk to, you know, the toxic effects of hyperlaseemia would it be reasonable to treat that person? We know this powerful effects on the beta cell. I would say it would be quite reasonable, but I think you need to monitor what's happening to their weight in other features.

Let's talk about prostate, which is obviously also the sort of the bread and butter of the field. So first off, which patients are typically being radiated? So that, the answer to that has been evolving. There was a time as recently as probably 20 years ago where we only treated patients who were probably medically and operable that the neurologist would say, hey, you know, this is a high risk and it's the patient. Let's send them to Dr. Mata for radiation. And that's a big reason why a lot of the older data was not as good for radiation because of the patient selection criteria. But in the modern era as we've gotten more and more precise and our side effects have gone down and our cure rates have gone up. Now it's pretty much wide open. We're pretty much anybody who's eligible for surgery would also be eligible for radiation. So there's not that big of a divergence as their once was. So I know see you've gotten to know Ted Shafer. So let's talk about kind of a patient that comes in to see Ted for a biopsy. They've got a glisin 3 plus 4. And then another patient who's a glisin 4 plus 4 or 4 plus 5 or something like that. Right. How does that patient navigate their way through the system as to whether or not they need radiation or should they undergo surgery and does endrogen deprivation therapy necessarily come with radiation or is there a scenario where you undergo radiation. But you don't require endrogen deprivation sure. So to answer your last question first, endrogen deprivation for high risk disease is certainly standard of care. Glisin 8 or higher for sure. The glisin 7s are always a sort of a gray zone. So for 4 plus 3 with high volume disease typically also do get concurrent and adjuvant endrogen suppression along with radiation. But one of the things that's really changing now is I know Ted talked a lot about it with the decipher score where they can look at the chromosomes of the actual cancer cells and have a much more granular view of exactly are they are they truly high risk. I can you maybe say that this one 3 plus 4 is more like a 3 plus 3 so we can refer a lot of the 3 plus 4 is now with the decipher test and there's also an AI test. I knew you had a really interesting discussion with your AI expert and I wasn't too long ago called Artera and we're using that that's actually in the NCC and guidelines now so that Artera test can help us differentiate between a unfavorable and a favorable intermediate risk patient. And essentially actually I treated my own father not too long ago. He was the first person I did this on. The Artera test is essentially they just use the actual images of the H&E slides that were already done for the pathologist and it's interpreted by a machine machine learning computer that has been trained on hundreds of thousands of prostate images from the old RT OG studies the 94s all the all the stuff that was done back in the 90s. And it cannot come back and say okay very much like decipher it can say that this is a 3 plus 4 but it's a favorable or an unfavorable person and that's in that subgroup. And so because of that we can stratify better and actually tailor it to where maybe a 3 plus 4 doesn't need energy and ablation at all. And maybe even some 4 plus 3 so they come back low enough on the scale where you could make you also have to talk about the side effects and whatnot but the standard of care was always to give concurrent energy and ablation for intermediate risk. And now we're able to really take some of those people out of the equation with these new studies. And is the main selling point because most patients just want things taken out right I have cancer taken out. So is the reason that a person might select radiation therapy, especially if it comes with the endogen deprivation therapy. Because of the sexual function and you're in every like what's the main advantage those are number one and number two. And that's the lack of incontinence and lack of impotence but of course when you have energy and ablation that sort of clouds things a little bit. But typically the number one thing we see is a patients who don't want to deal with diapers. And for the most part although incontinence is still described to some degree in the literature and my personal experience I don't think I've seen a single patient who came in continent who left with anything less than that there's no pads there's no nothing. Also being you know with our as I talked about with breast cancer we can also focus very precisely on the prostate itself. So the dose to the pain I'll bulb the dose to the rectum the dose to the prostate to the bladder are so low now that the side effect profile is essentially zero from a radiation standpoint. Maybe having hot flashes from the endogen deprivation and decreased libido and fatigue as you know but on the radiation side because we have all these tricks now very much like with breast the way we can avoid the heart and the lungs. In the case of the prostate we can almost completely avoid the bladder and the rectum and even the the pain I'll bulb now. So the quality of life those are the reasons why people tend to choose radiation. And I know we've talked about this before you're just not seeing the proctatitis. Almost none in fact now I know I think a Ted and mentioned in his last talk there's a there's a gel spacer that that is often inserted. It's an injection that's done transparently and it separates the the rectum from the from the bladder. But in my years of doing this when you're very diligent about how you do this very much like a you know you like a surgeon pays attention to the detail so to we. I can actually trim the dose off of the posterior prostate and just makes make sure the dose fall off between the posterior prostate and the anterior recto wall is so rapid that the anterior recto wall is always going to get some dose. But usually it's not clinically significant. And and what we do to to manifest to make sure that that is is a daily thing because we're talking about treating patients from multiple weeks. We actually coach the patient to come in with a full bladder and an empty bowel and by being diligent about that an imaging daily to double check that in fact the bowel is emptying the bladder is full that it that allows those two organs to separate from the prostate. And even a few millimeters of separation is all we need to take advantage of our modern focused radiation beams. What about patients that are inoperable. First of all, and you know what leads to a patient being inoperable. And how do they show up. So you know typically the urologists have already screened the patient because that everyone's first first exposure is going to be to what the urologist tells them and luckily in this day and age I'm lucky we have. People much like Ted who are very open and who are very. Open to not just doing surgery but you actually look at the other options present everything to the patient. But typically a patient who maybe was medically an operable will certainly come to me. But even somebody who maybe is on the borderline who wants to watch the both sides of the token. A general urologist will send them to a surgical specialist and to me and we'll go through all the pros and cons of everything and really what it comes down to to not to not to you know. Belabor the point it comes out of two things you want you want to be cured curators key. But quality of life is equally important if not more important for most people. And so now that cure rates with our modern focused radiation allow it to get such a high dose into the prostate. We can say that they're essentially equivalent to surgery so we don't have that deficit like we did 20 years ago when our fields weren't as precise it was sort of the shotgun approach versus our you know sniper approach now. Because the cure rates are better and it really comes down to the quality of life changes.

What type of guidance are you giving your patients on protein? Is there any difference between men and women and are you differentiating it based on age? A. G. S. Men and Women. No. When we talk about protein, typically we talk about one thing, but it's 20 different amino acids, nine of which are essential. We actually eat for those nine essentials. There is a lot of nuance around protein in general and what it does, each of those amino acids do something different. For example, losing, which is, I know, our favorite amino acid is critical for muscle, for muscle protein synthesis, but something like three-ning is important for a mutant production in the gut. When you are eating a lower protein diet, the organs, well, I suppose I should start with why we eating protein. We need about 250 grams a day. We recycle much of that, we don't eat that. A portion of that probably the largest portion, maybe 75% of that goes towards this real tissue, for turnover and maintenance. Maybe 25% of that goes to muscle, but we have to continue to get these essential amino acids so that we can maintain rebuilding and repairing, which the efficiency of that changes as we age. Anabolic resistance, protein efficiency decreases. Those are, or that is one reason why we need dietary protein, just to maintain the tissue integrity in the structure. Women and men do not need, at this time, from what we know in the literature, a different amount of protein is not specific. It's body weight, specific. The minimum amount of protein I would ever recommend would be 100 grams at a minimum. Men or women, that would be the starting place, because if you are say 115 pound woman, and you are following the RDA at 20 grams per kg, what is that? 45 grams of protein or so? That's not enough. Part of the failure there is that we have to recognize protein is different amino acids. And so when we talk about muscle health, we need to get enough loose to support muscle health. And that is probably the recommendations through the three grams a day. It's probably four optimal health around eight or nine. And how do you get folks to think about that, right? Which is, because now all of a sudden you get into dramatic differences in terms of protein source. So if you, I don't really think we should go down the PDCAS pathway necessarily for everybody today, but just in terms of understanding that foods are created different, right? So you can look at an ingredient label of something that says 30 grams of protein, you can look at another thing that says 30 grams of protein, but they don't list out the amino acids. They don't tell you that this one has more loose seen or more methionine in this one doesn't. But there are certain themes that we know, right? We know that dairy-derived protein, beef-derived protein and egg-derived protein seem to have the highest amount of the right amino acids. Or let's just say the more important amino acids. So when you're saying to that person, hey, I want you to eat a minimum of 100 grams per day. Does it come with the caveat of assuming you're getting your protein sources here? And what you're pointing out is protein quality. The there are plants, horses of protein and there are animal sources of protein and just from hard-fast biological numbers, we consider a high-quality protein to be eggs and dairy-fish, chicken, any of the animal source proteins, the lower quality proteins would come from plants. When we educate our patients in the practice, we have them choose. And we really don't focus on plant proteins as a source of protein. While they do have amino acids and certainly a combination is wonderful, we like to focus on plant foods for fiber. And let's say we take out soy, but we really want to focus on high-quality animal source foods because listen, it makes up, let's say, makes up 30% of our diet, nearly 100% of our calcium are bio-available iron and zinc, selenium, come from these animal-based foods. And while we talk about protein, we should also talk about nutrient quality. Whether someone decides to get their protein from plants or animals, it isn't just about protein. It is also about those nutrients of concern for women like bio-available iron, for kids bio-available iron, nutrients that primarily come from animal sources. I just think are really important. I think I'm not talking about anything wrong with plant-based proteins, but we eat plants for fiber and phytonutrans. And so presumably you have some patients as I do who are vegetarians, and in some cases it's ethical, religious, whatever the reason is. What are some of the things that you, and let's go one step further, and let's go, because at least, most vegetarians will at least be able to consume the dairy, portion, but if you have someone who's vegan and who is purely looking at animal sources of protein, how much of an uphill battle is that? Well, the challenge is the carbohydrate consumption. So I was listening to what Jeff was saying, and who's absolutely right, he could have, you were saying that you have maybe 100 grams of carbs, and you have no problem with it. And in the end, did you say that? Well, I mean, you probably calculated it in your head, but yeah, that's, that I can do that. And for someone like him who is super active, he is able to dispose of those carbohydrates, but a normal person, our carbohydrate threshold, if you calculate the disposal from skeletal muscle organ systems, it is not much. It is about 40 grams in a two-hour period. Anything above, say 40 or 50 grams, in a non-exercising adult, will result in a robust insulin response. We do not want that, we do not want to be utilizing insulin to help support glucose. We want to use activity or have the health of our skeletal muscle to be able to balance that. And I suppose what we're talking about is carbohydrates, and unless you are highly active, like you are, then we also have to think about the carb portion of this. And designing a diet typically for us, we think a lot about a one-to-one ratio of protein to carbs at amel, depending. Let me think about that in myself. That's pretty tough. You have to be pretty deliberate about withholding carbohydrates. And I mean, I'm probably eating a gram of protein per pound of body weight, so it's not like I'm skipping on protein. Yeah, maybe I, maybe I, I don't know. I would, but you're not a balladly healthy. And that goes back to this hierarchy of how we should do. I think that's a longer leash if you're active. Absolutely. When we make protein decisions and the practice when we're designing a diet, it's age, it's activity, and it's metabolic health. If you are metabolically healthy, then you can tolerate, there's no problem, right? Carbs aren't the enemy. But once we find out someone is metabolically unhealthy, which you can see from blood work, then you have to begin, you know, you don't change your protein amount. Because as you restrict calories, you keep protein the same or higher, because you must protect lean tissue. And also, it's, it's, better. I mean, we've seen this in the data for a long period. What about overweight patients? So if you, let's say you're a patient who's, let's say it's a man, 250 pounds. And I know we're gonna talk about body fat, because I'm actually super interested in what you, what you have to say about that. But let's just assume you do a dex on this guy. You don't need to do a dex, by the way. You can look at him. You know, you know this guy's carrying way too much fat. But the dex it just gives you some numbers. The guy's 40% body fat, okay? So when you're trying to tell him how much protein to eat, are you doing it based on an ideal body weight, or are you doing it based on his 250 pounds that he's carrying around? It's target body weight. Okay. So you're gonna say, I'm targeting for you 16% body fat. Let's calculate how much lean tissue you have it. What would be your ideal body weight at 16% body fat? And that's what we're gonna target you at. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

So let's talk about some types of x-rays that people are familiar with and give a sense of radiation dose. And I'm also curious as to how much this depends on the size of the individual. In other words, does a person that is larger receive more radiation for this same test layer? Sure, and they certainly do because you have to use more energy to get into a larger person having said that there's two different things. And what we normally deal with when I'm talking about dose to a tumor is the dose actually at that spot versus a whole body dose, which is a very different metric. And so for someone who I'm treating with say eight weeks of radiation for prostate cancer, their prostate may get 80 gray in 1.82 gray fractions per day. But that's literally only to a small volume roughly the size of the prostate gland itself. And when you even get just a few millimeters away from that, that dose gets cut in half. And then it's exponentially lower because the intensity of the radiation varies with the square of the distance. So as you get even a couple of feet away that goes down significantly. But typically a patient who is getting 80 gray, if 80 gray was a whole body dose, that would obviously be lethal. But the whole body dose is more like a few milligrams in that sort of situation. So we typically don't see like full body sequelaire anything from doing even the heavy duty diagnostic treatment. Now for the CT scan, we almost consider that negligible in our area because again, I'm dealing with a mega voltage, high dose cancer, killing radiation. And so when they get a CT scan, which is going to be just a few millimeters or a milligray, that's almost considered rounding air versus what they're getting to the tumor. And let's take something like a chest X range. So chest X range, again, people should anchor to this idea for what it's worth. And we can come back to this. And our C says, hey, limit your annual radiation to 50 milly c-verns. You've got 2% of that just being alive because you've happened to go outside and exposed to the sun. So the other, you know, 98% might come through flying diagnostic. Let's say you fly a lot, that might get you up another 10%. So let's talk about a chest X rate. You've got a cough, you go to your doctor, they do a chest X rate. That's how many milly c-verns for a normal size person. Normal size person, it's a fraction is probably less than one milly c-vern actually. So it's significantly, it's something that where, you know, people who are concerned about things like diagnostic mammograms in all every year, you're still talking about maybe one milly c-vern, even a little bit less than that was some of the newer machines. And so you're in a zone where it is, you know, there's a principle we talk about it's called alara, a, a, a, a, a, which is as low as a reasonably achievable. And that's been the sort of the mantra for our radiation safety people, the nuclear regulatory commission and whatnot that you want to keep things as low as possible. But having said that when you're talking about numbers of less than 50 milly c-verns, that's kind of an arbitrary number. So it's not like getting, you know, people who've got, I should have maybe gotten a chest actually when I had my cough last time. But I just, I just don't want to do it. I don't want the exposure. But it's so minimal in terms of biological effect that we really don't even really worry about those, even if it's getting one of them a month or so. And a big reason for that is a lot of these numbers, especially the 50 milly c-verns number is extrapolated from higher exposure rates. And so it's so there's something called a linear, no threshold model or LNT. And that's been written about extensively. And that's what we're all taught in radiobiology and residency. One fourth of my radiation training and residency was actually radiation biology in addition to clinical oncology and radiation physics. But so the linear, no threshold model is what states that even, you know, we know based on all the data from, you know, from a nuclear fallout from Chernobyl from three mile island of course from Hiroshima, Nagasaki from the bombs that at a certain dose exposure, there's a certain risk of developing a cancer or any other endpoint whether it be dermatitis or bone marrow suppression or all these numbers are well sorted. But when you try to extrapolate lower, so you take, maybe say a dose of say one full severt of the thousand milly c-vern, you start extrapolating that lower and lower to where you're looking at like 150 milly c-verns, the linear model assumes that there's some level of damage even if those lower levels. But in reality, there's actually a threshold. There is the LNT which is linear, no threshold has actually been proven to be actually erroneous. And so at very low dose is it's actually been shown that there's almost no incidence of any sort of biological damage. And there's also it's controversial, but there's animal studies, so there may be a hormesis effect at low low doses like that. So let me get down below. Don't be a little bit of what that means because that's sure. That's obviously going to come back later in our discussion. So, you know, regular listeners of your podcast and all about hormesis and you talk about that in the exercise realm and it called plunges and so on as and whatnot. But the whole idea is doing some degree, a small amount of cellular damage when the body repairs that it actually comes back stronger than it was without the exposure in the first place. And in animal studies, they've actually shown it very low dose as we're talking about single digit milliseverage here that they've seen in mouse bones, for example, increased osteoclast activity. Our excuse me, decreased osteoclast and increased osteoblastic activity. So the bones actually heal quicker. And some of the soft tissue as well has been has been shown to actually recuperate and much in the way you see and the hormesis from other causes. And that's not something that we're claiming is widely accepted, but there is a lot of data showing that that is certainly a possibility which goes against this classic LNT model. And the LNT model itself, the guy that won the Nobel Prize for it in the 1940s, did this all on fruit flies and his work was disproven over the years after that. And so a lot of this low dose radiation safety stuff we have is certainly a a noble goal to keep the dose as low as possible. And when we get down to these millisceverage, I think that they're probably a little bit overblown in terms of the actual negative effects on the human body. When I think about where, for example, something like a CT NGO gram used to be, right? So that that would easily have exposed a person to 25 millisevers to do CT scan of the heart. Sure. You're doing it, you know, slowing the heart down, getting the contrast in there, et cetera. Today, they're really fast scanners. The best of the best scanners are somewhere between one and three millisevers for that same procedure. Sure. Certainly favor having patients get it's, you know, getting a scan with that, acknowledging though that I don't have amazing data to point to to say that the 25 milliseverat one versus just to make the math easy, the 2.5 milliseverat one, right, tenfold difference, poses any difference in risk. Exactly. Um, what, yeah, how how do you think about that? Would you say what would be your confidence in saying that 2.5 is not actually better than 25 from a cancer risk standpoint? So again, going back to that, a lot of principle, there's not a whole lot of data at these levels. I certainly would strive to keep it as low as possible, which is what that mantra says. But I would go with the machine that has the best resolution. And if 25 is if the radiologist tells me that that image is significantly better than a 2.5 milliseverat exposure. Some of the older machines are just less efficient. You may get at better image with the, with the lower dose. I think that dose is pretty negligible. It's really wood. So you're saying, I don't really care if it's 25 or 2.5 is well. And the good news is these brand new scanners are faster, which is why they're giving you less radiate exactly. Exactly. Exactly. And they seem to have better resolution. And the same thing implies that's on the diagnostic side. And on the therapeutic side where I am, our machines are called linear accelerators. And there's a similar progression as, you know, we, as we've been able to focus the beams more and more precisely that actually caught, it's a modulation of the beam. And you have a lot of photons being showered in the general vicinity of a patient, but you're blocking out everything except for a small area to treat. And the same way the newer machines do definitely have a lower exposure to the, you know, Eastern the room in general. So what should people be thinking about in terms of extraneous radiation? When should people be saying to their doctors, hey, do I really need this? You know, for example, when you go to the dentist every year, right, typically want to do a set of X-rays, is that anything people should be worried about? Not at all. Not in the least. I would certainly not skimp on dental X-rays, mammograms, if it's someone that needs cardiac workups and things like that. The potential, the risk benefit ratio is so heavily in favor of doing these studies that I don't even think twice about them. And when, and I think part of this comes from, I mean, I've been doing this 25 years now. I have so many patients who've been through, when the vitamin come to me as a cancer patient, they've been through so many CT scans. And nowadays we do PET scans. We follow up with annual PET scans after the fact that in which are not only the CT, but you've got a radioactive isotope that's being injected into them. And we just really don't see now. There are certain situations where you are giving a, like, for example, an intravenous therapeutic dose of radiation, safer thyroid cancer or things like that. There's certain new, uh, thermostics that are out there. In those situations, you have to be concerned because they can get into the multiple, you know, again, to a seaver range. But when you're in these millisiever ranges, it's such, it's so important to do these studies. The benefits of mammograms are so proven. Dental X rays. I don't really think twice about them. Okay. Um, by the way, just on the PET scan, the rate, what is, so if you do a PET CT, for example, which again, these are not routinely done. These are typically done in oncology patients only. Um, but just for my own understanding, a retox, working 50 to 100 millisieverts if you're doing a whole body PET CT. I think you can be in that range, yes. Okay. That's exactly right. And so PET CT is a relatively new, but up until maybe a decade ago, the PET scan was independent of the CT. They would do them separately. But the data is so much better when you have the anatomical CT data overlay with the PET that whatever that extra dosage is, I think it's well worth it in terms of the resolution of what we're able to see and what we're able to gain from that information.

I don't think we can have this discussion without giving people some understanding of what radiation is. And I would like us to do it in a way that's both rigorous enough that we can really get into some of the science of this, but also get into it gently enough. Right. People that maybe don't remember high school physics well enough, can come along for the ride and not get lost. But once we absolutely get into grays and milly seaverts and all that stuff, I want everyone to be fluent when we start talking about doses. Right. Right. Right. So, radiation itself, the term itself has kind of got a bit of a negative connotation, but basically it's part of the electromagnetic spectrum. So, you know, we have everything on the one in the range of increasing energy of photons, which are just particles of light. On the one end you have radio waves and microwave and the other end you've got in for a head and I'm excuse me, you've got ultraviolet and then you get into x-rays and radio waves. And now in the middle of all that is the visible spectrum. So when you see, I'm sure everyone's seeing the graphs where you've got the rainbow red green blue that we can see, the human eye can only perceive a tiny little narrow spectrum. And then on the on the low end, the radio waves are wave lengths. These are actually wave lengths and energies which are, which are the very low end energies you have things like radio waves. And in that situation, both radio waves and microwave are what they call non-ionizing. And you've talked about this on some of your previous podcast and you had a really good one with Atari Walla from Pranuevo, where he went to really, it was really nice in-depth discussion, but essentially the bottom line is that the low energy stuff that is non-ionizing cannot damage tissue. And that goes all the way up to visible light. Then when you start going to the higher energy x-rays, that's when you get both x-rays as well as ultraviolet light. And then the high and then the higher particles stuff. But basically the higher you go in the energy, in the energy, in the energetics of the particles, the more likely the exposure to these packets of energy are going to cause damage to your DNA. And why is it that the shorter the wave length? Because that's what's changing as you go from radio waves to micro waves to visible waves to ultraviolet. Why is it that is the wave length gets shorter the energy gets bigger? Yeah, I'm not sure what the reason is they're just they are inversely proportional to each other. I don't know that I guess I'm probably not enough of a physicist to answer their question precisely. But having said that, that is the the the the characteristic of this. And in doing so that's one of the big reasons why all the fallacies about your cell phone giving a brain cancer and all are just that their their fallacies because even having a cell phone on your on your ear for hours a day that's it's non ionizing radiation and standing too close to micro wave oven again non ionizing radiation. So that cannot damage yourselves the way that the other radio wave is too long that's right. The microwave is too long. It doesn't have the energy you can stand on it all you want. It can heat but it can't damage. Correct, it can excite the molecules, but it won't actually eject an electron which is what what causes an ion to form which is why it's called ionizing. And that's where we deal with on the I'm on the therapeutic end. So diagnostic radiologists deal with lower energy x-rays than we do the very high energy x is what we use in our linear accelerators to treat cancer. So that's the big difference there is kilovoltege versus megavoltege, but all of these are ionizing. Okay. So let's talk about how these are measured, how do we quantify them? Because people on the podcast have heard me talk about this I suspect we talk a lot about calcium scores and CT angiograms and PET CT. And so I think the frequent listener will have been somewhat familiar with how we talk about how to dose those things. Right. So radiation dosage there's a couple of different terms that we've talked about. The main one we talk about when we're talking about patient treatment is the unit called the gray and that's an SI unit that essentially is jewels of energy per kilogram of tissue. So that's what they call absorbed dose. So that's in tissue. Whereas when you're talking about exposure in the general in the air and in general exposures in the air and that's we usually use the term sievered for that. And actually both those terms for the most part are equivalent. It's just that the sievered itself will take into account if you have different types of x-rays, different qualities of x-rays that have different degrees of potential to be ionizing that they have a quality factor you'll multiply by. But for the most part we use the term gray when we're talking about for example when I treat a prostate patient they're going to get somewhere between 70 and 80 gray. But it's fractionated into small daily doses as to be tolerable for the body. And then when we talk about like millisevers like we're going to that's really just measure of exposure not absorbed dose in tissue per say. And what's the relationship between a gray and a millisevered is at a one to one. Yeah. So a gray and a seaver to technically a lot of it. So the gray also if anyone's kind of old school you read you listen to older stuff you heard the term rads. What if you've heard a rads. So one rad is equal to one centigrey. 100 rad is a gray. It's just an SI unit versus the old the older terminology. And a seaver is the equivalent only it's in air not in tissue. But a seaver to is a gray correct correct. So when you give 70 gray right you're giving 70 severs or 70,000 millisevers over the course of the treatment. That's correct. Okay. Yeah. And just so people can kind of anchor this to things that are familiar. Living at sea level exposes us to one to two millisevers of ionizing radiation a year. That's exactly what I'm wanted. And then of course at the altitude it could be double that. That's really live in Denver. It's easily double that or triple that correct. Just another thing for comparison. A pilot who spends a lot of time traversing the north pole, right, which is typically how they're going to fly. They're not going to go all the way around the center of the earth. Might get another three or four millisevers. It's quite a bit quite a bit. That's right per trip actually. So that's that can add up. And I was actually talking to a pilot friend about this. And they don't really have any sort of a limitation in terms of total exposure that requires them to be to be out of the to be taken out of the air. A lot of them, they're forced to retire at 65. I think there's the commercial requirement. But there's really they don't really monitor the actual exposure to that level to where they it's that. And I think the reason they don't really use that as a limiting factor for the amount of work is really just that even though they get a higher dose there's been no proven increase in cancer and those types of populations even in flight attendants or anything like that the same way that the people in Denver of the people here in Texas don't have any higher incidence of cancer. Now the NRC recommends that a person not be exposed to more than 50, I believe 50 millisevers of radiation in a year. Correct. Now someone like me that that's easy right unless I'm out there getting a lot of diagnostic radiology or of course undergoing therapeutic radiation treatment. But for someone like you who has to set patients up or one of your text is that are you guys approaching that level of exposure? Not at all and so it depends on what type of radiation we do. Now typically for our external beam machines we're doing it all remotely from behind a shielded wall. So the vault in which the machine is placed is custom built just to shield based on the angles that the machine can move through if there's like a direct angle where the machine is hitting a wall that wall has to be built 10 times thicker than the walls where the beam can't reach. So essentially our dose went treating remotely as close to zero. So we keep film badges and we've been it's almost become kind of a joke that when we're not doing breaky therapy which is dealing with actual live radioactive sources, our exposures super low, almost negligible really. But back when I was in residency doing a lot of GYN implants and things like that where you're putting CZM or a radium actually into the body cavities and you're actually up there putting it in up close we had a ring badge on and we would certainly as a resonance we'd rotate every month but if we didn't rotate some of the faculty actually got pretty high doses. And any idea what the sequelae of that was? I know a couple of folks the ones who did a lot of GYN therapy especially in the older days were talking about in the 80s and the 70s where you could actually see dermatitis on their hands from doing that because from the hand exposure. One of my faculty members actually had a giant cell tumor of the bone in her finger and again this is after decades and decades of doing it. It was a benign growth but that was a real thing. There's a lot of data out there especially people who were dealing in x-ray for dentistry and stuff like that back in the day when they didn't have shielding or anything like that that they would get dermatitis. The most common thing you'd see is skin irritation in that sort of situation. And dermatitis and even some kind of chronic flaking and things like that.

So we've talked a lot about radiation. We've touched a little bit on the idea of radio phobia, but does it stem from nuclear accidents as that largely where radio phobia comes from? I've done a deep dive into this year, which goes along with all these benign cases that I'm treating now, they're essentially arthritis tendonized, which we'll talk about. And what's really interesting is that this radio phobia is largely a U.S. space phenomenon, because the first case is, the first X-rays were discovered in 1895 by Ranking. In 1898, there was the first case described of actually radiating a, both arthritis type things, our anklosing, spondylitis, or other arthritis, and also tumors, even back then we had no idea how to work, but the case is pre-1900, they were already being used for that. And then in the subsequent now 120 plus years, we have this divergence where Germany and the U.K. are using, and all of Europe really, are using radiation routinely for arthritis in tendonitis, but in the U.S., it seems to be a basic, there was a lot of a nuclear phobia, the Cold War, like you mentioned, but another thing that's been talked about, there's a guy named Jason Becht that has a really good podcast on the subject, he's out of Vermont. Standard oil, the Rockefeller's, and I'll actually had a massive lobby group that were actually actively promoting oil over nuclear power plants. And the amount of spread went from just an energy, an energy into the general zeitgeist of our entire country. And so at that time, the radio phobia just caught on, and it was, of course, bolstered by World War II and seeing what happened in Hiroshima, Nagasaki. And then on top of that, you have the, you probably heard about the Radium Dial workers. There was a movie, and it's actually that's called the Radium Girls. These are essentially women in the 1920s that were using radio luminescent phosphorous paint to paint the watch. Being a watch guy, you'll probably appreciate that. But they literally, that was the only source of elimination they had. So in order to keep the brush is very fine, they were literally dipping it in the radium paint and then after each brush, they were licking the brush to keep the tips real fine. And so they were ingesting bits of radium. And so there were a number of cases where they ended up getting the radium is metabolized like calcium. So it was actually incorporating into the mandible and they were getting osteoradiome and a process of the jaw and things like that. So all of these different phenomena kind of added together became a big deal because prior to that, people were using the radiation for all kinds of crazy things. I was in sun tan lotions and waters and there was something called the Goridine that they were using for ED that you could know, topical saves that had radiation in them. And there was literally no end to it. And then when all this sequela started to come out that, hey, maybe this isn't such a good idea, that's when things took off. But now that we look back, the reality of it is is that a lot of that was really overblown, even so much so that those radium dial painters, which we hear about this from day one in our residency training, there was only a small percentage. I got in 50 out of 1,500 roughly that actually had toxic sequela. So most of them didn't. Is there a way to quantify how much exposure they had to raise? And that's the thing, you know, they've lived in different ways, but there have been some basic ideas. Again, we're talking about it was probably at that era, was probably a couple of millisever to that particular area, but it was daily for decades. And so part of the reason why they, if you actually look at the numbers, it was probably a super high exposure. When you spread that out, there was such a long period of time. That's sort of the general trend, like I mentioned earlier, it's not just the dose, it's the dose over time, it's, you know, the denominator matters a lot. And so that's why most of them actually did very well. They even used to use radium internal, the internal nasal applications in the 1920s to 1940s, essentially a radiation equivalent of a ton of cellulectomy radenoidectomy. And it was done in something like a half million to two million children in the US and even in the armed forces, it was done routinely back then. And there's been very few adverse sequela that were reported, I don't even know what the dose was, but it was high. So there's a lot of cases where the exposure based on our 50 millisever, where we talked about would just make people follow their chair, but the actual reality of it is is that many times the actual end results aren't as bad as we had expected. Again, hearing you say this, Andre, the listeners are gonna be thinking, what? Yes, because we're all so brainwashed into believing that radiation is horrible. Right. Right. I can tell you so many stories, I got patients who have had to treat, I had actually had a guy who was involved in nuclear testing at the Los Alamos in the 1940s. He's passed away now, but I saw him in his 80s, so this was in the early 2000s. This was 60 years after that. They had very little monitoring back then, but he was close enough to feel the heat from a thermonuclear bomb. And by the time I saw him, he had had thyroid cancer as you would expect. He'd had a one or two lymphoma, I think I ended up treating his prostate. So he'd had at least four or five different malignancies, but the guy was as functional as most 80 year olds are. The guy was still walking and talking and doing just fine. And it's actually seems that when you look at the population studies that were done outside the blast at Hiroshima Nagasaki, when you've got the initial concentration, everyone dies from the thermonuclear energy. But as you get several miles out, not only are the cancer rates actually roughly the same as the background, you actually see again evidence of hormesis where you have some patients in whom, or maybe not hermesis, but some sort of radio protection where you actually have lower rates of leukemia and thyroid cancer when you get a few miles farther out, than you did in the general population. So it's all very much dose dependent, time dependent, but I think the human body, we were evolved really to handle this to a larger degree than we realized, because again, mammalian DNA, we came from the background of the animal kingdom where there was tons of exposure from natural cosmic rays and whatnot. And then our predecessors had to be able to survive. Our DNA had to be somewhat resilient in order to get to this point. And I think it's more resilient than a lot of people give it credit for.

Let's use that as a bridge to talking about using radiation to enhance tissue. So this first came up maybe a year or two ago when I was lamenting. It must have been two years ago, I guess, because I was kind of lamenting my Achilles tendon, which I wouldn't say it was injured. I just had a little bit of tendon, I guess. It was just bugging me a little bit, you and me both, brother. And I'm exactly what you mean. And so it was through that discussion that we got into what we're talking about now, which seemed crazy, you know, I just decided I didn't feel like driving to use them all the time to undergo therapy and my Achilles is fine now. I just been sort of standard therapy but. I've sent a few patients to you who have had similar injuries. Both high hamstring tendonopathy's Achilles tendonopathy's. So talk a little bit about this idea. Sure. How prevalent is this type of treatment in Europe? How prevalent is it here? Right. So prior to probably 1970 or maybe 1980, it was very prevalent, even in the US. It was very widely done. So this is kind of everyone that talked about it now. It sounds like I'm doing something experimental and radical. But if you go over to Germany, again, going back to Ankelosing, Spondylitis, Papers in 1988, they've done, they do something like I hair between 20 and 50,000 patients a year in Germany and there's tons of, it's mostly observational studies. It's a very few randomized trials. But low dose radiation for tendonitis, osteoarthritis, plantar fasciitis, all the entities you can think of, birthitis. A low dose of radiation has a similar anti-inflammatory effect to what you would get from a colonel. Let's define the dose. So now we're talking about very low dose, meaning 50 centigrey or 50 rads, given six times over two weeks. So three gray, 0.5 times six, it's three gray, two of the affected joint, and using a very low energy machine. So this is especially in the sick case, as someone who's got a hand you're talking about electron beam rate. We just make sure I got that straight. You were giving 40 gray total to a breast. And now for the Achilles, you're giving how much? Six, three gray, six fractions of half a gray each. Okay, got it. So all six fractions combined is about the dose of one fraction for a typical cancer. Got it. That'll kind of give you the idea. And giving it in a superficial fashion where especially if it's a hand, you only have a couple of send it maybe a couple of centimeters of thickness. So we use what's called electron beam therapy. The same linear accelerator when the electrons go and hit the tungsten target and make photons. If you remove the tungsten target, you just get direct electrons. And electron energy can be modulated to where you can treat a superficial skin cancer. You can treat a knuckle. I can treat a temple squamous cell and not go into the brain. So these superficial things, and in the old days before they had linear accelerates, I told this goes back to the turn of the previous century, they had ortho voltage machines. And these basically created kilo voltage x-rays, we use now. And all they could do was superficial stuff back then. And that's where it works very well. The dose it just changed tremendously. But these days with the modern, the biggest data comes at a Germany half a gray three times a week. Monday, Wednesday, Friday for two weeks just to the effect to joint. And it has an anti-inflammatory effect very similar to either a, either a court zone shot or an insect. How many weeks is the course? Two weeks. That's a Monday, Wednesday, Friday, six treatments. And the protocol is what we typically follow. The German protocol is to wait 12 weeks. And you usually see depending on the joint, summer between a 60 and 80 percent success rate where the pain is, if not zero, at least markedly decreased. And then after 12 weeks, the German protocol allows for a retreatment. And then that point you get up to 90 plus percent success in terms of reducing pain. And this is for joint arthritis. arthritis, tendonitis, bursitis, plantar fascia. This is a really big one now that we're doing a bunch of. I've done probably close to 70 cases across the board, which is a story markable because anybody who's had it, you know, I had it once back in med school. So about 25 years ago. Did you get it treated? It was it just, uh, not just resolved went to PT and rolled on golf balls and did the usual thing. But it, you know, it took months to get better. It's such a big deal. So you're saying, so of the patients that are coming to see you with plantar fasciitis, how many of these patients? How long have they been hurting first of all? Many times for years. And in fact, my biggest cohort recently which is still relatively new, haven't done thousands of patients like I can speak from decades of experience with cancer. We're talking about, you know, dozens to hundreds. A couple of surgeons that were having trouble standing and operating. They literally couldn't, you know, couldn't perform their normal duties. Six treatments to the to the fascia and they're walking like nothing ever happened. How long after the last treatment did it take for them to experience? In the case of plantar fasciitis, it was almost immediate. Like within within a week, I have other cases, especially when we do like knee arthritis. If there's a lot more pathology going on in a knee, uh, I treated my own achilles, which I can tell you about took two months or so. So it was almost, I was almost wondering if it was going to work or not. I was my own first patient before I offered anybody I treated my own treat. I was a physician heal myself, right? And so I literally jumped on the table because a colleague of mine had posted about it that he did his, he's a radiation I call it just been Florida. He tried it out. And so I was like, you know, I have the machine. I know this should work in theory. We've just never talked about it in residency. Then I look at all the German data. There's tons of it. It's like, why do we not do more of this? And it's sure enough. Like, I'm actually my own personal case control study because I did steroids and PRP and my left Achilles. And then later on this past year did the right side with only radiation and no steroids. And now I'm walking with that Olymp. And you obviously did the other side. Mm-hmm. No, I know actually I didn't. I didn't. I didn't. Because I did the PRP actually finally did because I had two cortisol shots and PRP in the left. And then a year later radiated the right. And so both of them are holding a pretty well so far. Got it. The other area that is a huge interest for me at least is the very, very high hamstring tendonopathy. So that that is chill tuberosity pain. Very, very common for runners. Sure. Seems to be anecdotally much more common in women than men. That's a pelvic an eye. I've only treated women for some reason. Yeah. And they've all had tremendous results. Yeah. Again, so it's still the same protocol. It's the three over six treatments over two weeks. Exactly. For any type of an arthritis, you're essentially lacing all the macrophages and all in your eliminate that cytokine storm that would have normally resulted. It's very similar to what cortisol does. But the difference is it seems to be based on the study we've seen as much longer lasting than a cortisol shot. Not to mention the fact that you're not necessarily violating the capsule and causing other, you know, in the case of an Achilles tendon, you run the risk of rupturing it with multiple injections. So totally non-invasive. You just get up on the table. Most of my patients go right back to whatever they were doing and many of them are actually quite athletic and they don't take any breaks during treatment. They just do what they do. They're still working out. And just I've seen obviously patients with debilitating kiloids. What does it look like after the treatment? So the treatment has to be adjuvant after a surgical resection. If you just radiate an intact kiloid, it's not going anywhere. Okay. Because you don't have the DNA mechanisms of, you know, a week cancer cell that can be wiped out. So it kind of like doing a non-brected. But obviously, if the surgeon just did the resection, the kiloids coming right back. They did the fiber blasts go crazy and they roar right back. So in order to do it right, a lot of people do it. And they have multiple recurrent to rate treatments, kiloids even after treatment. You have to do the first treatment the same day of surgery. So you just letting those fiber blasts get a chance to have any sort of a foothold. So I will literally arrange it with the dermatologist to do the resection, send them straight to me. So we get the first dose in that day. And ultimately the cosmetic outcome is as good as if they didn't have radiation. You'll see the scar wherever it is. We get sometimes kids that have had acne scars all over their chest that have these bumps everywhere and they're all reseected flat. And you're radiating, they just stay flat. You don't see any sort of dermatitis from radiation. I think what's amazing to me is I just think there's so many people that don't know this, right? I think there's too many people that are walking around sort of suffering right there from something that's cosmeticly upsetting like a huge kiloid, especially on a visible part of their body. Obviously, the people, everybody listening can relate to some nagging injury, tennis elbow, golfer, elbow, Achilles tendonopathy, hamstring tendonopathy. These things nag for years at times. Yeah, I think the day that I was showing some like one in seven people in the country are afflicted and the socioeconomic costs are massive. And there's also going to your whole quality of life and longevity bias. I mean, we're talking about something that can really affect some of the ability to exercise at all and it can lead to exacerbation of other medical problems. So it's a huge problem. And do we have a sense of the durability of this? So for example, I have a little bit of osteoarthritis at my AC joint right. It's barely bothers me, but everyone's in a while if I'm doing something really violent overhead, reaching for something or I play a ton of football with my son, it'll bug me for like three weeks. I'll take a little bit of ad villets fine. Right. If I did a treatment there, would it be done or am I doing this treatment annually? How would it work? And there's a lot of variability that depending on what the actual anatomy that's causing it, if it's literally just a straight-up osteoarthritis case with no physical structural issue, I've seen cases. Now again, I've only been doing this about a year. So I don't have the 25 years of experience I do with cancer. But I've talked to there's a couple of doctors who do this routinely. They've been doing it for 20 years in LA. One of them treated his own neck, shoulder, and spine. He's 15. I think he's at 15 years out. And it don't it, obviously, but never had to retreat himself. Typically, the German studies allow for two treatment, two retreat minutes. Because the dose is so low, radiobiologically, I don't see any reason why you couldn't do it. I don't know about annually, but maybe every few years or something like that. But there seems to be a fair bit of data that a lot of patients who don't have other struck like a knee that's bone on bone, it might only last a month or a man, I even work. But for the other ones, the hands and all it seems like it's certainly longer lasting than any sort of core zone shot. But I think months are very reasonable and probably years for most people. Now what about non-Austin arthritis like rheumatoid arthritis? Yes. Is there any reason to believe that this could help with sort of the debilitating injuries that those patients? So I've done three cases of rheumatoid arthritis in one guy that had a gaudi arthritis as well. Because again, it's a systemic disease. I'm not going to pretend to be able to cure that with a local treatment. But to a single knuckle that's driving them nuts, it's still an inflammatory process. And yes, it works great for that. So I've done that. So if a patient has rheumatoid arthritis where they're really experiencing a lot of deformation in the hands, you think you can help that patient with the local part of it? Yes, it won't reduce the deformation necessarily. A lot of that is long-standing. But if they've got, we're treated early enough in the course of disease. Yes, I think that there's no strong data to support that, but I don't see why it wouldn't work personally. And it definitely, if I'm a purely palliative standpoint, just to reduce pain, it does work. You just have to, you've to manage their expectations. What are some other examples of where this could be used in your experience so far in terms of reducing reliance on NSAIDs or opioids or other things like that? Tennis elbows become a big one doing several of those. And how much do you, how far down the arm do you irradiate? I would, I'd base it on where the patient might, they palpate. If they're getting pained down into the break, you're radiating allows. And if it's if it's sort of radiating further down, I'll treat a larger field because again, there's no reason not to bigger fields are better, no need to be bigger. And it's just six, three, three, three, three, three, three, three, so and again, that's three-grade locally. And it's in, it's to an area where there's no vital organs nearby. The total body dose is negligible. It's like getting a cat scan initially for the rest of the body. So I would treat definitely the joint capsule a little bit of the distal humorous and the proximal radius and whatever else. But if it's hurting larger, I'll just treat a larger field. And in that case, we use a posed lateral beam. So the patient will just lay there. The beam will come in from one side and rotate around from the other side and we treat them well because that way we get the same type of homogenous dose we do with our cancer patients. But if it was more disillivable, it's like we've actually done several piano players that have dequire veins, tendos and a virus and they're wrist. And because when you're stretching to play those notes, all my music, I'm a musician as well. I mean, my musician, friends are coming to me and the wrist pain is going away. And actually, again, very quickly, my biggest patient cohort so far are former patients because they don't have radio phobia. They're like, I've been through 80 grade, my prostate. This is a joke and I'm bringing my wife with me. And half the times the wives sit there for their daily treatment anyway. And they start chatting in the lobby. So we do the wives hand the same time during the husband's prostate. And for the most part, the hands, the wrist, the elbows, it's very rapid. In the case of the tendonitis like my Achilles, it was a couple of months, but that's not outside of the window of what we've been conditioned to expect from all the Germans studies. So it can be not as immediate of a relief as a steroid shot, but it does seem to be more durable.

Let's talk a little bit about breast cancer, given how common it is, how long after surgery can you begin radiation? Woon healing, given a little bit of time, we generally do our CT-based simulation and three-dimensional planning, maybe three, two to three weeks after their surgery. And then by the time it takes about a week to do all of our computer programming, and then we'll start the treatment within three to four weeks post-op. So tell me a little bit about that. I was completely unaware of that. So I'm a woman, I've had a lump back to me, sat no-node was negative. So I've got an incision about this long, the listener, you know, five centimeters, six centimeter incision, when I come and see you how many weeks after that. I usually will see patients for consultation, a lot of times the breast surgeon will send them prior to anything being done. So I'll see them for their initial consultation ahead of time. But then we plan on doing what's called a planning procedure or a simulation where we're going to put the patient on the table, and essentially do a dry run for their treatment, usually a couple of weeks after treatment. And that involves essentially positioning the patient's typically for a breast patient, they'll be prone with their arm behind their head. We call it the movie star pose. I'm going to get the arm out of the way of the excellus, essentially. And so by putting them in this position, and then putting them on a wingboard that'll slightly elevate their torso, we can, and there's a lot of different geometry here that we can use. Back in the old days, they had all kinds of ways of doing plaster casts and things like that. But we essentially do now, is we will use a, we'll be called a vacloc, essentially a bean bag with a vacuum port, and they, the patient sinks into the bag. We suck all the air out of the lock, it becomes a rigid cast of their body. And that way, they fit into the groove that we've made for them will actually, will kind of form it and mold it around their elbow, so they're comfortable. Many times with patients who've had an excelloid eye section, they may have a little bit of scarring a little decreased range of motion to be able to get their elbow back there. So we'll work with them the best we can. Whatever position we get them in, we do a CT in that position. And that's the position we have to reproduce for the daily. How long does each session take? When they're actually on treatment, it's about 15 minutes, sometimes even a little bit less than that. Some of the newer machines can deliver the bean even faster. But when I say 15 minutes, I'm talking about, I have four patients an hour typically, so in and out of the room in 15s, that includes getting them on the table. The key thing for accuracy and reproducibility is positioning. So the reason we made that mold, and we've, not only did we get them in position, but I've also got a couple of dots on their skin to use this reference marks to make sure that the patient is in the correct position. That whole process probably takes five minutes every day when the patient gets in the room, and then maybe another five to ten minutes for the actual beam to be on. And my favorite thing is to come in the room after the patient's first treatment, and then the most common question I get is, hey Doc, when do we start? And I'm like, no maim, that was, they're like, really? That was it because the patient feels nothing. So the machine will go through its various angles, its pre-program, the entire process is about 15 minutes a day, and they can leave feeling the same as when they got there, just like getting any x-ray, they jump in their car, and go right back to work, or to the gym or the golf course. What are the typical side effects that a woman experiences from this treatment? And by the way, was she typically getting 40 gray 25 years ago, or was that a little more I think you said, and now they've come down a bit, it was sort of 50, 60 gray? This brings up a point that I need to kind of emphasize. It's not so much the total dose, it's the dose per fraction. So how quickly are you getting it? So the standard of care was actually 50 gray, rather than today's 40-ish gray, but it was used to be given in two gray per fraction, dead-daleed dose is rather than the 2.6, 2.7 that we're using now. But with the modern treatment now with, in first-first-well, not using cobalt using linear accelerators, the energy of the photons is higher, which means the skin dose is slightly lower. So you're getting maybe 100% on the skin, rather than 150% like you once did. So we don't see anywhere near the skin reaction that we use to. It's more of a, maybe a grade one or a grade two-air-a-thema. So mild redness, or maybe sometimes a little bit of, like it's a sunburn, but nothing is severe as we use to. So these days patients do still get a sunburn. We give them some free samples of aquifor, or they can use an aloe vera plant if they have, but just your normal type of skin care stuff, as opposed to the old days when we were actually treating essentially burn victims with silver self-adysine and heavy duty, narcotics and things like that. The modern air, it's so much better than a lot of the patients, especially if it's someone that doesn't have a very large breast. There's less energy being put into a smaller size person. They don't get anywhere near the skin reaction. And that's why if you did have a very large patient, we actually still use the old 50-grey in 25, because you're giving less dose per day, and you do have a very large breast, where you're going to have areas that are going to have hot and cold spots, sometimes that still needed. So we have to tailor it to the individuals, as I guess my bottom line there. What is the impact of breast implants in this type of treatment, either saline implants or the older, actually they're not older now, they're back in the river. Back in the river, the silver consult on implant. Either way, the photons, the X-rays we use, they are not at all affected by that, that's essentially tissue equivalent. And pardoned by ignorance, I completely forget, are those implants typically under the pack or between the pack and the breast? So we see both. No, it's interesting how there's, I guess, some pretty current standard. I'm not sure what the current, I think most of them we see are actually under the muscle. That's right. I don't know, I've actually seen both. So we can easily, suddenly, pack. But I've seen them both, even even now, the plastic surgeons have different criteria for that. But regardless of what it is, our whole, if it's under the pack, then of course, it's really a little farther away. It's not a huge issue, but we still, the radiation will still affect that area. But typically these implants are pretty tolerant of that. The only issue down the road is they may have a capsule or contracture or something from fibrosis. The bigger challenge we run into is for our post-mastectomy patients who are going to be reconstructed, and they have expanders put in. And that's where the relationship between the radiation oncologist, the surgeon, and the plastic surgeon is key. Do women experience any systemic symptoms from radiation like nausea or vomiting or is that? Not at all. And the only time we see radiation patients who have nausea or vomiting, it's typically, a lot of times for other sites, they may get concurrent chemo radiation where the chemo could be responsible. But for rest, we don't do concurrents usually sequential. The only time I really see radiation induced nausea, if I'm treating an esophagus or a pancreas or something, that's in the abdomen or somewhere along the GI track, where nausea is more of an issue. Typically not for breast.

Now we've opened a Pandora's box, which is this individual who's feeling a little fatigued. Can't figure out why. Some things wrong with them. They're fatigued. Maybe it's, you know, fill in the blank. I don't know what it is. First doctor they see does traditional work up and says, I, you know, you're all your hormones look great. I don't, you know, everything that I can see look at. But you're going to find that person within the first three, depending on which door you open, who's going to come up with an explanation. And they're typically going to have a solution for you that's pretty off the beaten path. If you go to a car mechanic and say your car squeaking in the engine, they're going to have a wonderful solution for your engine, even if it's not required. If you go to a psychiatrist and say, I think I need meds, guess what they're going to give you medication. And if you don't enough doctors, they're going to find some problem, recommend some intervention, whether it's homeopathic, whether it's diagnostic, you know, whether it's a prescription, something, they'll give you something because they want you to feel better. Yeah, I think part of it is that when you're a hammer, everything is an ale syndrome, but I, I think that, and that would be the most charitable explanation for what I think is going on, which is truly, there are just a lot of real charlatans out there that are, you know, just not not practicing any former reasonable medicine, not even evidence informed. Right. Like evidence based, I get this limitation. Yes. And I will fully acknowledge the limitations of evidence based medicine. I agree. But, but, but there is at least a threshold of evidence informed medicine. But when you start saying that the answer to your slightly elevated cesium level, which, by the way, no lab has ever documented what the upper limit of that should be anyway, but let's just assume that my arbitrary level is too high and you're slightly above it. So that's clearly the explanation of everything that's going wrong with you. And I'm going to hand you some supplement that, by the way, I happen to also sell happen to sell. How big are you? Look, it's your lucky day. It's right here. You found the office. You found the guy that knows how to cure elevated cesium levels. That's the challenge I suppose I have, right, which is, it's the challenge I have. You were wearing the same boat. You're asking me to, as a non-medical person, to make sure that someone's getting, you know, advocated for, spoken for and referred to by providers, they're going to go to find anyone. And I'm, I'm, above my pay grade to know whether that doctor knows what they're doing, whether recommending medications or off-label things that are, and how am I going to argue against that? So yeah, most things I specialize, like myself, who work in the space of a lot of health and medical and I have a career where we haven't talked about where I've done lots of medical training, medical work in my career. I'm informed. I'm knowledgeable. I also have medical people my family. I can ask the right things, but I'm trusting the medical people around me. So I'm on faculty at a university in Atlanta. I'm a adjunct faculty there. I got colleagues there. I got medical people around me. I surround myself with people that I think are sharp, psychiatrist, physicians, oncologists, just in case. And still, my patients are going to go to other doctors because they're just looking for the answer to me. That sort of within that health-inside spectrum. If every doctor you've gone to, that I trust has given you the best medicine possible or the best assessment possible, and you're getting no answer and you go to the next person, you don't need the DSM to go. Maybe this is more than just a medical issue. I'm still going to advocate for the medical needs. I'm still going to support them and join them. And I'm still going to help them see that your physical symptoms are real. Physical symptoms are real. That doesn't mean they're indicative of or prognosticate a medical condition. Half the battle I'm doing is education around that topic. Yeah, I think that's worth stating that again. Right? So if a person says, I'm experiencing this pain, that's real. 100%. You're just saying, don't assume necessarily that that means that there is an underlying medical reason for that or even something that you would find on the total best case scenario diagnostic. More often than not, there's not a great medical diagnosis or category that fits into the things that someone like, I mean I see. I mean I don't specialize that much in FND or sort of that functional neurological space of pseudo seizures or tingling arms or body part 2 can go numb. That's a whole another space of conversion disorders. But I'm talking about people that have chronic headaches, tummy issues, leg cramps, bones that feel sore and they've had every work up you could imagine that would be considered for someone who has bones that are sore. And there's about three or four conditions the most first of all, so I'm going to jump to and you say your bones are sore. When that's all been ruled out and they're trying to convince you, but my thigh, like I can feel the bone, I can feel the marrow feels like it's tearing itself up and we were talking about pain conditions. We're talking about, you know, neuropathic kind of conditions at some point the intervention, which is them doctor shopping becomes worse than the pain itself. At some point someone will prescribe you something and hopefully we're not doing with opiate to that point, but someone will prescribe you something, thinking that they have the magical cure to fix your distress, your pain. And that scares me. And my job is to sit with them and say the pain is real, the sensation is real, the symptom is real, but it may not really be indicative of the thing that you think it could be. And by the way going on WebMD or Google or because a social media influencer said if you have this, this is probably what it is, does not diagnose you. And so there's really this wonderful space of social media wearable devices, which I'm a big believer of, and the access that we all have to our medical records scares that hell out of me because we are now patients being our own advocates and showing up to doctors saying, this is what I found out online, I think I have this or this is what this person said and I think I have this or my, my looking at my watch here, my heart my heart rate's been up all week, doesn't that mean something? Yeah, means your heart rates up period. Does that mean anything else except your heart rate is up? And so most people to assume that means you're, you know, a risk for a heart attack or stroke or means if you stare, you're watching long enough, you don't have hair on your head like I do what if we talk about lies, guess what's going to happen a few seconds? We're both going to do in this because that's what happens. And if I mention your left pinky toe, Peter, have you thought about your left pinky toe? This entire time we've been together because you are now, how is the toe next to it doing? And by the way, now how's the right pinky toe going? Now we get to think about that. So if you think about that long enough, you're going to feel your left pinky toe. It's going to be tactile and sticky and maybe sensory. It was there the whole time. Your brain didn't have to think about it. How is your breathing right now? We don't think about breathing and I treat people who get fixated on swallowing. Breathing is got to be something in here. I have thyroid cancer. I have a softened jaw cancer because I feel something in there. You probably do feel something in there. And by the way, if you do this all day long and you create some some bruising, you're going to feel a whole bunch of more stuff in there. You know that better than I do. But to come in someone that there may not be something in there because they've been scoped, entested, and blood checked. And there's no signs of anything that's anatomical or physical and a throat, but they can feel it. It's not my job to say it's fake. It's my job to say you're struggling with something. And what are we going to do about that? That is the message there. Do you go one step further and say like you're creating this? Or are you saying no? I don't need to go that far. I just need to get them to understand that there's another explanation for this. There's no need to do that. Because if I take that stance, I'm now the next person who's the naissayer. On the next one who's invalidating them. And almost no therapist that I know would ever basically weaponize that or blame them for that kind of thing. What I can say is you may not have created it. And it you probably didn't create it. Like leg pains not being created. But if you sit there and focus on your left pinky tail, if you talk about life long enough, it's going to create heads and stations of it. That's how it works. When you focus on something long enough, you pay attention to it. And if you pay attention to it, you're more aware of it. And you're from more aware of it. And your brain actually works. It'll feel it. Phantom Lim syndrome research has demonstrated that. People putting a dummy arm and a fake arm and a mirror and whacking an arm, we can feel that in our nerve endings because our brain's processing information. So do we have a dead arm that's not connected to that's actually causing pain? No. Do we have a pain reception or an information process something going on? Probably. That's fascinating research. The point is is I don't have to tell them it's your fault or that you're creating it. But I can tell them that the thing you're doing is keeping it active. It's keeping it prominent in your focus. And as long as you focus on that, you're not focusing on anything else. And if you're not focusing anything else, we have a whole other disease. Disease one, there's something wrong with your thigh. Maybe not medical. Disease two, you're fixated on it. You won't leave the house. You're demanding opiates. You're complaining to people. Your husband doesn't want to hear anymore. Your doctors have cut you off. And I've worked with patients. I'm an alanta that have been blacklisted from two or the three major hospital medical systems because it's done so much doctor shopping and so much fighting with your doctors that it's a stress on the system. But they have the wearables and the social media and the online and access to their patient portal that proves that something's wrong. And just as an example, what types of things would they actually be doctor shopping for? What is this? What's a symptom that's a real world example? The ones I usually see the most are memory loss or memory slip ups, which some people would actually put into the functional neurological disorder spectrum. A lot of chest pain that has had every EKG in medical work up you can imagine or sensations like ants crawling or physical pain or a pathoc pain for which it has no explanation. Those are the most common ones which is and let's just take each of those in as much as you know details. I mean, what would be triggering events? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

So let's go back to brain computer interface. How would you explain this to somebody at a party if they said, but it sounds pretty high tech, but what is it? OK. Well, OK. So let's just break apart the terms. Brain refers to really any kind of thing that interfaces with the cortex or the deeper structures. The computer is a digital device on the outside. A lot of people now call this BCI, brain computer, and it's a very messy term because it could mean a lot of different things. But I think it a nutshell what it means is for most people, a system that is recording from the brain, whether it's non-abacive from the scalp or something that's fully invasive within the brain itself, and connecting those signals to a computer that analyzes the signal and then does something with it. In many cases of BCI research, the application is, for example, to remove a computer cursor. Or in the research that we've done is to replace speech words for someone who's severely paralyzed and unable to talk anymore. And so it's about interpreting brain signals and then using a computer to interpret those signals and then transform them into a form that's useful to us. So in that example you gave your describing a patient with a phasia who can't speak. Let me be very specific about that. So a lot of the work that we've done is on people that have severe form of paralysis. And a phasia we typically refer to as someone who's got, let's say, a stroke in the language centers of the brain, where we've focused recently is on patients that have a severe form of paralysis like ALS. So they're the problem is they have largely normal language, but they can't get those. And get the motor signal out. And get the motor signal out to the vocal tract, the lips, the tone, the jaw, the larynx. Those descending fibers are severely affected by ALS, they degenerate. And that's why people progressively become paralyzed and loseability to speak. And an important part of that is that they loseability to speak, but they still have full cognition. Yeah. And for that individual by attaching a computer to their brain, you're able to hopefully extract in written cursive text, whatever across the computer screen, what they're wishing to say, that's right. OK, let's talk about how that could possibly be done. You mentioned earlier, there are at least two broad ways to extract that information, a non-invasive way where, presumably, you're putting electrodes all over a head that's as well as shorn as mine. Alternatively, a very invasive way where you actually remove the scalp and you lay these things on the cortex itself, correct? Yeah. So the range would be EEG, which is where sensors are placed on the scalp directly, recording non-invasive weight. You can remove them at any time. And then the far other extreme is electrodes that are actually placed into the brain. So with ECOG, tell me how many words per minute you could capture from a patient with ALS. OK. So what we did in our clinical trial at UCSF? Was this the 2023 paper? Yes. OK. This is the nature paper. That's right. So we published a paper in 2023. We worked with an participant named Anne. She had a very severe brainstem stroke about 20 years ago. How old was Anne? She was in her 20s. It wasn't long after she had gone married. Actually, just a couple months after her second daughter was born. She was playing volleyball with her friends, collapsed, taken into the hospital. She survived the injury. She thought that was at a her T-blarter rease. That's a dissection. Yeah. OK. Peter, you're very, this is just a story. You're just from medical schools actually pretty good. This is impressive. Anne survived this stroke. She was left quadriplegic, meaning she couldn't move her arms or legs. But in addition to that, she couldn't speak. Because the nerves that come through the brain down through the brainstem and go to the cranial nerves would supply the vocal tract. Those were also directly affected. And was the paralysis or result of her cerebellum? Also having in-farks? No. It was all brainstem. Just brainstem. In the pruca. Yeah, precisely the part that we call the ponds. So, yeah. So, devastating. Devasting. So it was for 20 years and is now in her 40s in a wheelchair unable to speak. Right. And so what we did was we did a surgery where we implanted an array of 253 ECOG sensors. These are the sensors that are densely spaced. How many? 253. Right. So, we're talking about something about the surface area of a credit card. And it's filled with electro-ed sensors that are spaced about three millimeters apart. Each sensor is about a millimeter and diameter. And so basically you've got this credit card sized array that was placed on the part of a brain that processes words. In particular, the motor production of the words. The parts that control the lips, the jaw, the larynx, the tongue. Eries that were functionally disconnected from her vocal tract because of this stroke and the brainstem, which connects the brain to those muscles. And so we did the surgery about three weeks later. We started our research sessions with her. We connected the cable. It's basically an HDMI cable that is attached to a head stage. The head stage transforms the analog signals from her brain. These are a small voltage. At the same time that we're doing all of this research Peter, AI is developing in parallel. All of these tools that we now are using every day, transcribing our voice right now into text. We use that technology. We can actually use those same technologies that generate voices of speech synthesis. And so we've used a lot of the same tools, machine learning tools that are in modern day AI's. And we're now applying them on the brain activity and trying to use them to not translate, for example, text and synthesize speech. But now the equation is different. It's translate from brain activity into synthesize speech. The input is not text. The input is the ECOG activity across these 253 sensors. For days, what we would do is have a sentence on a screen. And we'd give her the start time and time. And during that, she would just look at the sentence. She could go to go cue and then try to say it. Nothing intelligible comes out. She may or may not be moving the lips job. But just try to say it. And that turns out to be very important. Oh my God. You can't just think about it. You can just hold it. Wow. You have to actually try to say it. And that's what she did. So we started with a very simple vocabulary of about 27 words. The words that we chose are the NATO code words. Alpha, probably, delta, echo. We did that because we could measure basically the accuracy of the decoder that was analyzing those brain signals and translating them into those 26 different code words. And on the first day, we were able to train the algorithm on a data set of maybe about an hour and a half to get to about 50% accuracy. Does 50% accuracy mean she could get half of them right or anytime you showed her one, there was a 50% chance it would be correct. Both. Well, you just said in our sense identical. Like so she's looking and then trying to say. There was a bias towards the subset of them that she was always getting right and others that she was actually there. Actually, there was a bias. Okay. Yeah. Actually, if I get into details, yes. Some of them were more discriminable than others. And was it based on the number of syllables? Yes. Yes. Actually, it was based on that in some of the phonetic properties. But one of the reasons why NATO code words for us was a really useful training, training task for us is because NATO code words were developed in the first place by the military improved communication accuracy. The reason why we actually use those code words is because sometimes if you just say a, the, you know, like D, Z, there's a lot of confusion. So that's why we actually use those code words. It increases the discriminability and then tells us really work. A lot of those settings you just can't make those errors. For example, you know, pilots. Yep. You know, in the column numbers, for example. So we use that because it has high discrimability and on that first day, you know, I think we've got about 50%, and this is going straight to voice. No, this was going straight. This is going to text. This is straight to text. Okay. Yeah. And so we're just trying to figure out, could we, um, decode which word it was and it was displayed in text? Um, so that's pretty, me. That's the first day. That's the first day. Yeah. And then over the next, I would say about six days, uh, the performance just got better and better. And then by about, you know, like a weekend to this, she was up into the 95% range. Um, so that was unexpected. Um, there's incredible to see the performance increase, you know, so quickly. But that did take a full week to do that. Did you get a sense from Anne as to how her level of fatigue with this progressed? In other words, what becomes the bottleneck? Is it, does it get easier and easier for her to go through this talking motion as she practices more? Is it just like any other muscle that we think of that has sort of atrophied? And now she's sort of getting her talking back in shape. Yeah. It is a bit of that. And, um, we're trying to make that easier over time. I think in the beginning days, we were trying everything to get her to work. And, um, a lot of it, again, it has to do with this volitional intent to speak. That turns out to be the most critical thing. But one of the things that I thought was really interesting also was we were doing so much, um, decoding through these tasks that over time actually a couple months into this. And it reported to us actually the strength of our oral facial muscles through her job. The time. They were actually getting stronger through this constant therapy, constant rehabilitation. And so I think right now everything is about just decoding the brain activity, you know, two, an artificial, digital thing. But I do think that in the future BCIs are also going to be a way that we can do rehabilitation. Right? Like it's a way that we have this direct readout of what the brain is trying to do. You can essentially build a prosthetic that helps people speak. But in the process, someone who has been spoken for a while, regain some of that natural strength over time. So that's a new indication that we're thinking about in the future. How to use this technology actually to augment an accelerated rehabilitation. If Anne had that stroke today, how different if at all would this process look, if you were working with a person who hadn't spent 20 years or 18 years without speaking? Um, there's no question that I think it would work faster. There's less to learn. For her, not speaking for 18 years, basically meant that she basically had to relearn how to speak. And we had to keep up with her relearning. Her brain was probably re-organizing, relearning actually some of those fundamental things. And she could see the feedback of essentially whether or not she was trying to say was right or wrong. And it was very intense work. So we're trying to make that easier over time. But I think certainly the more preserved, the more recent, you know, that activity is, those memories, the synapses we talked about earlier, the more stable, the more functional they are, the easier it is to actually decode them. So what will be this ceiling for the current technology? How many words per minute? And at what resolution or accuracy do you think the current technology with, because this was ECOG in her case, correct? Where do you think it's going to go? Where do you think it, where will this asymptote? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

So let's talk a little bit about Alfaqid a Glutorate. Walk us through the rationale for how that came to be something that you would put through this type of rigorous program. Yeah, so company full disclosure that I'm involved with a PDL health that have a product for June of it now. They came to us many years ago at the back and working with Gordon Lethgo and I and they were like, this green natural products that would have an impact on aging because the mindset of the CEO of the, what became the CEO of this company was that I can't get drugs but proof for aging at any time in the near future. This work with natural products and also things that the FDA just calls grass out of the gate. So we screened a lot of things in worms and AKG came out as one of the best things in worms. Send in in the mouth studies. We found that for male mice, there was a combined effect with vitamin A and vitamins are an interesting discussion too. And there was also a combined effect with both sexes with vitamin D and so that led to this product regimen which is AKG, time release AKG, very important because otherwise it's like, any it goes away in five minutes if you don't have a time release version. Tell folks what Alphacita Glutorate is and shows. It's a part of the, is it part of the crme cycle? It's yeah, it's a TCA cycle, crme cycle, central metabolite involved in hundreds of reactions. It's a lot like an AD. Yep. They're doing different things but they're both central metabolites. They're both going down with aging and organisms. Yep. And the idea is supplementing them back up would be beneficial. And so when we did that with AKG and mice, we see about a five to 10% increase in lifespan but a dramatic increase in frailty. So when we, meaning it's increasing for the eye nourishment. So that mice, I would argue that you're still encouraging the lung epidemic pervers we talk about. Yep. So, you know, if that translated to humans, it would be a big impact. And so that's what led to the human product. By the way, I think that if you did not extend lifespan by a day, yeah, but you just improved health span, yeah. That's a home run. Yeah, I agree. For most people, that is all they actually want. Yeah, I agree. I think if they get that, they'll want the other two. But that's not true. But yeah, I never the reverse. No, nobody wants more life spans without. We're doing now. I know. I know. I can't get it. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, I completely agree with that. So, you know, we're still excited about this product. There's been, we're about AKG, and especially the time release version. And there's been, you know, some studies that have been published one of which we helped analyze the data for using rudimentary methylation clocks showing that they reverse it. That they reverse his aging by a few years again. It's that oscillation thing we were talking about earlier. I think. And that's why we wanted to do a controlled placebo double-blighted clinical trial at the university. And that case we're just testing the time release AKG. We didn't include the vitamins because we're trying to get some mechanistic information. We know what confounders in there. But I think the data is still pretty good on AKG that it's going to have an impact in people. Did you guys do a study on your relief in A as well? We haven't published it yet, but I am happy to talk a little about it. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes, and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Is there some major disruption where we just have this dramatic change in technique to have a bigger positive impact on frontal surface area than the negative effect it might have on propulsion? Yeah, so this distance touches up on let's say one of my favorite hurry us and that's biofeedback. In cycling we have extremely good tools for biofeedback today. You have a palm meter and you have a GPS. So just these two combined for speed and power perfectly. Like we talked about last time when you were out riding 200 watts constant and basically you see you get in faster. So you have this direct biofeedback because as long as you ride enough you will basically start to get a very good feeling for when you sit at a certain power and you start doing different things. Some you creep up like half a kilometer power or one. Like for person when it starts cycling or it's cycling a little bit like for them. It doesn't become interesting enough yet because there are other things that are basically more challenging for them to master but for people that do a lot of biking like yourself. It's it's it's it's where you exactly start to pay and let's say attention to those let's say even half a kilometer power maybe even you're getting below that as well. Where you start to really pay attention to this And then over time simply because wind and not the fact is makes a difference to running. This is also a place where we have really good biofeedback tools. You have your watch you're running and you can have a look at it. And now we have also really good power meters in running as well. How does that work? So most of these are there are some of these parameters in running today that requires some of them requires an insult. So you put basically an insult inside and a basic and measure the forces. So it's a first plate. Yes inside you. Yes. And then you have other ones that are motion capture devices. So they basically you rather inputs your body weight. And since basically when you're touching on the ground with one foot, your basic occurring you whole weight there. So as long as you have a good enough motion capture device that a capable of less aid to attack or there are able to capture the three-dimensional accelerations you can then basic also say. Some well you know you know the force because you basically have to carry your weight. So that's hard. So you can directly measure this with a force plate insole or you could indirectly do it with motion capture. But I assume the motion capture only works on a treadmill. You're not going to be able to. No so the motion capture today there are become so small. There are basic or small devices that you attach to a shoe and they are when when when we validate these in this commercially available products. Yes. So if you if you if you go to a laboratory and you basic it test this, you will basically see that so we have been for a long time in working to get a bit stride. I started working with them and they were in beta stage and we've gone through that but basically they are so accurate today that when you when you measure first of all do you have any idea how much you just ruin my wife's life? Do you have done any so how many minutes do you think after this podcast am I going to be on my computer ordering these devices? Jemming them on her shoes. You know she's running the boss in marathon next year and I'm convinced she's actually going to run it faster than she did her first boss in marathon 20 years ago because she actually now works for the running coach and her qualifying time this year was only one minute slower than her qualifying time 19 years earlier. And again it's just because she's more structured in her training not because she listens to a word I say she doesn't but she's like finally at least agreeing to use heart rate and velocity for tempo training. So now she's not listening to this podcast obviously she went for friends will probably hear this and tell her to listen but she is now we're going to implement power training for her running. Yes she's going to curse me all day long because she doesn't want day but how could you not do how is every runner not doing this? I think this has to do with a lot with tradition and also that even when Paul meters were introduces easy to look back and say like why why why why didn't we have this before or even how power there's so much information we can extract from a single Paul meter today which is I say beyond people's comprehension still be only used to Paul number days there and we use it even in a one-dimensional context FTP for example or critical power. The amount of information you can get out of this is crazy because we are not going to talk about this today. I still kind of use normalize power and other no. Oh wait we never use and no we only go by roll numbers I only work by roll numbers all the time so I don't condense it down to a single metric I use only roll numbers but the implication here is that even when you look at studies that are looking at gross efficiency for example in all days or even today there are like wanting you consider as a net mechanical power so the interface between basically looking at your gross or as a gross gross efficiency is where you take view to and we already dare most people understand that okay you have a difference between net net auction consumption and gross auction consumption you would ideally like to have the net auction consumption but there are other things there but in cycling actually also what we only consider there is a net mechanical power you don't consider gross mechanical power and should you really look at the let's say on your biochemical efficiency you should not look at the net mechanical power should look at the gross mechanical power but that's even before we start to get into vectors power vectors force vectors and other things even in a three-dimensional plane as you do cycling because this is something we can extract from the palm it is today so when running yes so one of the things you have you have more degrees of freedom there's more inefficiency there's probably a lower relationship or a more strained relationship between between gross and net power this is maybe one of the reasons for why it is not as widely adopted in running as it is in cycling because it is still debated what really is running power how do you really quantify it and this is something that even I even discuss with the team at the stride so when we are having a regular course and we are diving into the topic then even we also sometimes I would say I have our different opinions on how this really should be looked at because if you want to translate this into running then you have to look at only at a let's say the propulsive power I could imagine seeing this I mean have they put these in Olympic sprinters and seen the power numbers there yeah no it has let's say put this way commercially available this has his limitations because since you do motion capture you need to do a little bit of filtering you can't you can't take out because it's going to be so much noise exactly because as you said you have so many degrees of freedom yeah if you're going to output all as you all the vectors that basically you were able to measure with let's say just with strain gauge based palm it's on a bike today and people would be able to utilize that's why you condense it down to a single palm it's a single number that is there for most people but if you had that if you had that force plate chip in your insole you could at least capture force normalize to wait with each step right yes so what you what you can do and this is validated so if you for example run on a track a track which has force plates or you run on specialized treadmill that has force plates integrated in them you will basically see the curves are the same so this is the way that this is the external validation of the device is good both in terms of that it captures the the force curves but also here really when you're motion capture devices you can also capture the footpath as well so this is something we can visualize in treaty today after event when you're doing running we can see what happened there fresh fatigue throughout the race when it's technical and all the things but I think the reason why this is not as violent up that is because in science this is still debated on how do we really capture how and quantify mechanical power power for running. Stry'd have taken a smart approach this to make it as a commercially viable and it is that they quant out put it as a let's say call it a metabolic power so if you actually went on a treadmill and you went running and you looked at the advances your auction consumption you will basically see that this this measure perfectly with cycling that's without having a some bicycle near you at all so you could say the well this is what you expect so when you're at a certain power then with this would have an certain metabolic cost but what how I use I don't like it because I don't like less than modeled numbers I want to have a raw numbers so in my case I basically I'm extracting basically the that's it in net and the gross mechanical power or the positive and the negative mechanical power because these are the components I want because I have view to master I have metabolic devices so I don't need a metabolic equivalent I want to have the raw because I'm using as an interface to go to the difference like for example in a Formula 1 car what really matters in the end there what hits the ground yeah what really matters in the end there is how fast can you go around the track for the full event with a certain amount of fuel because there is a limitation to how much fuel can have in your car like that's the true input and the true output your engine output and this is actually secondary you see this is the thing that we want to have the biggest engine but big engine without efficiency is still bad so this is the engine it becomes more of device to measure let's say you look at the power and you look at how efficiently are you able to translate this fuel out into speed over let's say the event or velocity so for me having access to the net mechanical power and gross mechanical power and then you have the metabolic devices this allow me on the ones I look at when we change something in running so let's say you change for example your shoes or you change or you're training you can now I can have a much more granular understanding of am I influencing the bio mechanical part of of of the training or is it the biochemical part of the training but in order to do so you have to have that interface that basically let's say distinguishes between gross mechanical power and net mechanical power and the interface between gross mechanical power and net mechanical power over power is only there let's say work efficiency how efficiently are you working but not metabolizing or or moving because you're in the end you have to take this power and and and be able to output into into velocity

I don't believe in taking any medicine just so you know, only natural supplements. My response to that is, tell me the difference. I mean, there is a difference, but I just want to make sure you as the consumer of this understand the difference. So, today we're hitting the topic, which is one we get asked about a lot, which is supplements. We tried to pick ones that we get asked about a lot for the case studies, which is creating, there's a reason about evidence to suggest and again, we'll link to lots of it that the creatine does help improve various parameters of muscle performance. And it's not that subtle. I mean, it's typically in the range of 5, 10, maybe even 15 percent. Fish oil. Yeah, I mean, obviously you have to watch out for poor quality rancid supplements. They are unfortunately common. The smaller the fish, the better. Vitamin D. In other words, it's not easy for me to say, Nick, if you go outside today with your shirt off for 20 minutes, it's the equivalent of taking this much vitamin D. B vitamins. These are typically more associated with B12 injections, rather than oral supplements. We tend to just rely on oral supplementation. You get a more smoothed out dose. Ash, we're gonna. So it's like an evergreen shrub that has historically been used in traditional Indian medicine for a variety of indications, such as sleep, stress, immune health. But I hope that people can use this framework, liberally as they try to kind of adjudicate and interrogate their own supplement list. Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Bitter. Welcome to another MA. How you doing? Great. How are you? I'm doing good. I'm doing good. Thanks for thanks for joining us. You had some enthusiasm in that great. I could feel it. So today we're hitting a topic, which is one we get asked about a lot, which is supplements. And this can vary greatly depending on the person depending on the supplements. And the hard part with supplements is that, well, everyone is interested in it. It's so variable person to person. And not even all your patients are taking the same supplements or the same amount and all of that. And so it's really hard to talk about it in a way that makes it applicable to everyone without being like, take this, don't take this, which is something that you've never really done because of how you look at this topic. And so what we decided to do today was instead look at a framework for how you think about supplements and then go through case studies of a variety of supplements to talk through it, to hopefully allow the person listening or watching, to then be able to apply it in their own life. So they can just get a better understanding, be smarter when it comes to this topic. And so we tried to pick ones that we get asked about a lot for the case studies, which is creatine, fish oil, vitamin D, B vitamins, ashwaganda. So kind of a variety of supplements as well that will go through, which will hopefully kind of give a full picture of how to apply this in someone's own life. So with all that said, anything you want to add before we get wrong one. No, let's get started. So when patients come to you, like when they first start in the practice, how are you looking at their supplements? I'm sure there's a variety of some people have a lot of supplements, some not as much. So are you taking audit of that? How are you having that conversation with them when you first meet someone? You know, obviously any patients coming into the practice, we're trying to gather as much information about them as we can through, you know, their medical history and a important component of that is understanding all medications, supplements, hormones, anything they take. You know, I call this the bucket of exogenous molecules. So generally we know this on the way in and there's a ton of variety, right? There's people who come in who are taking nothing. They don't take any medicine. By prescription, they don't take any supplements. Conversely, there are patients who come in on no medications, but a list of supplements that might be two pages long and everything in between. Our view is generally to approach this kind of the way the kidney approaches the filtration of glucose, sodium and potassium, which is you dump everything out and then ask the question what should be added back in. And I don't mean we literally stop everything, but I'm saying that's kind of the mental model for how we how we go about thinking about it. Because a lot of times when we ask patients why are you taking this or why are you taking that, they don't know. They just say, you know, I started this a couple of years ago because I saw somebody on Instagram talking about it or, you know, I saw this doctor a few years ago who told me to take this, but I have no idea why. So, I think, you know, there's just a couple of things worth acknowledging before we jump into this and it comes from discussions that I've had many times which goes something like this. Hey, you know, I don't believe in taking any medicine just so you know only natural supplements. Now, my response to that is tell me the difference. I mean, there is a difference, but I just want to make sure you as the consumer of this understand the difference. And it's really a question of regulation, right? So supplements are not regulated by definition, the FDA has sort of tacitly referred to them as, you know, generally regarded as safe. But the process by which that's determined is not entirely that rigorous. And pharmaceutical products, well far from perfect, do have more in the way of regulation and oversight. There are places where these overlap. Again, I'll encounter a patient who says, listen, I will never take, you know, a statin to lower my A. BoB, but, you know, I will definitely happily take red rice yeast at which points you have to sort of explain to them that a very high dose of red yeast rice is effectively a modest dose of preface statin. So I think it's just helpful for patients not to get ideologically wrapped up in the idea of over-the-counter supplement versus pharmaceutical agent. And instead to just analyze the any molecule you put in your body through the framework we're going to talk about today. Today, we're going to limit it to over-the-counter supplements because these are the things we get asked the most questions about. And frankly, it's the area in which it's harder to do the type of analysis we're doing today. So the type of analysis we're doing today is so much easier to do in the pharma space because of the regulatory hurdles that must be cleared by a drug to be approved. So it's almost like shooting fish in a barrel. Still a great exercise to do. But doing it the way we're going to do it today is really how you develop the muscle for doing this type of work. And so I think with that said, do you just want to run over real quick kind of the questions you asked to determine whether or not a supplement is worthwhile? And I think kind of just giving this overview will be helpful because as we said in the beginning when we go through the case studies, we'll kind of stick to these questions and answer them along the way. And so to kick it off, do you just want to run through what those questions are? I think this is the single most important thing. I'm hopefully transmitting throughout this episode. I mean, the heavy lifting is actually showing you how we go through this. But this is the punch line, right? So anytime you're considering taking a supplement or someone is suggesting a supplement, you should ask, you know, the following questions or or something that approximates them. So the first question I'm asking is, are you taking this to correct a deficiency or are you trying to achieve super normal levels of fill in the blank? Okay. Second question, are you taking this molecule because you believe that it's going to improve your lifespan or your health span or potentially both? Third question is, if it is lifespan, is it because this this this molecule is targeting a specific disease and presumably reducing your risk of that disease or do we believe it's more broadly zero protective? Again, in the supplement landscape, that's pretty rare to find. But obviously you can see examples in the pharma space where we might see certain drugs that we think have zero protective benefits versus those that have lifespan benefits, but only on one disease. The, of course, the other question that is the corollary of that is, if you're taking it for health span, can you speak to which apparatus of health span? Do you think this is something that is improving physical performance cognitive performance or emotional health? The fourth question is, is there a biomarker that you can track to suggest that you are getting the appropriate amount of the supplement or that you might be in the therapeutic window? The fifth question is, do you understand the mechanism of action? Now again, I want to be clear, you don't have to answer every one of these questions in the affirmative for it to make sense. For example, there are countless things that we use for which we might not fully understand the mechanism of action, but we might feel confident enough on some of these other dimensions to move forward. The final question is, what is the balance of risk to reward? Including potential side effects, the magnitude of the effect, the confidence we have in the data that speak to its safety and the quality of the supplement itself. And this last point is especially important here. We know from previous podcasts that I've done, including the one with Katherine Eben, that even in the far more world, the quality of the drug is not to be taken as a given. That episode, which is several years old and will link to it, really called into question the quality of some of the pharmacologic agents out there, especially generic brands. But whatever amount of nefarious behavior exists over there, I think you're safe multiplying that by 10 or 100 to understand the magnitude by which that's happening in the supplement space. So, I guess before we jump into this neck, I just want to make sure we've pulled together a lot of information on the six supplements you mentioned. For the sake of time, flow, making this sort of conversational, I'm not going to go deep into each study that we talk about. Rather, I'm going to try to cover the important details, but we will heavily cite link to and explain the details of the studies in the show notes. So, if you're listening to this, because you just want to see how the framework works, great. But if you're like, actually, for those six supplements, I want to go deeper, the show notes is where to go. Perfect. So, I think let's get started with the first one, creatine. And so, kind of going through the questions in the framework, are you using creatine to correct for deficiency or trying to achieve supermaximal levels? With creatine, it's clearly the latter. I'm sure there's somebody walking around out there with a creatine deficiency, but that's not really the use case. So, when people, like myself, and I do take creatine, take creatine, it's because we believe that superphysiologic levels are preferential. So, again, we take this primarily to improve athletic performance, potentially increasing lean mass slightly. There are some emerging studies that suggest that it may also ameliorate cognitive decline. And basically, research shows that once muscle stores are fully maximized, which can be achieved with 3 to 5 grams per day, you're sort of, you've flattened out that curve. So, you know, in other words, you don't need to go much beyond that, although as we've talked about on this podcast, there was a day for those of us that are old enough to remember when the zeitgeist was to do a period of loading at much, much higher doses in the neighborhood of 20 grams per day before falling to a maintenance dose of 5. But today, people that are taking it are usually just taking 3 to 5 grams per day. And then as far as taking it for lifespan, health span, which one are people usually taking it for? Well, we certainly see no direct evidence on lifespan. I think most people who would take this, if being confronted with the granularity of this question in this way, would say, look, I'm taking this for health span. I'm maximizing the benefits of my exercise, especially with respect to resistance training. And maybe potentially warding off cognitive impairment. Now, of course, indirectly, I would say that those are also benefits on lifespan. But I would say that that's probably the way to think about this. And you kind of talked about this earlier on, but is there a specific biomarker that people can use to track to see if the supplements, quote, unquote, working or not? No, there's not a biomarker for this. And again, what do I mean by a biomarker? Well, you know, if you're taking a medication to lower your blood pressure, measuring your blood pressure actually becomes a biomarker for the thing you're taking. Am I taking enough or too much? If you're taking a drug that lowers your A, B, the A, B itself serves as the biomarker. We don't have a way outside of a lab, commercially to measure tissue, creatine levels. So we do not have a biomarker for this. And that's why people who take it are just sort of adhering to a protocol. And then on the mechanism of action, do we have any understanding of the mechanism of action for creatine, whether or let's to the physical or the cognitive side? On the physical side, meaning on the muscle performance side, it's certainly pretty clear. You know, again, people will recall how energy currency is delivered. So ATP adenosine tri-foss fate is the richest form of energy currency. And it liberates energy. So it's spent by liberating a phosphate. So ATP becomes adenosine die-foss-feet ADP. Of course, that process works in reverse. So as we want to build up and replenish our ATP stores, we need a phosphate donor. And this is where phosphocreatine comes in. So we do naturally have phosphocreatine. In fact, when you start to think about the various energy systems, if I asked you Nick to do something that was in all out effort for 10 seconds, that would not require oxygen. Right? You're not tapping into your VO2 max or your oxygen delivery It's frankly not even an anaerobic activity, meaning you're not actually turning glucose into pyruvate, into lactate, etc. If you're doing something that is such a short burst of activity, you are really relying on the phosphocreatine system to generate the ATP for that activity. So if you're doing a 40-yard dash, you're relying on phosphocreatine. But of course, phosphocreatine itself is a phosphate donor. And therefore anything that boosts the supply of phosphocreatine boosts the supply of ATP. And it's our belief that that's effectively what it is doing. And therefore that it's helpful with anything that requires bursts of activity. But even beyond just the super short extending into the anaerobic, I don't know that there are really any proven benefits that this augments aerobic performance. So once you get into the purely oxidative phosphorolation pathway, I mean, maybe someone will correct us. But I'm not really aware that there are benefits of creatine in that regard. I think it's more in the first two energy systems. The phosphocreatine system in the anaerobic system. On the cognitive side, we know that a small amount of creatine is synthesized in the brain and the creatine can cross the blood-brain barrier. But the brain certainly does not take up creatine to the same extent as the muscles do. So while we have, again, some evidence to suggest that creatine is efficacious for cognitive function, it might turn out to be the case that you need higher doses of it. I think that's still an open question as far as I'm concerned. You mentioned earlier that we'll put a lot of more detailed information on the data in the show notes, but kind of looking at a high level, what is the data around creatine say about efficacy of it? There's actually this is a supplement that has been quite readily studied. And there's a reasonable evidence to suggest. And again, we'll link to lots of it that creatine does help improve various parameters of muscle performance. And it's not that subtle. I mean, it's typically in the range of 5, 10, maybe even 15%. So these includes things like power and hypertrophy. Again, the power shouldn't be that surprising when you understand the mechanism of action. The hypertrophy seems to be due to the, you know, not just the increase in the myofibral thickness, but also in the retention of water within the muscle. And of course, that's still considered lean mass. As I alluded to, kind of physical performance in short intense burst activities and potentially some benefits in slowing down the aging phenotype of muscle mass. Again, like I said, it's really probably best suited for high intensity and anaerobic activities. But, you know, the one meta analysis will cite to found that creatine did not really improve endurance events in trained athletes. Again, you always could argue, well, maybe it's because they were really well trained and there might a congerier were well-honed. But, you know, it's possible that there's a study where you took completely untrained athletes, had them do in a row big task with them without creatine. And you might indeed see a benefit there. So again, I think we're still kind of in early days on some of this stuff. You know, there was a 2017 review that got quite a bit of attention that will link to that concluded that creatine may help with the prevention and recovery from injury. And there have been a number of meta analyses looking at cognition. The most recent one, which was this year, looked at 16 RCTs and found that creatine had a positive effect on memory. So again, I would say long and short of it is a lot of this stuff looks very promising. There's also some evidence that women in particular might benefit more than even men. Women have lower stores because muscle mass is the predominant store. Women have less muscle, therefore less stores. But there might also be less consumption through diet. So again, at least leads to the hypothesis that women may benefit even disproportionately to men. There was some, I think, rather weak data that suggests that it may help reduce dementia pardon me, it may help reduce depression in women. And there's some evidence to suggest that it may be helpful during periods of sort of rapid hormonal change. And that could be sort of within the monthly period of a menstrual cycle pregnancy, perimenopause and menopause. So you might ask why is that the case? Well, the creatine and foster creatine pathways are impacted by hormonal changes. And of course, during all of those periods that I just mentioned, you're seeing rapid hormonal changes. So it's not really that surprising that supplementing to supernormal levels of creatine could offset some of those impacts. You know, pregnancy is a question I get asked about a lot, Nick. I'm not, I would say I remain a little bit unclear and would probably suggest that there's probably safe during pregnancy, but we just don't have enough human data to form a strong point of view. So obviously, the, you know, in my mind, the wise thing to do is to avoid anything that is not absolutely necessary during pregnancy. So just to give an example, like when we have women in our practice that are preparing for pregnancy or pregnant themselves, I mean, no matter what they're taking, if they're taking, you know, medication for for something that isn't that they can live without for nine months, we would we would absolutely stop it. So yeah, I would say, women should probably dose it out about the same doses as men, but of course they'll get kind of more bang for that buck because they're on average smaller. So kind of rounding out everything we talked about with creatine, you know, what is the balance of risk or warmth? You see it, it seems like a lot of stuff we talked about was a lot of reward, but kind of how do you think about this to summarize it? I would put this in the low risk modest reward category. We do have, I think, really robust safety data here and it looks good. If the muscle stores are already full, the liver is probably going to metabolize the delta, the kidneys will clear the excess. There is, you know, one thing to kind of keep in mind, if you're a person who doesn't have perfect kidney function, you do probably want to talk with your doctor before you take it and this is very important. You want to make sure that they know you're taking it before they do any blood tests to measure your creatine because high doses of creatine can impact serum doses of creatine, which we would we would use as one of the metrics to determine kidney function. So in our patients that have anything but perfect kidney function, if they're taking creatine, we typically have them stop for a couple of weeks before we do a blood test. Creatine monohydrate really is the version to take. I don't even know if they sell anything else. They used to sell a creatine phosphate a long time ago. I don't think that there's anybody selling that anymore and I don't think it matters. But again, there's just no evidence that you need to be taking anything other than creatine monohydrate. It's wildly inexpensive and you should be looking for the purest product only that has nothing in it. The only ingredient should be creatine monohydrate. No fillers, no extra ingredients unless there's some flavoring agent that you want. But again, I just mix this in with an electrolyte drink so I want nothing in other than the creatine monohydrate in the sample. Perfect. Anything else you want to say on creatine before we move to the next one, which is fish oil? Nope. Perfect. Fish oil. Another supplement that we get asked about a ton. We've done some podcast on it. A lot of questions on it seems like a lot of people take it. So starting through again, going through the questions with fish oil, first one is, are you correcting for deficiency or are you trying to achieve super maximal levels when it comes to fish oil? Thank you for listening to today's sneak peek AMA episode of the drive. If you're interested in hearing a complete version of this AMA, you'll want to become a premium member. It's extremely important to me to provide all of this content without relying on paid ads. To do this, our work is made entirely possible by our members and in return, we offer exclusive member-only content and benefits above and beyond what is available for free. So if you want to take your knowledge of this space to the next level, it's our goal to ensure members get back much more than the price of this subscription. Premium membership includes several benefits. First, comprehensive podcast show notes that detail every topic, paper, person and thing that we discuss in each episode. And the word on the street is, nobody's show notes rival hours. Second, monthly ask me anything or AMA episodes. These episodes are comprised of detailed responses to subscriber questions typically focused on a single topic and are designed to offer a great deal of clarity and detail on topics or special interest to our members. You'll also get access to the show notes for these episodes, of course. Third, delivery of our premium newsletter, which is put together by our dedicated team of research analysts. This newsletter covers a wide range of topics related to longevity and provides much more detail than our free weekly newsletter. Fourth, access to our private podcast theme that provides you with access to every episode including AMA's songs this feel you're listening to now and in your regular podcast feed. Fifth, the qualities, an additional member-only podcast we put together that serves as a highlight reel featuring the best excerpts from previous episodes of the drive. This is a great way to catch up on previous episodes without having to go back and listen to each one of them. And finally, other benefits that are added along the way. If you want to learn more and access these member-only benefits, you can head over to PeteratiaMD.com forward slash subscribe. You can also find me on YouTube, Instagram, and Twitter all with the handle PeteratiaMD. You can also leave us review on Apple podcasts or whatever podcast player you use. This podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine, nursing or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice, no doctor-patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials link to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay and obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions. Finally, I take all conflicts of interest very seriously. For all of my disclosures in the companies I invest in or advise, please visit PeteratiaMD.com forward slash about where I keep an up-to-date and active list of all disclosures.

will pay kids right coming in middle school $1,000 to get to top 1%. And the point of this is, you know, what's even more important than the academic knowledge, it's their internal view of themselves, that changes. That kids come in and say, I'm not a math science girl, I can't be top 1%. I can't do this. Whatever limits they have. And a lot of education when you talk about it is, you know, holistically you're trying to take limits in kids and release them, right? Have them understand your limitless, you can do all this. And this is the best way academically we've found to do it. And so they come in and the AI's going to say here is all the lessons you need to do to get top 1%. And just go through them. And that motivation will get all these kids to top 1%. And the number of stories we have, you know, I have one, my own daughter, but all, you know, the alpha families where their student is like, they come back and they're like, I didn't realize I could be top 1%. And my personal self confidence in view of myself that I had to do hard work, right? You had to do the work, right? Now I'm, you know, I, and then once you take a middle school kid, who's top 1%. As they go into high school, they're not going to give it up. Because, and there's this mental view of, oh, I guess I am a smart kid, right? Or I'm a capable kid, right? And that unlock is so valuable. And so for us, that's when, you know, we think, you know, juicing it with money. I mean, we spent 20 grand a kid in this country per student, right? And you're like, in middle school, give a kid a $1,000, in order to have them realize there is that the height, there's no limit. Why does, why would most people, I assume listening to us have sort of an uneasy feeling about that. Like, they can't reconcile what you just said, which is what we'll wait a minute. And on the one hand, I know we're spending $20,000 per year per kid on these kids and we're getting nothing for it. And you're proposing, we give them a couple of those thousands of dollars strategically to incentivize half of the equation, which is them having the motivation to do this. And yet that's going to make a lot of people feel uneasy. Why? So there's a view that there needs to be an intrinsic love of learning for it to be pure and that if you, it has to be intrinsic, not extrinsic and that if you're buying it, it's solid and not good. It's just it's wrong. It's fundamentally wrong. And that is a common view. Are there any data that would support one view being favorable to the other? How would that be time? There is a set of papers that have been written that show that if somebody is not intrinsically motivated or is intrinsically motivating you pay them, they lose intrinsic motivation. Now, that's not the case that we're sitting with. We're have kids who aren't motivated, who aren't intrinsically going through it, right? They need the boost. And if you actually ask alpha kids and maybe we'll do a study someday, no parent who has their kids at alpha thinks, my kids lost their intrinsic motivation. If anything, it's the opposite because now they think they're capable. And those papers don't talk about is how much of the issue was I didn't think I was capable. I now realize I am. And I get this crazy intrinsic boost around it, right? I my younger star or again would be this example, which is, you know, she came in to middle school, you know, at, uh, she hit top 10 percent. And to lie the end of eighth grade, sorry, this was before, this is going in seventh grade. Okay. She was top 10 percent coming in. So she'd been there, but she's like that, I'm not like my older sister. I'm not top one percent, right? That's just not who I am, right? I'm ticked off girl. You know, if we're gonna end, I was like, you know, you know, you don't what I know, you know, love more than anything is shopping. And I'll bet you $1,000 that you can't get to top one percent. And so she literally would fill her a Amazon cart with $1,000 to stuff. And in the morning, she'd then look and look at the lessons she had to go through. And she'd do it. Right? She just grind through it. Now, back to this thing, it's, you know, we had a lot of family discussions around this because my wife, right? She was like, wait, there's two things. And this is most parents are, or like this, there's two things. You're one, you're setting one percent top one percent. And most parents are like, that's too hard, right? And you know, why are you putting that pressure, you know, for on the kid. And number two, it doesn't feel right to pay a thousand bucks to get this. This is just, we're all brought up that there's something wrong. And so, and back to the thing, so she does it. She has top one percent. Really buys everything. But then she sits down, right, with my wife and she's like, mom, I know you didn't like us doing this. But you need to understand what this is done for me, which is, I never thought I was a smart as my older sister. And now I realize I can do everything, right, that she can do. And it's totally changed my internal view. Right? And that element there of, right, her, and now back, she's also the one now, it was top one percent on the SAT trying to decide if she wants to do the extort to get perfect score. Right? That change in their view of their capability, that unlock is so valuable. And I believe we should do this for every kid in America, right? That, but that's the dynamics of why people don't like it. And it's, you then, just have to decide if you can use extrinsic motivation, whatever it is. I'm concert tickets. I'm, right, go shopping, whatever, whatever, mode of screen time, video game time, whatever it takes to get the kid to realize, I can go be and learn all this and be top one percent when I previously didn't think that. Right? And I go through that struggle fail sometimes cry at the road to success loop that then unlocks my human potential. And right, the point at a education beyond academic right, you're trying to unlock human potential. And this is just a great, easy way to do it. And it, it's not failed the time to get some. Yeah. That's the thing. You know, it does, is not necessarily something that has to happen indefinitely. It's, it's, what I, what I think makes sense here is that it's, it's an unlock that then creates a new state of awareness, that therefore becomes self-perpetuating. Right. So in many ways, it's like the kindling that leads to the fire. You don't need kindling indefinitely. Sometimes you need kindling. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

You know, when we brought pain in for every case when I was in residency, was any time we did a thoracotomy, was a non-negotiable. Yeah. Pain was consulted before the case, just for people listening, a thoracotomy. We didn't do these often because a lot of times by the time I was in residency, we did minimally invasive surgery in the chest. Yeah. But sometimes you had to actually make a huge incision under the ribs. And that's very painful. We just, you know, you just know this from experience that that's such a painful experience. You cut this huge incision in the intercostal muscles. You put ribs, spreaders in, you crank these things open so you can do this big operation. We just know those patients are going to need an epidural catheter. And we want that in before surgery, not after. And it makes all the difference in the world. So pain was a part of that response. I don't remember us routinely bringing pain in, otherwise. But things have changed. I'm sure in 20 years. So today for a general abdominal case or a general orthopedic case, are you brought in preoperatively? Yeah. Yeah. These days there's a lot of movement towards these RS protocols. And enhanced recovery after surgery. And so fortunately, the field of medicine is moving more and more towards a team-based healthcare model where surgeons, pain, dox anesthesiologist, nursing, rehab, are all working on a collaborative manner. They're putting together protocols to what is the best optimal approach to prehab a patient before surgery, move them through the interoperative and then parioperative period. And it's gotten better and better and better. Can we still improve it? Yes. But the acute pain service does get involved, particularly as you alluded when we put in peripheral nerve catheters or epidural catheters. And this is where we're running that local anesthetic, the numbing medication that stops the nerve impulses to provide pain relief after surgery. And so yes, we do get deeply, deeply involved in that acute surgical pain space. And then also with internal medicine docs and the hot wind patient's admitted into the hospital for whatever cause. If someone's listening to us and they're going to have elected surgery at some point, I want to plant to seed in their head for someone who's going to have the knee replacement, the hip replacement, the colonis is stuck to me, the api, whatever. Yeah. Should they be requesting this of their surgeon? Should they say, hey, I want to be diligent about my recovery. I want to minimize my use of narcotics. Do you mind calling an a pain consult so that we can, I can just have a team of docs who are exclusively thinking about my pain because let's be honest. The surgeon, I got enough to worry about. I got to make sure you didn't leak that that anestemosus is fine, that you're not getting a wound infection. Your pain is literally like third or fourth on the list of my concerns for you to have the best outcome. You are right. And if patients listening to this person's listening and they have the ability, they have the word they'll to go to their doc, their surgeon and ask what will pain management be like? Is there an opportunity to interface with an acute pain service? Particularly if they're taking opioids now for a chronic pain problem or even if they're not taking opioids for a chronic pain problem. So we will see them in our clinic before surgery. We will put together a pre-surgical plan for them, which will often include a regional anesthetic approach, meaning those nerve blocks or the catheters. We sometimes involve intravenous ketamine to augment. We will put together the whole plan, communicate with the anesthesiologist, make sure there's a good hand-off after surgery. And then we will follow them afterwards. And then we will typically follow them outside the hospital and help the surgeon out with the medication management and the pain management. All of this is not just solely to reduce pain, but to put that person in optimal state for rehab, for functional coverage. How ubiquitous is the patient controlled anesthenyl, g-sic device, the PCA that we used to have. Okay, so it's still, so people are still typically getting out, fentanyl through a PCA immediate postoperative phase. Fentanyl, the morphine. Okay. Delotted. Yeah. Yeah. No, the PCA is a very common tool. And one, it puts pain control in the hands of the patient. Two studies have been shown that PCA delivered medication opioids, they end up taking less than if it's nursing delivered.

I have to tell you Stuart, I'm a bit conflicted personally and I'll explain why. I obviously have no desire to do anything that I deem stupid anymore, right? So my days of gritting through painful anything are long over. I know the difference between discomfort that is worth pushing through and pain that is not. But when I think about in particular squats and dead lifts, I'll tell you where, especially around the deadlift, which I is an exercise I really, really enjoy where I feel conflicted. On the one hand, I feel like now that I'm so tuned in to how to do this movement correctly, it's a really wonderful audit for my stability system, right? Again, I'm embarrassed to tell you how much I didn't know when I was deadlifting. At no point that I understand the importance of tension in the arms, interabdominal pressure, you know, the variability in foot pressure on the ground, like none of that stuff, right? It was just pure, but brute force stupidity. Today, as I know those things, it allows me to modulate force and to, on a good day, kind of push the envelope a little bit in what I perceive is safe. So in the one hand, I think, yeah, I should be deadlifting my whole life. Not, I don't need to deadlift 400 pounds anymore, but I should be deadlifting because it's this great audit. And on the days that I don't feel that I back off. And then on the other days, I say Peter, you don't need to do this anymore because honestly, you can still get the same or nearly the same activation for all of the muscles involved using other movements, single leg movements in particular where you don't have a fraction of the axial loadering loading. And yeah, you might need to do two exercises instead of one, but at the end of the day, there's a lower risk approach to get it. And in other words, deadlifting is valuable, but you have a narrow operating window in which you can potentially hurt yourself. So I continue to go back and forth on this Stewart and as such, here I am telling you, I still will go periods of my life where I'll deadlift every week and then I'll take three months off feeling like I don't want to push it. How would you advise a middle aged person or even a non-middle aged person who's sort of thinking through this particular issue? Again, I have so many thoughts going through my mind. It's interesting when we have a back pained fifth year old coming here and I'll say, what are your goals? Oh, I want to set a personal best and deadlift. And I said really, okay. Let me tell you some stories. Let's talk about Ed Colm. Do you know Ed Colm? I sure do. I heard it for a whole time. I was with Ed a couple of weeks ago. I'll tell you a funny story about him if you like in a minute. But anyway, Ed, when he would set a personal best, he'd take a couple of months off afterwards. It's to set a personal best is so demanding of your body. There are actually, if then you set a true personal best, most people experience micro fracturing just underneath the end plate of the trabecular bone. If you look at the great sprink-fast leaps, they train deadlift. And again, if you go to our website, look at the testimonials at the bottom, the number of rural class deadlifters who are on there. So, you know, I've worked with quite a few of these people through their injuries. Now, those micro fractures would be a good thing or a bad thing. The professional hour lifter will take a week off. They train heavy deadlifters, quads, once a week. Because it takes a week or the bone callous to not only attach through the chemical electro attraction, but to really scaffold on, take a week. If you deadlift it in another three or four days, the way some trainers, they might deadlift a client three times a week. That allows those micro fractures to accumulate until finally you've got a full bone-end plate fracture, why not? So, these are the people that come here. And then I say, how about this for a goal? Do you have kids? Yeah, do you have grandkids? Yeah, I'll vote this. And I've since learned about your centurion de Castleon, which I love, by the way. I'll say, what you rather as your goal have the ability to play with your grandchildren on the floor when you're eating, get off the floor and pick them up? And they pause for a minute. And they'll say, yeah, I like that goal. So, you can't have both. If you think you're going to continue having deadlift personal bests, you will not, you will have artificial haps. All of these other things because only old power lifters do you know. Do you really want to be like that group of athletes? So, I can talk them into changing their long-term goals. Now is the time to get on the program and make sure you get there. If that's the case, we eliminate deadlifts. We had an athlete here yesterday and they're at the end of their career. And I took the note and we went for a 10 minute walk to a hill that we have. And I'll say, here's what you're not going to do deadlifts, but here's what I want you to do. I showed them a monster walk. Okay, monster walk. Now we're going to the bottom of the hill and I want you to lean back into the hill and we're walking backwards. You're going to align your foot ankle knee and hip and push through the knee, through the knee, through the knee, backwards up the hill. Do you know, after 30 meters, they were absolutely done. Here they are doing all this deadlifting and they don't even have the leg strength and endurance to walk backwards, 30 meters. Totally inappropriate stimulation of their athleticism to make it through to 80. So good. For you, let's do it again. We walked down the hill. We did three sets like I've hardly walked and then we played the neurological grip, which I like to do a lot of. Now I said, walk forwards up the hill, but pretend you have $100 in your butt cheeks. Don't let anyone take it. Now walk forwards up the hills and they say, I've never felt this before. The brain proceeds exhausted quads. It now has to go and get the glutes. It's the only thing left. So quite often we'll do an exhaustion focus to stimulate the thing that we really want to stimulate and I convinced that person after that what they're going to do and train now to get a well-rounded and sustainable athleticism that will spare their joints still have great training capacity. But I think their athleticism is going to go through the roof and you know, I've taken some very accomplished hour lifters and we've taken it all the squats and just do a sled work. backwards walking up hills. Some of these old time techniques and their joints settle down. They get a sustainable fitness. They lose this idea of maximum effort, squats and dits. And now they're thinking of the word sufficient strength, sufficient mobility, sufficient endurance. And we've been doing this long enough now that we've trapped them and those are the ones that are getting through. You know, again, let's go get any one of our colleagues or orthopedic surgeons. Tell us who you're replacing the hips of. Well, 50 year old, Caucasian women who have done yoga for 30 years, okay? And men around 50 who've done devilish. Yeah. Or you're not the middle of the road moderates. Not the ones who've rusted out and not the ones who've worn out, but the ones in the middle are the ones who are so this idea of sufficient fitness. Because I still believe we are all called upon to do things in life at certain times. I hope we're already enabled. And it's more fun to just be able to continue to do those things. So I'm like you, I don't do dead lifts, but I pick up 100 pound bucked up locks as an example. Big O-clock. So that's my stolen lift. That's a little bit of that into the logs, splitter. And still, split my wood. People comment on my hands this afternoon. I see it came yesterday. I shook his hand when he came to the door and he couldn't fit his hand around mine. And he said, whoa! When we were young, we didn't have dumbbells. But dad would give us a cinder block. Cinder blocks. Yeah. That's all you develop. Anyway, as you know, the importance of grip strength, I will take any day over how much you deadlift. Yeah, people often ask me, Stuart, why do you think grip strength is such a great proxy for longevity? I say it's the same reason I think VO2 Max is a great proxy for longevity. Those are probably the two best biomarkers we have. It sounds crazy, by the way, that your VO2 Max and your grip strength are better predictors of how long you're going to live than whether or not you smoke, drink, what your family history is for cancer. Like those things all matter, but it's amazing how dwarf they are by those two. And my best explanation for it is that those are the best two integrators for the work you've done. Right? So you know, you can't cram for VO2 Max the week before. Like if you have a high VO2 Max, you have done the work to get it. If you have a strong grip, you didn't just buy little grip squeezers on Amazon and filter away it them while you were, you know, on calls on Zoom. Like you had to do the work. You had to be carrying heavy things, you know, whatever it be, chopping wood, carrying sander blocks, doing farmer carries. And of course, that also speaks to stability, right? That speaks to the stability that you have to be able to transmit force from the torso right to the hand. So, um, so agree completely. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Here's a bigger issue. Childhood obesity. You are obese when you're four years of age. You're going to be obese when you're at out. And your life expectancy will be significantly shorter and your quality of life will be significantly reduced. Now, make it even better. At lessons, these young kids with diabetes. They don't respond to any of the drugs. What is the prevalence of type 2 diabetes in under 18? It's increasing, but I would say maybe around 4 or 5 percent something like that. 5, 120 teenagers have type 2 diabetes. Unbiased by San Antonio because we have more people with type 2 diabetes in our clinic. But you could say potentially in San Antonio, 1 out of 20 teenagers can be very high. That is in forage or pre-diabetes. And I'll tell you about the pre-diabetes that we did. So now they don't respond to metformin cell phone areas. They don't respond to any drugs very well. Even the GOP one I can use? The first study has just come out that respond better. It's a little good. They don't have any of the two. But if you're just clinically, if you're in the clinic and you're treating them without you're using the best drugs you have available. You can travel. And we know, why? Because you can't get them controlled. Why? There is an ink. There is so insulin resistant. So there are so many more so than adults. These are well published studies. Is this really a selection bias where 4-some-one to develop type 2 diabetes as a 16-year-old? The underlying genetics and pathology are so severe that the current crop of drugs are the problem as opposed to when you take the current crop of drugs and you apply them to people who are young they don't work. All three. Because I'm a regular more. Treated predisposition. So Hispanic population is problem. Obesity, all of these kids are huge. So you don't have the lean diabetic phenotype in the age. Nine of these people. And then the drugs don't work very well. So all three of these things. And what now is come. It's called the Rye study. As these kids have been followed up, they're starting to develop kidney disease. They're even, I'm told, a couple of people have had MIs and they're 20s. They have incredibly difficult to control. What do you think? I mean, yes, we're going to argue that these kids are, that this is due to what they're eating. But what is it in the environment that is so a B.S. agenic to these kids? I'll come back to this in a second. But I want to raise the issue now. Let's say you're 16 and you met four months of these drugs and you're a one-seous nine. You can put someone on my own jarrel and they're going to have to take this for the rest of their life. Because as soon as you stop the drug goes on. So this is what I treat the person, of course. I can't let the A would see nine. But if you take that 16 year old with a hemoglobin on 19 and you give them a jarrel, where are they going to year? I think that if they can afford the drug and they stay on the drug, the three big gifts, if the doctor knows what to do, I know what to do. If the patient will cooperate with you, if you don't, they'll lose every time. And if they can't afford. If you can satisfy those three Fs, that person we know from the studies be pretty well controlled. And insurance, what fraction of insured patients will have coverage on Mondarro if they're A1C is nine? I don't, I can't answer that. But does CMS cover it? Does Medicaid cover that? Yes, if you have diabetes. Okay. I don't know, the majority coverage, I think is pretty good if you have diabetes. Okay. If you have obesity, that's a different, if you have obesity without, that's a whole different issue. Sure. Should you be treating these young kids who are obesity is a disease. Okay. It got all kinds of problems. Should you put these young kids on these newer drugs and knowing that all I did is change you from food addiction to drug addiction. I didn't do anything else. It's almost like alcohol addiction. There are drugs that things I can give you that can help you, but it tends to relapse. Food addiction, I put you on the drug, you lose weight. You stop the drug, you regain the weight. This is a huge public health concern. It's almost way beyond my capacity because finances are involved here. Can we afford to treat 42% of the people in the US or obese? Or is there some way, amongst the 42%, we can define who are the people who are insulin resistant, who are the people of the metabolic syndrome that we know they're at risk, that we can treat them. My guess is that's the great majority of that 42% of the people. Can we treat all of those people? And moreover, they can stay on the drug. We know on average what the data is saying, I put you on the drug. We don't know all the reasons why, but within a year, half of the people stop the drug. Yeah, it's probably a combination of cost and side effects. Yeah. And my patients are very commonly tell me, you know, say, Ralph, enjoy eating. I can't eat anymore. And some people just tell me they just want to eat. And so I'm going to get fat against. So I'm going to eat some is GI side effects and some is cost. $1000 a month is a lot of money for some. Same.

Let's go back to sleep hygiene for a second. We have a temporal temperature. Yes. You know, nowadays we have these incredible devices that can cool our mattresses and things of that nature. Obviously we have air conditioning that can cool the room. Do you have a preference for one or the other? I mean, I clearly not everybody needs to buy a mattress cooling device if they can't afford it. That shouldn't be an impediment to sleep. So do you have a room temp set? We typically talk about the mid 60s as an ideal room temp do you adhere to that? Yes, mid 60s is terrific. And if people say, oh, if this is just too cold, I say, well, what's too cold that often they will say my feet? And we have wonderful solutions for that. They're called socks. And we can get really thick socks. And I'm also not opposed to, you know, there's tiny little heating pads. You can get there like this big. I'm like foot and a half by a foot or something. Putting one of those in the foot of your bed, it's got an auto shut off, shut off after like an hour or something to fall asleep with. I don't have a problem with that. There's no issue there. But yes, a cool room is definitely key. And you know, insert my refrain about down, comforters, duets, etc. Get cotton blankets, get cotton sheets. And then let's talk about light. Do we need to have it so pitch black? You can't see your hand in front of your face. Do we need to block the moonlight? How dark do we need it to be? Yeah. This is a common question. If you close your eyes right now, you'd be able to tell that it's light in this room. We can sense light through our closed eyelids. And many women would tell you that their eyelids seem to get thinner as they age. So I think an eye mask is a great addition. And this is for a lot of people early morning awakenings. Eye masks can be a game change because they don't realize that what's causing the early morning awakenings is a little bit of light getting into the wrong part of their eye. Indicating it's time to be awake right now. And I don't know the details on what wavelength of light that is or what necessarily the light is coming from, whether it's a light in outside from the sun or the moon or whatever it might be. But the point just is a lot of folks with early morning awakening can really benefit from having something covering their eyes, whether it's asleep mask or there's like hats that go down here now. I'm a big fan of making your room dark. I am one of those people who travels with a roll of black electrical tape because you go to a hotel room and there's like 50,000 lights everywhere. And you wouldn't you wouldn't just get really from the eye mask and the. I do but I'm one of those people who rips my eye mask off in the middle of the night. I've tried every single eye mask and it's coming off. So I like to wear it. I start with it. I try and keep it on as much as I can. But I also if there's a griegeous lights in the room, I cover the mudlock. Meaning like you're going to cover the alarm clock and over the bed. Oh, yeah, no, there's none of that in my room. Yeah, I don't do that. But back to the cool thing for me. My trick is I unplug alarm clocks because I realize sometimes they're so complicated that they just go off and they're all the night and I didn't realize it. Yeah. Oh, totally. And the microwaves are the worst. Those are the blinking time. I'll clocks in. But you mentioned the cooling mattress stuff, which I'm intrigued by, but I also am concerned about. It seems that a lot of these mattresses have settings where you can make it cooler. But also you could make it warmer. And I worry about two things. One is I worry about messing with our circadian temperature biology. Because you remember in the 1980s for a hot minute when electric blankets were really popular. And all of a sudden they're not. They were starting to see associations between electric blanket use and some cancers. And at the time, there was a lot of speculation that this was related to EMF. But the great thing that time does is it gives us more perspective. And there are some indications that actually that might have been messing with circadian temperature. And that might have been part of the issue. We know that night shift work is carcinogenic. Great. So all of these things that we do? Do we go? Yeah. Night shift works. Been declared a good question. Well, I mean, no disrespect to the WHO. I don't know what I believe that they say. But I know that there's an association between night shift work and cancer. Do we really know that it's causal? I think if we go Bradford Hill on this. And we look at temporality. I think that there are our age-matched case control studies where they can look at people going through different, to control for history effects, right? To see our people getting more and less cancers. We know it's it is tricky because, for example, you look at firefighters, right? There are more, way more likely to get cancer. They, way more technical. It's both, they've way more other things in the mix. But I think that some of the more classic studies have also been done with hospital workers, right? Also confounding effects. Yeah. And how do we get around the confounding effects of the diet, the obvious dietary shifts that occur in people when they're working under those conditions? I mean, if I think back to how I ate in residency or how I ate after a night of poor sleep, I mean, it's, yeah. To me, that's, that would be more the, the cause. I'd put more of that on kind of the metabolic ill health that might result. But Macarion. Yeah, I think that there's, it's, it's, it's often hard for people to sleep during the day, making that change from going to sleeping at night, to being a person who sleeps during the day, for some people it's not even possible. You talked to some night shift workers. They shift, they sleep very little because they just can't sleep during the day. They're not able to flip. They're circadian biology. But there's a whole history, and I know we'll probably talk about thermal stuff in a bit, but of looking at disruptions in circadian temperature as one of the most common, like circadian disruptions in mental health disorders. Going back to the cancer thing, what is the, what would be the belief to mechanism of action? I would talk to an oncologist about that, and I would probably talk to a circadian biology person about that. But what I can just speak to is just my understanding that electric blankets are no longer here with us and very common because there were these observed ill health effects, whether they're due to EMF or whether they're due to messing with your body temperature at night. What concerns me about some of the exogenous interventions like mattresses that might heat up is that there's supposed to be a normal circadian temperature rhythm that we do during the day and during the night. And when we start imposing things on that, managing some of these mattresses can actually be set to cycle at different temperatures during the night and all of these things. Yeah, I think so the one that I use, and just by full disclosure, I'm an advisor to that company, the one that I use, you change how cold it is throughout the night. So I think I run it as, I think the settings go from 0 to minus 10, like where my 10 is the absolute coldest. 0 is no temperature. Is that like a point skill or is that degrees? No, it's a point skill. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. So, you know, I think I get in and I have it at like minus five and I run it down to minus 10. Okay. And then I bring it up to minus five in the morning. Something to that. So I'm taking it from cold to really cold to cold. Right. Okay. So where my concern is just that my understanding of some of these things. Your saying people would heat themselves with these things. Yeah. But that gets to the point which we know we don't want to be warm. We don't want to do it. Right. But a lot of people get in bed and they don't like feeling cold because it is easier to fall asleep when your hands in your feet and your skin is warmer. Right. Maybe mistakenly do this for more of the nights than they should. And I'm just concerned that our circadian temperature rhythm is an exquisitely controlled system. And like a my a 10 point scale on a device. I think pales in comparison to the complexity of what our bodies need to do in terms of temperature. Well, I mean, I think that the good news is if you can keep your room at 65. Yes. None of this matters. Right. And the biggest challenge, honestly, is hotels for most people is where you have the hardest time controlling temperature hotels at the worst. And there are some mattresses now that are just they're just hot. And there's a whole, well, there's a short list of mattresses. So I just tell people like, look, that's going to be a hot mattress. Don't get that one. And you want to be really careful to make sure that you can be cool in your bed. And I think the easiest way to do that if you don't have the money to splurge on, you know, something that's going to be a mattress that's going to definitely be cool will be keeping your room cool. What about blue light for bed? So I've looked at these data quite a bit. And I would say that six years ago, I was in the camp of every light had to be red. So I had to have my phone shifted into a red light phase. I had all of these apps that managed all of this stuff. So as soon as the sun went down, blue light was being removed from my electronics. And I have to say, I sleep subjectively and objectively better today. I say objectively if you can believe what a sleep tracker tells you. But we can bracket that and come back to it. We should paying never taking blue light out of my devices, but instead paying attention to what I'm consuming. In other words, my new hypothesis has become it's not the blue light that is the problem. It's the stimulus that often comes with the blue light. In other words, not looking at social media, with regardless of light color is a far greater positive impact on my sleep than looking at those things, but just making sure that there's no blue light coming through. Yeah. So let's talk about that. What is the role of minimizing blue light when it comes to preparing for sleep? That's an excellent question. Well, first, I want to completely agree with you. We didn't evolve for the neural experience of Instagram. That's not, we're not ready for that. Right? And I think regardless of what color light you're getting your Instagram on, that's probably not helpful before you go to bed. So I think that you're entirely right. I think the larger problem is not necessarily the blue light, but is the thing that we're interacting with, whether it's an iPad or a phone or a computer. Because typically those things are going to involve social media, work, email, all of these other things. That I think are much more potent disruptors of sleep than the blue light itself. I must caveat this though. I have had a few patients who have found they were not using Instagram before bed. They were not doing email before bed none of this. Not there anything stress forced in you now. No. But and I just finished with a patient recently like this who found that using orange colored glasses. And I'm talking orange colored glasses, not those beautiful blue light blocking glasses that are clear lenses that I'm not sure what they're really doing sometimes. Like I'm talking ugly, motorcycle, looking orange lenses. And I found that a handful of patients wearing these two hours before bed, it completely ameliorates their sleep on set and so on. Yeah, such that they were able to almost immediately banbean. The beauty of these interventions is if you can isolate them to one change at a time, you can be empirical about it and something like wearing glasses is benign. I mean, you're only out the money you spend on them and if it works, great. And if you really want to test it, take them off and see if your symptoms return. Exactly. And if they don't, maybe it fixed you, maybe it wasn't that who cares if they return and you can fix it. Yeah, like again, I don't I try not to be terribly dogmatic about this stuff. But I also sort of think that when people go to great lengths to remove blue light without removing stimulus, they're missing the boat a little bit. Right. And you know, for me, social media is not much of a stimulus. I actually don't pay that much attention to it, but work is. Yeah. So for me, the single worst thing I can do right before bed is look at email. Oh, yeah. If I like, you know, we're as watching TV, totally like it's a total beautiful way for me to be distracted by watching something mindless on Netflix for an hour. And as long as I don't go and check my email and see what got sent to me in the last hour. Right. It'll be great. Doesn't matter that I just finished watching a big bright screen of Netflix. Right. Doesn't seem too impack me. Totally. Because, well, one is much more interactive and stressful and one is very passive. And you're just watching a movie that has nothing to do with you, no bearing in your life. Right. And what I would say back to you, what I'm going to call AB testing, right? Whenever you want to test one of these individual, what I call low hanging fruit interventions, you want to collect your own data on a paper sleep diary for two weeks. Make the change. You must do it for two weeks. And there's a few more low hanging fruit pieces of sleep hygiene. By the way, do you have a nice template that people can like we have one that we give our patients. Again, it's super low tech. It's a piece of paper. Do you have one on your UCSF website? I can make it public. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe we'll link to it in the show now. It's just so folks. He's easy to do. And we're we get link ours as well. But yours is probably better. Arze is like boxes you color in. Oh, yeah. And it's like you put C when you had caffeine. You know, A when you had alcohol, E when you exercise. So we're documenting when did you exercise? When did you have food, alcohol, caffeine, and when were you in bed and when were you sleeping? By the shading. Yours might be even more high tech than mine. But what I will tell you is mine is just enough to get the information that I will definitely act on. That's okay. Nothing else. But I will tell you, can I go over a couple more pieces of low hanging. Yes. On sleep hygiene. Yeah. So okay. So back to the glasses. If you are a person who has trouble with what we call early insominius or difficulty falling asleep at the beginning of the night. And you're already not looking at your email, not doing Instagram. You're just annoyed that you cannot fall asleep at the beginning of the night. It's worth it to try these glasses for two hours and night for two weeks and see what happens. It's it's it's it's it's so easy to do, right? And to be clear what is our particular brand? I mean, I have no affiliations with any of these things. I can tell you there's some really nice ugly ones from low blue lights.com. I think. I still don't business. But they look like motorcycle goggles. I do think that the wrap around features is important because we're going for it. Let's go for it. Yeah. Right. So it's it's a worthy thing to do. Another important thing to do is to talk to your physician. I'm not a physician, but I work with a ton of them. And I learned this from an anesthesiologist. All medications have circadian effects. All of them. Somehow it's probably not known for all of them how they do. But they do. Make sure you are taking your medications at the same time every day. And at the right time of day. For example, I want side of patient coming in saying they were taking 450 milligrams of bupropion for depression before bed. No. Right. That's going to be a pretty stimulating dose. So make sure that you go over your medications with your doctor and that you're taking them at the optimal times of day and be really consistent with your medications. And another one that is a particularly low hanging piece of fruit is something called decafinated coffee. Turns out there are speculations that decaf coffee can have as much as 15 to 30 percent of the caffeine that regular coffee has. I haven't found that reference. I've dug. I've tried to find one that will show that. I haven't found exactly that. But there are some data from 2006 that were published saying that you know 15 ish percent. But then again, more recent data have shown that Starbucks, I think, says that their 12 ounce has 155 milligrams of caffeine. But outside laboratory testing found like 310 something like that. So when you're decafinating coffee that is much more caffeinated than you started with, this can make it an absolutely huge difference. I tell people were done with caffeine by 11. That's my 11am. That's my standard. Unless we've gotten extreme phase delay or phase advance, I should define those terms. A phase delay is when you go to bed really late and you wake up really late. A phase advance is when you wake up really early and you go to bed really early. So someone who's waking up at like 330 in the morning and going to bed at like 8 p.m. that would be like a phase advance. Phase delay would be like I'm going to bed at 3 a.m. and I'm waking up at 10 a.m. Right. So in those cases, I might do something differential with the caffeine. But for most people who are neither of those, I'll cut it off at 11. And it's that includes your, your caffeinated coffee and your decafinated coffee. And I never take people's caffeine away. Caffeine withdrawal is not something I want to deal with in my clinic. And I don't think it's necessary. You can cause a lot of damage taking me by someone's coffee. People really don't like that. Really put some in a bad mood and it's not necessary. So I tell people do not change how much coffee you're drinking, put it all before 11. Right. Just move it all. What fraction of people are such rapid caffeine metabolizers that they seem immune to caffeine and sleep? I think that that person doesn't actually exist. I'm not, I need to be convinced that there are people, I mean, what the normal caffeine half life is for to six hours. Right. So even if we take someone who's four hours, that means after four hours, you still have half of a cup of coffee. And after eight hours, you still have a quarter of a cup of coffee. And if you have that coffee at two PM and that coffee actually had three hundred and ten milligrams of caffeine in it. And it was only a tall coffee from Starbucks. There's a lot of contingencies to build in here. But I could tell you, people, someone just know, actually stops using the coffee after dinner and it's like a world of difference for their sleep quality. People will say, oh, no, I fall asleep. Just fine, doesn't affect me. Well, it is affecting you. It's affecting the electrical quality of your sleep throughout the whole night. And I would refer you to talking to like a sleep neurologist to interpret some of those sleep studies and talk with you more about that. For my purposes, all I need to know is the person who's trying to fix the insomnia is, oh, you're having two D.K.F. Coffee's after dinner every night. That could add up and that could be doing something and that could make your sleep less restful. Okay. So low hanging fruit. Just stop at 11. Like do the experiment at the minimum? Okay. So those are three. Anything. Is the key thing? Anything. Any other really obvious things to AB test for two weeks? So do you want to talk about getting off medications? Or do you want to leave that and put that in the next? Let's wrap up all of this. And then I want to do, I do want to talk about the weaning off, especially the ambience and the lune estes and the all that stuff. Yeah. No, I think that that's the major part. I will tell people also people like to fall asleep with podcasts on. Don't do that. Including this one, right? Right. Yeah. Well, this is an easy one to fall asleep too. But I don't know. I hope that people are falling asleep listening to this. Although if this helps them sleep, one of the things we want to talk about is on the real relaxation techniques. Where does mindfulness based practice come into it? So anyone who's done mindfulness based meditation probably appreciates how difficult it is. It's not like, you know, transcendental meditation where you're focusing on a mantra, you're instead focusing on the sensation, typically breathing. But body awareness is a thing that you want to focus on. Is that counterproductive or is it productive as you're laying there awake? So my unsatisfying answer to so many questions is always going to be at depends, because there's moderator variables, right? And when it comes to CBTI, what we know is that what's been tested is progressive muscle relaxation, which you could argue is a form of a body scan, which is part of many mindfulness practices, right? Where you scan your whole body, you think about your hands, you notice how they're feeling, are they warm, are they soft, whatnot, and you move through your whole body? With progressive muscle relaxation, you squeeze your hands and you let them go, you squeeze them and you let them go. It's more of an active process that you're paying attention to throughout your body. Doing this in bed right before you fall asleep for a few minutes is fine. That's kind of the one exception to the sleep and sex rule. I tell people that it's also fine to practice this in other parts of your house. You don't have to just be in bed. But the body scan and mindfulness in general has been studied in combination with CBTI. And what the data have shown is somewhat fascinating. There's no actual differential improvement on sleep duration or metrics of sleep, but people like the mindfulness stuff. They report there's more, they're more happy with it. They like, they like doing that, right? But in terms of actual improvement on sleep outcomes, I don't think it really adds too much to CBTI. The effects with CBTI are pretty whopping. When it's done well, you know, 50 to 60% of people can get remission and 70% can get clinically meaningful improvement to their sleep. So that's, I mean, in the world of psychological treatments, that's really good. But to circle back to your question, mindfulness is great. I think there's a lot of practical uses for it for helping yourself. Put your encyclological states. You don't want to be in. It's a great way to be in life. But when it comes to sleep, do I need you to start a mindfulness practice to improve your sleep? No. So you mentioned 50 to 60% of people are going to have a remission. Closer to 50, but yeah, 70% will have a clinical, meaningful clinical improvement of the 30% that do not. Why when does the treatment fail? The treatment fails when people don't do it. So in other words, we're really saying it 30% of people are not able to adhere to the treatment. I wouldn't go that far. There are some people who are genetically short sleepers. And at some point, this may become distressing for them. I had a great, I had a story of a patient who wasn't her 70s and came to me saying, I have a huge problem. My sleep is not good. And I asked her, okay, tell me all about this. She was like, upper 70s had a volunteer job in Sanford, really active, full workout plan. I'm like, you're crushing it, lady. What's the problem exactly? She says, well, I joined the study and I had to wear this wearable device. And I woke up in the morning and it says that things are not going well every morning, morning after morning. And it says I'm at risk for different things. I'm not going to say which wearable company was. But and I said, okay, okay, so there's rips. There's an amazing treatment for that. Can I see the wearable device? Can I please just have that wearable device? Vice grips. Exactly. So, and this was a while ago, but I took it away from her because I think, you know, and the wearable devices now are not doing doing this. This was, oh gosh, 78 years ago. This is actually, I actually wanted to ask this is a, I made a note to ask you this question, which is when do you tell people? Because we do this with our patients, which is take the tracker off. We're doing a six month tracker holiday. Yeah. Done with the tracker. So is that kind of mainstay part of your treatment is like, let's get all that anxiety out of there. For people with insomnia, I tell them, yes. And I do like with, we're coming to me in my clinic. The people who have bothered to wait a year and a half to get into the clinic, those people, yes, I am telling them that. And so to go back to your 30% of people, the genetically short sleepers who become distressed about their sleep are not going to be helped by CBTI. But maybe they shouldn't be helped. Maybe there's nothing to fix. Correct. Yeah. Correct. But they're presenting. So I'm putting them in the image group. I got it. And then, yes, we know that there are so, there's such a huge body of data on CBTI at this point. It's just wonderfully studied. And we know that when people don't do the treatment, it doesn't work. adherence is a major, major component. Duration of treatment also matters. It seems that if you do four or more sessions with a therapist doing the CBTI, your outcomes are going to be way better than if you try and cut it way short with one or two. My treatment is five sessions. I do an intake. You get five treatment sessions. And then I do a follow-up where we just tidy things up. And the space between them is a week. Always one week. I am militant about this. If you're going to miss a week, you can't be in it. You have to wait for the next cycle.

What degree of social jet lag do you tolerate? Again, just for folks listening, social jet lag, meaning the experience of changing your sleep time during weekends, which could be akin to jet lag, if it differs by hours. In an ideal world, there would be zero. In an ideal world, I wake up at seven o'clock in the morning, every single day of the week. For an individual who says, oh, but God, on the weekends, it's just so nice to not have to get up at seven to do you say, look, give yourself a 30 minute grace, and that would still be considered perfectly healthy. Great question. So during treatment, I tell people, you need to wake up at the same time, every day that ends in DIY. So that means Monday, Saturday, Sunday, yeah, right. So that's all of it. That's, yeah, that's during treatment. I did check. Yeah, good. There is no room for negotiation during treatment. We're in the dictatorship, right? But what I do teach people at the end of treatment is how to cope with the fact that life is going to happen. When treatment ends, it happens during treatment. But there's a lot that pauses during treatment to be honest. But let's say that you've got a major event on a Friday night, you're going to a concert. Yes. And you're going to be out way later than usual. And what I tell people is, look, you need to pick which day of that weekend, do you want to suffer, and which day do you want to feel good? Because we can sleep in one day. You cannot sleep in two days in a row. That's going to take you off the wagon. We're not doing it. So let's say Friday night, you go to a concert. And you want to feel good on Saturday. Cool. Sleep in on Saturday. Sleep in by an hour on Saturday. OK, fine. Go to bed on Saturday night when you get tired. Spoiler alert, you're probably going to get tired. Path to usual bedtime because you slept in. But then Sunday, you have to wake up at your wake time, and Sunday you're going to suffer. But let's say you want to feel good Sunday. That means on Saturday, you're going to wake up at your usual time. Saturday is going to be a struggle of us. But you'll make it to your bedtime. You'll go to bed at your bedtime. They'll feel better Sunday. So you just have to choose. When do I want to do this stuff for you? OK. So basically force the stuff. The stuff, spring into the narrower place possible. But you can choose because sometimes people don't want the suffering to be the next day. They want it to be the day after. So you get to choose that. But I tell people, look, don't sleep in more than one day in a row. It's going to mess you up. And generally sleeping in past your bedtime. You're not really getting quality sleep when you sleep in past your bedtime. I'm sorry, wait a second. When it's been a pattern for a long time, when you sleep in past your wake time, you're probably getting some extra stage to sleep. You're not getting more deep sleep. That's for sure. That's not happening. We're recording this on a Tuesday. Sunday, two days ago, I was flying back to Austin from LA. And the flight got delayed over and over and over and over and over again. For reasons that are so assomined, they're not even worth describing. And then we finally got on the plane and taxied. And then the water was leaking out of the coffee machine. So we had to go back to get another plane. I'm not making this up. But I can only tell you how ridiculous this is. The punchline of the story is we didn't get home till two in the morning, which is long past my bedtime. So what would your strategy have been getting home at two in the morning? Prior to Monday, a work day, where you do have some leeway. You know, I don't have to get up at six, which would be my normal wake up time. Would you have said, just get up at six, stick with it and make it up by going to bed a lot earlier Monday night, or would you say sleep until eight? You'll probably feel better than if you woke up at six. How would you handle that situation? I'll say which day is more important for you to feel good on Monday or Tuesday. Let's say I said Tuesday because I'm sitting down with you. Well, then I would say probably try and not to sleep in too much so that you can go to bed at your regular wake time on Monday and not have to. If you sleep in horribly on Monday morning, you're going to stay up later Monday night. And then you'll get up at your wake time today and your do well if I had shorter sleep for today. It will have rolled all the way over. So I thought that's actually what I did. So I have not thought about this. I just slept until I think my wife tried to get me out of bed at seven and I said, can you let me sleep till eight? So I didn't get up till eight. But last night you're right. I had a very hard time going to bed and I was like 11 o'clock and I was still up me and doing around. So you just have to very carefully decide which day do you want to prioritize and that's how you make that decision. Yeah. So yeah. So you have more control than you think is what's what's beautiful about that. And I just remind people like you can never really make up for lost sleep that easily because sleep architecture really matters. And when you're sleeping in, you're not getting more deep sleep, you're getting some more maybe light sleep. And at worst, that's robbing you if maybe some of the deep sleep you would have gotten the following night because you're on a circadian plan here, right?

How much do you see even just speak about it through the length of your actual careers? How much do you see trends that dramatically change what people are asking for? In other words, 25 years ago, did men or women come into your practice significantly looking for something different in terms of an appearance and an outcome that they wanted you to shape? Yeah, I would say that's such a loaded question because 25 years ago, if we think back, there was no social media. Television was very basic. The maybe there was some shows that had life people on there on different shows where they would talk about beauty or fashion, but you had to actually tune in and watch those shows to be able to see the trends. Magazine came out and that was the extent of it. Now you have social media and various channels on social media and then you have what we now know as influencers and they're changing what our patients are seeing on what's driving them and the biggest one that I can talk about is basically that very well-known family in California that has monetized their appearance and set a lot of trends for better or for worse. It's great to see that they're making it okay to talk about enhancing your appearance or fixing something up. But where I draw the line is when they start putting out their transformations and this trend now is something that everyone wants to emulate and you're talking about young women changing, physically changing their body drastically to conform to what you said is a trend which is exactly it and transess. The word says, I'm not permanent. So what happens when that trend ends? The celebrities have the money to go to the doctors and reverse all that. Now it will take surgery and they will have scars to show for it or hide for it from that. But the patients that follow them, these young women don't have all of that income to go back and then re-transform their body and they don't know the implications of that. So I think we have a duty as doctors definitely to try to educate our patients about not following trends so strongly and look beyond the monetary aspect of it. And so from that standpoint I try to really educate my patients to stay away from things that are trending and really do things that make them look and feel better but natural for themselves. Because I don't know in your practice but I know people want to come in for the enhanced products, the Brazilian botlifts and the small ways and you know that's something again that's being undone by that family now and you're going to see a whole trend that's coming out that doesn't look like that. So what are kind of the top above the neck trend? So what I see as I look around is I see lip size being something that's getting bigger smaller, bigger smaller. Where are we today by the way in lip size? So just to continue Susan's lines of line of thought there were in this again unusual era where the influencers that are affecting society are much more in our faces than they have been historically and they're affecting young people at much younger age which is why we just let my 16-year-old daughter have a social media account and that influence so these influencers is quite powerful because what happens is on social media which is the primary exposure that people are receiving these days about beauty. The images that are being posted are not real. They're filtered, they're unrealistic exaggerations of some of those three original factors that we're talking about, the symmetry proportion, people will photograph themselves in such a way with a look, they look more proportionate, they will you know they'll pull their jaw on certain way to make their proportions look better. Someone has to teach me how to do this because anytime I see a video of myself you know I'm like that is the worst looking thing I've ever seen. Like I need to learn these tricks. You need a 20-year-old. And a lot of this is subconscious posing that's a term that I have you know have used for this concept where people are subconsciously posing like for example if you like a lot of people when they walk past a shiny building will stop and look at themselves and kind of like adjusts themselves a little bit. And by the way is that new or is that something we would have all like in other words did our ancestors walk by a stream where the water was still and look at themselves? Do we I mean not that we can know that but possibly I think so but I think the it's becoming so much more exaggerated now to the point where we can you know confidently state that social media influencers are selling exaggerated forms of beauty ideals like the sexual dimorphism so we talked earlier about like larger lips or bigger eyes. One of the most popular procedures in northeast Asia is surdues to make the eyes wider. You actually cut into the canvas and perform tose surdues to make the eye look bigger and then of course this trend to have bigger lips you know fillers are being used left and right unfortunately to overdue lip volume and plump up lips and because the social media influencers are posting it it's becoming more exaggerated because these exaggerated gender traits are becoming normalized and so again the family that Susan's mentioning in California they'd normalized over overdone lips to the point where people come in asking for it and we have to say no I'm sorry this is not a good direction for us to take you in. I want to put a bow on the social media thing for a moment. What is the most concerning trend or what is the most concerning request you are getting from people that you believe is sort of unique to the social media phenomenon? What I'm seeing a lot more are teenagers now coming in asking for fillers and your imager leaders and their forehead fillers and your lips and that's sad because but why would I mean would a neuromodulator do anything when you're at that age anyway? No but they're now being told that even 18 for example it's okay to start preventative Botox you don't need that until you're a lot further along in age. So that's just an object lie that they're being told. Yes and unfortunately they're also being made to feel very poorly about their shape of their lips. They're being inundated with images unlike tenorial saying these are highly filtered images. We know a lot of people who will take in their ways, take in their thighs all of that change the proportions and then post that image and what I try to tell patients is that what you see in terms of images that are on social media, a are filtered, b are taken with certain angles of the camera to enhance someone's appearance and we will never at least in my practice take someone's photo that they took on their phone and then try to enhance them to look like their photo because what's happening is that you're going to make them look very different in life in real life. So how you photograph you're only going to photograph beautifully if you're the most symmetric person and that's why even the most beautiful form model on in a photograph if you look at them in person they're very pretty but you wouldn't think that they're super models sometimes but when they photograph they photograph beautifully because of their symmetry but for us with our forward facing cameras that we point at our self-suitic our selfies they're going to just sort our face if you tilt one way you elongate the face so they're different way you shorten the face and patients get hung up on that and that's really sad because in real life they look fabulous. Now is this a 95-5 female male problem that is arising from social media or other or the and is the I guess from the purpose of this discussion I would guess it's mostly female my guess is the male issue is probably much more on antibiotics deroyed abuse and things that that young men are being influenced by is that safe to assume. So what is it that you see tenures that is most disconcerting is there a particular product or particular procedure that is that is showing up that is would it been unheard of before social media? I was at two areas one is because fillers are non-surgical relatively accessible price points and low risk and are ubiquitous you can find a clinic within one mile if you live in a major city. I think overfilling is a serious problem whether it's the lips or the cheeks over a volumization has become an epidemic and it's a serious problem not only because it looks exaggerated and distorted and strange but even when as a facial surgeon I go into perform surgeries I will find that filler has disrupted normal anatomy and so decades later the companies will tell you that filler only lasts one year in the face of the yet to refill it that's definitely not true really we see we have patients coming in who don't mention that they've had fillers in the past but then in surgery I will see filler in their cheek or in their face because they had eight or ten years ago and it's still there and it's stretching the ligaments it's changing the structure of the tissues it actually makes routine surgical procedures later more challenging so that's one area and by the way other biologic features of the individual that would make that more or less true are there some people in whom fillers go away after a year or are you saying that for the most part they last one that's also another whole complex topic is the metabolism of how ironic acid and some people are higher metabolizers some are slower metabolizers and we actually don't have a good sense of that we have some general concepts just based on experience but there's very little science on that we can't really predict who's one doesn't know one really doesn't know okay and I'm sorry you you're gonna get to a second point yeah no uh the second point is from a surgical standpoint there is a trend right now where people are asking for this high arched brow effect where it's a hyper exaggerated tail the brow comes up very high it's called a snatched look about once every week or two I've got someone who seriously wants to have their face distorted with a surgical procedure with me and I have to say I'm sorry we're not going to do that is it safe to say that anyone who walks into a physician's office to do this needs to be able to be over 18 to provide consent but is it safe to say or is it is it is it the case that people younger than 18 can do this in less reputable places without parent consent do we know this? It should be 18 it's like in the other medical procedure you have to be 18 years of age to consent there are rare instances where where I will treat someone who's 16 or 17 if the parent is there and if it's for something for example a patient has a hump on their nose that they don't like but they're not ready to commit to a rhinoplasty so I can use fillers in a creative way to help reduce their appearance of that but that's very far between the parent is there yes yeah absolutely I did have a very interesting incidents where I had an 18 year old though come in and she had just had a rhinoplasty and was coming to see me for fillers and for neuromodulators and I asked her I said your 18s is someone here with you from one of your parents and nobody was there with her and the interesting thing is though she is 18 thinking that she's an adult but she's only a junior in high school so I was very conflicted I kept referring back to something along the lines of you need to talk to your parents you need to tell them what we discussed here that really bothered me for a long time that here is this 18 year old who's still in high school that wants to do things and I don't see a parent there with her but I think I think it's done a huge problem probably across the board that people under 18 are getting treatments but they're getting fed all of this societal pressure I like to use the term beauty pressure they're getting like peer pressures beauty pressure that's now more extreme because of social media they're getting all this beauty pressure at a very young age 12 13 onwards and so by the time they get into their 20s they've been thinking about this for years and years and years and they're ready to dive into it I'm Peter Atia this podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers I believe this keeps my content honest making it a trusted resource for listeners like you as a premium member you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes you'll get longevity focused premium articles packed with actionable insights you'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive every topic every study every resource from each episode carefully curated for you you'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more this journey doesn't have to be navigated alone we can take these steps towards a better longer life together become a premium member today a Peter Atia MD dot com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future

What advice do you give a guy who comes in your practice? Maybe you don't see a lot of these guys, but let's say you get a guy who comes in and says, hey, look, I want to I want to bank my sperm. I want to freeze my sperm. Now, presumably you'll get a lot of that if a guy is undergoing therapy for cancer or something like that. Is there anything a guy needs to know? And would you recommend a guy do that if he's 40 doesn't have a partner, but says look, I want to have kids and isn't there something to the idea that my sperm are better today than they will be in a decade? So huge issue, paternal age, paternal age and fertility, paternal age. So we can go there, but I don't pay value judgment, I say good idea. I am a disclosure, I'm on a board of legacy. I love their mission driven, the way their mission driven. And so I like the fact that going from military and exposed patients in this and that and VA. So, but I'm I'm for that. I think it's the lowest hanging fruit in the field, especially obviously for chemo for cancer survivors and things. It's like, I don't care what you think might happen with your cancer. I would still bank it. I started non-profit golf banking on the future. 16 year olds to 21 year olds with cancer will do it for you will pay for it five years. Just do this a sample. Because it's so much harder afterwards or not. So you would advise any male that hasn't reproduced and who might want to, who's undergoing any chemotherapy for any cancer, just play it safe, bank. For cancer, yes. Well, who should anyone do it for any reason, probably not, but again, I don't pass the judgment if they're worried about something that I'm worried then they should. Well, paternal age, do you worry about? So good question. And you look at like National Guidelines for sperm donation, 40 is considered older paternal age, 50 for sure. If you look at risks to offspring, miscarriages, stillborns, autism, birth defects, things immediately related to conception, prematurity. Those go up with paternal age, then you look at birth defects. When they're born, those go up, you know, one to twofold. And then the worry, some ones are the single gene defects and the epigenetics like psychiatric morbidity. So the autism skits of phenia dyslexia by polar disorder potentially Alzheimer's in offspring. And they're not detectable with young, so big issues. So I've written a lot about that, published on it. I was actually having my second child at 50 when I was writing this English in every tweet this, you know, writing a paper on all these risks called we put in with the island of Chenco from your first epitipur. But I think it's a hockey stick curve for risk to offspring. And you think the the the inflection is 40 or 50? I think it's more like 60. I think there's a slow linear increase in risk to offspring from 25 to 50 or 60. And then there's an inflection and then there's the blade of the stick. And I think that's logarithmic. Same curve as women. But they're formal. Yeah, but they're shifted 20 years earlier or something. Yes. So the shorter curve, but the same thing 40, 38 to 40 is kind of a point where things really ramp up with chromosomes. The men's stuff is not chromosomal. So if you take the curves together, they're different spans, same shape. But I think the female curve is on top of the male curve. This is not a the same relevant relative risk. Right. So women, you know, you go from 25 to 40, your your chance of a miscarriage. Oh, it's chromosomal. It goes up quite significantly after that, very significantly. And the end the consequence of women's issues with offspring related health is basically miscarriage. Yeah, I'm in many ways. It's almost easier to detect, right? Because so it's it's it's doing a figure. It can be more dramatic, but it usually now prevented with with pre-homotation genetic testing. Yeah. Man or different, you can't detect these things. There's single gene mutations. This is the the machinery is constantly working. It's getting old. The quality control of the process goes down and little gene mutations get in there that are all we've been always being spun off in the heat of the engine and they're getting they're not vetted. So the machinery's not doing a good job. So they're getting through and they're not going to be they're not going to be lethal. They're going to be deleterious. So that's where you get things and autism's a classic one. They're turn on the age related. Looks like that's the biggest risk factor for it. And that worries me a lot, right? So I think it's interesting. The facts are that human evolution is entirely driven by sperm. Yeah. Because eggs are just seeing they're correcting the problem. It's entirely driven by sperm. And half and so 50 mutations a year, generation usually gets spit out for each teenager paper, probably between generations. And there's always mutations occurring in 14 year old fathers, but it goes way up with 60 year old fathers. So the rate of mutations goes way up with age. But average is 50 over a reproductive life. And most of them half of the mutations that we are throwing off as a species are not ears or hands or feet or height or I think it's all neurodevelopmental. It's like half neurodevelopmental. Yeah. So when you think about what we're seeing, you know the Martians from the 50s and the movies with big heads. Yeah, that's kind of where we're headed. Autism dyslexia by polar disorder. You know, these are neurodevelopmental neurogenitive issues. And why is that? Well, that's what's going on. I mean, that's where we're being stimulated. That's where we're being asked to evolve. Look at the last 30 years, right? Funny. One of the biggest investors in Salesforce said to me, I said to me, you know, I realized that was dyslexic when I when my son was born. And I said, really, he said, yeah, but you know what, it helped me be the man I am to realize that Salesforce is going to fly, given the first 500,000, given the first million they ever took anymore money. And he said, it let me focus. I was so autism as a disease where you put out, you ignore a lot of input and you find that the gift and it's amazing. If you go down the rabbit hole of what they're good at, it's like they're whole brain trust is there. So is that a disease? Or is that where we're headed? I mean, I think it exists on a spectrum. I think anyone who's probably spent time with kids, you know, using ASD as an example, boy, you know, you know, mild versions of it the way it can be defined. Because it really has three categories now in the DSM5. I think the mildest version probably comes with more superpowers than limitations or maybe equal amount, but clearly the more severe it gets. It's pretty debilitating. But this, this idea that's a tunnel. We're calling it disease though. Yeah. But maybe it's not disease. Maybe it's where we're headed. Maybe it's the future. Maybe the non-sequitors that come out of those brains. I mean, look at who's changing the world right now. These have been stuck in the valley. But again, I would argue most of those people would be in category, you know, my class one, no, not class three. What's the, what's the thought success rate? Right. So if a guy is 40, he goes ahead, he freezes and banks his sperm assuming they were good to go in. Right. Are they very high probability of thawing correctly? So when you freeze sperm, it's about a 200-year-old process. Right. Right. Well, the use for about 75. I forgot through the Italian science. This was who froze sperm and snow and then thought it in the live a couple hundred years later, after Lee Winho came up with a microscope. The found it was moving and it was possible. So egg falling is very new. Egg freezing and thawing is very new. This is very old. So everyone is thinking about sperm now because eggs are being frozen left and right. But this is much older technology. And this cell is much harder than an egg. So it does a lot better, typically. When you freeze it, it's the freezing process that kills sperm, be from icicles on the inside. Yes. And then while it's frozen, there's usually no issue. No issue. And then there's another problem when you thought rapid-to-temperature shift. So that's where the kill rate comes from. And a good sample half of it should survive. Okay. And so how much sperm would you tell a guy to bank if he has to do it? If it's the definitive samples for his life. So meaning he's 40 or he's about to undergo chemotherapy or some other exposure where he should just assume he will not have normal sperm again. What do you tell him? So I usually say depending on what technology you're going to use, but if you're sperm count normal, three to three ejaculates is one kid's worth of sperm within some of the combination technology where you would thought and then then turkey based it. So 10 ejaculates for three shots on goal for three kids. But three kids with low technology, but 10 ejaculates will give you most of China with IVF. Got it. Oh, when you say low tech, oh, I'm leaving IUI or something. Right. So there's three levels. Sex, no tech. Yeah. High tech is IVF and in the middle is IUI. That's the stuff that turkey-based thing. It's relatively straightforward, relatively cheap. I straight kids for that, but plenty of sperm for IVF. So three ejaculates for two more than enough. If they're normal for IVF. Yes. So the population you're talking about maybe cancer survivors half of those will not be normal. They're really looking at IVF. So they don't need that many. Yep. But I think three is a good number, but it's in the trance policy. Yeah. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcasts summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

I grew up powerlifting was one of the things I did on this side. It actually wasn't a sport. I mean, boxing was my life, but I became hooked on being in the gym. And the gym I belonged to was a dungeon. It was an old man dungeon, two stories underground with no windows. And I didn't realize how lucky I was at the time, but this happened to be like the power training, the powerlifting epicenter, right? So you basically just had a bunch of middle-aged men who were machines. Like, you know, these are even the guys that weighed like, you know, everybody could bench press two times their body weight, squat, three times their body weight, deadlift, four times their body weight. So that's what I grew up doing. I was like, we benched, we squat, we deadlift. And we do it really, really heavy. And not surprisingly, over time, like, I started to get injured, right? I injured my back by the time I was in medical school. And kind of decided, like, I don't know if this is worth the risk. I don't really see that I need to have four plates on my back squat anymore. And almost through necessity had to discover single leg training. So I want you to say more about that experience and help somebody, because I have patients who really can't believe that you can achieve optimal lower body hypertrophy without a barbell on your back or without picking a barbell up off the floor. Yeah, which is amazing. I had the same background as you. I got into competitive powerlifting in college just because I was no longer an athlete. And I was looking for an outlet and I was like, okay, I'm good at lifting weights. So I started competing in powerlifting, started hurting myself back problem, shoulder surgery. And athletic training background, get to college as a strength coach, start to see the same things. I've got athletes with back problems. Everybody's back problem seems to come down to one thing, back squatting. Because we weren't, we didn't run deadlift. We were the old school like squat bench powerclean because that was the football mentality at that time. But the people with back pain had, it always related right back to back squat. We started to look at that and think, okay, if we're doing something that we know is hurting 20% of our population should we continue to do that. For a while we had to because the football coaches mandated it. But when I got to the point where I was kind of fully in control, I said, one, we're not going to do this anymore. And then we went the unilateral route. Sorry, when you say football coaches, are you saying even at the level of the NFL? At every level, the football coaches, you know, they want to know how many guys can bench press 400 pounds and how many guys can squat 500 pounds and how many guys can you know, they're, it's still a very old school mentality. It's getting better. And if the level is getting much better because it's still in the combine for any kind of quarterback. Everybody's still venturing and still benching in 225 as a strength to us. They do an endurance test for strength. But the, the foolishness of the combine too, but that's another the same combine that you know, the balance. And the same combat that I helped people for. Yes, it is not. I always tell people it's like getting the copy of the SAT and all you got to do is cheat. You just got to practice the event practice the questions. You know the, you know, the answers practice. You'll get good at it. We develop that thought process. But so we started going just down this sort of unilateral rabbit hole. And then we, but then you start getting into the biggest thing that people have done to stand is when you get into the bilateral deficit research, your stronger on one leg, you have more strength capability on one leg than you do want to because your body, there's, and there's really so interesting story to interrupt you, Mike. It's so interesting how difficult it is to appreciate that when you're not doing unilateral exercises and people don't try it. And then it's very dogma oriented because we, we've all grown up around kind of the squat poems and all these things about you know, King of all lifts and all this bullshit that people spout and I'm always kind of spouting the anti of that. But the reality is we started seeing when we first started testing is what happened was one of my assistants, this guy Jeff Oliver who's been in Holy Cross for 25 years said to me, if we could test you one like it's strength, would you stop squatting and I was like, yes. So then we said, okay, let's try to figure out how we test. So we started making up these sort of path fast. One like squat test, you know, doing rap max is in different split squat variations and things. But when we did it, the results blew us away in terms of the difference between sides blew you away. No, the ability to be stronger than we were or as strong as we were bi-ladderly blew us away. So we had guys, the first year I did it with my hockey team, 2000 maybe six or seven somewhere in there. And everybody could split squat what they could front squat, seeing a month. So if I did a back split squat test, everybody that could back split squat, 300 pounds was a 300 pound front squatter. Everybody that could back split squat, you know, predicts that project up to a 400 pound max was a 400 pound squat. Right across the board, it was exactly dead even one like the two legs. And then people would say, that's because they're using their back like they were trying to couple of all these rationales for why it wasn't. But the numbers were just glaring. You know, then we went to a split squat test and we had one kid who did, did 240 pounds for 20 reps. You know, if you'd buy a ladder, or they'd out, it's 480 for 20. He's a 200 pound hockey player, 190 pound hockey player. They just, the numbers started to smack us in the face a little bit. And I started to look, and then you start looking at the bi-ladder like you look at the grip strength research, bi-ladder deficit. Right hand plus left hand will be more than combined to hand. You look at, you know, they've done it with like extension. They've done it with a bunch of different things. And what they realized, I think this is my own theory, but we never logically know that we are in a ladder. If I said to you, try to dunk a basketball. I'm going to guarantee you right hand. I'm going to jump off one foot. You're going to jump off your left foot. You're going to hold ball in your right hand. Everybody here is going to do it except 10% of us are lefty. So 10% of us are going to grab it in our left hand. But everybody knows if I say to you throw a baseball. I always say to somebody, if I say throw a baseball, everyone is going to throw it. If I say throw two baseballs, somebody would think, I'm not really sure how I'm supposed to do this right now. We understand neurology and then we deny it. When we start strengthening because we wanted to deny it. And I think it's actually limiting. I think I've said to people, I think I spend a lot of time of probably making people less athletic at the higher levels. One of the things that you think that you did that in the past and the past. Yes, because we had some of our really, some of our super elite like NFL wide receiver type guys would be very resistant to really heavy back squats and dead lifts and things like that. And they would always say, we're like cats. I don't like it. It makes my back so I don't feel right. I don't want you realize, is you are probably dampening their nervous system a little bit. Because the analogy I always use, if you think of like the mountain, the guy from Game of Thrones. He was a nice landing basketball player. Decent, mid-level, I slant a basketball player. When he became one of the world's strongest men, he was a worse basketball player. And I can remember, I went to, used to go to powerlifting meets, and I'd look at the powerlifting meets and I would be like, nobody here looks at let no one. And then I'd go to Olympic lifting meet. And I'd be like, oh, these cats are athletic. Like these guys can jump and they can sprint and they've got big traps and big asses. They look, so they look more like what I wanted my athletes to look like, whereas powerlifting it was sort of like a semi-mobile refrigerator imitation. You know, just people lumbering and even little people lumbering around. A little people lumbering just as bad as the big people. And then you go to a track meet and go watch the sprint and the jumps and you're like, wait, that's what I want. That's what I'm trying to get everybody to. So I became a big Charlie Francis guy in the 90s. You know, you start looking at this and saying, okay, let's look at how the fastest people in the world, the people at jump the highest and what are they doing for training. And again, you started to see more unilateral work, unilateral player working, a lot of old strength work. So it was sort of this rabbit hole that I just, I went down and never came back from. So Jeff, in your world training people the way you are, what are the exceptions to those rules for you? When are the times when you're saying, or are you saying, no, I still see that the risk reward trade off for someone in a certain position is there for, you know, a back, a barbell back squat or, you know, a sumo deadlift or something like that. How do you, how do you think about that? I think that if there's, there's always the argument of can you train, see a lot of times, especially in Mike's world too, when people come to him, they've already learned bad mechanics for squats. So they're bad squatters when they come to him. So they're already demonstrating habits that are going to totally break down their body by continuing to just pile more and more weight on. I think when you can intervene with somebody in early age and teach them by a mechanically how to squat better, which Mike and I have discussed before at length, like it's not, it's not easy to really dissect that lift. It's a complicated lift. There's a lot of moving parts. So you have to be willing to spend a lot of time with that person to teach them from the ground up. In those instances when you can, I think you could probably teach somebody how to squat more safely. That doesn't take away the fact that if you can do it and not have to load that way, and especially as we talk about the aging population, then the benefits might still, right, the way the risks in terms of this is better single egg squat. But I think that you can probably teach that lift, but you have to be willing to teach that person to either unlearn the bad things that they've already learned, or if they're starting out early learn how to do it more properly. And you could do it in stages too. You can by squatting two a box. You can buy them a canclet. Fix a lot of people's issues because having the target or the safety net behind them is enough to sort of get them to actually move in a better way. But you don't want to train that way. You know, without ultimately going to a freestanding squat, if they're going to be ultimately playing sports and needing to do something, let's say an offensive lineman coming off the line. But again, I'm actually in my camps in terms of the value of single egg training. We do so much single egg training with athlete and acts because I believe that it's not just the unloading that we get from the single egg squat. It's just as Mike said, how we're wired, how we're actually preferred to move. And I get, I took some shit along the way because any time you pick up a leg from the ground, it's functional training. And then all of a sudden that has was a cool thing at one time. It's not a cool thing anymore. But you do pick up your leg and yes, that's functional for a reason. So I think doing lunging and step ups. We did, we built a whole program in art and with the mats around step ups and lunging because we knew how important. That was. And again, we did other forms of bilateral lifting. We would do trap bar dead lifting to clean up some of the issues that people had. I always say that if you want to learn how to squat, take a dumbbell, hold it between your hands or kettlebell and just let the ball let the dumbbell the weight go straight down to the ground. It will put you biomechanically, almost a perfect position because you're just letting the weight drop straight down your center of mass. That's a great tool for teaching what people are supposed to feel like. But when you then go put the bar in their back, as soon as the butt they don't have thoracic mobility, all the things that they're lacking, start to change that dramatically. From just, you think it's the same exercise because you're going straight up and down. But it's a very different exercise because now when your hands are up and again, thoracic extension is more required. They don't have that and the whole system gets thrown out of whack. So it's done. It's still done in certain circumstances and you're always going to still encounter people who I don't know. Mike might just tell me to go to a different gym, but like, you know, there's going to be people who will insist that they still have to squat and they want to learn how to do it and do it more safely. And I think having the, you know, the willingness or the ability to still coach them through that is important. But because of guys like Mike and because hopefully stuff that I talk about, like there, there people are less reliant on those as the, as the only things that they can do. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

sort of pivot and talk a little bit about strength training women across kind of the transition from parrymenopause and to menopause. Do you have any experience with that? I'm guessing you do and Mike, you must just by the fact that they're coming in your, so start with you, Gabrielle, what do you, what are you noticing is the most important things as women are making the transition from parrymenopause straight on into menopause? The first thing is to don't wait until they start to feel that their body composition is changing. The bitter they are going into parrymenopause and menopause, the better they're going to be both metabolically and just activities of daily life, everything. Those women seem to suffer much less. When hormones are changing, I think what I end up seeing is that maybe sleep is poor. They're tendons, you know, one of the signs of menopause is this frozen shoulder. So if someone is a candidate for HRT, we do certainly believe in that or menopause therapy, when it comes to training in the literature, I haven't seen huge evidence or a variation evidence that good training doesn't include, it's not sex specific. There is not something specific for women that needs to happen rather than following good foundational principles of strength training, hypertrophy and cardiovascular activity. So you don't say, hey, now that you're making this transition, we have to alter your periodization or change the way, change the amount of time you're spending doing one form of training, say cardio versus resistance or even the number of reps you would do. We're not changing any of that stuff. One of the things that we do look at though is if they are at risk for injury for tendons or joints because we do see that that changes. But then once we treat them, I do not see a reason to change. Good programming is good programming, progressive stimulus is progressive stimulus. No, it was great because when I read your book, there was very reinforcing for me because we're getting that question more and more now from our female clients just because of people like you were talking about it more, people are more comfortable than talking to us about it. And it's exactly the whole thing. I always come back and always comes back to strength and conditioning. Get stronger, get in better shape, get them to challenge themselves more with weights and not be content. The females are very, I always think there's an ego component that's absent in females that is very present in males. Like males will look at, you know, if I look at what Jeff did, I might think, I'm going to try that. Femaleists just don't have that. It's very internally driven. And sometimes that will cause them to underachieve in the weight room because they're not, they're not worried about being top dog and not worried about who lifted most weight. It just isn't making any sense. I believe it. It makes them better clients trust me. If I could, I would do nothing. I have a lot of really elite females that are great hockey players and the cross-play and stuff. And they're the best people to train by far because they don't have a lot of the kind of extra baggage sometimes that the guys have. They're just way more compliant. They just listen to what you say. They don't argue with you. They don't, again, they don't worry about what Jeff is doing. But just encouraging them to continually get stronger and encouraging them to continue to. And we would look at it as conditioning versus cardiovascular work. I think it's kind of how we always use the term, but pushing them to do more intervals, pushing them to do. I want more aggressive intervals. So you have a lot of you two max work out. But I want to get that. I love the indie galpins idea. Like Andy Galpins thing was like, hey, you just want to get your heart rate up really high once a week. I think that's a really good concept. And starting to just get people to think, hey, get your heart rate up. Wear a heart rate monitor. Don't be afraid to push your heart rate to, to, to, to ax, you know, whatever that is. And don't be afraid to be, you know, out of breath or get off the bike and feel like you want to land the floor kind of thing because we're big assault bike, air dine people because it's just a, I think it's the most efficient way to, to hit your cardiovascular system with what I was called, no orthopedic costs. Like I can kill you on the bike. And nothing bad is going to happen. Even like you sing with the hamstring. I'm going to bet you can't be able to bite the hamstring. I'm trying it today. And then you'll be perfectly fine because you're not, you're not weight bearing and you're not getting a lot of aggressive hip extension and a lot of aggressive hip flexion. And you can probably torture yourself on there for a long time without having any negative effects. But the biggest thing, like I said, with women is just getting them over that. I'm going to get big. So I don't push myself kind of thing. And so it's funny. I film a lot of my women and ask them to talk about how much they weigh and how much weight they've haven't gained. So I've, I've two of the best lacrosse attackers on our US team that are in their mid 20s now. And they've been here for five years and they've gained no weight. They're stronger. They're faster. But females gaining lean mass is really difficult. You have to really be a super responder. And usually I always say apples end up like apples oranges end up like oranges. It's not like suddenly just one day the apple is going to wake up in the next day. Going to be an orange. Like you're going to be if you're an acto more if you're an acto more. You will get the occasional really mesomorphic female way you do think, oh, wow, she really does respond to weights, but they're rare. They're super rare. So Jeff, what about you? What are you seeing in women specifically the training, especially during that transition through menopause? I think as Gabber a pointed out, like the training specifics are pretty much the same. What applies and what is good smart training for for men is equally applicable to women. The only thing I would say from a PT standpoint, by on the canclet, there are some differences in terms of something called the Q angle, right? The angle of the hip or the femur coming down to the knee, it does create a lot more valgus at the knee for women than it does for men. So I think you just have to be aware of those things. So what you're doing certain activities, you want to be able to coach better in terms of being aware of positioning. So like the tendency for a lot of women when they jump is to land in a much more valgus knee state, which could put more and more stress. And even if it's not, like we're not fearful of them blowing out in a training session, but as we talked about before that cumulative stress of every time you land, you're getting more and more stress on the MCL, or the ACL, that would be something that you'd want to coach around and make them aware of because you could strengthen that. You could work on bio-imicaling, by amocaineclin, proving those things, you know, you put a band around their knees and have them jump that way and land that way. They're learning how to activate their abductors and their hip that is probably something that isn't even really a requirement. We all men can benefit from that, but it's not an additional requirement because we're not dealing with the same bio-imicanical angles. Also, because of hormones, women will have more laxity of hormones at different times of the month that will make them susceptible to different stresses. So I think you just have to be aware of the education side of it and coaching through that. But as far as the exercise is the programming, we also found that women tend to be much stronger than men in terms of their output pound for pound and given the differences in sex, they're able to proportionally push more weight, especially with their lower body than men can. So interesting. Yeah, very strong. Much, much stronger have you found that too? Like the women are incredibly strong in terms of their output and strength comparative to men. I really thought about it in terms of pound for pound. The one thing we found is that they're much stronger in their output body than they think they are. That's the one thing that we've seen is that we've got women doing weighted gyms with 45 pounds for five. And what? Our best one is that 45 for seven is the best I've seen. 45 pounds wrapped around her waist and she's doing seven. Yeah. And a palest car. How many men can do that? In our gym, we really emphasize it like most of ours. Wow. My son did 90 for two the other day. He weighs 180. He runs your kids in his team. We really push pulling that doesn't sound right. But we have emphasized pulling. Yeah, I'm leading the league in redundancy. I want to come back to something you said at the outset, Mike, you're talking about kids. The youngest you train is 11. You drew a hard line in the sand. How come? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny for advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

There are two hormones we've talked a lot about. But there's a third that we haven't yet talked about that is very linked to these two hormones. Doesn't get enough attention in women, and of course that's testosterone. So before we get into how one should think about replacing hormones, can you talk about the relationship of testosterone to women's sexual health, and what's happening to testosterone levels during this transition from Perry to men's opinion. Because of course this I want to bring this into the HRT discussion. So it's super interesting, and I'm very passionate about this topic. And so I think it comes from this idea that I do testosterone for men all the time. I'm very confident. I love prescribing testosterone for men's sexual health for, and actually very interesting. Enough. When we prescribe testosterone for men, remember their gas tank doesn't get empty. It gets low, right? It's off-label, right? We are doing off-label testosterone therapy, and men unless they have client filters or some significant medical problem, like we're doing off-label testosterone for men, and it's very understood. It's talked about the FDA just three weeks ago, remove the labeling on testosterone therapy, saying it no longer is a cardiovascular disease risk. So that's a great news, right? So the thing about women in testosterone is it's actually not a menopause thing. Testosterone is an age-related decline. So in your 30s, you're starting to drop your testosterone. And I don't know who decided that men get testosterone and women have estrogen. We both have all of the hormones. Sorry to interrupt you. You probably heard me make this point before, because you alluded to it a few minutes ago. We measure testosterone in nanograms predestilator. We measure astrodial and peakograms per milliliter. If you normalize those to the same level, women are shocked to learn that they have ten times the amount of testosterone in their body that they do astrodial at peak astrodial. We way more, right? And I love sharing that, right? When you put everything in the same units, we are testosterone-driven beings. Both of us, right, are testosterone-driven beings. And so it's, you know, again, and we don't teach this to OBGYNs. No OBGYN knows what some do, but very few know about the role of testosterone in women's health. And so we love to gaslight women and say, well, if you have your period, your hormones are normal. It drives me insane. This women are told this all day every day is, well, you can't possibly have a hormone problem, because you're getting your period regularly. And the reality is, that's not true. Why? Because if no one taught that curve, that curve we were just talking about testosterone is nowhere on that curve. So we know there's a peak of testosterone around ovulation, right? That is nature's way of saying, let's make a baby. We know that we know that your libido goes up around ovulation because your testosterone goes up. And so there is this age-related decline in testosterone, and here's another big problem. We give women birth control pills all the time. How does birth control work? By the way, birth control is high dose hormone therapy. We love hormone therapy and birth control, but as soon as you become menopause, everybody's a afraid of hormone therapy, it makes no sense. So birth control is high dose. I would argue, you know, sort of the hormone therapy we're talking about the WHI that is more synthetic that has side effects that have issues like that. So birth control turns off your ovaries, and it adds back a final ester dial and a synthetic progestin. It doesn't add back testosterone. So we are botching testosterone for women, sort of, for along the life cycle to be honest. But if you take someone who's never been on birth control, their testosterone starts to drop in their 30s. So what are they complaining about? It's not just a libido thing. We know their testosterone receptors all throughout the genitals and the urinary tract. So we see women have an increased risk of UTIs. We see an increased risk of pain within our course, or pelvic pain conditions. We see there are some studies that indicate potentially depression and anxiety can increase because we do think there's a testosterone effects on the brain. But we have global consensus, and I don't know if you've read the news lately, Peter, but like we don't agree on too much as a globe, but there is global consensus that testosterone and women works for low libido. And so specifically the data is on postmenopausal women. That's where the global consensus is. But there is data in perimenopause and much smaller studies on before that. So but the consensus is it works. But everyone has emotions about testosterone. I don't think testosterone was a feeling, but apparently it is a feeling for people. Because people hate talking about it. And again, nobody taught you how to prescribe it. So people are, and there's no FDA-proof product for women, except in Australia. It's approved by their governing body. And so you have a lost art of knowing how to give people back to testosterone when they are symptomatic. And I think this is an area where women sometimes are also a bit concerned about what happens if I take testosterone because testosterone understandably has conjures up images of all sorts of things from large muscles, big moustaches, lots of other things. So how do you talk to women about this? We enjoy having these discussions. And also acknowledging side effects, right? The most common side effect we see in women is acne, right? And I don't think I've ever gotten to the point where I've seen any of the really dramatic side effects. But I do tell women, I say, look, there's a decent chance if you were shaving your legs every five days. You're going to be shaving them every three days. That's a chance. If you were kind of susceptible to acne growing up, you might get a little bit more, but it will have to back off. How do you talk about the risks of testosterone therapy? I love talking about this and I'm actually grateful for celebrities because just in the news in the past few weeks, Halle Berry says she's on testosterone, Kate Winslet says she's on testosterone therapy. And they look pretty amazing to me and they don't look androgenized at all. And so I actually want to do this study. It's something my research team's working on is I think I have more patients who never start to testosterone therapy because of the fear of side effects than actually stop testosterone therapy because of the side effects. That's my sort of observation in doing a lot of this. Now, when we talk about side effects, I tell them think about a 14-year-old teenager. They have these great libidos, but they have some oily skin acne. But that's when you get really high with your doses. We really don't see it clinically. Yes, could you? I tell them to put the, I use FDA-proof testosterone for men, just a doses kind of 110th the dose in a way. They rub it on their leg because if they do get hair on their leg, people are used to having hair on their leg. And so they shave it, they wax it, they laser it, whatever it is that they do with hair would leg hair. I don't have that many patients stop for acne oily skin. Again, I think there's that fear when you get really high in the dose. So I'm not a pellet, a promoter or user because you get super physiologic levels. And I can't take it out if you get a pellet put in. And so if you have deepening voice or clitoromegally or, you know, a hair, issues, these are the challenges with some of these super physiologic levels. But when we're using sort of reasonably dosed, like, topicals, we really see magic happen. And I can't tell you when we get estrogen and progesterone right for our patients, it is by adding that third piece that testosterone because your ovary does three, it probably does more than three things, but at this point estrogen, progesterone and testosterone. When we add that testosterone piece, I, it's wild. Although the patients come back and they say me, wow, I feel like me again. It's wild, right? That's the piece, wow, I didn't realize how badly I felt. Wow, that was the missing piece. I hear it over and over and over again. I can't not want that for all women, right? I can't not want to give them that as an option on the menu. I'm Peter at here. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny for advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive. Every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeteratiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Let's talk about those three exercises, Stewart. There are three exercises. There's two of them that I've done consistently for quite some time. I really fancy them a bit. The third one, the bird dog. I only do occasionally. But let's go through the three of them. And is it safe to say that you, and just for the listener, we're going to link to videos of these, right? So you're going to do your best to explain them and provide the rationale for them. But ultimately a demonstration will be forthcoming through videos we'll link to in the show notes. But this is kind of like your, I don't know, your core nutrition, right? This is sort of the, everybody should be doing this. You don't wait till you have back pain to do this. Is that safe to say? No, it is. No, that's that. This is a bit of a myth and something that I've been fighting basically my whole career. Oh, my guilt is the, Miguel, big three. OK. There are some people that are far too stiff. And this is not the mechanism of their back pain. And we don't need to go there. Have you ever seen the type of body build where they have a huge, pneumatic cushion in front, called the belly? Slaps on their thighs. It's that angelist of this. Do you ever see spine instability in that type of architecture? I don't. Interesting. So probably those people have difficulty getting on and off the floor. The big three is not for them. So there might be, again, the assessment always leads us to the solution. And so, no, the big three. Well, let me, let me, I need to have a discussion of what stability is in terms of creating resilience and performance. Then why are those particular exercises important? And then how to do them? If I could follow that logic line, you know? Absolutely. Yeah. Let's do it. And then the other thing, Stuart, if you want to throw it in there, do you want to talk about some of the hallmarks of your assessment wherever it fits into that, into those three things? So take it away. Yeah. All right. So remind me, we're going to talk about non-specific low back pain and how I think it's a myth and it doesn't exist. That will take us into the assessment. Okay. So let's go back to a basic discussion of stability. So if I was, I might use the example of a back hole. So a back hole is a machine with a tractor and it hasn't ar on the back to dig earth. The first thing the operator does is put down the stabilizer bars to lock the tractor into the ground because if you don't do that, you can't pull earth. You just pull the machine around. So let's see, she went equivalent of that. We live in a linkage, just like machinery. In other words, let's take the bench press muscle, peck major. Peck major originates on my ribcage, spans my ball and socket joint of the shoulder and inserts on the humorous. So when I contract and shorten the peck major, it flexes my arm. So if I wanted to do a push or a punch, there it is. That's on the distal side of the joint. Spock slowly, that same muscle shortening collapses my ribcage towards my shoulder joint. So all I use was the muscle that spans the joint that isn't a very effective push. All I'm doing is collapsing my own linkage or as an engineer we would say, well, we just created an energy leak. So I'm now going to build possible stiffness. I'm going to lock my core for each stiffness through my torso, which is possible to the joint. So now when I contract the muscle, 100% of the motion is directed distally. Now I've got my push. So what is the best, most efficient way to create a proximal stiffness? We searched for years doing all kinds of tests of every abdominal exercise. You could think of back exercises, twisting, how off presses, throwing things, et cetera. The three exercises that kept bubbling up to the top in the criteria of sparing the spine while you're doing them, because these people are hurting. You don't have cart blanche to load up their spine. A guaranteed stability or proximal stiffness. And it was later in my career that we found there is a residual stiffness that occur. So if you do the big three, and you are an NFL football team, if you do the big three prior to practice, you will run and cut just a little bit faster. So you're on the field, you run and you cut. The stiffer, the core, when the hips explode into external rotation, you're now creating a faster directional change. So what were the muscles or what were the exercises? A modified curl up, which remember, I know I'm just gonna start a little bit of assessment. I'm gonna take a patient, I'm gonna have them sit on the stool and I say, do you have symptoms right now? A human being, let's say, no, no. Now I'm going to say drop him chest down, because oh yeah, my left toe is going numb, and I've got that pain. I'm gonna bring your chin down, and they might say that'll increase your pain or decrease it. But the point is that, fiveth year created their pain. If that is true, when they lay on their back and they imprinted their back into the floor, doing a pull-out is roll up, for example, that would be their specific pain trigger. So it's not much of a therapeutic answer size, but we can say put your hands under your low back as you're laying on the ground, lift your elbows, now hover up your head, neck and shoulders. And we're going to propel the abdominal contraction with some press flips, and allow the diaphragm to become the athlete inside this barrel. So that was the foundation of the modified curl up. Now the person has a rotator cuffed by issue, or we will hack it and make it tolerable. Then I would see people, well, let's take a dumbbell or a kettlebell and we're going to raise it up while I'm only in the sample plane, like this for the side of the core. When trigger pain in a lot of controls, but I'll demonstrate all this if you want, but we could then do a side plank on the floor. The beauty of the side plank is only past the musculature is heavily challenged. The downside is heavily challenged. The upside is not. You've only got to pass the load on this fine. Very spine-sparing. We prescribe it on 10 second intervals. Why? We use the rushing training science to show you build endurance through repeated 10 second exposures, not getting tired to the point where you break from. No, no, no, no, you develop a neuro fatigue and you get a much higher tolerable training level with this, what we call the rushing descending pyramid. And then for the back muscles, look at the beauty of the bird, we're in one leg, the opposite. One half of my low back is active. One half is my upper back is active on the other side. We developing a nice D&F pattern. We're creating stiffness and stability in the core. We're teaching the brain to disassociate ball and socket joint motion of the shoulders and hips. We only have the spine load of say a Roman chair extension or something like that. So that bubble got to be a fabulous exercise. Then we did experiments where we would train people. We would just have a single session exposure. We would measure the core stiffness prior to doing the big three. They do the big three on the rushing descending pyramid and then we would re-measure their torso stiffness. Peter, they were stiffer and some of my muscle physiology colleagues said, well, you've added a turganist to the muscle. I don't think so. I think the brain created a lasting neural stiffness. And it's some people at last, it's about 20 minutes. Some people at last longer. So you will see some patients who say, you know what I do the big three, I don't have pain for the next hour. Babulous, what you're going to do is mid-morning do a 12 minute big three session, mid-after and into a 12. So these are the little tricks and hacks to slowly wind a person down out of pain. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today. A Peter Atia MD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

So I want to ask you guys each the same question. If you think back to the last five years, you're obviously all in a constant state of learning, is there something you have changed your mind on? Something significant that you've changed your mind on, and not just changed your mind on, but it's changed the way you behave, the way you help other people. I'll start with you, get real. This is a big one. I don't think body fat percentage is nearly as important as we think it is. I think that it is going to be somewhat of an outdated metric. I believe that intermuscular out of post tissue, this IMAT is going to be much more predictive of disease. And this came from, I interviewed on my podcast, Melanie Cree, and we're talking about PCOS. And I'm thinking, metabolic PCOS, what is the body fat percentage that's going to change the outcome? And until it's going to be because Gabrielle has nothing to do with body fat percent, it had to do with their intermuscular out of post tissue, and that I think is going to be an upcoming theme. It's much more specific to insulin resistance and these metabolic outcomes that we care about. And commercially, obviously it can be measured quite easily with CT scans and with MRIs to my knowledge, it's very difficult for Dexa to approximate it. So that's right. So how is ultrasound viable? I mean, so you wouldn't be able to get whole body, but you could sample the quads, which is where it would be most, that would probably be the canary in the coal mine, is if you're accumulating muscle in your quads. Yes, and I think it's also very different. I guess right, you're turning fat. Yes, very difficult to test. MRI seems to be where a lot of the data is. We're not there to measure it. But this is something that I think we are going to see so much more of. And you know, we're all focused on a muscle-centric approach. And for the last 50 years, it's been all about obesity. And this is the same thing. It's almost that we're looking where it's obvious, but it doesn't mean that that's where it's effective. I really agree with you, actually. And I think pharmacologically for what it's worth, I think that's the next frontier, right? So I think what the GLP1 Agnes have done over the past five years with the introduction of the third and fourth generations of those drugs, the first two were largely failures, but because of how successful the third and fourth generations were, it were really at a point where I think people can see that you can address the crisis of over abundance from a nutrition standpoint, but what people realize the new problem that is yet to be addressed to sarcopenia. And when I'm looking at what's at the leading edge in the frontier of biotech right now, it's all around anti-sarcopenia drugs. Now, of course, we have another great drug that works against sarcopenia. It involves holding iron and eating certain types of foods. But if, if, if, if, if, if, if, if where billions of dollars are being invested is any indication of what people realize is the next frontier, I think people are waking up to the idea that it's not enough to solve the, at a positive problem, you must address the sarcopenic problem. Yes, I couldn't agree more. What about you, Mike? What have you changed your mind on? Well, I did this one. I, I, I'm glad you gave me a head start to think about this. You know, some digestive health. I had a bowel resection done nine months ago. So they took a photo of my colonel. And, uh, and I realized, I actually did a really good presentation for our staff, called you don't know shit. And, um, it, because I think that's the most neglected area of health right now because we don't talk about it. And people, it's uncomfortable. And until you experience it firsthand, you don't realize how important fiber is, how important water is, how badly like most of us are. Chronic dehydration seems like a, oh, it's a big deal. But it's really not a big deal, but it suddenly is a big deal. I, I liken it to, like you have a dumpster your whole life that's out in the back of your house and it just gets emptied all the time. And then suddenly one day you realize they can't empty the dumpster anymore. Like I'm, I'm in trouble. And that's us, like we, we're worried about our musculosystem, we're worried about our nervous system, we're worried about our endocrine system. And our digestive system is just this thing that's supposed to be this dependable system that's just going to take care of us forever. And then suddenly in our 50s and 60s, it starts to fail. And we don't want to talk about it. And I mean, I ended up, I was in the hospital. I like, I was sick. And then guy was like, yeah, we got it. And this is a major surgery. We got to take foot of your colonel and put you back together again. I won't go into the real, gory specifics, but it made me realize it. I mean, I take a five or self mental out time. I put five or self, you know, five or in my shakes all the time. Now, I look at how much fibers and everything that I eat now. Be used to how about protein numbers. Look at the five or numbers. Our people are way more five or deficient than protein deficient, but they're not. They're going to suffer the effects way down the road. And it'll be too late for them to realize. So if I would say to anybody, I'd be like, drink more water, eat more fiber. Because you don't want to bother you, section. All right. What about you, Jeff? I'm breaking the rules. I have a couple, but personally, I think I have to twin nine-year-old boys. And so in the last five years, they've gone from four to nine, which for a dad is sort of the phase where the, where mom was definitely the favorite for the first four years. And then, you know, I sort of stepped in and become the fun guy. So I've realized through their intri-tivity with me number one to appreciate things I didn't appreciate before. I think, you know, in the first half of my adult life, I was so focused on professionally achieving whatever I could, whether it be working for the meds, or then starting this business and really going, you know, all hours of the night to try to build a business, that I just still don't do that. But I really have learned to better prioritize my time with my kids. To the point where it's difficult for me to make travels out to do podcasts because I really try to be around them. And I've learned to appreciate because of, they're on the spectrum. I've learned to appreciate their, their wins every day. Right. So it's like, wow, I don't take anything for granted. That's a thing that I am so grateful for that being able to benefit from because if I, if I don't think if the situation was different, I probably would just continue to work work work the way I did. But I think from a professional standpoint, kind of oddly, one of the things that I think is really overlooked is balance training. And I think that it's an area that people are going to probably have to spend a little bit more time focusing on because it's like, like we just talked about, that's just of health. Like it's, it's another one of those things that's going to get worse as you get older for a number of reasons. Number one, your reaction times will get worse. Number two, your proprioceptive sense is going to get worse, which is essentially your sense of body position. Number three, your strength is going to get worse as we talked about inevitably decade by decade. When we consider what all that leads to ultimately falling, we talked about these fears. I don't have the fear of falling right now. I'm sure if you don't have the fear of falling right now. We have the Achilles tendon stage right now, but 20 years from now, 30 years from now, our biggest fear should be falling because when you do, you're likely going to live a pretty difficult end of your life and it might lead to a much faster end of life. And I think that actually training balance is another one of those things that's going to have to get sectioned into that five minutes of extra work that you're going to want to have to do for yourself. And the most important thing when you're training your balance, even if it's just simple standing on one leg and drawing an alphabet with your other foot is to close your eyes. Because I think that when you don't close your eyes, you're actually, you're just one dimensionally creating an environment that's not actually what we're going to face. Most people fall in the dark because they don't have that visual feedback to correct. By the time you send that signal down to your ankle to make an adaptation, it's too late. And again, if our reaction times are delayed too, it's going to be even worse. So it's just the thing that I think people that are already older should start working on because as a skill you can improve it. And as somebody who is looking down the line here and seeing things change, including my eyesight, which used to be so perfect up close, you know, that changes. I know all these things are happening under the hood and making a dedicated effort to something I think people should probably invest some time and took it as well worth the investment for that long range safety. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Let's take the step back and help people understand the difference between palliative care and hospice care. Yeah, great. So I sort of think of it as like palliative medicine is the big umbrella, palliative care is the big umbrella, and hospice care is sort of like the very end or the sort of backside of the umbrella. And palliative care is a medical specialty usually provided by a team for folks with a serious illness. Serious illness can be defined lots of ways and is defined differently in different health systems, kind of depending on how they're staffed and how their palliative care programs are kind of created to function, what purposes they're serving. But some of the BJU jump and at any point, but some of the big differences is that with palliative care generally, there's no limitation around any disease directed or modifying therapies you might be pursuing. And you don't have to be dying inherently or even clear that you're facing death. You could be diagnosed with a very serious cancer that actually has pretty robust treatments, and you could look for quite a long time. I mean, many, many years. Many, many years. In that situation, what is the objective of the palliative care team? To think really holistically about who is this person? Where are they in their lives? How do they make sense of what's going on? What do they understand about their illness, who's supporting them? All really grounded in this, are there ways that we can help this person feel sort of as well as possible to treat the symptoms related to serious illness, to treat the symptoms related to the treatments of different serious illnesses. But in the context of whole life, which means you could have an onoclinic day, you could be seeing two people that seem on paper generally the same, similar age, demographic backgrounds, diagnoses, and be dealing with really different things when you walk in the room. What would you like to say? No matter how you slice it, the goal is the focus is quality of life. Period. Whether it's kind of care hospice. And by the way, for both Bridges, so it's inherently interdisciplinary as Bridges saying that's why Bridges, social worker, I'm a medical doctor, but we work with chaplains, nurses, music, and autologist, potentially art there as funters. When the subject matters, suffering and quality of life, there's no one discipline that has a lock on that stuff. But whether it's pad of care or hospice, the focus is really on helping someone feel as well as possible. And that is an inherently holistic question because it gets at their identity. It gets at their ability. It's possible as defined by them. And so for someone, that could mean very aggressive paid management. And for someone else, it could have a different relationship to the experience of pain. And they wouldn't put that at the top of the priority list. They might put more concrete or relational kind of supports, you know, higher up on their list. So our, you know, the beauty of our jobs and our work is to meet this person in this moment in time and identify what's up for them, what's most important and sort of where where it is that we get to meet them to work towards quality of life as defined by them. So what is the transition then for an individual from being under the broad umbrella of palliative care into a more narrow, defined level of care as hospice? Yeah. I mean, I think there's some, you know, there's some like a world of ideals in that and then there's what actually happens. And the reality in this country is that folks are admitted to hospice very, very late, you know, the length of stay on a hospice program. This country is something like three week average. And so it's actually quite little bit of time. And when I think about when hospice is a good fit for folks, I think about wanting to stay out of the hospital, being in a place where they are ready to or being forced to grapple with the reality that there is not anything left to do to change what is happening in their body, to change the cancer to delay the neurologicalness. And or folks that are more explicitly ready to be supported in their end of life care or in their transition. And just done with chasing the treatment done with chemo. Yeah. Maybe there's maybe a chemo might have something more to offer them in terms of life spent, but they are just electing to be done with that. So whether the weather, chemo and other things have run out of run their courts and there's nothing left to try, which is often the case, or they feel done with what's left to try. They are just telling us that they're just, they don't want to try anything else. Either way, they would bit much more likely to be hospice ready. Now you're saying the average length of stay in hospice. And really there are, as I'm aware of it and so correct me if this is not correct, there seem to be three paths to hospice. There's hospice in your home where you go back to your home and a hospice team comes there and cares for you in your home. There is a palliative care ward inside a physical hospital that provides hospice care, but it's still within a hospital. And then there are outpatient hospice facilities dedicated facilities for hospice that are not hospitals. With those three encompass the, the, how hospice care is delivered, or is there another one? Sort of in terms of sites of care. Okay. This is where it starts to get real good. Top kit and you can shut us up. Peter, so many different, so many tributaries. But to kind of back up a little bit, it may be orienting for audience here. So as bridges, I'm totally correct. Palipcares the larger umbrella. Hospices, this sort of subset of Palipcares devoted to the final months of life. So to be real clear, same philosophy in a lot of ways, but by insurance and reimbursement lines and by policy designation, you can get out of care alongside curative and tend to care. You cannot do so in hospice. When you go on to hospice, you have to give up that curative intended care. I can not just that. I mean, you can't have an IV line. Generally speaking. Yeah. Generally speaking. So there is, the way it's set up is a crossroads. We'll make the point that dying and living look a lot alike. But in the man-made world of policy and health care structure, there are some important forks in the road. So one of them to go on to hospice is you no longer have access to or don't want curative intended care and things to go with it. And also someone somewhere has to certify that should nature run its course. You likely have six months or less to live. So those are the two forks in road to qualify for hospice. Pout of care, those are neither of those applies for out of care. So that's a really important distinction. So I'm trying to kind of, in one other point to make there as well. Pout of care is the larger umbrella. Hospice is the older one. So we started in this country with hospice. And since the 1982, when Medicare got in the business, we had those restrictions. And then people in the 1980s and 90s realized, why are we waiting to the final weeks and months alive to deliver this kind of loving care? And so that Pout of care was born as a younger, bigger sibling to come to get outside of those restrictions. So it's a, wonky. Well, what's interesting is you just said that hospice care was the original. Yeah. And it was six months of life expectancy. And today we're at a point where median or mean is three weeks in hospice. Yeah. Well, if that's true, and we think about what we know about what an individual looks like when they have three weeks left of life, this is usually a person who's already in delirium already in the early stages of organ failure. This is a person who probably is already spending more than 50% of their time sleeping. And what I guess I'm hearing you say, or maybe I'm imputing, is should they have moved into hospice sooner? Have they, have they been unnecessarily disconfirited by pursuing therapeutic intent until that three week mark on average? Brad, you want to jump in there? I think I first, yeah. I would say as in broad strokes, unequivocally, in general, the answer is yes. I think we know that patients and families wait too long. They're suffering more than they need to and taking on treatments that are no longer helping them for a longer period of time. But there's a, what can feel like a charade portion of care? And there's a lot of reasons. Like the patients and families not wanting to look at that piece of the puzzle yet. Denial is a thing, you know? And also referring physicians, perhaps is the, the bigger reason that they are not seeing the writing on the wall or don't want to or whatever else. So it's very often that the physicians don't bring up hospice until way late in the game. So for many reasons, I think it is a generally true statement that we wait too long to invoke hospice. We wait too long based it based on our own state of goals of feeling at peace and having some comfort towards the end and not wasting our time doing things that don't help us. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

How do you differentiate for folks the difference between shame and guilt? Because for many people, when you show up at the bridge, there's a component of something that you've done that's wrong. Right? You've hurt people along the way. Again, that's I think part of the hitting rock bottom that gets you there. It's not just that you've hurt yourself. You've probably injured others. Right. Now, and that's a part of this maladaptive behavior that's now kind of spiraling out of just being adaptive. So, how how do you talk about the difference between guilt and shame and how do you work somebody out of that? Well, guilt's about making a mistake. Shame's about being a mistake. Right? You know, guilt. I did something. I made a mistake. I did something that I'd wish I had not done. I need to make an apology. Right? And there's a way back from that. I'm thinking of this classic John Bradshaw. We're talking about healthy shame versus toxic shame. And when you talk about a difference between guilt and shame, we're talking about toxic shame. Right? That there's something flawed. This flawed defective core, if you will, my identity. There's something wrong with me. There's a way back from the guilt. Shame registers so differently. So, when we talk about folks being wounded and shame, and that's how the shame gets registered. Somebody once told me that that my father never had to get sober because he had me and my mother, my sister, to carry a shame for. Okay? So, it can be a generational thing and it comes from some where else. But shame can play out two different ways. Some of us out of when we're living from our shame, we live out of superiority. Right? So, grandiose shame. Grandiosity. I control, I perfect, I judge, I criticize, out of my wound, it's out of my shame. That can be the me that you see on the outside. In some folks, the other side of that coin, of course, is inferiority. Right? Broken, worthless. My pathology. Why do you think one chooses preferentially one of those? I mean, I know that my tendency is always more towards a grandiosity than inferiority. What do you think it is in some individuals that steer them one way or the other when they're in that? And by the way, I love that these are, I don't even say this to be judgmental. I just think that this is a really interesting way to observe. But I know that when my inner monologue becomes more judgmental, that's a great yellow light for me. Right? It's like, oh, look at the judgey word you're using. Look at the black and white thinking that permeates every statement that you're making. But again, that's just the tends to be the gravitational pull. Why do you think certain people have them? The thing you just said is the thing, though, that I can't not hold focus on, like that little conversation that you just had with self. Now, you've done the work. You're still doing the work. I'm looking at the journals sitting in front of me. That's just a portion of the work, right? But having that voice that you've obviously cultivated, that's where the hope is because again, to live in simplicity. I say, I hate to over simple fight, but I don't. At the end of the day, I got bad news for the folks up there who think that there's going to come a time through my healing that I just never get triggered. Again, especially those of us who have experienced trauma, bad news, you will be triggered again. In this whole integration game is about starting to live a life where I tell stories that go like this, I noticed that I was starting to be really judgmental. I noticed I was getting triggered. I had this little short, subtle thought conversation, whatever that looked like. Maybe there was something somatic that happened with my body that I did, but I had this thing that I cultivated, this new muscle that gave me enough space to choose my next step. When so many of us, especially out of our shame, out of our trauma, have lived a life telling so many stories that go like this. I got triggered and then I did this. And that's the reaction versus the response. Simple goal. Right? Complex process.

Is there an evolutionary explanation for any of this? I mean, I don't know if aesthetics, if you think about this through an evolutionary lens, but I mean, historically we didn't need to look good beyond our 20s, if looking, if the purpose of looking good was to attract a mate. So again, none of us sitting around this table need to look good into our winning terms because we're not reproducing. Do you think that factors into any of these observations? 100%. Yes. And so I think it's also good for the sake of the overall podcast for us to talk about the evolutionary aspects of beauty for just a moment, which could be a whole separate podcast. You could invite Nancy Etkov from Harvard to come talk to you about the psychology of beauty. She wrote the definitive book on it and summarizes all of evolutionary beauty science. I have all of my fellow's read her book because I think it's just a beautiful compendium. And evolution of beauty is a fascinating topic because when you think back to the evolution of humans, why do we even care about beauty? And so the interesting fact is that we're actually genetically hardwired to appreciate beauty. And so there's this famous study from the University of Texas in the 1980s, Judith Langlaw is sort of a well-known name in psychology. She did what's called a preferential looking study of infants. I don't know if you heard of this study, but it's fascinating. She took newborn infants who were literally weeks old, barely able to see six inches away from their face. And she showed them pictures that were considered beautiful, faces of the beautiful, and faces that are less beautiful. And these newborn infants who have not yet been influenced by society preferentially we're looking at the beautiful faces. And so that natural drive for us to appreciate beauty is present even at birth. Does that suggest that there is a definition of beauty that arcs time? Because I was actually going to ask a question which would be a great, you know, detour for us to take after this point about how much is the definition of beauty changing. In other words, if you took Matthew McConaughey and transported him back 10,000 years ago, would he still be a hunk? Is sort of where I was going. But can you with this point, then let's come back. Yeah, I think that's the evolution. That's a great question. And I would say that the answer is generally yes. There's two layers here. The first layer is the genetic biologic drive that we have to appreciate beauty in men and women. And then of course, there is a societal impact that conditions us to appreciate certain versions of that beauty. But the fundamentals are a heaven studied in the 90s. And the fundamentals are that all humans across ethnicities all over the world have been studied and they appreciate certain features of beauty. So there's symmetry of the face, facial proportion. And then they also appreciate sexual dimorphisms. Those are kind of the three categories. And so symmetry, when it faces symmetric, it's sort of connotes if you're out there in the reproductive world looking at the pool of your options. The symmetry means that this individual most likely has had good development nourishment and is most likely going to have good genetics for me to potentially connect with and pass on genetics together with. Facial proportion is similar. In fact, to go a little deeper into that, averageness is really what people are looking for. And that on the surface that doesn't sound so attractive to be average. If you take 100 faces of men, 100 faces of women and average them all down to a single composite, you will average someone who has a little bit of a big nose or a small jaw or some aspect of their forehead shape. And all that gets averaged down into a composite that is considered universally beautiful across cultures. And again, that sort of unconsciously in the mating pool from an evolutionary standpoint is connoting healthy genetics, again, to be able to pass on your genetics with. And then the third area, which is sexual dimorphism, we're talking here about strong jaws and med, full lips or big eyes and women, these tend to connote either higher estrogen levels or higher testosterone levels depending on what are you're looking at women or men. And again, that's fertility. That's subconscious communication of fertility. So those are the genetic absolutes that exist in all of us on the planet. And then on top of that, as you're bringing up social media, in this culture, this particular wave wearing your hair is considered beautiful. Those are conditioned upon us based on society. But it overlaps on top of that underlying genetic basis. And how much can those things override? Again, I'll just use examples that we can all appreciate. Like, you know, I was talking with my daughter about Cindy Crawford. We were going, and I was like, look at a picture of Cindy today, look at a picture of Cindy in the mid 1990s. I mean, there's simply no way to describe beauty in any other way. Like, you, it doesn't matter what your type is, everybody would acknowledge Cindy is absurdly beautiful. And so you're saying she is hitting it out of the park on those three things, independent of what the invogue look of the moment is, right? So if, if it becomes the case that blondes are really attractive, it doesn't matter. Like, Cindy will override that. If it becomes the thing that women who a 30 pounds are attractive, it doesn't matter. Cindy will override that. I think it can be interesting. If you look at even different vases, beautiful person in each of those, they actually all have similar measurements. So there are these masks that you can superimpose onto any image. And really dissect down every single angle, whether it's the cheek angle, the jawline angle, the shape of the nose, the eyes. And all of you, if you look at that across different vases, they all have that same kind of measurement that they hit, talking about the same, the symmetry, the upper, the middle, third, lower, the face, the fifths going across the face. All of that, if you look at a beautiful person, no matter what race they are, they all have kind of hit those measurements. Now then there are nuances. Like you said, you change your hair, you change your makeup, you can transform yourself. But if you take someone without makeup and just look at them that way, they all kind of conform to those measurements. Doesn't this apply that over time, beauty should be one of the most preserved, concentrated traits of our evolution, given the presumably the difficulty in acquiring a mate, absent beauty. In other words, does it suggest that if you compared what we as a population look like today in 2025 to what we looked like 2,000 years ago, 10,000 years ago, 100,000 years ago, are we monotonically getting more attractive as a species? Can I jump in on one thing on this? You would think so, right? Because we're, so that's the direction. Yes. Should be ramping it up. Exactly. So we should be marrying someone that looks better or mating with someone that looks better and having our marginally look better. But what's different is our diet. So, go back 100 years, 200 years, 1,000 years, we had to chew a lot more. To really digest our food. We were working our massitors, we were working our jawline. Our palates were not as high, our jawline was a lot wider, our teeth were stronger. And then as we have changed our diet and everything is cooked and we don't have to make as much effort to chew it, you actually get more crowding in your teeth, your jawline is a little bit less strong, your palate changes, more people become nose free, mouth free. There's as opposed to nose free. There's that changes the shape of your face. And that has been measured anthropologically. And so it's interesting because there's a whole book on breath. They go through the anthropology of all that and the changes in the skeletons that they've gone back and studied. And so that does fundamentally change. Now we have kids that have to have teeth extracted or we have to have palate expanderers. Now because we realize when we extracted teeth before, we made the faces more narrow. And so now the thinking is, let's preserve the teeth, expand the palate when the child is 10, allow those teeth to come in. So there's less grinding. I'm sorry, crowding. And then that face will be better and stronger jawline. So it is something that we've changed. And then just kind of head into the area of sociology for just a moment, 10,000 years ago, if you were born in some place on earth, Peter, the pool of the genetic pool that you'd be interacting with was tiny. You know, there's some fact that I'm probably going to miss state, but somewhere around 1900, most people on this planet had not moved within 10 miles of where they were born. And now it's totally different. And with social media and the way that we can connect with people around the world, not only because we can fly all around the world. But we're also seeing people on screens. The apparent genetic pool of faces that we're looking at has, as an exponent, potentially blown up into this very strange world that we're putting in in 2025 compared to where our evolutionary biology has taken us. And I wonder also at what point in our development did other, I don't want to say higher order, but other things became priorities in finding a mate. Like, I think for most all of us, I think when we were looking for our mate, appearance was probably not the top of the list. It was one of the factors you had to be attracted to the person, but I would guess for all of us it was, will this person be a great spouse? Will this person be a great parent? Does this person share my goals and values and blah, blah, blah? It's hard to imagine our ancestors were, had the luxury of maybe thinking about those things. So yeah, all of this is to say it's way more complex today. But it is, it is just to hear you guys describe this, it's entirely fascinating to play the thought experiment of transport, a hyper-attractive person today, back in time, 10,000 years, and I would just be so curious as to how they would react to that individual. I think it's a fascinating thought experiment. And I think that if they meet those criteria that we're defining, they would be considered a honk or a beauty. Yeah. And then one last thing, and then we can certainly move on to the next topic. But in terms of timing, it is important for us to be evolutionarily attractive, historically, not in the modern era, until you're about 20 or 25. Because we weren't supposed to live this long. One of the issues that comes up with longevity and trying to maximize our health span is that we were not really supposed to be living this long and healthy this long. And so evolutionarily, modern nature is not helping us with our appearance. Our appearance was supposed to carry us through until about 20 or 25, at which point your kids are old. Most people were procreating at 14. And then at 25, their kids were at the point where they were getting ready to procreate. And then you're let out to pasture at that point, basically. But evolutionarily, what we do every day with our patients is really fighting biology, we're fighting genetics, we're fighting the environmental. The environmental existence that we have as a luxury of being born in this era. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com, forward slash subscribe, to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Whenever I think of the brain, I think of GBMs, right? I think of these awful tumors, which I guess for the listener, we can explain what that is. So maybe Telphogs, what a GBM is, why a GBM is truly one of the cancers that gives cancer a bad name. And I guess my real question for you is, given that traditional surgery has historically never worked for this tumor, you simply can't resolve it. And you think about the transition away from craniumy, big, open procedure. Is there anything on the horizon for GBMs to render them less lethal? Yeah, it's a great question. So GBM stands for Glyll Blastoma, multiformy, and it's a mouthful of a horn. But if you break it down, what it's referring to, the Glyll part of that word refers to the cell origin, the brain has different types of cells. And if you look in the big buckets, there's neurons, which are the ones that primarily are the ones that allow us to do thinking and function. And then there's a large population of support cells. They're called Glyll, and that's that first part, Glyll Blastoma originates from those support cell population. Multiforma refers to, you know, these original descriptions, histologically of the tumors that really showed, multiple form, multiple histology, some of the key features of it are the necrosis, the tumor grows so quickly that it outstrips its blood supply. And in its wake, it leaves cell death, what we call necrosis. So like you alluded to, it really is, you know, a terrible kind of disease and condition. We are making progress, and specifically, around understanding what causes. So, you know, just 10 years ago, you would remove one of these tumors, and you send this to the lab, and you could get the diagnosis of, that this is a global estomal. Now, it most academic medical centers, you'll also get a genetic profile of the tumor. So nowadays, we actually know specifically what kind of mutations are involved in the tumor, and that's going to be really critical for this next chapter, which is using those genetic alterations actually to tailor and personalize, you know, chemotherapy and more. So this has big implications, because we're now moving from narrower, we use a visualization of the histology. Now to this molecular profiling, which is more mechanistic, the new chemo agents are really going to be targeting mechanisms, as opposed to general things like cell cycle, metabolism, and things like that. So these are things that are changing, you know, and we needed to change faster. They're also really exciting things that we're seeing around new ways to train the immune cells, to target things. It turns out that glierblastom was actually suppressed parts of the immune system, so they're kind of like growing and stealth, and they activate molecules and cells in a cloak way that can't be recognized by immune cells anymore. And so if we can basically allow the tumors to be recognized by the immune system, that could be something that really unlocks therapy in the future, too. But the things that we do know that work pretty well right now, at least in terms of prolonging survival for patients, it really meaningful, survival. Actually still is around the surgery. We do know that the more extensive the resection, the longer the survival is, and that's been really well-characterized now, but it's not curative, like you said. We can remove 99% or even 100 in beyond what we see on the MRI. Unfortunately, there's usually microscopic cells that go beyond what we can see on the MRI that are still there and over time, or we populate, you know, the tumor. And so it is a really complicated and tough disease, but we're working really hard on it. Do we have any idea what predisposes an individual to this from a risk perspective? Short answer is now. Because it clicks young, it clicks old, a knife watch, children die of this, teenagers, people in mid-life, people at the end of life. It seems to have no apparent pattern. Yeah, and part of that has to do with its mechanisms. It's not something that we consider as a heritable kind of risk. But what it does rely on is a set of mutations. And it's rarely the same set, which is a very polygyogenic condition. Exactly. And that's what makes it really tricky to treat. When we talk about gluteblastoma, we're actually not talking about one thing. We're talking about a system of genetic alterations that together have cascaded into the form that we see. And I suspect we'll come back to this, Eddie, but you've alluded to chemotherapy occasions that can be used, whether it's the treat gluteblastoma or anything else, including meds of other epithelial cancers that spread to the brain. The blood brain barrier poses a challenge for treatment. Do you think the future lies in treatment within the CMS? The CSF, so treating directly inside, an interferethically or directly into the central nervous system, or do you think it's designing drugs that cross the blood brain barrier? I mean, what do you think the future looks like? I think it's going to look like all of the buff, actually. And this is a situation where we do need to look at all possible options. This is not like the kind of thing where we're thinking, like non-invasive or minimally invasive, like really something that will work as the first priority. One of the technologies I'm really interested in following how this develops and we're doing research on this at UCSF, is using focus ultrasound. So most people know about ultrasound to diagnose, but if you change the energy profile of it, you can actually use acoustic energy through an ultrasound to actually open up the blood brain barrier and targeted parts of the brain. And so there is a lot of development on using that as a way to do delivery as opposed to putting a catheter or something directly in the brain. And then with that set of new agents that can be really molecularly specific to get to targets once you open up that blood brain barrier. I want to back up and just have people understand how you even do a wake surgery because the traditional way that surgery is done requires general anesthesia. In general anesthesia, typically requires three things. It requires one type of medication to blunt pain. Another type of medication to block memory. And another type of medication to paralyze you. Now, of course, if things go wrong and things have gone wrong, sometimes patients are paralyzed, but they feel pain, but they can't communicate it. And these are these catastrophic, but fortunately, very rare events that occur in anesthesia. But correct anesthesia is done where a patient has no sense of time or memory of anything. They can't feel anything and they can't move, which means they're actually safe. Right? It's to save them as well. So help us understand how it is that you can do surgery without all three of those conditions being present. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

And the goal is we want to get you off an opioid even oral before you go home. Is that generally the state of objective with a medical system now? Is whatever opioids you're going to need. Let's try to deliver that to you in the hospital. I wouldn't say necessarily because I think there are some surgeries that are going to clearly require prescribing an opioid after surgery. Remember the name of the game is get people out of the hospital and have the care take place in their home. And people are going to need some degree of pain management and analgesics. And those analgesics can be Tylenol NSAIDs if it's more than mild moderate pain that may involve an opioid. So how are you thinking about that? How are you thinking about extracting the value of the opioid and minimizing the risk of long-term dependence? What we have learned is that there are vulnerabilities that people bring to an injury or surgery and being placed on opioids that set them up for more likelihood of persistent opioid use. And we've characterized we and others through research studies of characterized many of these factors. So some of these factors include preoperative depression and anxiety, higher levels of catastrophizing. I early adverse child events, so history of PTSD, history of physical sexual psychological trauma. All of these sets someone up to have a higher likelihood of persistent pain and persistent opioid use. Now you will note, all these things I said, most of these things I said people would normally put under the psychological umbrella. The key message that I want to give people and I think everyone's getting this is, when we talk about psychology and psychological factors, we're talking about neurosciences, we're talking about the brain and we're talking about specific brain systems, regions, networks. So we did a study several years ago. This was led by Jennifer Ha, Ian Carroll was a key player, leader on this, and we found that higher depression scores preoperatively predicted much more likelihood of persistent opioid use after surgery. And how are you screening for this? What tests are you using? Back then we used something called the back depression inventory which standard instrument, we don't use that anymore. There's more modern tools. I thought what was cool about this. We did a factor analysis on the original paper and you can break the back down into different components of depression. And had donia cognitive level, what we found is it was a particular factor that drove almost entirely that prediction of depression, self-loathing. It was feeling like really bad about yours. So if you have someone who just suffers from not that anodonia is anything but unpleasant, but if they're only experiencing anodonia but no self-loathing, you would say, well, the risk isn't as high. Yeah, you know, conceptually your argument holds, but now I'm going to come back to a lot of the things that you write about, which is the danger of drawing inferences from small population studies and generalizing that to the rest of the world. Yeah, especially with that randomization because what you really would like to be able to see is you take a whole bunch of people in. You get their incoming metrics of anodonia, disthymia, self-loathing. You categorize all the arms and tentacles of depression and then you randomize within each of those to with and without opioid strategies. Yeah, and then you, I mean, this is a very complicated thing to do, but if you want to know the answer, that's kind of the way you want to do it. That's exactly it. Unfortunately, there's not much will to do that in society these days. Even in the world we live in today where we understand that for a non-zero, potentially non-trivial segment of the population, the introduction to opioids that ultimately destroys people's lives is delivered by the medical system. I was on the Institute of Medicine panel, now the National Academy panel called Relie and we did a report called Relieving Pain in America and I remember sitting around back in 2010 and we were talking about the state of pain in the country and where we needed to go identify a perfect vision and also identify what are the biggest research questions to ask an answer? And I remember really vigorous discussion here and the one that I put forward and others put forward is we need to better understand what is the long term effectiveness and safety of prescribing opioids to people with chronic pain, meaning we need to figure out for whom opioids work. Today we still don't have an answer to that and there's very little will to do it because the whole message in the scientific community is basically fine non-opioid choices. So there's not a lot of interest in funding the studies to figure out for whom it works. There is a lot of active interest still mainly through data driven studies to find out who's at risk. But that type of study that you're talking about and others that are of longer term and bigger consequences. I just don't know when they're going to get done who's going to fund us.

We've talked a lot about behavioral habits today, but most of the habits that exist in our lives are mental habits. There are habits that we don't even recognize as habits because they're happening inside our brain. And they are incredibly powerful. These mental habits make me believe that when someone cuts me off in traffic, a perfectly appropriate response is to get angry, which does not benefit me, does not change the situation. I know that I should be zen about it, but it compels me to behave a certain way. So let's say more about that. Let's say more about the mental habits. And I read something the other day, which didn't surprise me one bit because anybody who has meditated will know this. We have an average of, I believe, 47 thoughts per minute. Wow, yeah, that's it. All right, that's one per second. Right. And again, if you don't meditate, or you haven't spent some time doing mindfulness meditation, you would think that's impossible. But if you've ever done the exercise of sitting there, focusing on your breath, watching every single time you are distracted by a thought, you'll be like, yeah, I can believe it's 47 times a minute. So that actually sounds small to me. Yeah, basically some of my meditated. So we've got this crazy thing that is just a thought generating machine that we can't control. Yeah. But thoughts are not thinking. So what translates us from thoughts to thinking, how do we form better habits or reformat maladaptive habits around that? You give a great example, by the way, of the reaction to getting cut off, like an anger reaction. That's absolutely right. So the way that we can influence our mental habits is that we have to deliberately choose to figure out what the cue is. And then we have to give ourselves a reward afterwards. They operate by the same principle as behavioral habits or physical habits. But it's a little bit more tricky, right? So oftentimes, let's take innovation. The innovation is one of the mental habits that's studied. Why do some people manage to innovate on demand much better than others? We all be innovative, but some people they need the muse to strike. It takes them years. And other people you walk in and you say, hey, look, I need 30 great ideas by tonight and they can sit down and they knock them out. So what's happening there? When researchers have looked at the lives of serial innovators, what they found is that the most important part of that is that oftentimes the people who are really good at it have filled up what's known as a contemplative routine to spur that innovation. Now, these contemplative routines can be something like, every week I sit down and I reflect on all the good ideas I had last week, just for 30 minutes. And I try and think of good ideas for next week. Or the contemplative routine can be, whenever anyone asks me to come up with 30 ideas, the first thing I do is I go take a walk. Then I just think about it in my head. I'm not writing anything down. I'm not committing myself to anything. I'm just letting it percolate a little bit. I have a routine that I know works for me to spark a contemplation. Because when you think about it, when it comes to mental routines and when it comes mental habits and when it comes to success, the most successful people throughout history are that people who can get themselves to think most deeply. Right? Making the right choice is so much more powerful than executing really well on the wrong choice. So the question is, particularly in a fast-paced world like today, how do we get ourselves to think more deeply? This is the killer app for our brain. And the way that we get ourselves to think more deeply is to build these contemplative routines that we automatically fall into. Because those contemplative routines push us to think more deeply. And I can give you an example of this, if you like. Of course, which is, and again, we describe this and, or I describe this in smarter faster better, there was a plane quantist flight 32, was a plane, an airbus A380 that took off from Singapore to Sydney in the early 2000s. And it perfect take off. The captain was a great captain. About 10 minutes into the flight. One of the fan blades and one of the jet engines attaches and it punches this enormous hole in the wing. It also hits another fan blade. And that fan blade explodes. And it was like the shrapnel from a bomb going off inside the plane wing. So within about 12 seconds, there's 14 major systems that are needed to keep a plane off within about 12 seconds. 12 of those systems had gone offline. No hydraulics, no fuel, no measurements on anything. So the captain, a guy named Richard DeCrebney, he has to figure out how to land this plane safely. This is the worst mid-air mechanical disaster in modern aviation. So what does he do at that moment? What he does at that moment is, there's all these alarms going off and said, the cockpit, there's all these red flashing things on his board. The computer is telling him, you have to do these 10 things. And as soon as you do those 10 things, you have to do five more things. You have to do 13 more things. What he does is he takes his hands off the controls for a second. He closes his eyes. And he says to himself, I'm telling myself a story about the plane that I'm flying. And the story in my head is the Airbus A380. And it's really complicated. Because I have to think about fuel lines. I have to think about hydraulics. I have to think about brakes. You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to change the story inside my head. I'm going to change the mental model that I'm using on where to focus. And I'm going to pretend I'm flying a Sessna. Now a Sessna is the plane that he learned to fly on. It's the plane he feels most comfortable in. And he actually sort of announces this to air traffic and troll into his other pilots. And they freak out. Because they're like, what is this guy talking about flying a Sessna? He's in an Airbus A380. But that moment of contemplation allowed him to access that muscle memory, those habits of flying. And he lands the plane safely. They touch down all 469 passengers get off about half an hour later. There's not one injury on board. Now they've tried to recreate this landing again and again in simulators. Almost every single time it crashes. So what did Richard decrepney do differently? Why was he able to land that plane? And I've asked him. And what he'll tell you is he'll tell you he actually doesn't know or remember exactly what he did in the moment. But by changing that mental model in his head, by engaging in this contemplative routine, which felt supernatural to him to say, I need to be in charge here. I need to stop reacting. I'm going to choose to pretend I'm flying a Sessna. That unlocked all of these learned habits of safe flying that allowed him to land that plane. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

help people understand what you mean about the distinction between thoughts and thinking. It is important. I think it's uniquely important when we talk about anxiety. I like to talk about the W's of that level two thinking. I'm going to break into three categories. We haven't gotten to the third one yet, which is any real scary in just a second here. But I like to talk about the W's, the who what where when, why, how ends in a W, and what if? When I hear someone asking a question that starts with a W, and whenever the statement is, ends with a question mark. In my work, if it's about their anxiety court issue. So if someone is social anxiety, the fear of public speaking. If someone has a fear of snakes, the fear of being bitten by a snake. When they're asking questions about, is that snake going to be there? Does that garden have snakes? Is that public speaking event tomorrow? And when am I going to do about it? What if they laugh at me? When I hear those questions, most of it's just something that someone's worried. But that looks productive. It looks like you're trying to figure something out. And for most of us, we just move on with our day. For the anxiety sufferer, it is an attempt to resolve uncertainty. It is an attempt to figure out something that you don't have the chance to figure out because that time has not happened yet. It's a fortune telling mindset of mental action. And so worrying the verb is an activity. And most of us do it and move on with our lives. It's like Teflon is slides off of us. But for the anxiety sufferer, worrying looks like they're trying to solve something. The problem is is when they get their answer, they're not done. And that's the epidemic of anxiety that whether you do a ritual that looks more behavioral, like scrubbing your hands, praying excessively, asking the police officer if they got a report if anyone got run over in the intersection, which is called hidden runo CD, rereading your email 17 times or wondering about your email. Questioning, did I send that out? Was there a typo in there? Are they judging me? What if they say something back to me? Those don't look like rituals or compulsions. But it's our ability to resolve anxiety to solve uncertainty, to deal with this interfering that is killing us on the inside. And it is its own designation of symptoms. So maybe just to step back, the first thing I'm doing in therapy with almost anyone I work with is breaking down symptoms into three categories. And there's two acronyms I'll use. It doesn't matter for me amongst all the anxiety disorders. And I can get kind of Q2 with this, but it's category one, category two, and category three. Very basic. When he's letters, it's T's O's and C's. If I'm dealing with OCD, which stands for triggers, obsessions, and compulsions. And for almost every other anxiety disorder, it's T, F, and S, B triggers, fears, and safety behaviors. And every DSM, every anxiety specialist, and every treat's anxiety, and any who battles anxiety should know those three levels of symptoms. Triggers are the things that bother you, the events, the people, the places, the things that are out of your control. It's God messing with us. Sometimes just you're using around and I thought pops in your head can be a trigger, unfortunately. Sometimes a physical symptom can be a trigger. The middle column, which I use the letter O or fear, O for obsession, F for fear, is the internal experiences you're having. And I use it when having, not doing, that are out of your control. Breathing, heart rate, yucky thoughts, upset tummy, a twitch, a feeling, an aura. For most of us, we call those worries or fears or obsessions. Sometimes it's an urge. And those are not up to us. That means your body's working. Sometimes it's working in overdrive. Sometimes it means your prefrontal cortex and your limbic region. We'll talk about brain stuff in a few minutes. I'm sure are not communicating properly. But that means that something went off in your body as a signal of, uh, oh, there might be danger. And so it's happening to you. The next thing that happens in the most basic behavioral paradigm Peter is stimulus and response. And what happens between stimulus and response is we're all the magic happens. And one's ability to make decisions effectively between stimulus and response is where therapy really takes takes action. That response and all the anxiety disorders is avoidance. Rituals behavioral or mental. And so it's a therapist job to figure out those symptoms, the T's, O's and C's, tagging the patient on what they are because most patients and honestly probably most therapists confuse worries from worrying thoughts from thinking. And most therapists are going to put anything between your ears in category two. And in the last 10 to 15 years online, there's been language and descriptions of something called pure OCD. P-U-R-E, pure O-C-D. And what that was was people thinking that I just have obsessions. I'm a purely obsessional subcategory of OCD. And I have pure O-O-C down my website. I write about it. I blog about it. Because I want people who think they have that to find our website and to find us. Because I want to reverse engineer what they think is going on. They think they're just having obsessions because it's all happening up here. Which really going on is they're having obsessions. And then spending all day long up here trying to solve an existential crisis. Which I would call meant to ritual. So let's help people understand that. And we can either use, in fact, I'd like to do both. I'd like to use thoughts versus thinking. And I'd like to use worry versus worrying to help people understand when they've crossed that threshold. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support. Which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive. Every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

When it comes to someone's risk of dying, you characterize the biggest risks as the forehorsesmen. So could you explain what those are? Yeah, I mean, you can't have a discussion on this topic without talking about the forehorsesmen, which you know, might seem a bit grim, but there's no reason to avoid talking about the inevitable, which is every one of us in this room is not going to be alive at some point. And I think to confront the how is important, right? So statistically speaking, all of us in this room are going to succumb to one of four processes or disease processes. So in rank order, the first of those would be cardiovascular and cerebral vascular disease. That's the leading cause of death in the United States. That's the leading cause of death globally. It's the leading cause of death for men and it's the leading cause of death for women. Full stop. So that's a heart attack, a stroke. The number two, and it's not that far behind in the United States, is cancer. And of course cancer isn't just one disease. We lump it all together, but of course prostate cancer and breast cancer are, you know, frankly as as as different as, you know, a pickup truck and a Karola. They're, you know, they both have four wheels, but that's about where the similarity ends. Number three would be the diseases of dementia and the neurodegenerative diseases. And there's a lot of things in here, right? So you have Alzheimer's disease, which is the most common form of dementia, but you also have lots of other types of dementia that are, that are not neurodegeneratives, such as vascular dementia. And then you have the fourth horsemen is kind of a spectrum of diseases that we call metabolic diseases. The, the most extreme version of this would be type two diabetes. But of course all along the way, you have conditions like fatty liver disease and insulin resistance. And all of these conditions form a continuum and the most important thing to know about them is while not that many people will die directly from those diseases. If you have anything along that continuum, it's increasing your risk of about by about 50% of the other three horsemen. So we, we really want to think about a strategy at mitigating all four of these conditions and delaying them as long as possible. But what do you say to someone that may already be navigating these chronic diseases that come with aging and what advice would you give them on how to manage a high quality of life and keep hope during these times? You know, it would matter very specifically on which one we're talking about, right? So I certainly won't ask for a show of hands, but just based on the age of everyone in this room, it's impossible for me to imagine that nobody in this room hasn't already faced some of these diseases, right? So if you're sitting in this room and you already had a stent placed in your coronary arteries, that says, look, you've already had a brush with coronary artery disease. Maybe someone in this audience has already had a heart attack and you're fortunate enough to have survived it. Well, the short answer is look, the fact that you've survived it is great and that means you get a second chance. Many people don't, right? So many people's first brush with heart disease is death. In fact, on average, about 50% of people, one in two people that have a heart attack, it's immediately fatal. So if you're in that group where you've had that heart attack or you know somebody who has and they've lived to tell about it, they're in the lucky camp and what they should be doing is everything in their power to not only prevent it from happening again, but to strengthen their body. And so, you know, the first thing I do is I ask myself, what were the conditions that I had that led to this heart attack in the first place? Now, some of these conditions, you don't have a lot of control over. Genetics play a strong role here, but there are many things that can be controlled, such as cholesterol levels, blood pressure, smoking. Those would be the big three. And we have ways to manage all of those things. Also, we know that exercise plays a very important role as does metabolic health. So, you know, I've met many people who have had that near brush with death from that standpoint of a first heart attack, they survive it. And what do they do? They turn it around and they say, look, I'm going to lose 30 pounds. I'm going to stop smoking or I'm going to manage my blood pressure cholesterol better. I'm going to take up exercise. And I know people that have gone on to live 30 years after that event that might have happened when they were 60 and they live until they're in their 90s. So, I guess I would always frame it through the lens of, hey, am I fortunate enough to have survived this thing? And if so, what am I going to do going forward?

Do you want to quickly walk through the tactics and your longevity toolkit? And then from there, we can go into detail on each of them. Yeah, I mean, I think broadly speaking, there are five buckets of things that we have control over to impact all of these things we're talking about. So one, we just talked about exercise. And you can probably tell my bias is that that's the single most important one for the most part. So the second, in no particular order, would be nutrition. So what you eat matters? And we'll talk about that. I'm sure in more detail. The third one would be sleep. So the difference between sleeping well and not sleeping well has an enormous impact on your brain, but also on your metabolic health, which then indirectly plays a great role in other diseases. The fourth would be all of the sort of medications and supplements, drugs, anything that your doctor prescribes or that you can buy over the counter. And these are of varying degrees of efficacy. Some of them are incredibly dubious. Some of them can be life-saving. But again, all of those things we'd want to think about. And then the final bucket would be all the tools that we would have at our disposal to improve our emotional health and well-being. So we've already touched a little bit about why exercise is important. But for people in this audience, how can they start just safely exercise while also managing physical limitations? It's hard to provide a blanket statement on that because everybody's going to be different. But I think it's safe to say that people are less fragile than they believe. And I meet many people, for example, who have back injuries. And say, look, I have a back injury. I can't really do anything. And the reality of it is when you sort of probe a little bit further, what you realize is nothing tends to make their back hurt more than inactivity. I don't remember who made the statement, but I loved it. And I've paraphrased it or plagiarized it many times. Sitting is to lower back pain, what bourbon is to alcoholism. So any of you who's back has hurt will probably think about that and go, you know, he's kind of right. When my back hurts, sitting is the one thing I don't like to do, or after a long drive it hurts worse. And, you know, for most people, actually being active makes them feel better. Now, let's be clear. There are certain activities. Like if you have no cartilage left in your knee, more walking won't make you feel better. And so you've got, you're going to have to see an orthopedic surgeon. They might need to do a knee replacement. But boy, I will tell you in this day and age, in 2025, what can be done with a knee replacement, a hip replacement, even a shoulder replacement? I mean, these operations have come along so far. And they have restored so much quality of life to individuals. So, every one of these cases has to be managed individually. But if you have a really good PT or rehab professional who knows what's fixable with more training or more conditioning versus, hey, this actually does need some medical attention, I think the aspiration should be, what can I do to get as active as possible? Moving from exercise into nutrition, we saw questions come through that different diets are being talked about and they aren't sure which one they should follow. So, is there a diet that you think is best or does it depend on the individual? I don't think there's a diet that is best. I think there are principles that matter and everyone should find the diet that best allows them to adhere to the principles. So, what are the principles? The principles are not to eat too much and not to eat too little. That sounds dumb, but it's just the reality of it. And I think everyone struggles with a different end of that spectrum. There are some people who just don't like to eat that much. They're like little birds. And as they get older, that becomes a huge problem. They are too frail. At the other end of the spectrum, you have people like me who like to eat too much. And we will spend most of our life fighting against the urge to eat too much. And that also becomes a problem as you get older because the heavier you are, the more weight you're putting on each and every one of those joints. And again, we're thinking about all these things that are working against us as we age, not to mention other complications that come from eating too much. But I would say that in an aging population, the most important thing I want to emphasize is getting enough protein. First of all, I just think for many people, it's kind of hard to get enough protein in. Even I have to pay attention to it. And I don't have a problem eating. But I need to be mindful of, hey, that I get enough protein. It's really easy for me to get all the carbs in the world. It's not, I don't have to go out of my way to eat more fat. But I do have to be cognizant of getting enough protein. And enough protein is a pretty big number. It's about one gram per pound of body weight. So I would challenge each of you to pay attention to, hey, if you weigh 150 pounds, are you getting 150 grams of protein a day? And I would bet that especially for the women here, that's even harder. Now, if you follow a little bit short of that, it's OK. But if you're at half of that, you're really not getting the optimal amount of protein. And as we age, we develop something called anabolic resistance, which means that it is harder and harder for our muscles to synthesize and grow new muscle cells with the given amount of amino acids, which are the building blocks in protein that we get by eating protein. And therefore, we actually need more and more protein to overcome that. So we talk a lot about obesity. We talk a lot about osteoporosis in osteopenia. But there's another condition of aging called sarcopenia, which is the condition of muscle loss. And that's a huge problem. And there's really two ways to, in concert, two ways to address that. One is consuming enough protein, and the other is doing enough resistance training. So again, doesn't matter if you're a vegetarian, doesn't matter if you like a Mediterranean diet, doesn't matter if you like steak and potatoes. If you can adhere to those principles, that's going to make your life easier. Is it harder to adhere to those principles if you're a vegan? Yeah, it's a lot harder. But it's not impossible. I know lots of people who have done it. But looking at a food tracking app in your phone is a great way to spend a week evaluating how many grams of protein you're getting. And I think you'll be surprised that for many of us, it's we're probably underdoing it. Now, I'm moving on to sleep. Sleep is something that you've written a lot about. And you said that you didn't use to take it very seriously. But now you do take it very seriously. And that's true. He goes to bed at eight every night. So why do you think it's so important? I think I'm up till nine these days. Yes, sleep is important. And you're right. I used to probably until 12 years ago. I think my mantra was all sleep when I'm dead. And I, you know, just would try to sleep as little as possible. But but the evidence are pretty overwhelming, especially for for for both near-term and long-term function of the brain that sleep is very important. Now, I think at your age, a couple of unique challenges emerge. I, again, I think most people, once they're over 65 or 70, they're not fighting the will to sleep because they want to be out partying all night. It's more that other things are getting in the way, right? So we know that as a person ages, they tend to sleep a little bit lighter and their sleep architecture tends to change a little bit. We also know that other things get in the way, especially for men, which is it gets harder and harder to make it through a night without having to get up to pee. And, I mean, you know, I'm already at that stage where at least two out of the seven nights a week. If I am not mindful about when I had my last glass of water, I'm going to be up at two or three in the morning to pee and sometimes that's harder to go back to bed after. So what are the things that we have under our control? Well, one of them is absolutely timing of water. Now again, water is super important. The older a person gets, the more susceptible they are to dehydration. The older a person gets, the less reliable thirst is as an indicator for fluid status. So at a livias age, you don't really, we do not need to pay attention to how much you're drinking. First will be the guide. But that becomes less and less true as you age. So you're juggling a narrow problem, which is on the one hand, you have to be mindful about drinking enough. But at the other hand, you can't drink too much too close to bed and that's going to keep you awake. Another thing that makes a huge difference in sleep quality is timing a food. So the longer you can have between when you have dinner and when you go to bed, the better. So we eat dinner really early because we have young kids in our house and that's why I can get away with going to bed at nine because it's still been three and a half hours or three hours since I ate. Another thing is alcohol. So some of you probably drink alcohol and the less alcohol you have in your system when you sleep, the better you're going to sleep. Having a super dark room, having a super cold room is going to make a big difference. And perhaps the biggest thing to sort of make a point about here is consistency of timing, especially on the wake up. So if you could head through yourself to one time, it's what time do I wake up? And if you force yourself to wake up at the same time every day and don't allow yourself to take a nap during the day, and this is a big ask because I know naps can be tempting, it's going to regulate when you end up going to bed by building up enough sleep pressure. So if a person tells me I'm struggling to sleep at night and I find out they're napping during the day, the first thing I want to do is get rid of the nap. I want them to, and then I want to fix the wake up time, eliminate the nap, and then actually let them get into a better sleep cycle that way. Are there any good sleep supplements that you recommend taking and that are not damaging to you? Yeah, there are. I mean, I think one has to be very careful with this stuff. There's certainly evidence to suggest that as we age, melatonin levels go down, and therefore melatonin can aid, at least with sleep initiation. But it's important to know that melatonin really is only the signal to initiate sleep. It's not going to necessarily keep you asleep all night. So if you're not doing all of the other things correctly, melatonin is going to be limited in its efficacy. So before I go down the route of supplements, I want to get everything we just talked about, vis-a-vis the hygiene completely dialed in. And then yeah, if there's still an issue falling asleep, I think melatonin can be viable tool. Although I really want to make sure it's the lowest dose you can buy. They tend to sell this stuff in high enough doses to kill horses. Not necessary. The lowest dose, which is maybe 300 micrograms is probably all you need at most twice that dose, but you don't need anything north of a milligrams. I think one has to experiment a little bit with other things. I find Ashwaganda a little bit helpful for others maybe not so much. Okay, and then we'll quickly touch on the last one, which is emotional health. And a lot of people think that this is not really something that kind of matters in longevity, but you talked about this in the last chapter of Outlive and how it's really important to you and that you've recently discovered it. So do you want to talk a little bit about that and how it's important as people are aging? Well, I think it's actually important at any age. And I think that what I imagine is so appealing about living at a place like this is you have a built-in system of friendship. And I would imagine that that's probably a great source of well-being that many of your peers would be missing out on if they were living alone. I think about how little I see my parents because we live in a different country. So I can imagine that things that we take for granted when we're young like being close to our children or our grandchildren aren't guaranteed when we grow older. And of course, she's signed a contract that says she can't leave Austin. So this won't be a problem for me, but I think social support network and some sense of purpose might be the single most important part of the emotional health toolkit as it pertains to living longer. One of us knows the story of the couple that have been married for 70 years. One of them passes away and then the other one has dies within a year. I don't think these are just anecdotal. I really think there's an understanding of why that happens. So you can do everything right. You can eat the right diet. You can sleep right. You can exercise, but if your emotional health is lacking, then it's like you won't live as long. It's possible, but I would say even more than that regardless of how long you live, it's if it's unhappy, why bother? You know what I mean? So let's say you do live a long time, but you're alone or you're miserable. In some ways, that would be the ultimate purgatory. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

There's no question that opioids have been overused and abused. And there's no question that elicit use of these things has had a devastating impact on our society. But it would be difficult to say that the field of medicine would be better off having never had an opioid to, you know, we just talked about surgery, for example, very challenging to deliver medical care in a hospital without opioids. So the question becomes, what is the most responsible case for oral opioids, which by definition are meant to be used outside of a hospital, not inside a hospital? And as a pain specialist, I would imagine few people are better equipped to navigate the nuance of that question. Yeah, it is a very nuanced question. I think a little preamble first. I don't take money from either the opioid companies. I don't take money from the litigation that's ongoing because there are tens and tens of billions of dollars that play right now. Yeah, I don't take money. And I am not pro-alpioid. I am not anti-opioid. I am pro-patient. I view them as a tool. I view them as a tool much like the other medications, interventions, mind-body, physical rehabilitative complementary tools that we use. They have a particular place. I have a personal deep appreciation for the destruction that these agents can cause. I come from a family, very deep in addiction, very deep. I've lost close family members to opioid overdose. I've lost close family members to alcoholism. I am personally petrified of these drugs. And I have gone through surgeries that the surgeon said, you can't get through this without an opioid and I'm like, I'll be fine. Because my approach is avoidance. With that said, I have learned a long time ago not to project my personal experiences onto my patients. That had to come through age, wisdom, whatever. It is true. Prescription opioids were over prescribed. They were over marketed. They were, you know, there were bad actors doing bad things. It came at a time, but it's not that simple a story. I sometimes get frustrated because I feel like you can make really simple sound bites out of this complex societal issue when it was a perfect storm that hit. Yes, you had a letter to the editor of New England Journal saying that nobody got addicted to on a 38 patients or some nonsense and Purdue and others ran with this and I get that and they did bad things. You also have to put things in the context of what was going on in society. There was growing awareness of pain as there should be. There was growing pressures to do something about it. People have brought up the pain as a fifth vital sign is an example and people have different opinions about that. Did it have bad consequences? Yes, did it have good consequences? Hell yes. Run the counterfactual. Do you want to go back to a time when we're not asking patients after surgery they're paying? Do you want your mother, your daughter? Back in that time, I think the answer is clearly not. But also there was other pressures and Peter, you were witness those first hand. What was going on back in the 90s and the 2000s? After surgery, there was this massive push to get people out of the hospital and put them in their home. We were replacing care in a hospital with care in the home. In the hospital, we had time to see their trajectory. We could tie trade their opioids or whatever or get them tuned up dialed in and then send them home. Now surgery overnight, your home, let's give you a bucket of whatever and the reason for that was surgeons and docks don't like getting called at 3 a.m. for pain control. So pressure to put people out in the home environment on top of it docks get lousy training for pain. Like what is the average seven hours I think in medical school? That's by the way 40 hours of pain. So great if you've got a dog, not so great for patient. So you've got this pressure and by the way not only that on top of that, but now you've got the introduction of patient satisfaction scores. I have to imagine in your private practice you don't have to measure press gaining in patient satisfaction scores but in hospitals everybody does. Or at least they did. I think they're coming to their senses and so one way of addressing the satisfaction give more opioids. So there's and there's more. There's many, many, many pressures that came to bear that helped create this problem of which there were bad actors out there. By the way the perfect analogy to this is the mortgage crisis in 2006 to 2008. If you took a zero-th order view it would be really easy to blame one of the entities. But it is actually a perfect storm, right? I have a slide yet on the open crisis I call it the perfect storm. Yeah. You're absolutely right and in the end and here I'm going to be a little bit reductive when it comes to the docks roles in this. I'm going to borrow from my friend professor Keith Humphrey's. There are three kinds of physicians in the out there. There are the majority of the physicians doing the right thing for the right reasons. There are the next group which is a much smaller group physicians doing the wrong thing for the right reasons. And at the very top of that pyramid, a little group you got physicians doing the wrong thing for the wrong reasons. Bad, those people at the top take away their license, put them in jail. But you had a group of people here in the middle that were doing the wrong thing for the right reasons that they either didn't have the right education. They thought they were helping people. They did they contribute to the problem. Yes, have they gotten educated? Have we, yes, I didn't answer your question though. And let me now circle back and I hope you'll forgive that little bit of saliliqui on my perspective of that 20 years. I don't use opioids as a first line age I never, almost never, end of life, cancer. But usually by then they've tried other things before they're getting to us.

Maybe the easiest way to start is just to kind of talk a little bit about this loaded word of trauma. When I first was introduced to this idea of trauma, I didn't know what it meant. And I think today it's become such a catchy buzzword that everybody is traumatized by something. And I don't know if that represents a pendulum, swing, or a normalization, or what. Why don't we just start with kind of how you describe trauma as a trauma therapist and as someone who's been doing trauma therapy for many years not just in the, you know, in the recent trendy years for whatever that means. But how do you describe this to people? Well, I would have described the same way that you described it initially, you know, back in the day, you know, trauma. I have to have been at Vietnam for a time, 9-11. These are those big tea traumas you hear some folks use that type of terminology. But within the spirit of the work, the need and the work, really embracing a definition, moments of perceived helplessness. Okay. So, you know, that's what's going to activate the limbic system. Right. So, who is to say what one limbic system evaluates as helplessness versus another? Right. So, that's when we get into this, I think, discovery of most of the people that I meet have been meeting over the last several years are the ones, wow. Like, I think I did experience trauma. You mentioned it's much more popular thing. And now are we trending in a different direction. So, and a lot of my work with clients individually or groups, you know, I say, I hate to over-simple five things, but I think sometimes we just make things to damn complex. Okay. And so, you know, a lot of what I do is try to depolarize for folks, you know, and we get into these situations to where, you know, we live in this world of get over it. It doesn't matter versus, like you mentioned, perhaps, stay stuck in it. Right. So, but yeah, moments of perceived helplessness, you know, activating that limbic system. And these things can happen, you know, sometimes at the bridge, you remember we talked about wounding events. And one of those would be a tragic event. You know, life seems to be going one way before this thing happens. And then this thing happens in life changes. And everything is different on the other side of that. Right. A big T event versus someone again who maybe you could describe it as a thousand paper cuts. Right. Someone growing up going through childhood daily, being limbically activated. But moments of perceived helplessness, that stuck for me. And it stuck for a lot of clients. That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about my own life. I'm talking about my own life. I'm talking about my own life.

The most important factor other than time spent in the gym, about how jacked and lean you gonna get, is genetics. And it is a hugely hugely important factor. And so you have to understand that your goals have to be referenced to what your genetic likelihood of achieving them are. The only way you'll find that out is if you work at it for a while and see what happens. But some people work at resistance training for three years, they'll accrue five pounds of muscle, burn three pounds of fat, and they'll be like, this next year, I want to gain 10 pounds of muscle and you go, that's not how hyperbolic curves and asymptotic curves work. You got it backwards. If in three years you gain 10 pounds of muscle, in the next three years maybe you gain five, that's realistic. It does not work in reverse. So it's really, really important to contextualize multiple qualities. One is how much recovery and rest and relaxation time do you get compared to work and being underselect, another is genetics, and the other is age. And so if people say I want to get more jacked and I've, the reason I'm ranting about this, Peter is because I've had many clients who were willing to put in whatever work it was going to be necessary to put in. But they were older, they did not have particularly great genetics. And they had already gotten most of the muscle gain that they were going to get, not all, but most. And they requested a formulation for me of their exercise plan that would get them categorically better gains. And outside of pharmaceutical enhancement, I had to tell them in some way another that was impossible. I ended up telling them that after many years of struggling myself to try to optimize for them and get them those gains, because I'm a little bit of a science guy. I know things I think, I've been fairly successful in my own body, why can't I get these people to gain muscle? And those that trifecto of age, genetics, and how much of a professional bodybuilder or fitness person do you want to be from the next several months, they are the biggest factors for results. And people seem to think that you can just kind of like hack your way to the best plan. And if you just do the right things, you'll get amazing results. It has to be in context unless you like setting yourself up for really unfortunate experiences where you get quite upset. You couldn't do the thing. People will arbitrarily assign themselves an amount of muscle they want. It does not work like that. Put in the diligence, put in the time, see how it goes. Things are going well. You can crank it up a little bit and get a little bit better gains. And just it's going to take time. If things are not going so well, you have to optimize to make them go a little better. But there's outside of the basics. Nothing you're going to be able to do that is going to be a category leap of results. Short of what I estimate in the early 2030s will be the great pharmaceutical Renaissance. Then you can just turn my austat and off and get as jacked as you want. Until we get that realism can be a painful build as well. Well, it'll be interesting to see if even if we can turn my austat and off as adults, if it will have the same impact that it has in the cartoons. When we look at the animals that have my austat and knockouts which are just some of the most enjoyable things to look at. Truthfully it's like, you know, our favorite things in med school were looking at the my austat and knockout chickens and cows. But it's not clear if you took a mature adult and inhibited my austat and if you would get the same benefits. But let's go back to out of the gym. One more thing we didn't discuss. I just kind of want to hear your thoughts on when when something out of the gym is playing a role in your unjackedness is nutrition, off and a factor or is that generally not in other words, is it so rare that someone is not getting enough protein or not getting enough calories that that's the problem is that just not something you see much. It's a thing. Okay. I would assume it's more a thing with women than with men and maybe more with older women than men and maybe even older men when you just see more antibiotic resistance. All of those are true. Okay. It's not difficult to align your nutrition well. Eat mostly healthy foods, some junk here and there is totally fine. Getting it enough protein if you want to be real serious about optimizing your muscle gains, something I can grant per pound protein per day. So if you weigh 150 pounds, 150 grams of relatively high quality protein. If it's difficult for you to meet those goals. If you're a Amazon sells your bars already, don't they? I don't know if I don't think they're an Amazon yet. I don't know if they're a Amazon. I might have gotten there if they are soon. So get you a couple boxes of David bars and put them between meals. And that kind of takes care of protein. The other thing is muscle size is philosophically concordant with being bigger. I know that sounds crazy, but muscles made of stuff. So when someone wants to be 165 pounds jacked at 150 pounds, it's curious how they think that's ever going to happen. Some people just don't eat enough. And what I would say is the biggest problem I've seen with what I assume is your target demographic for this podcast is intermitency, lack of consistency. I've had so many clients in the professional realm older folks that are practicing doctors, lawyers, so on and so forth. Tell me, hey, listen, last couple days, every three or four hours I'll be getting in high protein meals. I've been getting good sleep, dope. See him a week later, you go, hey, how was last week? And they're like, the parts I remember were fun. I think. Then I was throwing up a lot on the toilet. And it you realize that they're going to cook good. It's not beneficial to moralize these things, but they're on track for a few days here and there. They fall completely off the wagon for days at a time. That is a sure fireware to guarantee that you don't get very good gains as if you lack consistency. So if you want to get as jacked as possible within the realm of several months time, seek to eat enough food to get the scale to go up about half a pound per week. So if you're training hard for 12 weeks, should game maybe six pounds or so, consistent six pounds. And if you're eating a grand per pound per day of protein, spread into roughly three to four evenly spaced meals, roughly very roughly a lot of wiggle room there, that really is kind of all you need to know about an attrition for how to get jacked that covers probably 90% of the variance. So I'll tell you this, if you'd describe to me a scenario where you were training for 12 weeks, you gained seven pounds. Almost every day had a grand per pound per protein, almost every day it was three or four meals. And your leg look, I know it's my nutrition, that's the problem, I'd be like, it's probably not. It's probably something else. That great thing about what we talked about earlier with drawing eights and how we could do so few sets of get so many results is that 80, 20 type of rule applies to almost everything else in the human body, including nutrition. So if you're getting enough protein regularly and you're getting enough calories to gain body weight, if you don't get really the muscle gains that you're expecting, there aren't a lot of knobs and lovers for us to pull that are going to get these enormous results. Right. That's kind of the situation for nutrition, but consistency is I cannot say enough things about because you ask people, hey how's your diet? Especially if you're a personal trainer or diet coach, there's this kind of halo effect situation where they want to be seen as a good person, a diligent and worthy of your time. So well yeah, you know, breakfast or live egg whites and for lunch, I'll have a chicken sandwich and for dinner, it's usually piece of fish and then I have a protein shake and go to sleep, shut up. That's one day a week, you lying asshole and he's like, oh damn it, you got me. Okay, that was Tuesday, but Wednesday, I don't think I ate anything until we closed that one business deal and I got really drunk with their CMO. It was a great time. I think we had chicken fingers, but I was they I can't remember. In consistency, especially when you're older, especially when you have lots of stress from your professional endeavors. In consistency is something that professional bodybuilders cannot afford. You for sure cannot afford it. Now, if you do everything right five or six days a week and one day is kind of mad, you'll do great. But if the good days are outnumbered by the, I sure hope my trainer doesn't find out about these days, you're not doing doodilchum.

Let's talk about HDLs. The most confusing of the lot. Now, we've already done dedicated podcasts on this topic. We've spoken at length about this. So we're not going to be able to obviously cover this in too much detail. And we'll point people back towards the previous podcasts where I've done this. But you've already alluded to the fact that HDLs can be protective. This has led many people to refer to HDL as the so-called good cholesterol. And if you're quote unquote, good cholesterol is high, you don't need to worry about anything. I'm not going to ask you to debunk that because the tone of my question already suggests that that's nonsensical. So let's have a modest but brief discussion on how HDLs work. And why is it that when they're functioning, they can be quite protective. But at the same time, maybe say a word about why, unfortunately, we can't figure this out or discern this from blood tests. Yep, and it's so important. And it's so unknown out there in the real world. And in the layman's world, it's probably not known at all. Because they keep reading these idiotic missiles and newspapers and magazines that boy, check your good cholesterol. And even if it's all, you don't have to worry about your bad cholesterol, LDL. It's so sad. It's even sadder that some providers still believe this until their patients that. All right. So it'll basically what we say very quickly to any patients is, as we're teaching them about lipoproteins and what they do, what they carry. We get to a point where we're saying we're not going to talk about HDLs anymore. Now, don't get me wrong. HDL particles are incredibly important to both your cardiovascular system and probably many other tissues in their your body. And that means HDLs perform a lot of functions that, especially with the heart, may be very cardiovascular protective. We also know that some people have the type of HDLs that don't perform those cardiovascular protective functions. They actually perform bad functions to the artery, wall, and plaque, and the heart. So the important thing is you can understand boy. So it's what HDLs do. Let's call that HDL functionality and to make a long story short. Whether your HDLs are doing those cardiovascular functions or they're doing bad things to your vasculature, whatever they're doing has zero relationship to their cholesterol cargo, meaning your HDL cholesterol level in the blood. There are people with low HDL cholesterol, often a signal for a high cardiovascular risk, but not everybody. And there are people with very high HDL cholesterol been told they're protected and we know they are not. A group of them gets at their scorotic disease. A group of them have been described with breast cancer, dementia. So obviously you can't look at an HDL cholesterol in an individual patient and make extrapolations on what the HDLs are doing in that person. The reason HDLs have these either miraculous or disastrous properties comes down not to their lipid content. Certainly not their cholesterol content, but to their two things. Their protein content over 150 proteins have been found to be associated with various HDL particles. And they perform an immense number of likely very necessary actions that need to go on in certain tissues where things may be going wrong. We also know that the coat of an HDL apart from its proteins is virtually all phosphomalypids. So the exact phospholipid concentration of an HDL surface has tremendous amount of what to do can an HDL do wonderful things or bad things. Those phospholipids depend really determined what an HDL can bind to in various tissues. Now of course we can't measure HDL phospholipid content. There are hundreds of phospholipids. You would get a lipid dome coming back that you could pronounce after the phospholipids or at least the fatty acids that are in those phospholipids. And same with the protein. If there's 150 of my guaranteed average doctor might be familiar with about 10 of those proteins and not with the rest of them. So I don't know how to determine a patient's HDL functionality. Clearly the people having adverse effects with high HDL cholesterol have dysfunctional HDLs probably related to that proteome or their phospholipid content and vice versa. So what we tell a person right now is in the year 2024. We didn't always believe this. This bad cholesterol had an origin that everybody believed way back when framing him this to 50 or earlier observational trials. Nobody ever adjusted for APOD in those trials. It wasn't even available when they were doing it. So we now know that the people with low HDL cholesterol who do get after scroases always have high APOB and why? Why do those people have low HDL cholesterol? I've already told you it's the tricks that knock the HDL and the tricks may not be 400 and the tricks may only be 130 which are being ignored. So and what is high in MAPOB? So the proper treatment of low HDL cholesterol in the person you believe has cardiovascular risk is just like Tricks lower APOB. Lower non HDL cholesterol if you can't get an APOB. I don't know what if somebody has a high HDL cholesterol. I don't know what blood test it tell you. I would always check an APOB. We do that 100% of people and if it was high we would treat APOB regardless of an HDL cholesterol level. But I can't look at a man or a woman and say oh my god you're the one with high HDL see who might wind up with dementia or some cancer or something. I don't know. So we'll track those other diseases with other modalities that we have at our Beckon call. I don't know what to tell you about your cardiovascular health if you have high HDL see but I can guarantee you it is not a declaration of cardiac immortality. So it's HDL functionality. And you recall the we had an IC male exchange about a friend of mine who's I've known for many years. He's always had a very high HDL cholesterol and a very low LDL cholesterol. In fact his HDL has routinely been above 100 milligrams per desoliter and his LDL cholesterol has always been below 100 milligrams per desoliter. So this is a guy that by anybody's metric looks like he's in tip top shape. But I did suggest to him at one point you know it would be reasonable to at least do a calcium score because you know I've seen these case studies of individuals with high HDL see low LDL see who still end up having atherosclerosis and it can be quite aggressive because it could be that that high HDL cholesterol is actually a marker of dysfunctional HDL that are having a difficult time clearing it to make a long story short he ended up having quite a high calcium score. And so now he's on very aggressive treatment to take any residual risk out of that ApoB. So he's on double therapy now and he walks around with an ApoB in the 20 to 30 range and hopefully that's going to be sufficient to retard this. But again always a great story. I remember you sharing it I remember you sharing that case with me and I I got why did you do a CAC and because you heard me spout enough you learned your lesson I don't use HDL C to make any decision. Yeah it it distinctly remember reading a case study 10 years ago about a woman who looked just like that and ended up having a very advanced atherosclerosis.

If you tied my hands behind my back and said, Ralph, you can only pick one drug. I would pick one of the newer GLP ones. They're incredible drugs. Now, but that's not what I'm going to do. Even for a lean diabetic? They're a little bit different story, but the answer is basically yes. Okay. But let me narrow that down a little bit. If I had to pick two drugs, I would pick peeled lidsone with one of the newer drugs. And for sure, if you had any kind of renal of cardiac disease, I'm going to pick an STLT2 inhibitor. But I would say, although this study will never be done, if you're a newly diagnosed diabetic, you don't have any cardiac symptoms. Why do you think that the STLT2 inhibitor is not doing all of the beneficial things in that newly diagnosed diabetic that it's doing? And the people who get into these studies already have cardiac disease. So if you have a cardiac problem, I put you on the STLT2 inhibitor. You're less likely to have MI stroke, et cetera. It's doing good things. It's doing, in my opinion, the exact same good thing. And someone who I'm just diagnosing for the first time when I put them on the STLT2 inhibitor. But no one is ever going to do a study. It's impossible. I'm going to take 1,000 people, you have to take 5,000, probably have to take 20,000 people. Nulli diagnosed and then 10,000 going, STLT2 and 10,000 on placebo. I'm going to follow them for 20 years to see who's going to have their heart attack. No one's going to do that study. Are they going to get all kinds of drugs? So no one is going to be able to show. But that's sort of like, yeah, that's never going to happen. But I also don't think it needs to happen in the same way that I agree with you. In the same way that we saw, for example, you know, PCSK9 inhibitors reduced mace in people with secondary prevention. Yeah. Take people who had already suffered mace, put them on a PSPSK9 inhibitor. You secondary prevention reduce subsequent. Well, of course, everybody's using these for primary prevention. Now that's effectively what you're saying. Sure. We already know the STLT2 works for secondary prevention. That may never get approval for primary prevention. But it probably justifies it. It's a way of putting it. Yeah. I agree with you 100%. So just to make sure I'm synthesizing what you're saying, Ralph, if you only get one drug and your price Ignostic, GOP one agonist. Yeah. If you get to add a second drug, you're going to add PO. Yeah. If you get a third drug, especially if you care about your heart. Yes. Yes, yes, yes. And what's amazing is metformin didn't even make the top three in your list. But it's never for it. But it's really my question. Given the metformin is free, yeah. Should we just be adding it the second we put on the GOP one? I don't have any problem with that. Yeah. And also we have to be cognizant of the fact, you know, these new GOP ones. Which is so important. Yeah. But there are $1000 a month. Yeah. So, you know, I want to ask you about that. So, so the just again for the listeners, right? The semi-glutide's Gen 3. The triusepotide is Gen 4. Reddit TrueTide is coming out assuming the phase 3 goes according to plan. Yeah. And Kagee Sema is the new Nova one. Yeah. So here, let's go back to Reddit TrueTide. Yeah. GOP one. Yeah. GOP one. Yeah. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP. GOP one. GOP on. GOP on. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GOP one. GoP one. GOP one. GoP one. GOP one. No one. GOP on. GOP has a bipolar wing con. GoP one. GOPOne. the best drugs in the world, for losing weight. These are the best drugs in the world for saving your beta cell. People have told you that when you eat a meal, 70% of the insulin that's secreted is coming from the GLP-1 and the GIP. People are not talking about this effect on the beta cell. If you want to look at type 2 diabetes, big problems, beta cell failure, insulin resistance. These GLP-1s, they're saving your beta cell. We've forgotten about, we've come so enamored with the weight loss. I don't want to downplay that at all because the weight loss and the lipo-tox is a huge problem that's causing the insulin resistance. But people are forgotten how powerful these drugs are on the beta cell. When I give you this drug and work on the beta cell in the kick out insulin, any negative thing that GLP-1s will be tolering the gated. Now, you may see some good things that GLP-1s are doing that we couldn't appreciate before. So, what are the good things? Some people have suggested that the increase is thermogenesis energy expenditure. I don't believe that. There are animal data. I don't believe this in human. I believe that it's exerting an inorectic effect in the central nervous system. That is, I think, yet to be established. Pretty sure there's studies going on now at the Pennington Institute and maybe also in Orlando where they have these chambers where you can see our eye. Yeah. Yeah. So, I think we'll get an answer about energy expenditure. I would be surprised if they're going to see a clinically meaningful increase in non-involentary energy expenditure. I'm with you. I think it's all appetite. And here's another issue. So, it is very interesting if you look at all these big GLP-1s studies, cardiovascular. What's the reduction in cardiovascular events? Almost uniformly 20%. Old dudes, ex-enitide, etc. Lyricaly-type, new dudes, 20%. Even though the weight loss with the new ones is much greater. Much greater. I suspect in terms of cardiovascular benefit, there is a cap. That once you've lost a certain amount of weight, and you've gotten a certain amount of lipotoxicity, and all the good things that these drugs are doing, you don't go beyond that. Even though you're losing more weight. And also, if you look at the A1C, you know, yes, MontGiro does drop the A1C a little bit more than semigluitide. But they're both pretty powerful. And the other type does a little bit more than cardiovascular. I do a little bit more. But they don't do a lot more. So, I also think there's also going to be a somewhat of a cap on how much you drop the A1C. You know, you get two or a half percent drop. Can you drop it three? Do you need to drop it three?

You talked about the trauma tree, maybe we can describe the roots and branches of that tree in some detail, because that is kind of the meta structure that I think that story gets told. It's the cause and effect piece of it, at least that's how I sort of came to understand it. I've seen many different ways that trauma is described. Obviously, since I left the bridge, I'm a topic, I'm personally very interested in for myself for patients, et cetera. But I'll say, Jeff, I always come back to that structure and I think it is the single best one I've seen. And that doesn't mean that it is the best one. It's just the one that resonates the most with me, because causality means so much in my world. And I like the idea that even though it's not a one-to-one mapping, you know, everyone who experiences this trauma will have this manifestation, clearly not. But if you accept a little bit of the randomness in the system, it's pretty powerful. So maybe walk people through the five roots and the four branches of the trauma tree. The five roots of the trauma tree, that's the what happened to me. So this can be seen through the lens of trauma. And for folks where trauma is just too big of a word, I can't I can you believe I'm saying that on this podcast, but okay, then lose it, right? Highly stressful events. So abuse tends to be the one that we talk really the least about at the bridge, because that's the one that folks tend to know the most about. That's not to mean that we minimize it. There's just so many different forms of abuse, physical, emotional, object, social. So you move over from abuse and you look at something like neglect, which can be very tricky. So many folks that have experience neglect. It's an eye opening experience, because while something like abuse is something that happened to me, neglect is something that failed to happen for me. And so to see that through the lens of high stress or pain, so many different ways one can be neglected. You know, an example that's used there is the little boy that is going to school and he's being bullied, okay? And he's got these parents who are professionals and they're successful and they're busy and they've got the best of intentions, but they're missing it. They're missing the look on this kid's face when he comes in every day and before he gets on that bus every morning, that question's not being asked, what's happening? And so every day, this little person's being required to go to this place where this thing's going to happen and evidently these folks at my house don't have time. Right? And it's important to emphasize, I think the word intention, because intention is not required. Right? How many times have I said, have I heard, well they had the best of intentions that tried that it still happened or in the case of neglect. It failed to happen, okay? In measurement, that's a wounding experience where you've got a boundary violation, right? So that can happen within the spirit of what we call emotional incest, where a child is put in an inappropriate and age in appropriate position. Maybe the child becomes best friend, counselor, and confidant for a mom or dad. And then you've just got this in golfing and measurement, which happens a lot of times in successful families where outcomes and expectations are celebrated and they're not so much the journey. And so that in golfing and measurement can be one of those situations where this is the way to be more of a me mini me relationship between a parent and a child instead of that eye-val relationship. And so in those situations with with the measurement, what typically happens is either drink the kool-aid, get on board with it or what do we do? We rebel. And I'm not going to do anything that looks anything like this. Neither of those things is probably who I was meant to develop into. Yes? I think probably in my opinion the umbrella wound or we're talking about the tree, the root of the tree would be abandonment, okay? And physical desertion or abandonment, that's low hanging fruit as far as I think the general public and knowledge is when somebody leaves, no, a permanent abandonment obviously someone passes away, there's death, there's seasonal, folks leave for work, military deployment, folks go to prison, parents get separated, parents leave, come back. Now emotional abandonment, that's that situation where someone's there, but they're really not there. And this emotional self gets denied. And a lot of times when you're emotionally abandoned, it can be a situation where it's emotionally cut back, meaning the house I grew up in, we did anger, that's what we did. What no k to be sad, what no k to be scared, but we did anger, okay? So it wasn't like we were emotion free. It was just we were cut back to that one, that's the one that I saw the most. And then sometimes it's just the situation where it's cut off and it's splank in no emotion. And I mentioned already the tragic event route of that trauma tree. And so I guess what I mean by the abandonment for me being this umbrella wound is when you abuse me, you abandon me. I keep going to parents because those are the folks that we spend the most of our time within those formative years, but any of these wounds can happen with anybody in our life. And they can also happen any time in life. It's not limited to childhood. When you get something happening when the brain and the body's developing, right? You get something what I call, it gets concrete. That gets cemented. It gets burnt in. And that thing that I'm talking about getting burnt in is how I adapted. All right. I mentioned that the question is what happened to me, but I believe the most important discovery is how I adapted. Okay. We talk about that tree and we're talking about the roots being the wounding experiences. And then that's top of that tree is the manifestations if you will of the woundingness. Right? This is how I survived. Okay. And so you have codependence. You have addictive patterns. You have attachment issues. And a whole slew of just survival strategies. Mala-daptive survival strategies. And as I say that word, maladaptive, I want to wash my mouth out with soap. Okay? Because they are ingenious, damaged control strategies. The way I describe them, it's an old friend that served me well. And perhaps now it's making life hard. And the best example of I can give is that a four-year-old boy, spending a lot of time in his bedroom, playing with the doorclothes, playing loud. So that he doesn't have to hear what's going on in the rest of the house. And then one particular day, he hears his mother in a voice he's has never heard before. Tell his father that she thinks her arms are going to be broken and he has to open the door. And when he opens the door, he sees his mother up against the refrigerator. And in her father, the boy's father, he's got her in a hammer lock, arms behind her. And the little boy's got to do something. Right? And he's really outgunned. Because let's say dad's 35 and he's four. So he starts walking towards them. And the first room on the right is a bathroom. And he goes into the bathroom and he lifts the lid on the toilet and he faints, fakes, acts as if he's vomiting. And the next thing he hears is, do you hear that's your son's getting sick? And dad lets mom go. Now, there's the boy go back into his bedroom and get out a little journal and write down manipulation and deception or very effective in life, probably not. But I say he learned a powerful lesson that day about deception and manipulation. Right? He got him out of trouble. He got his mom out of trouble that day. Right? And old friend that served him well, perhaps has made him life hard. Because healthy folks in adult relationships, Peter, they don't dig deception in manipulation. So that's where my old friend can get in my driver's seat. You could say and make life hard for me. But a very adaptive skill. I would call it a skill. Some folks would use the language of a character defect, not against that language. I just prefer a skill.

The classic study which we'll talk about, which to me should change the entire approach to treating diabetes, it's called the E-DIC study. And in the E-DIC study, what we did is we used triple therapy right from the beginning. And my point of the Banting lecture, the ominous octet, if you have eight problems, why in the world you think one drug is going to correct eight problems? And it could happen in our lifetime. So the point was you need to use drugs in combination. So we said we're going to use what we think are the best drugs at the time. So we started with metformin with Exenitite, an old-time GLP1. It isn't not the Kingpin. This is the pre-Liriglu-type. Yeah, exactly. Because that's what was available. That drug was useless, wasn't it? No, it's a good drug. Wait, short, it's not some of the good times. Yeah, it's okay. But you have to start some of it, right? Let's pay it. It's due as being the Gen 1 OG version of that drug. Without which we might not have. We wouldn't have some of GLP2's appetite. Yes, so it's kind of an old-time. And P.O. Lidso, that was the triple therapy. Okay. And then we said every diabetic patient, they're 315 people in this study. They're having insulin clamps, hyperglycemic clamps, muscle biceps, no one in the world can do this study. 315 people, followed for six years. Okay. So we said, this is what we believe is the appropriate therapy. And then we said, we use the ADA approach. The ADA approach is you start a metformant. Okay. And when you fail, it even not explicitly said the next drug that you use this cell phone you're using is. And then the third drug that's added is insulin. And we said that the goal of therapy was an A1C of six and a half. Six years later, okay. 29% of the people with the ADA approach have failed. The A1C is above six and a half. Six years later, with our approach, 70% of the people have an A1C. It's less than six and a half. Why? Insulin clamp. Huge improvement with our therapy. Okay. This is the EDX study. The three-year data published the six-year data we're writing it up. How much improvement in insulin sensitivity with the ADA approach? Zero. How fun? You have almost a normal beta cell. Ralph, why the disconnect between what you're seeing in the EDX study and what the ADA is promoting? You have to ask the ADA. What's their answer? If I'm a patient, and I'm a physician who's treating these patients and I'm saying guys, I'm confused. I'm looking at the literature. I'm seeing this. I'm looking at your... I'm by the way, I see this with the AHA and cardiovascular guidance. I'm not singling out you or you. But is this simply a question of the pace at which medicine moves is so glacial? That's part of it. Plus, remember, to do three or fifteen people, follow them for sixteen years and do all the stuff we did. It's not equivocal. And why has there not been political pressure? Because the cost of insulin is enormous. And your approach is going to be less expensive. They finally said in 2022, this is statement. The ADA approach is not based on pathophysiology. I view myself as a scientist, as well as a clinician. As a good clinician, I take care of hundreds of thousands of patients and I've done at eight hundred fifty publications. I do clinical research. I work in people. When I do an insulin clamp study and I see an improvement in insulin sensitivity, I do a hyperglycemic clamp. And I see in three hundred fifteen people, your base I'll function. I don't need five thousand people. I don't need, I can't do this study in five thousand people. No one can do this study. But the tools that we're using are so powerful. Look, if I normalize your insulin sensitivity, and I give you a normal beta cell, and your A when C is less than six and a half. And it's, well, it's half of the three hundred fifteen people. Why you, not think that's the best therapy. And now on the other side, I have this metformin issue insulin. And that 71% of the people have failed. There's zero improvement in insulin sensitivity. Zero improvement in beta cell function. Why you think that's a good regimen. And now above and beyond all that, I didn't do this study. This is the great study. GRAD. It's sponsored by the National Institutes of Health. And what the great study said is, and I have to say, this is the third study that's shown when I'm going to tell you. Dr. Robert Turner's United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes. That showed this in year 1990. Stephen Kahn showed this in the adopt study in year 2005. And now we have the great study, 2020. I called this the 15 year revolution. Revelation. We saw what didn't work 1990. Stephen Kahn did it again. Oh, it didn't work in 2005. And now 2020. And I did it. You know what? All show the same thing. And this was a sequential approach. You had to fail on metformin to get into this study. Okay. So you failed in metformin. Then you entered the study. Then we go single agent. I can they they want to know what's the best next drug to add to metformin. I can add a cell phone area. And when see when down in year one. Up straight. I can add. Tell folks how a cell phone area works. Cell phone areas are all time drugs. They bind to the cell phone area receptor on the beta cell and the kick out insulin. And they're very good drugs in the first year. And then they burn out the pancreas. And well, they stop working. Yeah. I mean, basically they don't they kick the can down the road without addressing the pathophysiology. It that I like that way. Yes. Then other drug DPP for inhibitor. Tell people how those work. So a DPP for inhibitor increases your GLP one in your GIP level. And dodgously, it makes your gastrointestinal cells decay in the L cells that secrete the GLP one in GIP. Makes them make more GLP one in GIP. But it doesn't increase the GLP one in GIP enough to really give you a knockout punch. I give you an injection. You all people are out there. Mongero or some of gluteide. That's the knockout punch. Okay. When I give you the DPP for inhibitors. Yeah, they they do increase GLP one in GIP a little bit, but not powerful enough to give you a long lasting effect. So first year, a when C comes down, shhh, a when C goes up. Third drug that this was very surprising to me. This was lyricaly. This is one of the earlier GLP one receptor. I thought that was going to work the best. It failed. It worked in the first year and then failed. And then the fourth drug was insulin. And the the docs just didn't type to ate the insulin enough. So A1C it out and then they failed. So five years later, all four of those regimens added to metphondment failed. Triple therapy, exendotype, an old time GLP one. P.L. litison which people don't appreciate. The only true insulin sets thizer and metphondment. Six years later, you're 70% of the people have an A1C less than seven. And let's just go back. Metphondment is free. The gen one. Exeditize. Exeditize. Basically free. It's basically free now. P.L. litison is five dollars a month. Okay. So we have three free drugs that work better. Correct. Now it's interesting. When you talk about today's triple therapy, which is way more efficacious. Different two of those three drugs are very expensive. Yes. Yes, GLT2 inhibitors are very expensive and the modern day gen three gen four and soon will have a gen five. Yeah. GLP one. They're very pricey. $1000 a month for the. Yeah. Yeah. Now are they great drugs? So the question is of course. Yeah. But I guess the question is, do they do you need to be on those drugs? If your old version of triple therapy? Our old version is incredibly effective. The problem is you can't get people to use P.L. litison. And the reason is the patients are frustrated with the fact that they're retaining water? No. More that they wait game weight. How much weight do they gain typically? How many kilos? 10, something else? I don't go to the 45 milligrams. So at the end of the year, they may gain two or two and a half kilos at the 15 and 30 milligrams. Dose. Okay. If you give P.L. Plus a modern day, G.O.C.1, we've done offset the weekend. We cannot believe. Oh, you lose all the weight you lose with the G.L.P one receptor. So if a patient is willing to go down the path of a modern day G.L.P.1, that's a completely eliminate. Absolutely. And he also gets rid of the edema. Yeah. And believe me, there are anyone sees her down in the normal range. A person shows up with a, let me go up in a one, see, of nine and a half percent. This is a person who hasn't come to medical attention soon enough. And I'm going to give you the answer definitively, but I'm going to let you ask the question. You're happy if they only go from nine and a half percent to seven percent. If they only had a two and a half percent drop, you wouldn't try to get them down to six percent. I would. Okay. What drives me as science? If you understand pathophysiology and this in abnormality and you correct the abnormality, things get better. Okay. So in the Qatar study, and there are 220 people who are so in the study. To get into the Qatar study, you had to be poorly controlled in that form in cell following real. So you had to have failed on this. And the average A1C was about 10. And about a third of these people were symptomatic, meaning they had polyuretholic dips here. They were losing weight. And so the current concept is, and those people, you would put them on a mixed split insulin regimen. You would get rid of the glucotoxicity. You would get rid of the lipotoxicity. And you get their A1C down to six and a half. And then now you could put them back on the oral medications or whatever. And now they respond because you got rid of the glucotoxicity in lipotoxicity. Well, that may or may not be true. So we said, well, half of these people are starting with an A1C above 10 will go on a mixed split insulin regimen. Okay. With a large unit of rapid acting insulin. And the other half, I'm going to go on that old dude, ex-editite, MPO-Ledizo. One that people don't like to use. Okay. Three years later, the A1C in the group with a mixed split insulin regimen is 7.1. And we're very good at insulin. Why couldn't we go lower because we got into trouble with hypoglycemia? Okay. The A1C in the group, treated with ex-editite and PO-Ledizo is 6.1. And so then we said, okay, look, we'll do a subgroup analysis. And so about one-third of the people were, we'll just look at the people who are symptomatic. The starting A1C is 12.2. Three years later, their A1C is 6.1. How long? 6.1. Three years later? 12.2 symptomatic. On which combination? Ex-editite and PO-Ledizo. Without even metformin. Without they had failed, they had failed. But they had failed. To get into the study. Okay. So what we were saying, look, if you have drugs that correct the insulin resistance, that's PO-Ledizo. Again, Ralph, this is almost impossible for me to imagine. I can send you all the papers. I'll publish. But I just, I hope every single family medicine internist, everyone who ever takes care of somebody with diabetes is listening. I also do. Because you're basically saying, we can take these two old sheep drugs and take someone from the most brittle type two diabetes. I mean, a hemoglobin A1C of 12. Very bad. That's door. Correct. You're going to go blind. You're going to have your toes amputated. You're not ever going to have an erection again. And you're going to die of cardiovascular disease or kidney disease or Alzheimer's disease quickly. These numbers, I don't tell you they're right from the paper, and it's a lie. It's over 200 people. And in a couple of years, on two old, cheap drugs, you're normal. Yep. And what makes these studies so solid is we have very sophisticated pathophysiologic measurements. No one can do what we do. So the only way back is those patients are going to have to gain a couple of kilograms of, but of course, if you're willing to now spend a bit more money and switch them from Gen 1 to Gen 3 to Gen 4, GLP 1, Agnist and GIP, then all of a sudden you ameliorate that and you get all the benefits. This becomes an on-issue. If it puts us the sat.

I think the danger in medicine in one of the poisons today is the absolutism. That's out there. And when we go through medical school, it's a, you're just memorizing and regurgitating. And it's this terrible robotic dogmatic, you're still that way. It's still that way. You might even think, say, it's worse. So I was talking this morning that Dr. Will Bruno just graduated, you met him, buddy of mine I'm working with on the appropriateness work. And he just graduated from Oklahoma University School of Medicine. We were talking about all the useless, dumb, remote memorization stuff. He said it was like 50% of his medical education. This bacteria is catalyzed positive, catalyzed negative. It says a branch chain, bacteria. This is a straight chain. It's just, it's my numbing, memorizing the names of enzymes. He says was like 20% of his medical education. What are we doing to these kids? They come to us in medical school, bright, creative, altruistic, they want to do good. Social justice is a generational value. And we beat them with the road memorization of these enzymes and stuff you can look up. We have phones nowadays. You don't have to know the crebs cycle on demand and the trauma bay. And we do this to this incredible generation. We spit them out seven, eight years later. There are different people. The robotic. There are sometimes emotionally disconnected. They've learned to reflex as a survival mechanism in order to do what we tell them to do, which is get through the exams. And the thing that kills me and a lot of students, they see the tension, they feel it, they hate it. They're fighting it. And we do have incredible students that are able to stay normal through the process. But it's a struggle because the culture of medicine says obey. And it's one private company that controls the medical education in every medical school in America. The WMC, a small group of people, get to decide what every doctor learns in their medical education. And these people are dinosaurs, they're forcing these kids to memorize the names of all these. And what's the relationship between the AMC and the company that administers the USMLE and the accreditation? Are they linked in some way, presumably? Yes. Yeah. So that is the private organization, WMC. Small group of people. Is the entity that also regulates the USMLE for licensing and exams? Yes. They collect a lot of money from these students. It's a private organization. So I know I was talking to one of the cool things that we get to do is talk to a lot of people out there in America and get a bit of a bird's eye view on things. And I was talking to conference of medical school deans. And later on, I had met the dean of medical school in San Antonio University of the Incarnate Word. UIW. It's called Great Medical School San Antonio. And she's like, gosh, Marty, you're so right. Why do we have to teach all this wrote memorization and just beat them to regurgitate? I would love, she's told me, to teach self-awareness and understanding uncertainty and focus on applied statistics and the critical appraisal of research. And the fact that there are nerves that extend to every aspect of the hand without having to name 50 nerves in the hand, you know, and regurgitate on the exam. I would love to have a modern day education. But I can't because the WMC dictates what we teach and we have to teach to a test in our test score pass rate. So is this terrible system? And it's connected to the American Board of Medical Specialties, which issues board certification. And recently, they've basically said, in order to keep your board certification, you got to pay us to $300 every two years or so and take a quiz, so we give you, and they're out there like making a ton of money off this new thing. Now they're telling hospitals, you have to require current board certification unless they've paid us or private company. They're not currently board certified. Imagine your college, do you see a staffer? No, Berkeley. Where'd you go to college? I went to Paul King, Canada. Okay, imagine your college college, you and said, hey, you're degree, you don't have it anymore. You got to pay us every year to keep your degree. That's exactly what the American Board of Medical Specialties is doing. They're private organizations, monopoly. My buddy Will was telling me at Oklahoma University's School of Medicine. I probably shouldn't say this, but what the heck? Eight hours on transgender sensitivity training, two hours on nutrition. The two hours on nutrition, he said, we're so pathetic, it might have been better to have zero hours. You know, HDL is good. And I was like the most basic. And I see this awareness among a generation of doctors and students that they know something is missing. That's in right to just be memorizing. There's smart people. That's why you've got a huge number of people. Doctors who are learning from you as you learn, tell you about evolving your position. You're out there learning, reading, talking to people. People are learning with you. And they're hungry for this kind of honesty with where medicine's going. Maybe we should be talking about more chronic diseases differently. Maybe we should be talking more about treating diabetes with cooking classes than just throwing insulin at people. Maybe we should talk about school lunch programs, not just putting kids on a zempit. Maybe we should talk about sleep medicine when we treat eye blood pressure, not just throwing anti-hypertensives at people. First line, second line, third line. Maybe we should talk about ice and physical therapy instead of just surgery and opioids when somebody comes in with pain. Food is medicine, the microbiome, general body inflammation. These are the topics that a generation of doctors aren't starving to talk about. We need more research in them. They want to think differently. But who would fund this research, Marty? I mean, I think when I talk about the pillars of medicine, right, we have nutrition and exercise and sleep and emotional health and then molecules. So let's roughly five things. And you could really add a sixth pillar which would be a waste bucket of everything else that may or may not have benefit. Like sauna, cold plunge, red light therapy, all that kind of stuff. Now, one of those buckets is really taught well in medical school. We really do learn. And by medical school, I mean medical school and residency, right? So you learn about procedures and medications very well. That's what we learned. And I think we do learn that quite well. But to your point, we learn nothing about exercise, sleep, nutrition, and emotional health and well-being. But part of that, if you're not trying to be, if you're trying to be as un-synical as possible, is at least when it comes to molecules and procedures, the way to study it is straightforward. The interventions are easy. You take this pillar, you don't take this pillar, you take the placebo. And then on top of that, there's a financial engine that supports the use of that which justifies the cost of the studies. But when it comes to doing research on many of these other things, outside of philanthropic and government causes, such as the NIH, it's very difficult to get any of that research funded. So how would we create a new medicine around something for which it would be so difficult to really gather the right evidence? Or would you argue, look, we already know enough today that we could teach off the current practice? The NIH could not be more broken. They've got these siloed funding centers as you suggested. And on, let's your research falls under kidney, you know, cardiovascular disease, and it's what the old Belt and Sospenders professors there want to fund. It's a legacy system where if the senior guys who've done the research and made a name for themselves on an idea like it, they throw money your way. I think the disruption is happening right now. Private industry, you're seeing private industry fund research on different probiotics and bacteria you can introduce. We're seeing private industry fund research. They funded our research on price gouging and predatory billing and other big blindspot and medicine. I do think a lot of our work is not funded by the NIH and people come up and say, my gosh, it makes sense what you're saying. Why don't we have a big study on natural immunity? And we could draw the blood of these people. I mean, how many studies have you put out there where you've said, this study needs to be done? It's not what falls in line with the NIH silos, but it needs to be done. The classic example, a practice right now that is surging in the United States is taking a newborn and cutting the frangulum under their tongue, either routinely or if it's a foreshortened tongue. Some people believe in routine and other people believe and only in foreshortened and other people believe never should be done. I don't know what the truth is. I've goodie and teeth friends. What is the rationale for doing this? The rationale, the claim, is that it'll improve breastfeeding and lactation rates, that it may help. There's claims out there that it may help with sleep, apnea, with speech impediments. I think they're outrageous claims when it goes that far. These are people who are also cutting the frangulum under the upper inside, lit, and sometimes the side of the tongue and the frangulum under the tongue as all. Yeah, so there's been babies that don't breastfeed because they're in pain from this. And this practice is taking off like crazy. It's driven a lot in dentistry. It's in that lactation world of lactation consultants could refer you to some, but this dogma that has never had any scientific evidence to support the claim. Now, I'm not saying it's being tested. No. I'm not saying it's bad or wrong, but I'm saying this desperately needs a randomized control trial. Desperately, just like the peanut allergy study, just like the antibiotic study, do it in a cohort of a couple hundred randomization, follow-um, take a look, five years, or whatever that study design is needed. Who's going to fund that study? Big pharma? No, fat chance. The NIH, not one of their clinical centers. The American Academy of Pediatrics, with their $1,000 year membership of all these $130 million in revenue they take in the year. No, no, they haven't. Possibly, no interest. This is the brimuda triangle of healthcare in the United States and worldwide. We desperately need to fund things where there are ideas, people are doing things, and they're doing them in a black hole with no scientific evidence. We need to do the appropriate study. We could answer the controversy in less than a year. I hate to mention COVID. We saw this during COVID. All those COVID controversies could have been answered in three weeks, or a month or two. They could have done the clinical study immediately, done the randomization answer the question. Instead, they have one went on TV and oh pine about it. It's easier. The NIH controls $80 billion. What are they funding? They were funding this cruel dog experiment at the University of Iowa, trapping these dogs and having these sandflies bite their heads in these cages and concluding in the article that is published, Leschbonius is from dog to dog via sandfly bites. Who gives a shit? Okay, this is where our tax dollars are going, and then we're not funding basic clinical research out there. Why do you think that is? I think it's just, I don't think it's diabolical, I think people can't set in their ways. I think it's Leon Festinger's cognitive distance. I think people think, oh, this would be interesting. Find out whether or not, what's the average diameter of stones on the substrate? Oh, be interesting. No, it's not interesting. I'm seeing it a lot now with health equity. I think describing disparities in health equity in my personal opinion is not interesting at all. We know there are massive disparities in health equity. Saying, oh, there's also a health disparity and chronic myloginous leukemia, according to health. That's not interesting. We've that's known. What's interesting is what you're doing to reduce disparities in health equity. And yet half of the papers now, and I go to these conferences are on differences and so and so by race and socioeconomic set, yeah, it's been known since the beginning of time, the number one driver of health status overall and the population is the socioeconomic status of that community. So I think it's just, I don't know, intellectual laziness, the old guard, there are fresh ideas in medicine. But when you show up in medicine and you've done this, you show up in the academic world as a resident or you get a peek of it as a student. You have big ideas. Hey, this thing about the microbiome and the rates of this and all fits and maybe chronic diseases have gone up with antibiotics. Whatever the big idea is, you're told no, no. You need to pick one narrow area and work on an incremental little scientific paper that'll go to the abstract of this, Southern surgical society or whatever it is. And that's how the NIH funds their research, little small ideas. We need big ideas. They don't fund that. We need new ideas on cancer. What's the ROI on our cancer funding? Paper at Ask Go showed that a vast end increased at Cleo Blastomas survival rates by two months. Well, patients want to know what's the cure? Did you cure anyone else that you haven't cured before? If that's the top paper at Ask Go our investment on research has a terrible ROI and I think it's because we're not funding big ideas. We need Ben Franklin thinkers. Ben Franklin intellectually curious starts thinking about ophthalmology, and then it's the events by-focals, is interested in electricity, events the lightning rod, events a stove called the Pennsylvania stove, which is an amazing invention. He's a size, it true scientists. We don't have Ben Franklin thinkers today in medicine. I think the NIPRESOT is one thing. If you don't have them or you think we don't have a vehicle to fund them. We don't have a vehicle to encourage them. I think, and I'm just saying this because I've said this to other people, you're one of those Ben Franklin type thinkers. You think broadly about healthcare. That's what we do on our research team is, you're told in MedSchool day one, hey, here's the netter textbook of anatomy, pick an organ. You're gonna have to focus on just one, which one do you like? Do you like kidney, do you like brain, heart, you have to pick one. You're like, well, what if I'm interested in the whole body or the system or the way we deliver care or the way we fund research or approve drugs or what if I'm interested in all of it? What if I'm interested in gun control and violence prevention and I'm interested in trauma and all everything? You're basically told, no, no, stop thinking like that. You got a pick an organ. I mean, I went to the gym as a medical student and there were some docs there where I'll see you's the gym and they would ask me every day. What are you going into again? And I want to be like, I'm a second year medical student I don't know, is that okay? I don't know. And I think you can get a specialization and then come around and get off the hamster wheel. There's a lot of these docs down saying, I don't care about my RVU bonus. I want to do something more meaningful and there's start in businesses. 50% of our medical students at Johns Hopkins are getting a second degree with their medical degree. They don't want to live the life that they see, with these guys who are like, I got four NIH grants and presented, and I got 60 papers. I mean, I hit that point where I was like, okay, I've published 300 scientific peer review articles. Nobody's reading them. I don't think I've made beyond maybe a couple meaningful contributions. Like, what are we doing? We've got a focus on impact. So everything we do now and our research group focuses on impact. And that's how we got into the science of medical errors, frailty as a condition, predatory billing and price gouging in medicine. You know, 62% of Americans say, and I've heard so right, they don't trust the medical profession to build them fairly and they avoid care or delay it for fear of the bill. So you can now have the cure for pancreas cancer, but that cure is only instead of being 100% effective, but it's only 38% effective because you've lost, you've lost that connection, right? So rebuilding trust is the hottest topic right now in medical journals essays.

I think the time-in-bed restrictions pretty interesting and talking with sleep physicians who also implement this, it seems quite draconian at the outset. It can be remarkably difficult. They're giving people five hours in bed, max, and they're really trying to force sleep pressure. How do you navigate that and how do you decide how hard to squeeze the tube at toothpaste? Let me draw a line in the sand between what CBTI says broadly as a treatment and then how I've actually implemented it in my clinic. So what CBTI will have you do is they will have you as a, and I say you as the Royal you, your patient. They will have you felt something called a sleep diary, and this is a paper diary that covers seven days. We have it, but because if I asked you how well you slept four nights ago, you have a food frequency questionnaire and epidemiology. Totally. Totally waste the time. So you have to every morning. Okay, and of course, I'm not obsessed with it being exact because I'm much more interested in the picture pattern of it. Right, if you asked someone to fill it out for just one day and then worked with that, you'd have a totally distorted picture. You wouldn't know what you're working with, but what classic CBTI does is they'll take that seven day sleep diary. And then they will actually use the time you got in bed, time you fell asleep, how many times you woke up, how long you were awake, what time you woke up. It does a bunch of, it has all of these different questions in it, and you can use that to calculate how much time a person was sleeping on average over the course of the week. And what CBTI does is it says you patient, why don't you pick what time you want to get up every day and then you would ostensibly pick a time. And then the CBTI clinician would say you're sleep log said you were naturally sleeping six hours a night, right? The clinician would add 30 minutes to that and make it six and a half hours and then work backwards from your chosen wake time. So let's say you chose a wake time of 7 a.m. I would work back six and a half hours to get to a bedtime for you of 12 30 a.m. And of course, that's the bedtime of your childhood dreams, right? Imagine going to sleep over and your friend's mom saying, all right kids, you can't go to bed until after 12 30 a.m. Right kids love it adults think this is torture, right? Because it is. So that's what classic CBTI would do. But six hours being the number six and a half. Yeah, right. You get the half hour of race. Great. And as far as I know in CBTI, almost nobody's restricting less than five and a half hours. Five and a half seems to be the floor. Okay. So I've not seen people restricting to five. There are a subset of people and I don't know the data on this because I don't even know if the data exist on this, who are what we call genetically short sleepers. Yep. And these people know who they are. They have always been like this. They've, they've, it's not, and it's not upsetting and distressing and causing them grief, right? Yeah. Those are, we're not talking about those people. Okay. So that's what CBTI will do. And just to be clear, let's say five and a half is the floor six is typically what you would do. So six and a half in bed. So we'll know if, if your body is producing six hours of sleep, I add 30 and I get six and a half. Yep. If your body is producing only five and a half, I add 30 and you get six. So I do this computationally for each person. I see. So when I bring my sleep log to you and you've seen that for the past week, I've been spending 12 hours in bed. Uh-huh. But by my recollection, because I'm looking at the clock when I'm not sleeping, I'm only getting six and a half hours of sleep in the ten or 12 hours I'm laying there. You're going to say, oh, okay. That's your sleep time. Take that, add 30. That's your time in bed, working back. I got it. Yes. And here's where, um, what I do slightly different, but also keeps the, the whole theoretical underpinning is not disturbed at all by the way that I do this. So how many times have you had a patient come to you and say, oh, you know, I really want to be that person who wakes up at five and gets a go on my day. I want to get my exercise in. I want to get my meal prep in and do all this stuff. And you're like, oh, okay, cool, cool. So you want to be a five and prison. What time you get up now? All like 11. And I'm like, oh, okay. All right. Okay. So this whole part in CBTI where people choose their wake time. That's not a thing for me. In my clinic, we play a game called Democracy within a dictatorship. And what that just means is that instead of just letting patients cart blanche choose their wake time, I actually look at their sleep. Dairy and I let them think they're choosing their wake time. And if I agree with it, they will have chosen. If I don't, the dictator comes in. And I look at their diary and if they are getting up at seven a.m. Six a.m. Seven a.m. Six a.m. Six a.m. Six a.m. Six a.m. And they say, oh, I want to wake up at eight thirty. I will say, well, we have no evidence that you can sleep until eight thirty. That's not realistic. But we have evidence that you can sleep until six because four of the last seven days you made it until six. So six o'clock is your wake time. And this is not anywhere in CBTI. I've spoken with a lot of my colleagues who do CBTI and asked them how do you choose a wake time. And there is no standardized method. But by using this method, I'm definitely making sure that I'm at least gating the patients sleep at a reasonable time. Because if I let that patient just choose eight thirty a.m. as their wake time. And they were only producing six and a half hours of sleep. They're going to bed at one in the morning. They're going to bed at two in the morning. And they're getting up at eight thirty because they chose their wake time is eight thirty. But really they're going to wake up at like six or seven. And then I'm not even going to cash in on the full six and a half hours that they should be getting a bed. So I've added in this component of my own of setting their wake time to be a much more reasonable time. And then what I do before giving them a bedtime, I give them a week at that wake time. And I see how much sleep is your body producing with this new wake time. Now, let's say you're doing this sleep log. And they're spending eight hours in bed getting four hours of sleep. Let's say they're getting five hours of sleep, eight hours in bed, and then they're taking an hour nap a day. So they're removing all their sleep pressure during the day by taking that nap. But they kind of need to take the nap because they're not getting enough sleep. So they're in this vicious cycle. So do you add the hour of nap time back to sleep and say actually you're getting six hours of sleep. Let's do the exercise based on five plus one plus a half six point five. No, no, no, no, no. We want to extinguish that sleeping during the day thing. So there's a difference between a person without insomnia, healthfully using naps and there's a person, and then there's a person with insomnia who's tapping, tapping to compensate for what's not happening at night. So I think that, to best explain this, I should just finish this example of the wake time thing. So if people, because this directly ties in, if I'm setting their wake time and then I'm seeing how much time they're actually producing sleep at that first week when I give them the wake time, I don't give them a bedtime. I don't even do time in bed restriction that first week because for some people, setting a wake time solves the issue, which is kind of nuts, but one or two of every eight patients who I see because I see patients and groups of eight, will have a huge improvement from just having a consistent wake time because their body actually recalibrates and they start getting sleepy at a more consistent time each night because they're not doing that. And I do say in that first week, I take away the naps as I don't care how you slept last night. You need to just stay awake until you're ready to go to sleep, no naps for now. Now, when I have patients, probably older patients like 80 and up, I'll be okay with an app, but I'll often, at this stage, I'll say, look, nap, you have a nap opportunity of 25 minutes. And a 25 minute nap opportunity means you set the alarm for 25 minutes, you get in bed and it's going to go off 25 minutes later and that's when you get up. I don't care how long you actually slept during that time because I don't want you going into phase three or phase four, slow wave, deep sleep during the day because that's what's going to really mess you up at night. Right? A stage two sleep nap is not really an issue during the day as much. It's not going to be so bad, but at this stage of the person with the zombie that we're talking about, I don't want them taking one hour nap in the day. And they come back that second week having done the wake time that I said, and I then recompute how much time and bad they're spending, and then I still use that wake time, and I then calculate their bedtime. And then the true time of every restriction begins week two. Okay, but just to be clear, if you have someone who is using a nap to compensate for their insomnia, yeah. Step one is just kill the nap. Kill the nap. Then let the cards settle where they may be for a week. Recalculate actual sleep time and then go through the exercise as described. Exactly.

So, be to another follow up is, you know, earlier you mentioned that there might be some risk factors for why someone might get screened for bone health earlier. So, kind of what should people be aware of if they're thinking about if there may be at risk and what are some of those red flags they should look out for. So, you know, it sounds cliche, but family history matters. And this is actually not something I appreciated until we were getting ready to do this podcast. I realized genetics accounted for up to 50% of bone health. So, having either parent that's had a history of a hip fracture, that's a huge red flag. There are other things we want to care about, right? So, we want to look at fractures related to mild or moderate trauma. So, you look at somebody who's had a fall from standing height or less. That's, you know, someone who's fallen from such a low height and still had a fracture. That's a huge problem. Another thing we look at is in female athletes. This is really common actually in female endurance athletes, especially runners, where weight is such an important part of the sport, right? You know, it's, you're, you're punished a lot in terms of performance for extra weight, same as true in cycling, not as true in swimming. So, when you look at high end female endurance athletes, we care a lot about, you know, poor nutritional state, which can lead to a very low BMI, low body fat percent, and eventually estrogen deficiency. So, these interrelated conditions of the sort of low bone health hormone dysfunction and low BMI are kind of collectively known as the female athlete triad. So, that's another big risk factor, low BMI in general. So, anything below about 18 or 19. And then the other thing we look at is, is people who have had high exposure to drugs that affect bone metabolism. And I think the most common of these that we see is corticosteroids. Now, that's not always systemic corticosteroids, you know, it's not always people that have had to take lots of steroids for no less. It can also be inhaled corticosteroids. And we see this actually in a number of patients who had significant asthma as children and used a lot of inhaled corticosteroids. So, those are, that's not an exhaustive list, but that's a pretty good list to sort of get you thinking about who is at high risk here. Yeah, and you mentioned it a little bit at the end there, and we did receive a lot of questions on it, which are around the various drugs that may impair bone deposition. So, anything more you want to say, I know you mentioned a few of them there, but anything you want to double click on. I think the last big risk factor we look for, and we just saw a patient recently who didn't have any other risk factors except for the fact that they have a 20 pack your smokestory that is more than 15 years. So, he barely think of this person as a former smoker because they've been so long without smoking, but you know, they did smoke for 20 years prior to quitting. And that is an independent risk factor for low BMD, which in this case, this patient had very low BMD, and we had to get to refer them to an endocrinologist. Do you see anything with patients? Because you know, we know that BMD, the 8 to 20 is such a big age range. And if you have someone who is smoking kind of in that age range while bum mineral density is really going up, do you see it become kind of even worse? Yeah, that's a great question Nick. So, I didn't know this until again, we got thinking about this study, but there are actually data looking at never smokers. So, we have some smokers, early smokers and late smokers. Early smokers were defined as people who started smoking before the age of 16 and late smokers. Well, it's hard to believe late is considered after 16. But the early smokers were far more impacted. So, when you look at these people later in life, the never smokers, not surprisingly had the best bone density. The early smokers had the worst and the late smokers were in the middle. I don't know the stats about teenage smoking today. I kind of assumed it was on the decline, but you know, this would certainly be yet another reason to avoid smoking at a young age. Even if, you know, that person goes on to stop at the age of 20. And even if their risk of lung cancer becomes relatively moot by the time they're, you know, 50, they may still pay a price for that with bone mineral density throughout their entire life. Yeah. And on the topic of what you talked about a second ago, we also did receive a lot of questions around various drugs that could impair bone deposition. You mentioned a few of them earlier, but is there anything you want to double click on there? So again, you know, corticosteroids, I think have to be considered the first and most important one of these drugs you want to be considered about. And they, you know, I think they, they do a couple of things, right? So they kind of impair the mineralization of bone by favoring bone reabsorption during the early phase. And then they kind of inhibit calcium absorption in the gut. But this, this area comes up, this, this, this comes up over and over again, right? Anything that impairs calcium absorption is going to be problematic. And it really doesn't need to be mega doses of steroids. People who are familiar with long-term use of steroids might recognize that a dose of prednisone of five milligrams a day is not enormous. You know, a prednisone dose of five milligrams a day is, I mean, I think it's actually still up kind of big dose because it's about the a physiologic equivalent of how much hydrochloroid, you know, how much cortisol a person makes. But nevertheless, you know, that amount is associated with significant reductions in bone mineral density and increased risk fracture within as little as three to six months of initiation. Again, just as we saw in the figure that showed how women are primarily losing a trabecular bone, it's the same here with with cortisol. So that doesn't mean you should never take corticosteroids. Or lots of conditions where corticosteroids are going to save your life. It means you have to be aware of these things and you're going to have to work a lot harder to counter their effects. And we'll talk about some of those things. Another class of drugs that I get asked about a lot is proton pump inhibitors. PPI's. And, you know, I would say the data here are less clear. So there are studies that have assessed the relationship between PPI's and they do show an increase in osteoporotic fracture. And the most likely mechanism suggested is again intestinal calcium absorption. So anything that interrupts that which then goes on to interrupt osteoclast formation and bone remodeling. But I want to be clear that this is not nearly as well understood as the case is for corticosteroids. So there are a number of observational studies that show an increase in the risk of fracture. And then we look at large meta analyses that don't find a statistically significant decline in BMD with PPI use. So again, I think you just have to be smart about this right. There are lots of reasons we're going to put patients on PPI's. If a patient has significant reflux that is not amenable to other treatments, we're going to put them on a PPI. If a patient has barat's asophagus, we're putting them on a PPI. It's non-negotiable, right? So it just means that we have to be thoughtful about is the drug really indicated. And if it is, what else can we do to reduce the risk down the line? I think the final class of drugs that tend to have a similar association, although probably from a different mechanism, are some of the anti-epileptic drugs. And one in particular, which is phenatone. So a super common anti-seizure drug. Here I think the mechanism might have more to do with the liver inducing an enzyme called cytokrome P450 that leads to increased catabolism of vitamin D. And that, of course, you'll may recall, will lead to decreased absorption of calcium in the gut. I don't know if anybody's done a study, but it seems to me that a no-brainer study would be taking patients on phenatone and supplementing them with lots of vitamin D to see if you can overcome that. But again, you know, phenatone is a common drug within the world of anti-seizure meds, but in the big picture, no-where near is common as corticosterids and proton pump inhibitors. So I think what we're going to go next is starting to look at what people can do to improve the bone out. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Can you say more about the neural part of this? I find this to be a very interesting piece. And all the pieces you've described, and I agree with everything you've said, I know the least about that component. Yet I've heard people talk about this, right, which is you cannot discount the CNS fatigue, literally that comes from doing this type of work. And I remember as an example, watching sprinters train. And obviously people understand that sprinters, I shouldn't say obviously. But if you study the mechanics of sprinter, you realize it really comes down to force per unit mass. It's how hard they can hit the ground with their foot relative to their mass. And so these are athletes who need to be almost comically strong without gaining any excess weight. So even though we look at sprinters and we think gosh, they're very muscular, it's their strength to weight ratio that's really profound. And so they have to train in a way that minimizes hypertrophy and maximizes strength. So for example, they'll focus heavily on exercises where they can push the eccentric phase, and it taught me the concentric phase and not the eccentric phase. And it was explained to me once that doing this allowed them to also spare themselves from some of the neurologic fatigue. Is there any validity to that, or is that just true, true and unrelated? And what is actually happening in both the central and peripheral nervous system during the recovery phase between those say three day or six day bouts when you're trying to recover a system after the set, you just described. Yeah, I'm glad you brought the peripheral. One of the big misconceptions is that there's muscular fatigue, connective tissue, systemic fatigue, blood vessels, and everything, still after hard has to pump. But then people just say, oh, and then the central nervous system, the peripheral nervous system is a thing too. And it also takes substantial amount of fatigue. So I would just say the nervous system takes fatigue. And it takes fatigue in the same way you would expect any system that's pushed to this limit to take, various components of it, experience, wear and tear, various substrates, deplete, and need to be repleated. So I can bring up two examples. And in the just generally kind of the axon of any single given nerve, you have a balance of electrolytes in an inside and outside, which allows the excitation contraction, or sorry, which allows the proliferation of the electrical signal. But you run that system long and hard enough. And it starts to get out of whack to where you try to get another impulse going. And it's like, ugh. So it needs to do a lot of pumping to take what is supposed to be inside the cell. There's now outside the cell to get back in there to a level of concentration that would you would be fully recovered, not typically, that happens quickly. But if you run that system a lot, there are various points at which some of the structures that are supposed to do that. There are also proteins. You use them enough, and they start to kind of break a little bit. And you need to produce more proteins to replace the channels themselves that do that pumping back and forth. And so that, typically, protein construction is measured on the order of minutes hours and days, not seconds. So that is a very good imagine. It is like a transatlantic cable. And like you throw enough current through a cable and the fish nibble at the cable enough, you need to restart replacing the cable. Now, if you're really, really using the crap out of that cable, yeah, it's going to like undergo some not-so-great things. And then closer to neuron-traner on junctions or the neuromuscular junction between the neuron and the muscle itself, you have vesicles of neurotransmitter. You pump enough of those in, you get the cool stuff of communication. You can run low under a transmitter, and then like the electrical signal arrives and the neurotransmitters are like, sorry, not enough of us to do anything. And see you experience profound weakness, which is expressed as fatigue, expressed as weakness. And you need time to reconstruct a lot of those neurotransmitters, place them into vesicles, have those vesicles translate to the synaptic cleft and then like sit there and get ready. And that is a process that typically happens rapidly, but if you really exhaust it, can happen over some time, really a steer illustration of that is, and I've never done this, I've just heard about it. I will take credit for doing many other drugs, but I've never tried ecstasy, but if you clear enough of that neurotransmitter, you don't feel the same the next day, you feel different. And it takes a day or two to get back up to those levels. The similar types of mechanisms are at work when you are going to very close to true failure and let's say a squat or a leg press. I mean, you're cooking your muscles, but every single capacity of the nervous system to say push, push, push is at maximum. And see you end up doing quite a bit of homestatic disruption all the way along the axon, all the way through the cell body, and in the synaptic cleft, neurotransmitters get everywhere, dunk, building up. That's going to take some time to fix, which is why we see typically that people don't regain their prior strength after fatigue and resistance exercise for depending on a hard you go, anywhere from several hours to several days. And so if you have really, really hard workouts, it just might take several days for you to be able to have a really, really hard workout again for that same muscle group. Luckily, because a lot of this is peripheral nervous system based and local musculature based, if you train the living crap out of your chest one day and your triceps, you can train back and back steps which have nothing much to do with those movements, pretty robustly the next day, much of the fatigue is local. It's not all local. The central nervous system, brain and spinal cord, specifically the brain, has a variety of mechanisms by which it controls your central fatigue. I remember I think Tim Nooks was a big proponent of the central government of the world. And though in the explicit terms, which he described it might not be the case or somewhat close, there's absolutely central governing going on. And when your body can tell through a variety of mechanisms that like, you know, pretty messed up here, it's gonna pull back on how hard you can do anything. And some of those neural structures might even be operating at full bore, but they're just degrading enough to where full capacity isn't full capacity anymore. And so in all those variety of ways and many others, your body after a humiliating ceremony for tea will need to back off. And if you think you can train ultra-hard for the same muscles twice a day every day, you are welcome to try it. In medical supervised context, you won't last. So it's a really good that we have brake planned in, but it's also really cool because weight training is one of those things where you get a dose of it. And for days after, under the hood, it's upgrading your body. And your nervous system and your muscles and your tendons. So it's really neat that you can do 20 to 30 minutes of intense physical activity and resistance training. And then for days later, be experiencing the actual accrued benefits. Not a lot of things in life like that. It's kind of like getting a college degree for what you pay money. And then earning money with it years later, ostensibly anyway, I've never earned a new money or had a college degree. But that's kind of how it works and you have to understand that when you're entering the gym, if you're training properly, you are asking a lot of your physiology, you are pushing it to its limits. If you're not, you're not using your time best and you're not getting the best outcomes because a lot of the absolute best results come from pushing very, very hard. Not necessarily to limits, but you have to test the limits. Like, from what I understand, you have a history of boxing as that correct? So like, if you just shadow box, it's nice. It helps, but going hard rounds against multiple fresh opponents, even if you're not like collapsing on the floor after, you know that like you're looking at the clock and you're like, if you don't push it to that level at some point, you're not fight ready. So in order to be your best boxing version, every now and again, you have to push it to discomfort, grow, test, discomfort, same with the body. It's nice that you get to do that every now and again, and then you collect the benefits afterwards. So interesting how what we could do up to a certain age, and I don't know what that limit was because I really stopped pushing to those limits at about the age of 19. So I don't know if the limit was actually 20 or 21 or 24, but I never trained maniacally after the age of 19. Every time I've done since 19, has been smoking and joking. Okay, but what I could get away with then was ridiculous. And I attribute it only to two things, right? Youth, obviously with youth, I mean, stupidity and inexperience and all the things that come with youths, but also like, having started very young. So age 13 to 19, I was training literally six hours every day except Sunday, Sunday, as I only trained two hours per day. And I look back at the workouts I did and I think like, I don't know how I did it. And more importantly, like how much better could I have been if I didn't train that much? But it's a good question. It wouldn't be uncommon for me to do six super hard rounds of sparring with three fresh opponents. Yeah, one guy, a weight, class below me, one guy in my weight class, and then one guy for two rounds, a weight class above me. In sequence? Yes. Six straight rounds. You definitely do that backwards, but you probably know that now. No, well, I kind of wanted, yes. And I would make it up sometimes. But actually, it was much harder and more dangerous to do it in that way. And I kind of liked that. Oh, I did it. But idea that the guy that could hit the hardest was my last year. Yeah, when you were the most fatigued, yeah, I just had it at the last act. Yeah, geez. But I would be in the weight room six days a week. Sure. Like it was just running hard. Anyway, it was kind of crazy. But I want to go back and just put a bow on something you said before, because I think it's so important. And it's going to come up again, again. I want to make sure people understand the point. Because your example was great, by the way, the non-linearity of force is very counterintuitive. It is not obvious why, for example, being on a bike, even if you were riding at a very high level of power. So remember on a bike, your leg is going around at 90 times per minute. So even if you did a one minute all out, that's 90 reps or call it 45 reps. That's nothing compared to when you're doing an all-out set for 10 reps in the gym. It's such a difference in force. And I love the example of the wifful ball going by you versus a 50 cow. The 50 cow could kill you without hitting you. The wifful ball you wouldn't notice. So I think this idea of the profound level of difference in tissue destruction is a very important one. I think this idea of the profound level of difference is a very important one. So I think this idea of the profound level of difference is a very important one.

are most people even capable of pushing that hard. And because I want to bring it back to where we were a minimum, a moment ago, which was, hey, for a person who just wants to train 30 minutes twice a day, they can get all the benefit in the world. But there's an asterisk there, right? Which is that 30 minutes twice a week is going to be the most difficult 60 minutes total of your week. So going back to Dorian for a second, you know, what is what has to be true to be able to only train that much in terms of total hours, volume, however you want to measure it, how much work needs to be done in that window of time. For the, not the Dorian, he eats example for that. No, for the Dorian, let's start with Dorian. Like why, why could he produce such a massive physique? And again, let's just normalize all the drugs. We're going to talk about drugs later. So we'll explain where the drugs are and aren't helping. But all the drugs in the world aren't going to give you that physique. If you can't generate the destruction of the muscle. Like, is that just the sort of thing where virtually nobody can actually push that hard? That consistently, or was it just that nobody thought to do it the way he was doing it at the time? Plenty of people thought, that's how it works. Mike Menser did that. Only in a more extreme version and even Dorian did. Lots of Menser accolite did it. It's not the most efficient or the most effective way to train. But it is quite effective because if you go very close to failure with heavier heavy loads, all of the subcomponents of your musculature, your motor units, which is the motor neuron and all of the cells that it activates, they'll get recruited and they will be asked to work to the limits. They'll take on a great deal of damage and disruption. They'll sense a ton of tension and they'll produce great results for you. The other thing is that the relationship between both intensity and volume of how much you do work in the gym, especially volume, is curvilinear and hyperbolic. So it looks like like this and if people are just listening to this, it means if you do one all-out heart set per muscle group per week, which is not what Dorian did roughly 14 of those per week per muscle group. You get maybe something like 30% of what you could have gotten with five sets. Why is that doesn't? Because your body has very good sensing mechanisms for tension and metabolites and all the other things that cause muscle growth. And when it detects that you're pushing on the pedal, it'll give you a real good wallup of result. You keep pushing on the same pedal over and over, and the systems are greatly de-sensitized to giving you more muscle growth. The biggest reason that is is probably because the human body is attuned and evolved almost entirely in hundreds of millions of years before we were even human of what isn't a matter of context called food insecurity. And so in order to make a real good case for allocating that much to muscle growth, you're going to have to have a real distinct signal to ask your body to put more and more into that process. So it kind of auto-caps itself. If you are my ostatin deficient, then actually just existing, you just grow muscle all the time. So it seems to be that for a variety of reasons, including that one, that if you do one set close to failure, you get a lot of gains. You do three sets close to failure. You get substantially more gains, but not three times as many games. Yes. You do five sets close to failure, and you do just a little bit better than three. You do seven or eight sets close to failure and one work out and it's statistically undifferentiable from five. So that's kind of how that chart looks. So Dorian from one I understand did roughly 14 sets per week per muscle groupish. And that gets into that territory of a very robust signal of growth to the muscle. It's not the highest signal of growth. If you decided not to train your legs very hard or your back very hard, and the amount of systemic fatigue that's imparted to you week by week is much lower, because fatigue isn't just local. It spills over and everything else. You could push your arms, shoulders, and chest, not to 14 or 15 or 20 sets per week. But in many cases, 25, 30, 35 sets per week, and experience very meaningful growth and enhancements that you would never have seen. Only ever training those 15 sets a week. But 15 sets a week might bring you to 70 or 85 percent of what all of those muscles could eventually have hypertrophy if you only ever specialized in them. And so Dorian was insanely jacked, but he was jacked all over and probably could have a retrospect benefited from more specialization phases on various week points that he had. His back was startling. His arms were excellent. Now, my mortal standards, they were the biggest arms you've ever seen in your life. By competitive bodybuilders of his air standards relative to the rest of his physique, he could have had big arms, could have big shoulders. And so he could have poured much more volume into those muscle groups and less and everything else, but Dorian seemed to have him kind of all around approach, which up until about a year ago, so did I. And so I had never looked for aesthetic, but boy, where my legs super big, because they could just eat up the growth all the time. So if you want to do not a ton of volume for any one muscle, if you work really hard and bring yourself very close to failure, you can already do super super well, just with that alone. If you get a really good cook, someone who really knows how to make food, and you give them an hour in the kitchen with a variety of menu items versus three hours. Within an hour, they can allow you with what you're eating. Within three, they can allow you more, but it's not three times more. Like, you know, Matrix Related or Gasmic Brownier, whatever. There ain't gonna make that. There's gonna take them a lot longer than three hours. They can make a difference, but probably only people who are very colorarily attuned can tell. Like, if someone makes me chicken fingers, gourmet chicken fingers, there's such a thing. I'm sure Austin has something like that. Then, you know, an hour versus three, to me, it all tastes same, same. It's amazing. To someone really, really with a refined palate, they'll be able to tell, but they can't lie to you and say, look, this three hour chicken finger. This is just category, is above the one hour one. So in a lot of processes in general, and luckily in the human body, getting some of the way to your body's maximum ability to recover, actually brings you most of the way as far as results. And that's why Dorian could do what he did. Now, if Dorian was doing 14 sets per body part per week, would that mean 14 sets to failure of 14 different exercises? So we're not counting the warm-up sets and things of that nature? It's a complex question. It's not 100% clear exactly what Dorian did or if he even did everything exactly as it was written on paper all the time. You see his training videos. You don't always see just one set. He would also have this thing like a warm-up set that for him was a warm-up, but for most people, what absolutely be a workshead. Right. So it may be more like two or three equivalents of a working set. Yeah, sure. Yeah. Maybe like a total throw away set. And then there's, you know, a modest set. And then there's a two rep and reserve set. That again, that's a real working show, which in this is a failure. Right. Yeah. So according to his categorization, the only work set was the one that was absolutely true muscular failure. Sometimes with forced repetitions, which you would also have to integrate because forced reps is when someone helps you lift the rest of the way to where if you do a drop set, you use less weight, the right after you went to failure, we shouldn't count that as just one set. It wouldn't be the most correct way to think about them. And when you compare that to the example of the three-hour chef. So now the person who's willing to put in 30 sets per body part per week. Do any of those sets need to be to failure or you counting those as hey, these would be sets of two reps in reserve, one to two reps in reserve. Almost all of the literature that has found out that if you don't systemically fatigue the whole body too much, any given muscle or several muscles you can push into the 3040 50 plus set range per week, almost every single study done to elucidate that understanding was done with a muscular failure studies, true failure. True or failure, then you'll see in the gym because these people are training laboratory conditions with master students screaming at them to keep going. Most of us have never trained that hard consistently. So people can still recover. Now these are under graduate that are recreationally trained typically so they can neither do a lot of damage, nor are they impeded by age and prior injury and all this other thing. So I would say that whatever amount of sets you have to do to get a certain amount of whatever amount of growth you want, you can get there in a few different ways. You can get there with, let's say, 30 sets that are four reps shy of failure. You can get there with 22 sets that are one or two reps shy of failure and you can get there with 20 sets that are all the way to absolute muscular failure. So if you are really training not so super hard for reps and reserve, you'll have to do substantially more sets to see the same hypertrophy. But study after study after study illustrates that when you're getting one or two reps away from failure, it is often statistically a differentiable un-rock growth than going all the way to failure. However, the fatigue of true failure training probably mostly because of that nervous system component is exponentially higher. And so as far as an efficiency and long-term sustainability strategy, training all the way to muscular failure every session is a matter of principle. It's probably on the margins suboptimal and should probably most of your sessions should be one or two reps in reserve. Like if you're doing dumbbell presses, you think you finished your last wrap and you're like, gun to my head, I could do one or two more, but that's it. Most times it's probably best to stop at that point because what you're getting if you go north of that is, it tend to one fatigue to stimulus ratio. Whereas everything before was like one to one, two to one, three to one, five to one, and all of a sudden it's tend to one. It's a lot of fatigue costs to pay for what in the literature chronically ends up being either tiny tiny bit better or not better at all. Which says nothing of the risk of injury when you drop that dumbbell on your pack, which I don't know anybody that's done that, but I've been told it really hurts when you fail in a set of dumbbell press. It's an totally collapsed with your head with a dumbbell pack that turns black and blue. Good God. Yeah, I would never know all sorts of that. I just like to aim for the general of that point. Might as well have a cool story. But yeah, the training to failure, the vast proportion of people that really propose that training to failure somehow special for results, they didn't reason their way into that. They emoted their way into that. Training to failure is something the 13 to 19 year old you would have really found a lot of spirit energy and as I like to say. It's um adult male putting on his hat of I'm a mountain goat and I run into shit. That's what I do. I saw an adorable video of some folks that own a few goats and a few dogs and their pit bull is like not hiding but sitting under this little thing and there's like a teenage goat that's looking at him and he jumps up on his hind legs and tries to like hit him in the head and the people backs up and he's like, ah, and the goat just tries to do that again. He's just trying to get it on like he just wants to hit stuff. That's all he wants. And so when you're a young male, when you are prone to wanting success for yourself, you're the type of sort of type-a personality that wants to look back on their life. And if you had to roll the dice and say, the reason you weren't optimally successful is that you worked too hard to build that sweet, whatever, that's kind of cool. But if they saw the dice roll and say, the reason you weren't optimally successful in life is because you didn't work hard enough, they would not live with themselves. Those kinds of folks generally tend to go to muscular failure for just that like the spirit energy and it feels right, dammit. And it feels good and it's um purifying almost at an existential level to be able to have given something here all in the face of challenge in the face of injurious going to face of grotesque pain. And you know those from sport experience, when you're really really tired, your whole existence is screaming at you to stop. Ignoring those things and going all the way until you know you've pushed as far as your body can go, there's something very magical there for the soul. For results in the gym, there's not much magical there, but you have to get close to it. You just don't have to go all the way.

So what about the person who's been lifting weights for a long time, they're in there, they're doing this stuff, but they're not happy with their progress. Right? So they're in the gym, let's just say they're in the gym three, four times a week, an hour at a time. How hard are they working? Are they really trying? Or are we saying that maybe they're trying maybe they're not? It's a very different answer. Yeah. Trying or something. Let's say they are. They're actually trying quite hard. And you actually look at them and you think, you know, gosh, they might actually be slightly over training. They might actually be, and by over training, I mean, not giving themselves, let's say they're training three days a week and they're doing a whole body three days a week, and they're in there 90 minutes at a time. And they're kind of going to one to two rep and reserve on every set and they're hitting kind of 20 to 30 sets per body part per workout. What would be your, and to be clear, like they're doing okay, but they're just saying, you know what, I want to be really jacked. Okay. Yeah. What do I need to do? Yeah. You would need to go down a checklist, a troubleshooting checklist. And we actually do have on the RP strength YouTube channel. We have multiple videos of how to troubleshoot your muscle growth, how to troubleshoot your diet, how to troubleshoot your recovery. So if you throw those on in the car during your drive to work, you're going to learn a lot about it. I'm sure we'll shoot. But you can consider yourself with variables that occur in the gym. You can consider yourself with variables that occur outside of the gym, both are very important. In the gym variables, starting from the beginning would be exercise selection. Sometimes people say, you know, my arms aren't as big as I want them to be. And I look at their plan and has no isolation work for their arms whatsoever. And I tell them this is not a surprise. And they say something like, well, I thought underhand pullups and close grip bench was good enough to get big arms. And I would say, yes, it is. Both of those exercises are great to get big arms, but you want bigger arms, which means like everybody, but whatever, you're going to have to start working a few sets of curls in and a few sets of pricepic extensions of some sort, regularly and hard. So a lot of times, people don't have the specific exercise selection for what it is they want. They're just doing the kind of general training you and I just describe, but there's sometimes that even honest to themselves in a deep introspective level of what it is they want. Like a lot of those people that want better results, you look at them and you're like, you look great. And like, yeah, but I want to look better and you go, how? Who I just want fucking gigantic arms? You go, okay, well, like you're work out, and absolutely not designed to do that. It's designed to get your arms that look big to someone who likes easy lifting your suitcase into an airplane, but other than that, like you're not the guards. And then you go, okay, exercise selection. Another variable to consider is technique. Some people have just not so great technique. Good technique involves putting the muscle into high force positions at a very deep stretch, long muscle lengths at a high force, so if you're doing peck flies, for example, but you're only going all the way down to like here, you need to open up like crazy and take a few seconds down there in the deep stretch. That's really going to help you out. And technique is so exercise specific and so individual that you really should get qualified trainer or someone you trust or videos on your own analysis to go, like, okay, am I really doing this right? Because you think I'm hacksquadding in the new C&RP strength video about hacksquads. You're like, I've never hacksquadded in my life. You try it all way and you're like, oh my god, my legs. For the first time in months or years, they get sore, they get tired and you're like, oh, wow, a couple weeks later, your quads are visibly bigger. Okay, now, fine life, fix my technique. Another question you have to ask is volume wise. I mean, I suppose you already said they're doing one or two reps and reserve, so we're not going to question that. We'll say it a training hard, which is good. That's another thing to ask if someone is going to get your results. It would be on the job. 100%. Yeah, like am I really pushing hard? How long? If I think I'm pushing hard enough, I should push a little harder and see what happens. So for intensity, you would say, if they're at least hitting two reps in reserve, you're okay with holding a low need to improve about that. But if you went in there and observed them at the end of their set, if you said, let me see you do a few more and they were constantly getting four more reps. So they're four reps in reserve. You would say the literature says you're not hitting an a truck behind-off training stimulus. Correct. This is a very important one. Very important. Because I think I think I talked about this once on Instagram. And if I didn't, I meant to and I just forgot to, which is equally like, like, more likely. So the point I wanted to make was, at least for me, it might be that I'm just not good enough. You don't know what two reps in reserve means until you go to failure. You have to fail many times to actually know how bad two reps in reserve is and one rep in reserve. Yeah. And they're not the same every workout. That's the other thing. Like you could have the same weight on their different days and you fail at a different number of reps. But you, there's like a signal of like there's a twitch, there's a, there's a discomfort that yes, you have to experience it. But you can't experience it until you blow past it. Would you have that? Yeah. That's largely true. So every now and then you have to test the waters. And it's actually a really good system of doing that. And it's incorporated into our RPI purtrophy app. The app will ask you to put in your weights roughly 10 to 20 reps. And you'll do as many reps as you think as three reps or four reps to failure depending on what it's wanting you to do. And you'll write your repetitions in for every single set. Well, I got 16 reps at 90 pounds on the sexual size. The next week, the app auto programs a progression for you. So it'll either ask you to do 17 reps at 90 pounds, something like that, or it'll ask you to do 95 pounds again, or 95 pounds a new for the 16 reps you did last time. It does that every single session. It pushes you a little bit ahead. Your only job is to do what is written. If you consistently do what is written. And at the end of your cycle before you have it one week of easy training called a deal load and you start a new cycle. If the end of your cycle, you never actually failed at a weight. Like you're trying to get 17, but you got 16, the 17 would move and you put the bar down and only crap. Hopefully nobody saw that. That never happens to you. You've never trained close to failure, but that's okay. The next time you program in your weights, and you do three reps in reserve for that first week, go a little harder than you think you should be or you typically did. And then at some point during the middle or end of that cycle, you will actually hit failure trying to get to those objective targets. Because here's a big problem with trying to estimate failure. If you go based on how hard something feels, it's kind of different like you said, you know, you had a tough day at work for a season-day at work. You ate well versus you didn't slap all versus you didn't. And it's all perceptual, which is nuts. It's kind of like not having a mirror, but asking someone to stand in front of you and help you put on makeup. Thanks for your input, but I need a friggin mirror because I don't know if you're just messing with me. I look like a clown. I put lipstick over here instead of on my lips who knows. But if you have a objective criteria, of this is what I did last week and I just want to go little bit beyond. It is inevitable that one of two things happen over the long term. One you will reach muscular failure and you will be unable to do a repetition. Or the others you'll get infinitely strong forever and now you're Superman. One of those is more realistic than the other. So when people say I don't know what's close to failure or not, my answer is very easy. Download the RPI per no-sight, wrong sales pitch, oops. Put some numbers on the board. And just buy a little two and a half or five pounds or one rep each week. Be those numbers. Week upon week commit yourself. I must hit 18 reps. That's the goal. If you can't do it success, you went to failure. Now you know where the limit is now you're building an intuition. But if you did get those numbers next week, you go higher and you go higher and you go higher. Versus if just like, oh I think I went hard. I don't know what that means. You could be very wrong and oftentimes are. Is it safe to say that if a person is already and by the way, we didn't we talked about what's sufficient for exercise selection, technique intensity. We didn't specify volume. What would be a red flag for you in that individual? If their volume sets per body part was below X, where would you say, well, it should be expected per week. Just I mean, if you're beginning a few sets. Yes, yes, but this is for this kind of interview. Yeah, below five or ten sets per week is not a sufficient effort to expect your best results. Between 10 and 20 sets per week is fine. But for many people, you have to use a second qualifier, which is what's actually happening to you. If you aren't getting super sore or super mega tired in your muscles for a day or two after training, if your strength continues to be stable or increases, session to session a session, and you're on that fewer than 20 worksets per muscle per week type of her muscle, not per body part. In other words, bicep would need to be 20 sets per week. Correct. Wow. Yeah. Then I think we have a pretty good explanation for what? But why somebody at this table, right? Small bicep? Yes. I'm not saying how dare you? Yeah. I take that offensively by the way. So then if all of the signs show that you're not actually excessively fatigued, your volume is either okay or less than it could be. If you're not getting great results visually, but you're always running into strength platoes. If you're always tired and sore, and if you're north of 20 sets per muscle per week, on average, hard sets, then probably doing less is good because you have almost every indicator of doing too much. And so you'll be able to intuit rather quickly if it's too little or too much. Those are most of the variables involved in the gym part except for one, and that is, one is the last time you took a break because there's a concept called accumulated fatigue or cumulative fatigue. Your muscles and the rest of your body recover very well between sessions, but not 100%, maybe 90 or 95. And if you're a mathematics fan, if you multiply 0.95 by 0.95 by 0.92 by 0.99 by 0.95 enough, you're down to 50% recovery within like six or eight weeks. And then how could you possibly be making gains? So every for the average person cranking away, probably the person listening to this podcast, one week out of every eight, one week every two months, don't go to the gym. Stay active, maybe do a bodyweight squad or a push-up or two, or your hotel room or something. Ideally, try going on vacation. If not, try to not exercise and be a little easier, work, be a little easier and family stuff, have some fun, cheat foods, eat a little more than usual, be a little less active. So that your body can recover in a way that it can never recover between sessions, but it gets a whole week to do this. And once a year, at least, take two whole weeks like that. We call that active rest. So the first thing, one week off is called a deal out. And the second thing off where you take two weeks in a row of basically just not even come into the gym. And if you do, you just do the slightest easiest stuff ever, takes 10 minutes. That reduces your systemic cumulative fatigue so much that it brings it back down to zero or almost zero. Because some people will say like 16 weeks have been cranking. The first 12 weeks, great results. Last four weeks, I don't know if I'm moving the needle. Well, maybe you're just really tired. And pushing the pedal down harder is usually not the best way to do things. It might be time for break. People come back and your muscles are resensitized to the stimulus. If you take time off. So when you come back, go back to two or three sets of everything, not four or five sets of everything. You're going to get really sore and really pumped from just a few sets. And you're going to be growing again. You do that for another six to eight weeks. You get tired again. Your strength starts to plateau. Take another week of easy training or no training at all. And that's how the cycle repeats itself. It's probably most of the stuff I would say about how to analyze your training inside the gym to get closer to your optimum. There's lots to say about external gym variables. But one thing I'll say really quick is this. Before I ever consult people nowadays about how to pursue incrementally more optimal outcomes for their muscle. People who want a gain muscle but are frustrated. They aren't jacked enough. Nowadays I always take time to find a reference frame of what have your gains been like. How much work have you been putting and how long you've been training? And to see if how did genetics play a role in this and how does age play a role in this? I've consultled with people before who are in their 60s weighing something like 150 pounds fairly lean. And they aspire to be in the low to mid 200s fairly lean. I told them that outside of an antabolic steroid cycle that's probably got an even chance of killing you as it doesn't getting eject. You're not going to get that jacked. And your progress rate is just going to be much slower than the 20 year olds at your gym. But sometimes we forget that age such a profound effect on our results. And we look around and as all young people I want to look like that will guess what? 1982 was a long time ago. So unless you have a time machine or age reversal, which I think is true. And do you think do it tribute this to the hypertrophy of type two fibers? Which are necessary for the power generation that's necessary for producing the gains we're talking about. That's definitely a component of another component is overall systemic ability to recover. You have so much DNA methylation and all this are the kind of damage and accretion of the wear and tear of age that your organelles and yourselves don't work as well as they used to. Your organs don't work as well as they used to. A lot of times you're taking for granted the fact that now in your mid 60s you run a top, you know, a top 500 corporation and you have more stress than most people can handle in a day, you have that in an hour. But back when you were making the gains of your life when you were 18, your job was to show up to school, go to the gym, eat at the cafeteria and smoke weed and that's all you did every day. Of course you have the gains of your life. People discount that. They also look to athletes and they go on my god like that bikini competitor. She looks amazing. I want that body. We'll check this out Linda. Your 56. You have three children. One of them is in college two or not. You are a CTO for major company and you sleep five hours a night. That bikini competitor trains a few clients. She posts on only fans and she does nothing else. But with them train, recover and watch Netflix and sleep nine hours a night of an uninterrupted sleep. It's too completely different worlds. She's also 27 by the way, strange times I know. But especially with social media there is nothing that surprises me anymore about how unmoored some people can be from realistic expectations.

How many folks find themselves in a situation where, and I say this because I definitely had a bit of this feeling myself, and I can't imagine I was alone where, there's almost a reluctance to get better because there's also a belief that, yeah, I get it, like my life's a bit messy right now, and I'm, you know, my response is spilling out into bad areas, but look at all the good, like, you know, I remember in particular one of the, one of the rants I went on was about how much good has come from my trauma. I think in telling my life story, it was virtually all good. It was, look at this good thing, and this good thing, and like, why, you know, I mean, we don't want to erase any of this stuff. And, and I, and I, and I, and I suspect you have a number of people who show up, and yes, there, there, you know, it sounds ridiculous because on the one hand, there's clearly a bunch of things that are not good, but there's sort of like, okay, but that's a, maybe that's a reasonable price to pay in exchange for all this other stuff. How, how do you, how do you help people think through that process and what the trade-offs are? Yeah, you, when you describe that scenario, it's like you, it was your fuel, right? And, I'm using the language of parts, when I, or a guards, I call them guards, these protective parts, these protective adaptive behaviors, and I've looked at many of folks in, in your example, would be, thank God you've got your ambition. Thank God you've got grit. Thank God you can get anger, and you've got a voice. Like, I don't believe I would have met you if you didn't. I'd say the same thing to somebody who was an alcoholic. Like, like, thank God you had that then. I don't think I would have met you. Would, should you not have had that, right? But now, you know, again, can we look at this thing and can we just at least look through the lens of, is it making life hard? An important thing for folks to remember going into, am I going to do the work, do I need to do the work, am I working on a part of me, is that these guards, these protective parts of self, we are not necessarily trying to retire them. And that's what happened, I think, to a lot of folks is that part of them, there's almost a fear of like, how do I exist? Does that mean that ambitious, at times, perfectionist Peter has to go away, right? Think of think of folks who go through life out of their woundiness that we might describe as they're always waiting for the other shoe to drop, right? I mean, I can think of clients, multiple clients who have said, it's not if it's going to drop, it's when and how loud, right? Like, so they are really good detailed, it's finding negativity, it's finding danger, it's finding, and they'd be a hell of a good person to have along on a walk in a bad side of town, right? Like, I'm sure if they were a building inspector, they'd be the best damn one out there. Okay? But can you not do that thing when you go home, and sit on your couch? Right? That's the spirit of, and back to the process and the vulnerability. The vulnerability can get brought up so many different ways. We keep talking about this group process that you experience. There's so many different ways, but the common denominator is the vulnerability is what triggers this protective side, this protective behavior to step in. And when that happens, we can work on it in real time, should that person be in at least consideration of doing something different?

Hi everyone. I'd like to introduce you to my friend Jesse Schwarzeman. Jesse's what I like to call the subantive movement. And you might say, well, why does that matter and why is Peter interested in that? Well, some of you know, my main interest is in longevity and longevity is really two things. It's lifespan, which means living longer and it's health span, which means living better. A super important part of living better is being able to move freely, move without pain, and carry out the activities of your daily life. And that can be anything from doing the sports that matter to you, to doing the chores of daily living. So what we'd like to do eventually is put together a series of these videos. They focus on all sorts of different aspects of maintaining the perfect body in terms of function, freedom from pain, and things like that. But today what we want to focus on is what I think Jesse would just describe as the foundational set of movements. This is what you would do if you're across bed athlete before you would sort of attack it. And this is what you might do if this is the only thing you're doing to get ready for the day. So it's broken down into three parts and Jesse's going to explain them to us. We're going to take you through three different phases of movement preparation. The first phase is going to be soft tissue where we're going to use the foam roller and different trigger point balls to mobilize the fascia, make it more elastic, and really take the brakes off of our body so it's prepared for the movements we're going to do. Second phase is going to be on the floor where we're going to activate those big muscles that we want to fire, not just for a workout but also for life while also counteracting technology and sitting and the grind of the day-to-day haveic that our modern day world causes us when we sit too much and we look at our smart technology too much. Then the third phase after our tissue feels great after we fire up those big movers, we're going to have some fun, jump around, move, guess what and do some movements that you can do every day as part of your routine to be ready to do whatever the day asks of you, whether it's picking the kids up, playing soccer, climbing the stairs, you'll be ready for it. I think one point that Jesse is always emphasized to me is any of these exercises can be done alone in isolation and there's value in that. But perhaps the most important thing I've learned from Jesse about this is the importance of the sequence. I'm not just moving from tissue prep all the way through dynamic but even within each of the three subsets, the order matters. Alright, so as we jump into this, the last thing I want to say is, pay just as much attention to what Jesse says as to what I do because part of Jesse's genius is being able to explain really subtle things that make the difference between you doing these movements so-so and doing them perfectly. Thank you.

Welcome to the soft tissue portion of our warm up routine and sequence. We're going to show you this wonderful tool of the foam roller and how to best utilize it. Now, I like a foam roller personally that has projections and grids on it like this one, because we know that fascia comes from all directions and we want to hit it in every direction with lateral force, sagittal force, transverse force, and this allows me to do that. If you have just a regular styrofoam foam roller, that's great. If you have a super spiky one, I would just be a little careful because if you feel too much pain, while you're rolling the body won't accept it as well. You want kind of a slight discomfort, but if you're making a lot of faces, if you're holding your breath, your body won't receive the soft tissue relaxation as well. So just kind of find your comfort. This is the grid by trigger point, and I think it has a nice combination of the projections and a softness to it that pretty much everybody can benefit from. Another thing to remember when we're foam rolling is it's not a substitute for massage therapist. I see people sit on this thing for half an hour. It's a great tool to mobilize fascia, the lymphatic system, increase elasticity to increase mobility. But that's as far as it's going to go. It doesn't substitute for a deep tissue massage. So for each of one of these rolling sequences, we're going to only do it about 30 or 40 seconds in reality, no more than that. Just enough to get a little relaxation and get to your workout and get sweating. For the purpose of this demonstration, I'll probably move a little quicker through it. Just so we can get through it in a timely manner. So the first thing we're going to foam roll here is the gastroc. So that's the calf here from the top where it inserts into the knee, all the way into the soleus right here. And when you're foam rolling, you want to have a really relaxed toe here. You don't want any undue tension on that calf. And we're going to have Peter go slowly back and forth. Now depending on your footfall, you might feel some tension in the tibialis right here, and the outer part of the calf. And then you also want to check if you have any tension, the medial part as well. And with all these exercises, if you do feel certain tension, like almost a hot spot, feel free to just stay on that spot, breathe into it until it relaxes about 50% and then you can move on. And this alone will make your ankle a lot more, give it a lot more spring, so that when you're running jumping, doing your plyometrics, you actually have a lot more jump and height and reactivity immediately, especially after rolling that soleus right at the base of the teardrop right there. Okay, so after that, we'll move on to the hamstring. Now everybody tells me that they have a tight hamstring, but in reality, our hamstrings are overstretched and lock long. And for a lock long muscle, we don't want to go with it. We kind of want to go against the grain, so I'm having Peter just sheer back and forth, using these projections of the grid. This won't feel painful, just kind of feels like a gentle massage in the hamstring, but it will help your hip hinge mobility when you get into that exercise. After that, Peter go ahead and sit right on the roller, and we're going to get into the glutes now. So crossing the right leg over, leaning into that right hip right into the back pocket, and the apex of the glute. This is glute max work. Great thing about this too is it's going to open up the rotation of your hip for your squats, and any kind of external hip rotation opener. Easy back and forth. And now I want Peter to get into the gluteous medius, which is really important knee stabilizer. So I want to take away the tension on the roller. I don't want this locked tight, so I'm just going to have him relax the hip, and go right to the almost the top of the lower back on the right side, and back down. Feeling very relaxed here in that hip. This muscle gets overworked because it keeps the knee from vagasing, and this is a really, really important one to get, because it's constantly under tension when we're walking, running, moving. That's great. Up and down there. Okay, now we'll flip over, get into the anterior section of the body. So now we're going to form roll the quadriceps here, and I see people put both feet on this all the time. I don't like that because you can't get all the different lateralist muscles, as if you only do it on one side. So Peter's left knee is out, so all his weight is on that quad, and now he can really get out the sides and the front. I'm not going to have him go into his IT band, and I want to make him really important point here that I see everybody, the first thing they do when they go to the gym, is foam roll their IT band. This is a dense, facial connection that doesn't need to be rolled, and if you have IT band syndrome, it's not because your IT band is the problem. It's coming from a different part of the chain, and just rolling it is not going to help. So we'll talk a little bit more about how to prevent and help IT band syndrome. In fact, Peter's done some great work with his own IT band, with the exercise we'll do later, but I just want to make that point that we're going to stick to the quad and not go to the side. Okay, and the last really important muscle of this hip complex, something called the tensor fascia's longest, the TFL. So I'll have Peter come right here now. This is a really small, really important muscle to get. If you find your hip bone right here in the front, if you just go right below it, you'll find the TFL. And the TFL is a tensor for a reason, because it works really hard to keep the hip rotated. If the glute isn't really doing its job, if the glute's kind of turned off, and a lot of our glutes are turned off because of our tight hips. So what rolling this TFL is going to do is relax the IT band, because it connects to the IT band, which connects to the knee, and it'll really help you prevent that IT band syndrome by relaxing. That particular muscle, so that the glute media semaximus can do their job. So again, this is a key key part before you do any bridges, before you do any glute work to relax that TFL, and Peter's doing great. And I'm even going to have you immediately rotate a little bit right under that hip bone, and you're just kind of, when you get into it, I really want you to kind of grind it out. So kind of quick, short strokes right there. Perfect. And after this, you'll even walk differently. You'll feel your glute be able to fire better. Okay, so that's the lower body. Now I want to move into the upper body here. The first place we're going to foam roll is the thoracic spine. And I want to make another really important point here. Now when we're foam rollin' and when we're warming up in general, we want stable parts of our body, and we want mobile parts of our body. Another spot I see people foam roll is their lower back, everyone's lower back is tight and in pain. But really that's just addville on a problem. The problem with the lower back is that it's taking forces and twists because it's trying to mobilize because the joints above it, like the T-spine, and below it, like the hips, are actually super tight. So it's trying to over-rotate. It's trying to overwork and take the brunt. So what we want to do is mobilize the thoracic spine and insure the hips so that the back doesn't have to work as hard. So when we foam roll, we're only going to foam roll top of the neck here to mid back, right under those scapula wings. Right here. So I'll have Peter put his hands and this feels great. Immediately you're going to feel relief with this rolling sequence. Now I'm going to have Peter arch and extend his back. And again, because I don't want to mobilize this lower back, Peter is just a great job of this. We're not going to stick our ribbed out too much. I have Peter do this the wrong way. We're going to arch his back and extend as much as he can. So you can just see the amount of torque that's going as lower back doesn't feel too good, right? Peter, right there. So the key adjustment we're going to make is bring those ribs in and think of that mid back as the new shelf of extension. So extend a little bit here, Peter. That's all I need. Right there. Ribs are in. Open in his chest slightly. Nice and smooth up and down. That's great. Deep breaths. Opening the shoulders. This is a posture saver right here. Okay. So a key point I want to make about posture is that the thoracic spine is important to extend. But it only extends as far as the shoulders will take it. So for this next session, I'm going to have Peter stand up. I'm going to talk a little bit about how to fashionly work on the shoulder complex so that the neck and shoulders sit back easier. So your base of support is right under you and you get that. And you don't have pain in your neck. Alright. So now we're going to talk about the shoulder girdle and the scapula-humoural rhythm here. And this is a common cause of pain, males and females because of technology. We know that when we use that technology, our heads tend to come forward and our shoulders tend to come forward. So I hear a lot of people complain about pain through the traps, upper and lower and cervical spine area. That's due to these muscles being locked long, not their tight, not their tight. So everyone who tells me I have a tight neck and tight back. That's not true. You have a locked long and overstretched neck and upper back that needs to be pulled back and it's natural physiological position. So the two biggest culprits of pulling the body in that forward position are the tightness in the peck and in the serratus anterior right here, which is if you go down your latissimus dorsai here, it's just anterior of that, basically going along the lat to about the mid-rip cage here, up and down. We'll do this one line down which I'll show you in a moment how to roll this out and we'll use this for this we'll use a ball, a trigger point therapy tool that's going to relax this fascia. And I just want to show you that when this is pulled tight, you'll see if this is locked, it's going to basically inhibit the shoulder from externally rotating. At the same time, the serratus does its job here of getting locked here to pull down. So all those overhead presses we like to do to just get that range, you've actually got to push through a lot of breaks and a lot of tightness around that fascia versus if you can get it more elastic, it's going to be much easier to rotate your shoulder for any kind of overhead work, any kind of pull work, but best of all it's going to help you in life because it'll be easier for you to have those shoulders sit back and then that cervical spine and head follows with it, eventually leading to an emelioration of that back and neck pain. So the first thing we'll do is the trigger point therapy ball. So just like the foam roller, this is a great tool because this ball has little projections in it, so not any part of it is exactly the same. So different spots have kind of tighter, more acute projections and different spots are softer, so it gives you a nice kind of rounded feel. So I'm going to have Peter do is I'm going to have Peter put this right on his peck major here, basically in line with his arm pit, where it inserts into the peck. He's going to put pressure on the ball, reaches arms up to open up the shoulder, and importantly here he's not just going to roll the ball around, he's pressing it into his peck, he's literally moving the fascia and soft tissue around, up and down, side to side, anyway he wants. Basically like I said before, the fascia doesn't cross linearly, it has many different searches and projections, circles, there's no wrong movement here, but you're just trying to create separation in your last ticity in that peck. You can play around with it, go a little bit higher, just like Peter did, if you feel tension there, can move a little bit lower closer to the nipple. Now women can do this as well, you just might not go quite as low, but you still want to work closer to the base of that peck as far as you're comfortable doing it. All right, you want to spend again about a minute, 45 seconds on each side, and then once this is relaxed and the shoulder can go back, we'll work on the serratus back on the floor with the foam roller. So now we're going to focus on really in the serratus anterior, which we talked about was a big part of pulling that shoulder into internal rotation. So what we're going to do is we're going to start at the armpit here with the palm up to open up that fascia, and we're going to roll from the armpit all the way into the lat insertion, right about mid-rub, and then going to come back, feel free to move back and forth a little bit, immediately and laterally, finding any hot spots or tight spots that feel sensitive. I guarantee you'll find a lot of them here keeping that shoulder open and exposing that serratus.

So now we're going to go into phase two of our movement sequence. We've finished soft tissue, lymphatic system is going. Our tissue is elastic and we're ready to move. Now sequence matters here. There's a lot of great exercises but the key is doing them in the right order to get the right activation both in the brain and in the body. So the first thing I'm going to show you is a stretch that in my opinion, everybody that I see does incorrectly because they're trying to stretch their hips but in fact what happens is they end up yanking and stretching their lower back which already has enough stress in it. In sequencing reciprocal inhibition is very important. On all reciprocal inhibition means is that when the flexor is tight the extensor doesn't move very well. So we see a lot of people want to work with the glutes turn on the glutes but they can't do it because being seated so much that hip flexors always under tone. In this exercise I'll show you how to really specifically stretch that hip flexor around a stable core so that you're not stretching and cranking on your lower back but stretching and relaxing the muscle that's needed which is that flexion of the hip so you can actually much more easily strengthen and work the glute extension and get much more out of your bridges, your squats, your deadless when you're actually ready to stand up and move and lift. The first thing we do in a movement prep before anything else is make sure we stretch that hip flexor and quad so that we can activate that glute. So now I'm going to have Peter get into a half kneeling position and the key to this stretch is that we want to get that hip flexor insertion elongated. So I'm first going to show you the way you're not going to do it and probably the way you have been doing it which is by moving and arching your back because look at that amazing range of motion that Peter gets unfortunately most of that motion is coming from his lower back as his ribs are flaring out and he's opening his chest up okay so we're gonna make this motion extremely limited just to stretch this hip flexor and keep his spine and lower back stable here. So I'm going to ask Peter to do is pelvic tilt forward so if he had a belt buckle that belt buckle would lift up toward the sky here. Then I'm going to ask him to squeeze his glute as hard as he can and you can see he already feels a stretch just there where before he could go all the way out and now keeping that glute squeezed and the ribs in belt buckle up I'm going to have him move forward just a little bit and that's all he can go because now he's truly stretching the hip flexor and not his lower back which already gets enough work and enough force in it. He's gonna move back he's gonna remember to breathe do it again forward squeeze the glute belt buckle up he'll really feel that hip flexor cranking and stretching no stress at all on the lower back and this is gonna start to allow him to start to strengthen that glute. Now this is only one of the insertions of the hip flexor we also have to get the quad so now I'm going to show you how to get the quad involved to to get a complete stretch of that front line. Now that we've stretched the hip flexor on the floor we're gonna stand up and activate the quad and extension and stretch to make a complete stretch of that front line. So this is something you see people do after every run and again they're cranking on their back and flaring their ribs getting more stretch from the spine then they're actually getting from the quad and hip. So just as before I'm gonna have Peter first thing pelvic tilt forward if you imagine the belly button as almost a bowl full of water and the pelvis you want to tilt that bowl up toward the sky versus letting it drop down and spilling the contents of that bowl. So I'm gonna have him tilt his belly button up now immediately even in this position he'll start to feel a stretch and with that tilted belly button he'll start to pull that leg back behind him really keeping those ribs in and get in a nice stretch through the knee and through the quad right here and into that hip insertion. Great way to stretch your hips and quads really easy to do have to make sure to maintain that pelvic tilt the whole time. Now that we've relaxed the hip flexor and the quad yourself we're gonna get on the floor and start to activate the gluteus and gluteus. Now that the hip flexors relax we're gonna activate the gluteus medius the knees best friend. So the knee basically listens to what the gluteus medius tells it to do. If this muscle is turned on and firing it'll prevent that knee valgus that internal rotation of the knee and help your leg line up a lot better when you're running doing your plyometrics even just walking down the street. Now we're gonna set up Peter for success but to activate his gluteus medius by basically position his body in the right rotation and making sure it's long enough so the lower back doesn't kick in and the hip flexor. So what I'll have Peter do is rotate a little bit internally to make sure that that hip flexor doesn't fire up. Have this leg out a little bit interior for a basis of four. Here's the key. I want Peter to extend his leg behind him without popping his ribs out maintaining that pelvic tilt we just talked about belly button up. Internally rotate the foot to make sure that glute meets in position to fire and have him stay in this plane lift that leg up and down pushing this hip as long as possible out that way so as to not flex in the obliques. So now he's going as high as he possibly can but not getting false movement from that lower back and he's really really focused on feeling that back glute meat here not getting any TFL activation no hip flexor activation after you finish this your hips will feel like a million bucks. You will feel like you're literally swimming in your hips in a different way because the hip flexor will be able to basically relax and the glute meat can do its job and stabilize your knee. Perfect. Just up and down you want to do this one really till you start to see some shaking here. He knows all right he's shaking really honestly for most people you're talking between 20 to 40 reps really controlled here. So now we're going to activate the gluteus maximus and the gluteus medius together and actually a much more functional move than the last move which was just to activate the gluteus medius. So we're going to do a single bridge here. I'm going to ask Peter to move his feet in a little bit if they're too far out it puts a lot of stress in the hand string so you just want enough to just barely slide your hand under your calf and your thigh here. We're going to lift the foot here create a right angle and I'm going to have Peter bridge as high as he can pushing with that left hip up and the beauty of this which activates the medius is we're going to externally rotate the hip out and back in bridge back down. Come up again squeezing the butt driving you can see he's maintaining a nice pelvic tilt again rotating out and in and down and up. Notice how Peter isn't dropping his hip so if you imagine a level here nothing spills to the side it's a smaller movement than you think most people do this way too big focus on doing about at least eight to 15 reps as a start. Now that we've mobilized the hips we've activated the glutes we're going to activate the core because the glutes in the core work in synchronicity to protect the lower back. My favorite exercise if you're going to pick one core exercise to brace your core to be ready to lift weights to run to move in life would be something called the dead bug and there's lots of different tools you can use for the dead bug I prefer a Swiss ball although you can use a yoga block too but the concept is that you're putting pressure between your lower body and your upper body to make your abs turn on and then moving limbs around that braised core. So I'm going to have Peter lift his legs here at a right angle push his arms straight into the ball and he's going to create pressure resistance here by pushing his hands into his knees. He's going to automatically feel his core turn on a lot of times people say oh I don't feel my core it's because you're not really giving it a challenge to react to and a strong core does not just flex up and down with crunches it's stable around moving parts so that's what we're teaching it to do here. The only way you can do this exercise wrong is if you go too far and you start to arch your back again our ribs are in as in all exercises and we're pushing that lower back into the floor. Now I'm going to have Peter make sure to breathe deep breath through his stomach you don't have to tension your abs this is doing the job for you and he's going to reach Contra lateral limbs his right arm and left leg and sink extending and coming back. Peter has nice open shoulders so he can do the full range of motion if you're a little limited you might get a rib pop here if you try to reach too far so just go as far as you can keep that pressure of the lower back on the ground the more you do this you're going to feel this bottom out almost into your lower abdomen again don't tense breathe pop this Swiss ball activate your core. Now we're going to show you an amazing core activator and lower back stabilizer which is called stir the pot we'll have Peter get into a front plank on the ball he's going to make sure to align his cervical spine in a perfect extension here not overextending the neck or flexing it and his scapula because Peter is a freak is a little bit winged here so I'm going to have him push his scapula the other way forward to take out a little bit of that wing right there now this is an anti rotation exercise so I'm going to have Peter circle to the right not tilting his hips circle to the left again not rotating and then move back and forth with his elbows challenging the extension control of his spine right here we see Peter's legs nice and wide here if you want to make this more challenging you can bring your feet in a little bit this is definitely the advanced version right here amazing core activator works all quadrants of the spining core this is how you build a stable lumbar spine and ab complex

Now onto the third and final phase of our dynamic warm-up sequence. We started on the floor with soft tissue work and foam rolling to mobilize that fashion and get more elastic. Then we woke up those dormant and tight muscles on the floor with our hip activation, glute work, and core work. Now we're ready to have some fun and we're ready to jump around and move a little bit. Now a proper dynamic warm-up not only prevents injury, strains, and sprains, but it will also make you stronger as your potential to move increases as your range of motion increases. This dynamic warm-up we're going to take you through is really a dynamic warm-up for life. When we thought about it, we were thinking about counteracting the effects of technology and sitting and also having you ready to do any kind of movement you want from walking to climbing to powerlifting. Of course, if you want to get more specific, if you're a runner and you want a specific runner's warm-up, it might be a little different. If you're a soccer player, you'd have a slightly different warm-up, but this is a great general warm-up to add to your day-to-day routine as well. Even if you don't go into the gym to mobilize your tissue, get you ready to move, have you feeling open and ready to face any challenge that faces you. So in this first move, we're going to mobilize the hips and the thoracic spine by opening up the scapula and taking a big stride forward. So what I'm going to ask Peter to do is take that big step with his left leg. Go a little forward so he stretches that hip, squeeze that back glute and reach up toward the sky, remember to get extension, not from his lower back, from his thoracic spine and upper back. So again, those ribs are basically in, but we're just getting a little upward motion and reach toward the sky. Also you'll see this as a warrior variation in yoga. We're going to step back, power back, big step forward with the other side. Own the position first, squeeze the glute, reach up, feel that amazing decompression of the spine from the stress that comes into that lower back all day, step back. You're going to repeat this for 10 total reps. We're not doing too many reps here. The point is to just get the body ready. This whole sequence takes no more than five minutes when you really get it down. Now I'm going to have Peter do that same lunge forward, but instead of extending his spine and thoracic cavity, he is going to turn and reach to the side to get that all-important rotation of the T-spine. So Peter's going to step forward, reach his hand straight and twist toward the front knee, twisting from his upper back, not from his lower back. You'll notice that he can't reach even all the way back because he's making sure that his belly button stays forward and he's not over mobilizing that lunge spine, his thoracic spine is mobilizing. Let's step back and we'll alternate to the other leg. Make sure you're looking behind you. I see all the time people do this exercise, but look ahead, the body follows the eyes. So we want to make sure that we're directing that hand where to go. So he's getting that nice neck turn, opening those shoulders, opening the hips that puts work in really hard, not to rotate out as he's rotating the whole body firing in synchronity. Your chest is going to flop open after this and you're going to really feel like your shoulders are sitting better in the shoulder girdle. Step back. In this next move, we're going to get out of the sagittal front and back plane where too often we live our lives. And in fact, working in a side to side plane is one of the best things you can do for your knee and for your hip. In fact, most athletes get injured with these ACL tears and MCL tears because they don't have lateral stability. They're great moving front and back, but when they have to change direction, their knee can't take that. So in any good warmup and movement prep we do, we've got to make sure to work laterally as well as just in that forward and back plane. So I'm going to have Peter do now, step up here and do a nice lateral lunge for us. Step to the side puts all his weight on that foot here. He'll get a nice stretch of the groin and then for an added spice here, we're going to stretch that inner thigh as well by externally rotating that foot, coming back and then stepping together to the other side. You'll notice his first move is a hit back. We don't want to see that knee tracking over the toe. External rotation, get the hip. Step together, Peter has a really nice, open lateral lunge. Let's do it again. Step into the side. You'll notice that his weight is on his big toe here so that knee isn't falling over the foot laterally and also we're keeping that knee and hip back so we're not putting a sheering force on that knee and all that strength is going into the hip and the hamstring here. Opening up and as you get going with this one feel free to get more dynamic. So jump in, make it react a little bit, react, move pop. This is how you want to move as you get better at the dynamic warmup. This isn't yoga, this is like, this is preparing to lift heavy weights. Get your body reactive, get it dynamic. Now we're going to mobilize the all important hip hinge. So what we're going to do is bring one foot forward, keep that leg straight but bend the back knee slightly. I'm going to have Peter maintain a nice flat and neutral spine here as he hinges back in his hip and reaches forward to elongate that hamstring. You can see that there's no tension in the bent leg, all that tension is created through the hamstring in this front leg. I'm going to have him raise his arm and hinge forward with his hip at the same time and then switch feet and repeat on the other side. Flexing the back knee, hinge in back, reaching and extending that spine. You'll notice his spine is nice and flat, we don't want to mobilize the back here. You reach his up and let's make it more dynamic now Peter. Remember this is a dynamic warmup. So again, you're just going through the motion like a rubber band. When you feel that tension, you work through it and you release it. Always with breath. The reason we do one leg at a time is because most people have asymmetry in their hamstring length so this will even it out over time. This next exercise brings it all together. We are going to fire up the core, the glute and we're going to get some balance in there which is one of the most important things for long-jewy and health. We're going to work the proprio reception of the brain trying to balance. It's going to wake up the toes, the feet. There's not much that this exercise doesn't hit. The move starts with a simple back lunge. So Peter is going to reverse lunge, making sure to put most of his weight on the front foot being soft on the back toe. Again, he's going to drive his knee up. Hold that position on moment, push his knee into his hands. He's going to feel his core and his left glute, squeezing and firing here. His toes are working to balance. He's going to bring that foot down. Now we're going to back lunge with the other leg, putting the strength on that front foot, driving up through the right glute, pushing the hand into the knee, activating that core, squeezing that glute, working on that balance. Stepping down, repeat this six or six to seven more times. Down, drive up. This is a tough one you can see Peter shaking here. He's trying to smile, but I promise it's really hard for him. Great finish to our standing dynamic warm up routine. Peter's going to walk out on the floor in a push-up plank position here. And this is a great core stabilization exercise. We're going to have if Peter wants to make it a little easier, he'll bring his feet a little wider, Peter can do the close-up version, but I recommend doing this to start. He's just going to tap his opposite shoulder on the tap and then come down on the tap again. When you first do this, it's going to be really hard to own this tap without rotating over in the hips. So go as wide as you need to own that tap. If you can't breathe when you're holding it, then it's not acceptable. You should be going wider. Super, hard exercise. You should do an awesome job. Maintaining his core integrity here. Doing about 16 to 20 reps with good breathing. Continue on the ground and we are going to stand this ground for this entire next part of the sequence. I'm going to have Peter push up into the world-famous downward dog here. Exercise we love because it decompresses the spine and it gets that whole posterior line stretched again. Great exercise to prepare for a hip hinge. Peter's doing a great job. Tall here, no rounding, having a soft bend in the knee. Now if you don't have this kind of flexibility, you're going to probably have to come down a little bit and you're going to bend those knees a little bit. Do that before you round your back in this exercise. So basically bend your knees as much as you need to to maintain that tall spine. Have your hips as low as you need to to maintain it as well. Now we're going to move from the downward dog into a move, dug to by many and definitely myself as the world's greatest stretch. If you're going to just pick one exercise out of this entire floor sequence, this is the one I want you to do because it opens up so many openers and extenders in the body. Your shoulders are going to feel great. Your hips are going to feel great after this one. We're going to go right from the downward dog. Peter is going to flatten out back into that plank position where he started with his hips low. Bring the right foot outside the right hand. Now some people might need blocks on their hands to get this position. Peter has enough hip mobility that he can hold it. No problem with using yoga blocks or something elevated, which will get your chest up because if you're not high enough, the back's going around and you're going to torque that lower back. So make sure you're at position here where you can have a nice straight line through your spine. Now if this wasn't good enough, just this position. I'm going to have Peter reach his right elbow toward the ground, getting rotation of the thoracic spine, also opening of the groin here and then for the grand finale, reach up over his head. Twist, decompress that upper back and neck reaching as high as he can. You'll notice the straight line and plain of the twist. You'll also notice that he's staying rotated within his pelvis and opening from his shoulder and Peter's doing such a great job. His chest is over his hips which is exactly what you want. As much height as you can here, he'll bring that right elbow back down. He's not going to switch sides. Right back down. Reach. Twist again with everyone. You'll feel more and more open. You'll get closer and closer to the ground. Peter is a freak but he's actually sweating now, finally with this exercise. Back down and up. About eight on each side is plenty. Now we're going to move from the world's greatest stretch which is aptly named to the deep squat. And something I want you to remember about the squat is if you do it from standing to sitting, your body feels threatened. It feels scary to go into that position. You're wondering if your hips are going to tighten, if your back is going to wrench on you a little bit, it just doesn't feel great. If you come into it from that world's greatest stretch low position, your body will accept it much better because you're already in the plane of being low and it feels much more natural to your body to get into that deep squat. Go ahead and step back with the right foot. Make sure the feet are slightly outside, shoulder width and the toes a little bit externally rotate. It's open up the hip. Stay in low. We're going to transfer the weight onto the heels, push the knees out with the elbows. And this is great because it activates the VMO, the knees stabilizer right here. And you can even feel free to just move your elbows back and forth and just kind of circle around and swim into those hips. The shoulders move exactly as you kind of push the right, put the left, get that ad out your tightness to relax here. If you can, you're going to walk your hands behind you into a crab tabletop. If this is too difficult, no problem. You're just going to sit down on your front and then put your hands behind you and swivel around. But Peter was able to get into it right from that deep squat, which is ideal. This reverse tabletop here, I like for a lot of reasons, we're working the glutes again for both men and women. You're going to find the main part of the tightness in that heck insertion right here. So I want you to imagine that you're squeezing a pencil between your shoulder blades in your upper back here and you're trying to crush that pencil as much as you can. Fishing his back really opening up the entire front line of the body, hinge down all the way and drive up again. Hold it for a breath. We're still in a dynamic warm-up. We're not holding things too long, get the stretch, push up again. You can't go high enough here. To finish off here, our dynamic warm-up sequence, Peter is going to explain his favorite warm-up exercise before he does. All his amazing heavy hinges, dead lifts, squats. He knows a better than I do, so I'll let him take it from here. Thanks, Jessie. This is called the shinbox drill and it looks goofy, so people will look at you like your kind of a toolbox in the gym. It's really important that you have something soft to do this on or you're really going to hurt your knees. I'm going to show you two ways to do it. The first is when you're learning it and you'll use your arms to take some of the weight off. Once you graduate, you'll do it without your arms. I'll show you that as well. The first thing you want to do is you start with a wide ankle position and then you're going to in one motion, lay both knees down. They're at about 90 degrees. Again, here you can use your arms to stabilize and lift you up and you're coming up and forward. If you think about all the stuff that we learned today about having a pelvic tilt that's forward, not sort of torquing your back and then you come back down. Always come back to the seated position in the middle and then do the same thing to the other side. Down and up. This is what it will look like after a while when you don't need your arms to do it, you can do it a little quicker and a little more fluidly. So from here, down, up. Again, hips are forward. What I love about this one as a finisher is you're getting the mobility and the stability of the hips. So as you're coming up, you're pushing away with one leg which is creating that stability and then getting the mobility as you rise. So great finisher, great wrap up to this dynamic form of sequence.

One of the things about the bridge that I assume it's still true, but it was remarkable to me was that everybody who worked there had been a client there. Is that still the case? Outside of some staff members, certainly all of the clinicians, most of the staff members. And that is, I can't imagine being a clinician there or working there without having done that. And that honestly has been the reason why some folks won't work at the bridge. Right? So we don't operate from there, but he'll. Right? So I'm in my own journey to get my challenges as well, yes. And so to know, I'm going to have to do some work. And then to wrap your brain around, you know, these are the people I'm going to work with. Right? To be able to look at a client like yourself and say, I'm not going to, I'm literally not going to ask you to do anything that I haven't done. And to be able to say that from the heart. Yeah, that's, that's, that's really an amazing feature. And I sort of imagine that through the lens of anyone who takes care of another person, right? And sort of like, you know, people, I think are right to sort of be frustrated when they have a doctor who's asking them to take care of themselves when the doctor clearly doesn't take care of themselves, right? Like how, how is it that you can tell me that I need to eat better and exercise when looking at you? It's clear you're not doing those things, right? Right. It doesn't mean that the advice is incorrect or that you shouldn't listen to it. Right. It's just, you're asking me to do something you won't do. Right. Right. Whereas, yeah, at the bridge, you know, we, we can talk about some of the other things that are very difficult to do there, such as in the second week when you're kind of eating this shit out of things, that those are not easy things to do. But to know that you're, you know, when Jeff and Julie are asking you to do it, they did it. Yeah, absolutely. And if you think that to the way the journey starts, you know, is we disclose, you know, in some professional, you know, be careful with self disclosure, you know, and it's not about me, it's about them. But like, hey, we're going to ask you all pretty quickly to start showing us a piece of your soul, so to speak. Right. So I'm going to tell you a little bit about mine. And that's that hopefully we can start building that rapport early. Like, I think we can trust these folks. Right. I think we can think, I think they can lead us. Maybe not everybody, but I'd like to introduce that. Because like you say, in week two, we ask folks to go places with us, right? And you know, it's, you know, that experiential therapy, and you mentioned one way of doing experiential therapy, the somatic part of what we do. But, you know, things have come a long way. And within the spirit of that process, and when you talked about that learning a language, I love that analogy, you know, because you are immersed in that. But, you know, it's, it's that being able to experience the emotion, right? The hijacking, if you will, of the emotional brain. I like in it to, we're going to walk you down to the edge of the river. Okay? And we're going to put your foot into the water. Now the water being here, your past, your pain, right? Because we want you to fill a little bit of the temperature, right? But we're going to stand here right beside of you in our job is to keep you in 2024, 25, whatever year, right? Like, we'll keep you here. We're going to go there, but we're going to stay here, dual awareness, right? That's the integrative part, right? Like, some people need to yell because they haven't had a voice. Some people need to know, need to learn that they yelled, and they were able to not get lost in it, right? And everybody's journey being different and befriending. But that, you know, it's, it's almost like some people say, why can't you put my finger on what it was? But I just something was different, right? And it's like, what did, what happened? What is it that you did? I say, well, sometimes you might say, we were activating your limbic system so that you could do something different while activated, right? Like learning how to get space from the emotional brain. So many clients, especially clients with trauma, years frustrations of frustration, learning coping skills in safe offices with therapists. And they're done beautifully and repetitively within that environment. But it's really hard to recreate that back at home, right? Or at work. Yeah. When triggered, right? My coping skills live in a part of the brain that gets hijacked when the emotional brain takes over. Okay? This system doesn't always have to be about trauma. I can't you believe I'm saying that. But the example I give because I'm a professional, right? One mother's 87 years old with dementia. She's living in a nursing home. Okay? Now, so all the things to go along with that, the irrationality that's involved with that. And so Jeff goes to these visits and he starts noticing that all these visits are starting with my mother talking about how somebody is stealing her blue ink pens and what I call her O Lady Blue jeans, right? And so I'm sitting there saying, are you kidding me? Like, are you who would want your blue ink pens? All right? Think about this, Rashley mom, who wants these old blue jeans? And how many of my visits, that's how that visits started. And it just went downhill from there. And to literally be sitting in the truck outside before a visit, brain, give me the what needs to happen here. And so many times in as clinicians, we ask clinicians, take your, you take your hat off, take your therapist's hat off, right? Sometimes you need to put it on because Jeff, the clinician, is not sitting there in front of his mother. There's a son sitting there in front of his mother, who is facing the reality that it's not his mother anymore. And that's very sad, right? And so that the anger is a much more comfortable place to be or frustration. So, I'm going to argue with mom about how irrational this thought is, right? It's breaking because I don't want my mom to think that people are still in her blue ink pens. I want her to change. I want to this to be corrected, right? But I'm forgetting like one of the golden rooms rules, excuse me, of change when it comes to therapy and rolling with resistance. Okay? The more that I fight for change, the more this other person is going to fight for the status quo. That happens 99% of the time. Okay? But when you sell crazy back to somebody, tenfold, they start to suggest rationale. Rationality. Here's what I mean by that. One day in that truck, I realized I have got to do something different, right? So I'm going to go in there and when I went in there, I went in there with my executive functioning. I went in there from the prefrontal cortex, right? So when mom started talking about her blue jeans and her blue ink pens, my response was, you know what? You're right. And I think I know exactly the lady that's doing it. I'm going to go give her a piece of my mind. And what did my mom say? Jeff, sit down. Be sensible. I didn't have access to something that I do all the time. Client. So I'm crazy back to him, right? You just, yeah, you go home. You'll get your cigarettes back. If you're talking about the bridge, you'll get your cigarettes back. You'll get your phone back. You'll go back home. You'll go back to your perfect girlfriend and life will be okay. And I didn't say life's okay. All right. Well then we've got something to talk about. All right. You've got to stay here. You're going to die if you don't change. They just fight. They just fight, fight for the status quo. So, but that, that, that, that Jeff that I was talking about, I didn't have access to those skills. Because that was, I wasn't being driven. But now there's all the baggage. There's to be in the sun. There's a trauma-related demand. There's all of that that played into that. But to be able to get access to the, what some folks call the bill pay in Bernie.

Well, let's talk about that final thing. What is that last 24 to 48 hours look like? So the phrase we use is active dying to distinguish it from the rest of living dying. And a body is actively shutting down. So system by system, you'll stop your kidneys, or shut down, you're not making as much urine in part because you stop drinking probably a few days because days ago, because your body couldn't handle the fluids. So, and thanks to kidney shutting down, you get a buildup of toxic metabolites and get a little intoxicated, little dreamy, that may be the course, so that may be the mechanism of your delirium. So you're not eating, you're not drinking as a general rule. You're probably a little fuzzy or entirely asleep, breathing. So some of the two biggies, those can happen anywhere along the way, but the ones that tell you you're really close are when you have modeling of the skin, that's sort of a lacy, bluish experience where your body's just not moving blood effectively. And you'll see skin changes, and especially the extremities. And breathing patterns change. Oftentimes you get apnea, so long periods of no breath at all. You know, often here is something that's, sort of like a frightful phrase, but the death rattle, so which often is sort of a gurgling sound with breathing, that's just because your oral pharynx is no longer, the reflexes are dying out, so you're no longer moving fluids as they pull in the back ear throat, which is an important note there. If your reflexes are no longer functioning, you're not likely feeling it. So a death rattle sounds pretty gnarly, but it's generally probably harder for the audience than the person dying. But those are the things that are typically experienced in a body that's actively dying. That's only in the last a matter of days. But most hours to a day or two. I think the other thing that's happening is the experience for the people around that person, right? And there's so much to say in that space, but I do think having, you know, counsel a lot of people, there is a feeling of preciousness, right? We don't know when that last breath is going to come. We, you know, maybe we really want to be there, maybe we feel like we can't, but often for someone watching and waiting, it can be really hard to stay connected to our own experience. So like, people won't get up and go to the bathroom because they don't want to miss that moment. They won't eat, they don't eat, maybe their appetite is low anyways, which is fine. But it is a time to be thinking about really basic needs and basic comforts for everyone in the space. Because that influence is the space in the environment for all and most people feel like this is the dying person's experience. This is like all of the focus is there. We're watching every respiration. We're even matching the breathing. We're creating anxiety in our own bodies because of that. And if we can invite attention to everyone's experience and give permission to like, you need to take a walk, go take a walk. It may mean that they die when you're not in the room. And maybe that's okay. Maybe they die in the one minute you're going to the bathroom for the first time in six hours. Like it may just be that way. That's a really, really important point. Sort of like, once you understand delirium and you can contextualize what you're hearing from a loved one, that point rigid. So it's pointing to such an important one. A lot of loving families keep these vigils and don't sleep, don't do anything so that they can be there for the death thinking that that's the most, that's the highest line. That's what it means to be there when someone dies and that exact moment when they take their last breath. And so to bridge its point, this is a lived experience for everyone. So you gotta keep doing, you have to sleep, you have to, yes. And I don't think anybody's gonna tell you why this is, but it is just a thing. You talked to anyone who worked in hospice for a while. It seems to be that a lot of people need to be alone for the final moments on the planet to really let go. And so it's almost, it's like, I can't tell you why. But it is a thing. So you going to the bathroom or taking a walk or something. Maybe the exact thing that that person needs to finally let go. So the messages don't leave and therefore the person will never let go. You just potentially can make it harder and harder for that person to actually finally let go. So go to the bathroom, take a walk, kiss the person, give a bite on her, drink some water and know that not only they may, they may be gone when you come back, but that may be exactly what they needed to finally let go. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles, packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today, at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

what happens to your bones if you truly aren't using them? This is obviously not a subject that is relevant to a lot of people directly, but I think indirectly it's relevant to a lot of people. So this is space is just the most extreme version of what we would call disuse osteopeenia. So as the name suggests, disuse osteopeenia occurs when bones are chronically unloaded, leaving to a very unfavorable combination of high bone, resourption and low bone formation. So it's the same thing that's happening with the osteopeenia from aging. It's just much more accelerated and much more extreme. So again, the most extreme version of this is astronauts. And I don't know much about what they do in space, but I suspect that they go out of their way to figure out ways to load astronauts in space. So they don't have to deal with this in its highest form. But I think for most people where this is relevant is bed rest. So lots of people have to undergo bed rest for all sorts of reasons. Right? Pregnant women often are placed on bed rest if they are experiencing fetal retardation. And I mean that not cognitively but grow three-tardation. If in the third trimester, the fetus is in growing at the rate that is expected, not uncommon that the OB will ask the mother to gradually reduce her impact until more and more energy can be reserved for the fetus. You can also see bed rest being necessary for various types of injuries. Of course, we know today that we don't want to rest people nearly as much as we used to. I mean, there was a day 50 years ago when if somebody hurt their back, they were put on two weeks of strict bed rest. Today we know that that's absolutely the last thing you want to do. So bone law student, you know, disuse osteopeenia is incremental and it's progressive with time. It occurs more rapidly as you would guess in the tribacular bone than in the cortical bones. This is the trend we've seen over and over again. And frankly, it can be about 2% per month in microgravity partial paralysis, which I should have mentioned as well, right? So yeah, paralysis based injuries or immobilization with injury. And in the most extreme setting with complete paralysis, it can be up to 7% per month. So Peter for people who are experiencing like that type of immobility, is there anything in particular that they should be thinking about or they can do to kind of help with BMD concern? Yeah, the first would be any form of PT that can actively load muscles. So I don't know if there's I actually don't know how much data exists on this, but that's one of the things that I think is interesting about cyclic BFR. And that's why the minute I was out of surgery, I got permission from my surgeon to put my, you know, catsucuffs on my arm and just start cycling the BFR. I wanted to put little bits of stress on that bicep just to have it moving. And again, keep in mind, I was very fortunate. I did not have a bicep tendon repaired. If I did, I would not have been allowed to do that. But, you know, I had to keep my arm completely immobilized, but I was still able to get sort of compression on the bicep. And, you know, basically, if you, if let's say you're bedridden with a certain injury, there are still other muscles in your body that don't pertain to that injury that can still be moved and put under load. And even if you're doing these things isometrically, right? So a person is holding you and you're resisting against them without actually moving in the bed that's important. Now, there was a super interesting mouse study that we found that used a bicep phosphinate to inhibit the osteoclastic bone resourption in a mouse model where the mice were given bachelotoxin to basically prevent them from moving. I think one part of their leg. So if you, I think we have this figure here as well. Yeah, it's figure 10. Yeah, so what you're looking at here is in the, the first bar on the left is just sort of the baseline, and then you have control mice in black. And then in white, you have what happens to the animal that we're just given bachelotoxin. So these were the animals that were basically immobilized because the, you know, bachelotoxin, of course, paralyzes their legs. And then the bachelotoxin plus the bicep phosphinate on the right. And I think there's a pretty profound result, right? You're looking at this in the femoral neck and in the middle of the upper part of the femoral bone. Below the neck. And you can see that the, this phosphinate plus the immobility really looks no different from the control. And it's a, you know, clear contrast to how the untreated animal looks. So, you know, look, these are 16-week-old female mice. You know, is that's going to be true in humans? I have no idea. But I find this type of research very interesting. And frankly, I hope more people are doing this type of research because I think immobility is a huge problem with everybody. But once you start to deal with an aging population, it becomes more significant. How many times have we talked about that study where, you know, a group of 65-year-olds, I believe, were immobilized for two weeks and lost. If I'm not mistaken, something of the neighborhood of about four pounds of lean mass in two weeks. And that, you know, we talked about that through the lens of how much you lose lean mass. But think about what that's doing to, to BMD and think about how long people are immobilized beyond two weeks, especially as the older. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity-focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Maybe a helpful thing to do right now would actually be to go over a little bit of the anatomy. And I see that you brought a model that I think will make it easier for everyone to kind of understand. So I want to start by asking when you deal with your female patients who presumably are much more familiar with this anatomy than men are. What surprises you the most? When a woman comes into your clinic and you're taking care of her, what are you most surprised by in terms of her lack of knowledge about her own body? In its humicle lack of education from a... Just literacy? From a... Where was this sex education? Did we have it? Did we go from a verb-aged perspective referring to the vagina as the vaginal? That's the vaginal canal is the vagina. The vulva is the outside of the vagina. There's Libia, Majora, and Minora. And all the way down to the... to the clitoral nerve and sort of the fact that it has different nerve routes. And so if we think about looking at this model, this is sort of if a female is lying down on her back, that's the angle that you're looking at. There was a great study that was done recently that said that only 41% of Gen Z men could accurately identify the clitoris on a pictorial. Women, a surprisingly... What would that be for Gen X? How much of that is a representation of declining intimacy as people are in younger generations or is that a general statement of men period? I take from that sex education needs to get better. I mean, I sort of take from that the need for better sex education that's actually anatomical and not fear-based. And so women as well, I mean, most women, not all, do know about the clitoral hood, which is the clitoris or the bulb. That's what we sort of think about in terms of the iceberg. But what women often don't know is that they have sort of what we call is the vestibule of the clitoris, which are these sort of bulb-like structures that can receive engagement or when there's an increase in blood flow. And then there's the crew of the clitoris, which is these nerve structures that go on either side of the labium inora. It's a wishbone-like structure and what's really fascinating is to sort of normalize that anatomy can and should look different. There's a great website called the labia library that normalizes all different types and sizes of labium inora and midjora. But the wishbone structures are often asymmetric as well. And so it is quite common for a woman to experience greater pleasure on one side of the vagina versus the other, meaning that this nerve root of the clitoris may be thicker or more sensitive. There's over 8,000 nerve roots as a part of the clitoris. And there can be more focused on one side versus the next. And so I hope that half of your listeners are thinking, I always wondered why I was the righty. I always, I am a lefty. But I also hope the other 50 percent are wondering if you've been with your partner for a long enough time. I hope you know if your partner is a righty or a lefty because there's asymmetry in how we experience pleasure. And then very interestingly is that there is, you know, if you're sort of looking at the tip of the clitoris, there's a nerve root, there's a part that goes sort of inside the vagina. And that's what we talk about in terms of social terms we talk about the G-spot. And what that is is it's a branch of the clitoris that runs along the anterior or the front part of the vagina? It's about a third into the vagina. The best way to find it is to, if your sort of, if a woman is trying to find it on herself is to take her dominant hand, middle finger, stick it, as far as you can, it's sort of do a come-hitter movement or sort of movement of the finger towards the top part of the vaginal wall. It's easier to find when you're aroused because there's an gorge to men of the tissues. It feels a little more rugated and you'll know that you're there if you feel a sensation to urinate, but if you relax into that you won't. And so only about 10% of women now are able to orgasm from stimulation of that internal branch of the clitoril nerve. There's some data that shows that with education that can go up as they're talking to women about how they can find the anterior branch of their clitoril nerve, not only allows them different ways to orgasm, but also gives them a sense of empowerment and sort of ownership to sort of talk their partner through how to sort of maintain pleasure. But for those people who can't have orgasms from the inner part of their vagina, the other 90% are having orgasms from external stimulation of the clitoril nerve. And so Dr. Lauren Striker says, you know, for the 10% of women who can orgasm via the G-spot or the anterior branch, that's great. And she diagnoses the other 90% who can't orgasm from stimulation of the internal nerve as normal. So it's totally normal if you can't have an orgasm from that part of the clitoril nerve, but many women after hearing this podcast, I hope try. Partner should try. It has a little bit, it has better blood supply than the tip of the iceberg. And so as we age, this is one of my favorite techniques for women in the Parymenopause and Menopausal period as their hormones change and the nerve fiber degrades a little bit. Teaching women how to have orgasms from the part of the nerve that has a better blood supply can help maintain pleasure and help maintain interest in sexual activity as we age. All right. So when a woman is having intercourse and maybe for the percentage of guys who might not be familiar, can you point out where the entry to the vagina is on this model? Yeah. So here's entry to the vagina. Of those, there is some statistics that talk about what women percentage of women can orgasm simply by having penetrative intercourse. So penis here. And what's interesting is that the distance of the clitoris to the vaginal opening is variable. And the shorter the distance, they tend to say less than one inch. The shorter the distance of the clitoris to the vaginal opening, the more likely you are to be able to orgasm during penetrative intercourse. And that's because the distance is so short that the angle of the man's body is sort of able to stimulate that area. If that distance is greater, you're less likely to be able to orgasm simply from penetrative intercourse. Que introducing a vibrator, manual stimulation, it's such a thing. So what percentage of women are able to intercourse without any stimulatory vibrator or anything like that from intercourse? Less than 10%. Wow. So it's the same number that you have from the g-spot. Correct. So if a woman is listening to this and she's never had an orgasm through intercourse, she is in the 90%. There's nothing wrong with her. We would diagnose her as normal. And for those women out there who are regularly achieving an orgasm through intercourse, you're in the minority and... Or they're doing external, more likely they're doing external stimulation of the clitoris. Those those graves statistics are without any external manipulation of the clitoris. So for women who are achieving orgasm with a partner is because they've identified positions with their partners. They're using manual stimulation. They're introducing vibrators. They've figured out regardless of distance of clitoris to vaginal opening. How to stimulate the clitoris, the external part of the clitoris. And I like to talk about anatomy so that patients can sort of think about their own individual anatomy. Talk to their partners about it and think about if there's someone who needs to sort of introduce that external stimulation or shall they as a couple just try to find the anterior branch of the clitoril nerve. Those lots you can do as a part of that. How often do you have men in your practice who are there with their female partners who you're trying to educate? For a sexual health consult 20% at the time. And what is the most common... I don't want to use the word ignorance, but what is the most common thing that you appreciate about men when you're helping them in terms of their lack of understanding about their partners anatomy? Giving men a roadmap, being very descriptive, you know men most partners want their partners to be happy. It's not, you know, there's the selfish aspect of performance. And there's the sexual empathy component where they care about their partner and they want their partner to feel well. Giving them a roadmap to sort of explore around and find the anterior branch and think about the wishbone structures is really exciting to them. Desire, spontaneous desire, thinking through that is really exciting for them how they tap into that, how they can curate that with their partner, thinking about their partners or their own browser. And then sort of supporting... There's a communication component. I think when we think about sexual dysfunction, we tend to break it down into a biosyco-social model. I like to talk mostly about bio. I'm a clinical physician. I'm a gynecologist. So I think a lot about anatomy and pathophysiology and neurotransmitters and hormones. But there's a lot of other people in this field that are helping with psychosocial. Sex therapists, communication. There's a great book called Sex Talks by Vanessa Merin, which talks about how to communicate with your partner. Clitorate is a great book to think through different ways that you can sort of improve your communication about what pleasures you and how to investigate that. There's really good websites now. OMGYes.com is a website that sort of talks about your anatomy and how to find it and how to find your pleasure spots. So there's a lot out there. I'm not alone in this space by any means. But I like to think about it from a very sort of biologic, physiologic perspective. And so on the topic of sexual desire, what are the, you know, because this podcast is called the drive and we're talking about cars, what's the throttle and what's the break pedal on sexual desire for men and for women and I assume it's different.

What do we think is actually causing aging? You know, we've been debating what aging is for the longest time. And I think we would argue for two hours in some conference room somewhere in the world. At the end of it, we would come up with the definition, Shit happens in the new time. It's really just, it's frustrating. I don't even want to talk about it now. And you know, Vadim Glattishov has been on like a evangelical rant about how do we define aging? We don't know how to define it. He asked that question in every conference. And I think it's a fair question. And we all throw our hands up in the air. And so the idea was we have a lot of data now. A lot of human data. And aging researchers are beginning to try to model that data. But they're not modelers. You know, I think most aging myologists are at least myself. If I have a skill, it's intuition. It's not writing equations and code. And but the physics people, the theoretical physicists, especially they know how to model things. And they model things based on physical principles that are proven. And so we've been trying to bring these groups together. And because I believe maybe the only answer to your question is that we have to write in an equation. And so early days on that, but I'm excited about where that's going. And do you think that these will be explainable through equations or do you think that this exceeds our level of intelligence to understand? And it's really going to be up to a black box that contains a neural network to understand this. And maybe we take a step back actually. So for the listeners, they've heard us on this podcast talk about quote unquote hallmarks of aging. Maybe explain to people what the hallmarks of aging are, which I don't mean like list them all. But the content set up them. Yeah, don't. I wouldn't put you on the spot for that. But the idea that has been proposed is that there are hallmarks of aging. And why is stating those not the same as answering the question that you me and everybody else is struggling with? Well, this is kind of an existential crisis with me because the hallmarks of aging came on in 2014 or 2013. And then I wrote another paper right after that called the Pillars of Aging, which is kind of the poor stepchild of the hallmarks of aging. And that was because there was an NIH conference and there were seven topics discussed in the Ask Me to write a review on calling them the Pillars of Aging. So I did. But even in that review, I had the seven Pillars of Aging, but I connected them all with lines because I don't really think that these hallmarks and Pillars, which are like the pathways in the cell that are thought to be driving the aging process. You know, inflammation, you know, epigenetic changes these kinds of things. They're all interesting to aging and you can modify them or they get modified if you slow the aging process. But what strikes me is how entrained everything is. So if you take an intervention like Rapa Mai said that slow is aging, it can impact all of the hallmarks. And so I don't really, I think those are like outputs or ways you can look at aging, but they're not that nobody is really just targeted. The idea that you can target each hallmark and then you'll live forever is not going to work. Because it's really the network that connects the hallmarks together. And to me, aging is a healthy aging is about maintaining homeostasis. It's about, you know, maintaining a responsive network and your body that sort of keeps you an equilibrium response to the events that are happening during aging. The stochastic events, the damage that's happening and it keeps you functional. And that network is highly malleable. You can influence that network by drugs or behavior. And if you do, you can drive benefit from it and you can read it out as an improvement of all the hallmarks. It's not like one thing of exercise affects only this hallmark. So I think it's, the hallmarks was good because it drove interest in the field. It's part of the reason a lot of investment came in the biotech sector. But it also is misleading because I think the idea that aging is 12 different things and you just need to fix all 12 of them is completely wrong. It's really about, you're body knows how to function in a healthy way. It's about trying to maintain that and maybe improve upon it. So do you look at the hallmarks, which I believe have been modified since the original paper and a few others have been added? Do you see an, an, a rank order or a seniority of them in terms of causality? So for example, one of the hallmarks is mitochondrial dysfunction. Yeah. Now one could say that mitochondrial dysfunction occurs independent of another hallmark of aging, which you've listed, epigenetic change. Alternatively, you could say actually it's the epigenetic change that occurs stochastically and that that is driving mitochondrial dysfunction. And if you reverse the epigenetic change to the previous epigenetic layout, you will correct the mitochondrial dysfunction. How do you think about the interconnectedness through the lens of causality? Yeah, I think the, the primacy issues of major one. I like the idea that mitochondrial might have been one of the primary drivers. Also, you know, every time we do an experiment, we keep coming back to inflammation, all of the interventions that extend lifespan, reduce chronic inflammation, are almost all of them. And then every time we create a new biological aging clock, which we're doing a lot of now in my lab, you know, and we do principle components and figure out what the main driver is it always related to inflammation. And so I think there's something, it may not be inflammation, maybe a response, but it's so central that a lot of the interventions I think are working by dampening inflammation. But to your point, inflammation could easily be a readout state. Yeah, yeah, but it, it's certainly when you modify, I think when you modify, you get an outcome, you know, so it's not just an endpoint that you look at. How are you measuring inflammation? I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com, forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. To a healthier future.

Let's start a little bit with the biology of the aging face. And again, we're going to limit our discussion today to the neck up, not that there isn't other things that are completely relevant around cosmetics, but that's just a big enough topic. I told you that when I looked at myself 10 years ago, I couldn't believe how much better I looked. But I'd have a hard time telling you why. Like, I can't put my finger on it, but I bet you can without me showing you those pictures. Why did I look better at 42 than 52? That's such a great question. And that's exactly how my patients come in. A lot of times they'll come in and they'll say, I feel like I looked tired. I don't know exactly what's going on, but I feel like I looked tired. And I have these beautiful diagrams in my office, and I show them the face of someone who's 20. The face of someone who's in their late 60s, and I walk them through the changes. And the first thing I do is we show them the diagram with the skin peeled off. And you see about 11 different fat compartments in the youthful face that on each side of the face, that are plump, they're robust, they're giving volume, and they're giving a padding between the skin and the muscle and the underlying bones. And then you look at someone who's in their late 60s, and you peel the skin away, and you see a dramatic atrophy in all those fat pads. A few might increase in size, but the vast majority undergo atrophy. And then in addition to that, I show them what the bones are doing at that age too. So we look at the bone evolved over 20 year old, and the opening around the eyes are nice and tight, the cheek bones are nice and wide, the jawline has a really good definition. And then you look at someone who's in their 60s, and all of a sudden the opening around the eyes are wider. Really? The cheek bones are less wide, jaw bones are less wide, less height. And so now you've got the scaffolding that's diminished, and all the skin looks like it's just hanging. And that's what's happening, but it starts early. So what I see on most of my patients when they come in and say, I look tired and you said it, you look at your pictures ten years ago, you look now and you don't know what's different. The first change is around the eyes, and I'm sure it can add to that. But basically what's happening is you're getting more bone loss around the eyes, more fat atrophy around the eyes, so you're starting to see the underlying anatomy, which was padded before. So first of all, this is completely news to me. Is this loss of bone comparable to what we would see in the reduction of bone density in a person's hips as they age? So a lot of it is hormonal. A lot of it is hormonal, and you see it, especially in women, if they start to see the aging changes, they'll start to identify that in their early forties. So this in other words is probably another reason why women would benefit from hormone replacement therapy, because maintaining estrogen levels would maintain bone health. Absolutely, and actually that's something we need to stress more and more to them, because it starts in their early forties. And then it just accentuates over time. But by 10th and 50, all of a sudden, now, if we're looking at them cross-sectionally, a group of 50-year-olds compared to guides were 50, the men are holding up pretty good. Their facial bone structures good, their fat volume's good, their muscle thickness, and skin thickness is good. But from 50 to 60 or 70, women will age about 20 years faster than men in the lower face, especially. They will get so much atrophy in the mandible, that they'll start to get that, that's why women start to see it. Hate my neck, hate the loose skin and my neck. And if then, because if the mandibles retracting, the neck becomes looser. Yes. Again, this is remarkable because if you bringing it back to the one thing I know about bone, it's when you look at men and women aging from a skeletal system, they're both going through a comparable decline, starting in their 20s, because we both peak both men and women peak in the early 20s. But at about 50, women fall off a cliff, whereas men just continue a linear decline. And so the gap really widens, interesting to realize that the exact same thing is happening in the face. That's exactly it. And that's why women come in the first things they say when they're 50s, I hate my neck. And I think we jump to try to surgically correct it or to augment it with fillers or neuromodulators to keep the muscle from pulling it down. But I think we have to have a talk about hormone replacement. You have to catch those women before they're far along into menopause. Again, I'm blown away by that fact. If I could hop in for a second, I love the direction of this conversation, because I don't know if people realize how much science there is about the aging process. There were some seminal studies by Rorek and Pessa in the 90s and 2000s. It kind of delineated a lot of what Susan's talking about, where they looked at CT scans of similar and at the same individual over time. I think some of those studies had a 50 to 20 year span, and there was quantitative calculations of bone density and bone projection of the mandible, the maxilla, the frontal bone, and these bone structures all received with aging. And the bone is the foundation for the face. And so when we're talking about youthful fullness of a face, a lot of that is the bone structure. And then, as Susan said, of course, the fact compartments are a critical component of our facial aesthetics. And as we lose all that volume, the reason why people start to look more skeletal as we age. One of the most common areas that I see in my practice is people talking about their under eye bags, and their lines that are showing up in their eyelids and their cheek area. It's because we have ligaments that attach the skin down to the bone. It's called the osteocutaneous ligament, it's a network of the face. And those ligaments are the same for every single individual no matter what your ethnicity is. Of course, there's variations on the theme, but the orbital retaining ligament, the male are ligament, the temporal ligament, the mandible are ligament, the mass that are ligament. These ligaments are always present, and then as we lose that facial volume from fat atrophy, and the bones move backwards, these ligaments are tugging on the skin, and these deep lines start to show up. And that's really, I would say one of the fundamental changes we see with aging of the face. What I guess I don't understand is the following. Again, I'm just going to use myself as the example, because I think I'm probably reflective of many people. Ten years ago, I was less fat than I am today. Same body weight, by the way. I almost to the pound, I'm the same as I was 10 years ago, but I would bet my body fat was two or three percent lower. In other words, I have accumulated fat in my body. Why am I losing fat in my face? What is it about facial subcutaneous fat depose that atrophies when virtually every person, the opposite is happening when they age, they're actually adding at a post tissue, subcutaneously, and unfortunately, often viscerally. So if I may answer that one, it's interesting because I talk a lot to my patients about that. Now, the vast majority of my patients are female. So they'll come in and they'll see me, and I can look at their face, let's say they're under late 30s, early 40s, and I can guess how many kids they've had. Because what happens is you gain weight in pregnancy, it doesn't have to even be a lot, but then most people, if they're fit, they lose that post pregnancy weight. I've had none, by the way, just in case you were wondering. That's good to know. And they lose that post pregnancy weight, and what happens is they go back to being in the same weight that they were before they got pregnant, but they're face is thinner. Second, baby, more or so, by the third baby, it takes a significant toll on the face, that weight gain weight loss. So you can tell looking at a female face, almost how many times they've gone through that weight gain weight loss. So what happens, the facial fat pads are very unique metabolically. Like I mentioned, most of the time they're just atriffing as we age. There are a couple of compartments that might in time get thicker, such as the nasal labial fat compartment, which is why some people have that deep fold. But for the most part, they atriffy. And so if you go through this yo-yo change with your weight, and you're progressively getting thinner and again and some weight back, it doesn't go to the face. It goes to parts of the body we don't want, but the face continues to undergo that weight loss or the volume atriffy. But do we know biologically, because it's almost like a lipid dystrophy, where the fat cell becomes defective and can't reaccumulate triglyceride or whatever it is, whatever form it's going to store it in. I think this is a edge of like so many things in medicine. There are things that we know and a lot that we don't know. So we know that it's happening, we don't actually know the biochemical mechanism. I think we're just starting to understand the individual receptors and specific nature of different areas of fat. So for example, even in the eyelid region, when we're doing surgery on the face, and we're doing surgery on the upper eyelid, we will see that the fat pads have different colors. So the medial orbital fat pad is lighter substantially compared to the much yellower and more orange lateral fat pad, and that color will be different than the buckle fat pad. And one of the differences, there's beta-carantine differences in the fat pads, and that's probably just one of maybe a hundred that we'll eventually find out is contributing to the differences in the fat population. We know that facial fat is different from abdominal fat, which is different from lower extremity fat. And we know this also practically speaking because when we're doing fat grafting procedures, the source of the fat can have a different long-term effect when it's injected into the face, depending on what the source was. So we know that fat is not the same throughout the body, and it's not the same in the face. There is a general consensus that beta-carantine is an anti-inflammatory mediator, and higher concentrations, and lower concentrations of beta-carantine can have some effect on the metabolic health and fat, especially how it responds to stress. And so in the world of longevity, there's a lot of discussions about managing cortisol levels, like sleep is helpful, having lifestyles that reduce your overall stress level is good for your overall health and numerous ways. That's also true for the fat and the skin of the face, because again, a lot of this is not fully explained, but we're starting to get more and more details as basic science progresses in this area, that these fat compartments and the skin, which we can talk more about, is exclusive to the sensitive, to stress that the body is experiencing cumulatively over time. So, you know, a lot of times people feel like they're really aging in their 40s. You know, people have midlife crisis, they're crises, they're probably experiencing the maximum stress in their life at that stage, typically, and I'm just generalizing here, but, you know, people will have a busy career, they've got kids, they've got financial worries, and so people are under a lot of stress in their 30s and 40s, and that contributes to some of the more rapid facial volume loss changes, some of the skin aging changes with elasticity, collagen, and last-and-change is at a curve of time. And so, that's where I think that, you know, this conversation really plugs in quite well into the line of, you know, education that you're providing your followers in terms of longevity benefits, because it overlaps here with cortisol stress and inflammation. And what's interesting is that chronic elevation of cortisol in the body is actually anabolic to fat, right? You accumulate fat, it's catabolic to muscle, muscle decays, fat accumulates. It sounds like you're saying, okay, that's true from the neck down, but above the neck, chronic elevation of cortisol might have the opposite effect. It might actually be catabolic to fat, and therefore it accentuates the fat loss. Is that am I hearing you correctly in that? Yes, I believe that's correct. And just yesterday in my clinic, I had a perfect example of this. I had patients back to back. One was 68-year-old, she was a six-year-old woman who has lived a very comfortable life. She comes from affluence, hasn't really had to work too hard in her life, and has maintained things, of course, she's just skincare products. And, you know, she's had a little bit of filters in Botox, but no surgery, and she looked 10 years younger than her state of age, because of the kind of life she's been living. And then the next patient I saw was from rural Texas, has been in the sun, has never been taken care of her skin, you know, was working a kind of a blue-collar job, difficult life, a couple of marriages failed. She looked like she was 10 years older, and this is common. I'm sure you see this all the time as well, Susan. So lifestyle stress factors clearly have an effect. And one of the reasons why Peter perhaps this is not an area that you've kind of delved into in your vast experience in medicine is because the quality of science and aesthetics has historically been pretty poor. You're giving me way too much credit. I wish I could say that. I have delved into plenty of things where the science is poor. There is some other mental block I have. It might be that I'm not smart enough to understand it all, but we'll continue and I appreciate your. And another reason why becomes very murky to sort through the science, and I'm sure this exists in other areas of medicine too, but a lot of the individuals, corporations, you know, factors, forces that are delivering science to the masses and to physicians who are eating it up and you know, regurgitating it to their patients. These sources are questionable. They're they're equipped with a profiting, you know, as you, I'm sure realize the aesthetic industry is a very, very lucrative industry worldwide, especially in the United States. And all the forces that are delivering the science, I'm sorry, not I shouldn't say all the forces. There's a lot of forces where those that are delivering the science have a vested interest in receiving monetary benefit from what they're pushing out. That makes things murky. But I think going back to the fact compartments, think about it with our patients in general, you know, the role of the fact compartments in the face are to allow muscle glide. So the muscles can move over each other when you smile, talk, eat, chew, all of that. And now you don't understand why they should undergo such atrophy over time for such an important function. But then we look at the metabolic activity of the fat and other areas of the body and it's very different. So when we do fat grafting, for example, and we take fat from the abdomen, which has the highest concentration stem cells, you know, preadipicites there, and put them in the face, the fat starts to be a more like the fat from the abdomen when you put it in the face. And if they gain weight, it retains its source. Yes. And then when they gain weight, you have to tell your patients specifically, don't try to gain more than a few pounds, because it will hypertrophy like it would in the abdomen if they gained weight. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode, and carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future. Thank you.

What would make a school 10 times better than old school that we went to? You know, and so we sort of have five dimensions that we do. When the first is kids must love school, and we literally measure more than vacation. Like that has to be it. And we get 50-ish percent of kids. Depends on the vacation depends on the workshop, it's really good. 50% of kids were like, yeah, I want to go to school instead of vacation. I plenty of parents, well, my highlight as a principal was, you know, in May this year, two thirds of the high school kids sent me a note and they're like, can we keep alpha high open this summer? Because we don't want to take a summer break, because we love what we're doing. Right? The girl doing it, you know, Broadway musical. She's like, this is, I want to keep come and go and do it, right? And so, you know, we're, you know, back to my world, right? It was not in school. It was, you know, shirkying in my dad. You know, I'm like, make a place where kids love school. Invacations could standard. Number two, kids need to learn 10 times faster. We just, we need an engine that teaches kids 10 times faster. And so our AI tutor based on learning science, teaches kids 10 times faster, right? And between five and ten, we'll get it up and, you know, so that's the second part. So that you can then that gives you the chance to give the time back. The third dimension of a school is what are, if you academics isn't everything, right, to developing kids, everybody knows that. What are the life skills that every parent says? That is what I wish I knew. And some are, you know, traits, behavioral traits. I hope they, they are love learning in our self-driven learner, right? You want things like that. And I want somebody who uplift others in his classroom and behavioral is an independent person. Others are like those ones I talked about where you're like, no, I want entrepreneurs, nism and financial literacy or I want storytelling, public speaking, those, those type skills. And so the third is have that curriculum. The suite of skills that every parent wants. So we actually have spent, you know, the last three years developing life core, right? The common core curriculum for life skills that, because I have four hours a day to fill, right, with all this awesome stuff that kids can do. And it's just amazing what they do. Like if you take atomic habits, right, that book of 1% better. Most people don't read that till after college, right? And then they're like, oh, this is a way I can really develop. Last year, you know, our guide face, second grade guide. You know, she sat down and she was working on her workshop, you know, in her life skills. She's like, you know what? I want to teach atomic habits, called the second graders, because the concepts they all can understand. And she's like, you know how I'm going to do it? I'm like, she's like, I'm going to have all our second graders run a 5K in under 35 minutes. And that interest, I'm like, oh, no, okay, the parents are not going to like that, right? That's too hard back to high standards. They don't want struggle fail. Where's that road to success part and what percent are going to make it? And so I was, she's like, don't worry, it's told, I can do this. She was a UT athlete. And she's like, we've told her, can do it. She was like a head cheerleader or whatever. So like, everybody can do this. And so she sits down with the second graders. First day and is like, who can run a 5K? And they're like, that's impossible, Miss Faith. The parents all are like, that's a boss will say. She's like, why sign you all up for the jingle 5K? You know what to do? And so she goes out to the track and the first day, they walk it and they walk 5K. She's like, okay, so we all will establish, you're going to finish the race. Right. And then the next time they ran a quarter lap, walk the rest. Next time half a lap, walk the rest. And by December, right, all the kids are running the race. Right. And you know, when they cross the finish line, just that achievement, back to the key to kids happiness is high standards. That's a really high standard. But they loved it. And they did have to struggle and go through and learn this. But they also learned that life skill of 1% better. Right. And so the second graders like, dad, I can do anything. I can do 50 pushups. I'll do one today and two tomorrow and you know, build up in that skill, that life skill, we don't teach kids in school. It's a great life skill to have. And if you have half the day, you can do that. So that's the third element of like, how do you build a great, a great school? The fourth element in this gets to the teachers, what would make a teacher 10 times better than what it is today? And the answer is, well, not grading science tests all day and you know, writing lesson plans, but instead connecting it's meant to be the kids. Right. And so we ask, here's the questions we ask, you know, the students and the parents, which is to kids, you know, a kindergarten, or like, do you love your guide, right? And, but you know, as you get older, it's every adult had one or two teachers who transform their life. Right. Back to that is your guide that for you. Right. And that is what our guides, right? That is the expectation that they are the ones that the students are like, you are helping me achieve things that I didn't think is possible. Miss Faith, you told me, taught me how to do the impossible. Right. And so that, right, that level. And actually, then, you know, at the parent side, this gets into, you know, Dr. Yager, you know, has a book 10 to 25, right? Child psychologist development expert. And it's, you know, from kids, how to, what matters for kids, right, from 10 to from 10 years old to 25, right? And his whole theory, mentor mindset, you know, high standards high support. The, the most parents are not high standards and high support, which is what really matters to develop kids. They're either low standards high support. That's what happened to all our expectations or they're the inverse high standards. No support. You know, this would be your classic, you know, Tiger Mom would be, you know, good luck figured out, right? And the real answer for child development, you need both. High standards high support. And so that's our guide. But the question we asked parents in middle and high school, right, back to having what's a school re-envisioning it. It's like, do you trust your alpha guide to hold high standards for your kid? So you as the parent can provide the unconditional love and support, right? Which transforms for those who have lessons, it transforms your relationship where you don't have to be the naggy parent for the high high standards. You know, my daughter, my oldest daughter, you know, she's writing her college essay and I'm like, you want to let me read it and she's like, no, right? No interest in that. Yeah, she's got, she's got to take care of and got someone else. And for me, I was super relaxed because I was like, I know Chloe, right, went back to our guide, right? She's a Harvard grad. I know she was totally high standards for my daughter and I know it's going to be fine. And I don't have to get a fight about it or whatever. I'm just like, okay, yeah, I can give my daughter a hug and be like, good luck, right? And so that transforms what teachers can be, right? Versus, I'm delivering those seven great lessons. And so, you know, and then the fifth dimension that we talk about is the sees, character, community, classmates, and culture. And these are also the hardest parts to measure, but at the end, they're what parents care about the most, right? Which is, at the end of the, all those other, you don't care, right? Is, do I have a good kid? Did I raise a good kid? Right? And is the school helping me make raise a good kid? And so, those elements are what we looked at and said, now that you want to re-invision school, right, from the ground up. Here's the dimensions. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at Peter AtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

What are you most proud of that the medical institution in this country? Let's just keep it simple. What do you think medicine has done the best job of in the last decade? Well, I think you look at cardiac surgical care. I think you look at mine infections and hospitals. I mean, there have been some really big wins here that don't get maybe as much attention as they deserve. What else? Where else are we hitting it out of the park? Obstetrical care. I think we've not only now have is the if it mortality rate as good as modern medicine can deliver it, but we've now accepted these these new best practices of skin to skin time delayed court clamping, encouraging breastfeeding early on reducing C sections when not necessary. These are those are in the last 10 years, those best practices. But we're at a pretty good point where the system is humming on a lot of acute care. There's a video I saw on social media the other day where a guy said, if I get shot, I want to go to a US hospital. We have the best care in the world. If I break a bone, that's where I'm going to go straight to a doctor. But when it comes to telling me, you know, what I should be eating or how to live my life, I don't think I trust modern medicine. If you come in with chronic abdominal pain, sometimes our sophisticated system didn't know what to do, right? So I think the acute care has been mastered. And I think, you know, I think about the operations, I was a part of these laparoscopic wipples and it's a tour de force of science and technology and advancements. And we do something called a transplant with eyelet cells now for people with chronic pain. So I think good stuff is happening. We have good people. People go in medicine, nursing, every aspect of healthcare, united by one common thing. And that is everybody wants to help other people who are in need. And that's an incredible bond that we have. It's a profession. We should all be proud of it's a heritage, you know, I'm proud of that my dad was a part of and I get to do the things he encouraged me to do little tips, ways to connect with patients. I still think of the time he said, don't ask somebody, are you taking your medication? Instead say, you know, some people find it hard to take their medications as prescribed. How are you doing with it? It's far less, you know, head to head. And so it's an incredible profession in teaching these little pearls and gems, citing research, calling out the importance of good scientific methodology. It's still, I think, the best job in the world. And medical centers are still some of the most respected institutions in America, which is why we've called on them to have ethical billing and pricing practices. But we can correct course. And I think, all in all, it's an incredible privilege to be a part of the medical profession. I encourage anyone to get into it. You would still encourage someone who's sitting here listening to us, who's in college, who's on the fence about going into tech, going into business, going into law, going into medicine. You'd still get them the nudge to do medicine if it's something they're partially considering. Yes, where else can you put a knife to someone skin within seconds of meeting them just because you're the doctor? People will tell you secrets they've never told their spouse within minutes of meeting you because you're the doctor. And so there's an incredible heritage in the profession. And so I think it's the best job in the world. Now you've got to be okay with memorizing enzyme names over and over again. I mean, hundreds of names of useless molecules that you could look up on Google. That's just part of the old system and people. But you know, I think the bigger issue isn't so much that you have to memorize those names. It's that you're sort of lacking the context and why. I mean, Marty, I still memorize names of complex enzymes and pathways. But the difference is I'm doing it because it's feeding my interest. Yes. Right. It's like I'm reading papers and I'm learning new things. I have to draw diagrams to help my I mean, I'm doing the same thing I was doing 25 years ago. So I don't I also don't want to let people suggest that it's not important to have knowledge. Like it is important that I know these things, even if they seem a little bit esoteric. But it's just easier to know it when you understand why, when you have a scaffolding around why. I while I can't tell you every step of the Krebs cycle, I still remember in great detail how metabolism works because it really matters to what I do. So I think if anything, I just hope that medical education can major in the major and minor in the minor because while I think it matters that you understand these things, I think it and I get maybe this is already the case because I'm so far from it. But if you understand why the Krebs cycle matters and why when the Krebs cycle isn't working, every disease in the body gets worse, like why is it that a person with cardiovascular disease type 2 diabetes Alzheimer's disease, why do they have defective Krebs cycle? That's what I want medical students to be understanding and learning. Yes. So anyway. Yes. I don't know where I stand on it truthfully if I do get asked from time to time by young people, hey, you know, would you do it all over again? Of course for me the answer is undoubtedly yes, but but I also realize there are a lot of other exciting fields in the world today that maybe weren't available to me and I don't know. How about surgical residency? Would you do that part again? You know, yeah, it's interesting knowing what I know today and knowing where I end that up today would I have been better off doing an internal medicine residency? The answer is probably yes. I think it would be more logical. But look, I wouldn't know you. I wouldn't know Ted Sheafer. I wouldn't know a lot of the amazing people that I've gotten to know through my surgical training. And I think in many ways surgical training, especially the way we did it so long ago, you know, when you didn't have regulations on work hours and stuff, it was so hard that it really gave me an appreciation for how much easier my life is today and how lucky I have it to, you know, not be woken up every 14 minutes when I sleep and, you know, things like that. So, so I don't know. I probably reluctant to change anything. I think it all worked out okay and I'm really grateful for the folks I met along the way. And I do hope that someone listening to this whose, whose contemplating medical school, as you said, I agree with you completely. Anybody who chooses to be anywhere within the vicinity of this field, you want to be a nurse, you want to be a radiology tech, you want to be a phlbautomist, you want to be a doctor, the one thing that unites all of those people is they're doing it for the right reasons. You know, the sort of kid in high school went asked, what do you want to go into and they say, I don't know, I'm thinking about being a nurse. They're different from their peers. It's a calling really to be a medicine. And so we attract these great folks. I think our challenge in the academic towers is how can we keep the focus both on the test, technically sophisticated pieces of metabolism so they understand it. And at the same time, not lose sight of the overall person. Yeah, I agree. Yeah. I think I can preserve the humanity of the field while harnessing kind of critical thought and and and doing it around as I said, kind of this scaffolding of purpose. One quick thing, I discovered classic example of this, the Pima Indians in New Mexico along the Gila River, they had been cut off with their water supply, farmers and ranchers and settlers. So this nation of Indians, all of a sudden, wasn't they weren't able to grow crops and the healthy foods they'd been eating for centuries. So the US government recognizing how they were being depleted of food and the starvation that was happening, started shipping food. But of course, it wasn't this wasn't whole food stuff, this spam and potato chips or whatever else. And they started developing massively high rates of obesity, diabetes, quickly ensued. And so you had this population that was massively obese and diabetes. And the NIH decides to swoop in and address this problem by looking for a predisposing gene for obesity and diabetes. And they tested the blood of all these poor Indians. And it's like we can't see the forest on a tree. Yeah. There, we've been feeding them shit for decades. That is what's been driving the obesity in diabetes. It's not that they have a gene. They've had spontaneous mutations of the FTO gene that have now produced rampant obesity. Yeah.

By the way, one of the reasons they actually went from the Asperger, syndrome, PDD, NOS, autistic disorder. They decided to call it all, because I was actually quite controversial when they actually decided to put all three of those things under one umbrella called autism spectrum. Was because clinicians did a really poor job of deciding which names did you were in? Which bucket you were in? So you would have it child. And one clinician would call it asperger syndrome, and another person would call it autistic disorder, another person would call the PDD NOS. So they decided, okay, rather than having these three names, let's put it all under autism spectrum. So then they put under autism spectrum, but then they have level one level two level three. But I would argue, I would still say that clinicians still struggle sometimes where there is a little bit of overlap. It's not always. Now, if you go back to DSM4, when, as you mentioned, physicians are struggling to know which of these buckets to put them into. As an outsider looking in, Mike first question is, does it matter in terms of treatment and resources? Does it matter more in terms of outcomes and support? Like there must be a reason why people cared about that. In other words, if you had a child in your 2000, who one clinician said, this kid has asked burgers syndrome, and other person said, no, they're autistic, was that going to make a material difference in the type of support that they got, and most importantly, the type of person they were going to turn into. Like, were they going to reach their full potential under differential capacity? Great question. So it did make a difference. So with respect to resources. So children with Aspergus syndrome, frequently did not get support or support covered. I see, okay. You needed autistic disorder to get support. And what about PDDNOS? Wait, it's about good. Yeah, people didn't know what to do with that. Got it. So you didn't even know what to do with that. So if by putting everything under autism, then it's like, okay, if you have autism, you should receive services. It was a tool to understand and get resources. Now, we have level one, level two, level three. Now, level one is it says requires support. Level two is require substantial support. Level three is require very substantial support. My concern is that, again, when a child is level one, they don't always get the support they need. Because they have so many strengths. So kids in level one have frequently, they have good cognitive skills. They have a lot of language skills. They struggle with some social skills. And they may have difficulties with executive functioning and coping skills at times. But again, it's considered mild and a lot of those kids don't get support. And I think that's unfortunate because they also are the kids that respond to intervention so well if they get a little coaching on how do you cope with distress? How do you cope with change? How do you practice some social skills? Not that they have to change. We don't need to change everything about them, but giving them a little bit of support about how to, again, be adaptive in a community, giving that support goes a long way in that group. But frequently, they don't get the support because they're called level one. You'll be understand the natural history of those kids back in the 70s and 80s, right? So back in the 70s and 80s when you and I were kids, nobody thought anything of those kids, right? They weren't going to, but certainly we're going to get labeled with autism. They certainly weren't going to show up with in-school programs to help them with their social skills and with their communication skills. As you point it out, they're intellectually not impaired, so it's not like they're going to struggle in school, but there's clearly something that they're struggling with. Right. I don't know if we, I mean, obviously it hasn't been studied, but I'm very curious based on your experience and your judgment, like are those people that just went on to pick careers where they didn't have to interact with people, but they could still do challenging cognitive work. How did those people, what was the natural history of them? They're clearly a lot of them. There are, there are a lot of them. And I think they did, they found a path that made sense to them. They obviously learned what their strengths were, and their strengths may have been around memory, detail oriented, following rules that are black and white. They may have had really wonderful cognitive skills in certain areas that were less around inferring and social skills and more concrete. And yeah, we don't have studies to say this for sure, but my guess is they have lived happy, successful lives, a lot of them, some of them. Doing things that they enjoy doing or passionate about. They probably have found ways to not engage in large social settings, but there's a lot of careers out there that are a good match, and they also have relationships and marriages. So to emphasize that, people with autism get married. Yeah. I think it's, I mean, I just think there's zero chance that there aren't thousands, if not tens of thousands of these people listening to us right now. Right, because they're adults today, and I wonder if they're listening to some of this and they're saying this resonates like I get that. And when I was a kid, I was hyper-focused on this stuff. I wasn't interested in a whole bunch of stuff. Yeah. It was a little harder for me to interact with other kids and things like that, and yet I found my path and here I am today. Yeah, so I talked to parents all the time about this because I evaluate children, I evaluate children for autism or ADHD, and very often when I'm evaluating the child, at some point, while I develop this relationship with the family, the parents say, gosh, so much of my child is in me. As you are described in my child, my child's strengths and challenges, and I see me, and this is exactly what I went through when I was young. And then they share how hard it was, and they say gosh, I never like, no one understood me or I felt bad because I was misunderstood or I thought it was my fault, and I didn't try hard enough. So I have to say it can be validating for an adult. She learned that it wasn't their fault, and this is part of their wiring. I have many, many parents who asked me, like should I go get a session now? Should I go say? We, I never say yes or no, I ask questions. I think information is power. I think it's good for them to be thinking about it, whether or not they go on to actually get assessed, a lot of them don't necessarily, but the autism piece, often they don't, with the ADHD piece, they often do, because they realize actually their ADHD traits are impacting their function, it's a success of their job. So sometimes they will actually go to a psychiatrist to get an assessment, but I do share with them the genetics, and the family history. So what do I say? I validate. I say yes, you're sharing, you're telling me that growing up, you had many traits that today, we would classify under one of these diagnoses, you're right, and it is possible because these things do run in families, and there is a highly genetic component. And I think sometimes just that conversation can be therapeutic itself in that someone feeling validated, and they have that aha moment, like, okay, this explains a lot, and then they can feel good as well, because they're like, okay, this explains a lot, and I've gone on, and I currently have my family, and I'm doing well in many parts of my life, but it helps them also understand, like, but now I understand why, sometimes I do have these challenges at work, or with my spouse. It's interesting, just sometimes having a perspective where now you can see your challenges through a different lens, sometimes helps a person, just actually now think about, okay, now I can adjust or understand the triggers, or think about, can reflect, to think about how do I wanna respond the next time? So I think again, that information's empowering, even if they don't ever go to therapy or do anything else, just actually starting to become informed about it, can help. Yeah, and I would imagine it helps them a lot with their child, because they're seeing both, hey, my child has this diagnosis that now partially explains, the challenges we might be having, et cetera, but at the same time, because I can empathize with that child if I've experienced it, it makes you better parent now. Do you, so everything you said makes a great case for widening the diagnostic envelope, because if we go back 40 years, we had this narrow, narrow envelope, and in other words, we had a test that had very, very high specificity, but very low sensitivity. You were missing a lot of people, but you didn't get any false positives. That's for sure, right? And you didn't over-pathologize. When someone was autistic, they were really autistic. Now, today we have the opposite problem, right? So we have a high sensitivity, low specificity test, sort of, I'm gonna get mad up, but you know, just to bring it to cancer diagnostics for people. So now, anybody who's autistic should get diagnosed, but then we're, you know, we're stretching what that means. And a lot of the people getting diagnosed today, frankly, maybe without any support would go on to do just fine. Do you worry that when the DSM6 comes out, it could have a wider envelope, and we could start to get to a point where someone might say, hey, are we over-patholic, over pathologizing this? Yes. And are we getting to a point where, well, what does normal even mean anymore? Oh, I agree with that so much. So I actually asked that question all the time. So I do wonder, like, we every time a child has a few of these traits, we have to give a name to it all the time. It's an interesting debate, and you will have your whole different perspectives. I mean, the name gives us a way to get resources and help people. And, but I also concerned that we, you know, we have to give everything a name. I actually wonder in the next DSM, whether, whether we'll tend to take it a step back, like the, whether the pendulum will swing a little bit. And when does that do? I don't know. What was the gap between three and four and four and five? So, you often, like, 15 years? I was like a couple decades, so. So it could be another decade. It could really be another decade. The decade, it can be. So, but level one, we were type of level one autism. So I'm going to tell you level one autism. Kid, the kids in that bucket might actually be part of several different diagnostic buckets. So, children who are identified with level one autism, one clinician, they see one clinician, that person may diagnose autism. They see a second clinician, that person may diagnose ADHD plus anxiety. They don't even call it autism. So, I see this all the time in my clinic. I have kids who come to clinic and they we see, you know, three other clinicians before they saw me. Really great clinicians. High standards, experts, but there's a lot of blurry lines with the level one autism. And you will hear different diagnoses. So back to your thoughts around like future DSM's, I wonder how we're going to address level one autism and whether all the kids, is it the same condition? Is that like how many different conditions are in the bucket? Um, see, to me, the way I would think about that is, I would hope that by the time we have to make that decision, we would have enough data. And the data would ask the most important question, which is how are we impacting outcomes, right? In other words, when we widen the diagnostic envelope and you know, said that, you know, we're going to now have this ASD class one in here. That opened the door for more resources, right? That, man, more kids had programs at school. What's it, what's it, what's it, IEP? IEP, more kids have IEPs at school. What is that, what does that say for individual education plan? Education plan. And at the end of the day, what we want to know is, are those kids doing better? And if the answer is yes, then it's probably worth keeping, right? If the answer is, that didn't make a darn bit of difference. Yeah. Then all we did was create a bunch of anxiety for the parents. And maybe it didn't. Now again, I don't know how one goes about answering that, but I would hope that somebody a lot smarter than me is thinking about it through that lens because we can't lose sight of the whole purpose of this. Like the purpose of the diagnosis in anywhere in medicine should be to impact an outcome. A diagnosis for the sake of a diagnosis is not a particularly valuable tool, unless you're an epidemiologist, but even there, it should be all in the spirit of how are we making people better. Yeah, I agree. And that's why again, I agree that the kids in level one should be receiving services. Yeah. Otherwise, what's the point of giving the diagnosis? Yeah. So they should be receiving service as well. And if we need to call it something by a different name, who cares as long as it gets the service that makes them better off than they would have been, had they received no service.

What has changed so much in the last 30 years that has created this epidemic? And everybody has their favorite pet theory for what it is. It's the sugar, it's the carbs, it's the plastics, it's the video games, it's the internet, it's the whatever. Perhaps suggesting that it's many, many things. What is your best explanation for what's going on? I would say all of the above process foods, chlorically dense foods lack of exercise or critical. But these are, I would say, the stimuli that has done something. That's changed the no circuitry in the brain. So yes, there's a stimulus and because now you've been over subscribed to these stimuli, that's now initiated a process in the brain, which is going to be a self-fulfilling process. This is something that I'm very interested in, Dr. Peter Fox and I at the Health Science Center. If you go through the literature and we've published on this as well, in the areas of the brain, they control food intake. And I'm not talking about the hypothalamus. That kind of regulates your basal energy intake. What you need to be, keep your BMI of 25, do what you do during the day. But what is it that makes you a BMI go to 35? That's all related to the hedonic areas in the brain. The putin, the amygdala, the prefrontal cortex, et cetera. And then when you do structural MRI, what you can show is that those areas in the brain, the gray matter is shrunk down. And if you now map the neurosurgery, which Peter Fox has been involved with, you can see that this clear disruption using functional MRI of the neurosurgery in the brain. We have a particular interest in defining where this function occurs. And we have some ideas which I'm not going to go into, but how we might be able to sort of reprogram the brain. And sort of in concert with this, these are not I'm data, but these are data that are published in the literature. And I think I mentioned this earlier. If you do an insulin clamp, okay, I told you that in URI, your brain doesn't respond by taking up glucose, but in people who are obese, actually almost impropositional to how obese you are in these areas and in the brain, the hedonic areas, there's a marked increase in, it's called Florida deoxy glucose, which is the pet railway step trace we use in these areas. And that correlates inversely with the muscle insulin resistance. The more insulin resistant they are in the muscle, the more FDG glucose. I'll take there is in the brain. Now this is very interesting because what it's saying, there's a connection that somehow or another, we believe that the brain is talking to the muscle, or the muscle is talking to the brain, and that that somehow or other, the brain is playing a very important role in the development of the insulin resistance and that in large part that this deranged neurosurgery, which is related to food intake, is now making you ORI. And as you ORI, then all of the things that we know that we've studied, that other people have studied, that go with lipo toxicity, you put fat in the muscle urine, some resistant, you put fat in the lip you got national, what people have totally overlooked, you put fat in the kidney disease, you put fat in the heart. Yeah, yeah. So you've been in San Antonio since the late 80s. When did you really start to notice this was a problem at least in your community? Almost instantly, tangiously, because I've run the Texas, even in kids, even in kids. And it was very clear. We can't blame video games, we can't blame social media because that wasn't going on in the late 80s. So I never saw fat kids at Yale. I was on the faculty from 75 to 88. And I kind of thought back now, I would say New Haven's not a large Hispanic, but it's more African-American. But I don't remember seeing 12 Euro kids with type 2 diabetes. And when I came here, and I remember this very distinctly, they're saying, oh, you're crazy. You can't, you don't think kids with type 2 diabetes. Believe me, I see it. And what did your colleagues at San Antonio tell you, as far as when they started to notice that in the Hispanic kids? I think they just, I don't know that I can give you a specific time that they told me except they knew it. But so, okay, what about in non-Hispanic kids? Because if the Hispanic kids are genetically predisposed, then the question becomes, when did you begin to see this in African-American kids and Caucasian kids? Yeah, so we don't have a large African-American population here. But like in Philadelphia, there's a lady, so we're, so we're our slaveyan, she sees the same thing. And she sees, I think it's a significant African-American population. So I think that in certain ethnic minorities, where the genes for diabetes are enriched, that those are the populations that are predisposed. And do you think this is mostly an energy balance issue and therefore it's mostly a food environment issue? No, I think it's both. So I told you, I'd come back to the genetics study that we did. We wanted to know what is the earliest defect that you can see in people who are going to develop type 2 diabetes. So we said, okay, in the Hispanic community it's very common to see mom and dad with diabetes. And it's very common to see a lot of children in these families. So we said, why don't we go look at the children? And let's see if we can define because they're at high risk. Yeah. And if you have mom and dad with diabetes, you probably have a 78% chance if you're Hispanic. If you're born in that family developing diabetes. It was very easy to find the children. The problem was we couldn't find lean children. So it took us a while because if you're obese, then you got the lipo toxicity. So we finally found them. This is a JCI paper I believe. And so we did insulin clamp. There is resistant is there parats. They have normal glucose tolerance. Well, because the insulin levels are astronomical. And then we do a muscle count. How high just for understanding? Oh, they're like two times normal. Even higher sometimes. We do a muscle biopsy. The same defect in the insulin signaling pathway. How many of the tyrosine kinase defects do they have? They have starts at IRS one. Insulin bind to the receptor is okay. Just like their parents. The ability to activate these insulin signaling pathway, the level of the IRS one, it's already well established. Which enzyme in particular? It starts at the level of IRS one. Sure, it's at the first one. Yeah. Also it's not just one enzyme. Well, it no, it's IRS one. You can't tyrosine phosphorylated. You cannot activate P.R. Okay. So it starts at IRS one. Yeah. And then the other thing, JCI and I have both done this in somewhat different ways. So Jari, I'm talking about Jari Schultm, he uses anMR by looking phosphate derivatives. Even though I believe the primary defect is in the signaling pathway, there's clearly severe impairments in glucose transport and phosphorylation. His work would suggest that the primary defect is at the level of glucose transport. We developed a novel triple tracer technique using three isotopes infused into the break-ill artery. We believe that the primary defect is at the level of hexokinase and phosphorylating glucose. So we kind of agreed to disagree because we can't do this study. And we'd have to do the MRI study at the same time we're doing the triple tracer technique. In addition to the insulin signaling defect, there's a severe defect in glucose transport and phosphorylation. Once let's just make sure people understand this is we're kind of getting into some biochemistry here. Yeah. When glucose enters the cell, passively through the transgloat. It gets pre glucose in the cell. Yes. Then to metabolize it. Yep. The first step to that is hexokinase, which takes a phosphate off ATP and puts it on the six position if we're not mistaken. It's a specific type of hexokinase that's hexokinase do. Yeah. Because there's a different one in the muscle and the liver, correct? And that is correct. So, Gerry would say the primary defect is in glute for the transporter. Yes. I would say yes. That is severely impaired. But even more severe. What does remind me what Gerry believes is wrong with the glute for transporter? That it doesn't work normally. I thought it worked fine. It's just not getting the signal to work because of IRS one. That's what the controversy is. How, how do when you have a severe, we are the first to show this defect in muscle. But with the only people I think they're showing this in human muscle, it's been shown in rats, et cetera. To me, metabolism and rats and mice, this is all people data. So, you're saying, it's possible that just having the IRS one problem is enough. It's also possible that even if IRS one is functioning reasonably, if glute for is not getting up. And that's the problem. And there is evidence to support that. And then it's also possible that even if all those things work, if you don't get hexachinase to phosphorylate glucose, you back up the whole system. And I can show you this is a primary defect. In pyruvate dehydrogenase in in glutech and synthase. This comes back. I have an ominous octet for the insulin resistance. Okay. This is why people don't understand. Look, there are eight organ sort of things that are a problem. There are eight problems I can show you within the muscle. Why you think one drug is going to correct all these problems? We need drugs that work on the beta cell. We need insulin sensitizes. We probably need different types of insulin sensitizing drugs. We need drugs that reverse the lipo toxicity. And you know, what we ever have a single magic bullet that corrects all of these? You know, probably not. I think until we discover the genetic basis. And remember, I said the diabetes is a heterogeneous disease. And I did in diabetes metabolism reviews. I would say 30 years ago, I wrote a review article that said, I can put a defect in the muscle in reproduce diabetes. I can put a defect in the liver and reproduce diabetes. I can put a defect in the fat cell and reproduce diabetes. I can put a defect in the beta cell and reproduce diabetes. And I went back and read that and I said, I can put a defect that starts in the brain and reproduce diabetes. So we see some of the they wouldn't see of eight or nine. All these defects we've been talking about. They're already there. So you put that defect in the fat cell. They can look lean. And there's a syndrome called Alzheimer's syndrome. There's a specific defect. And this is white adipose. There's this Phil Cher will love me for saying this. He's the top guru and Adipose, I'm up in Dallas. It's also from syndrome. There's a specific defect in the glucose transporter in white adipose tissue. You know what happens? You become diabetic. You know what happens? You know what happens? You get nash. So here's a defect that I said like 30 years ago. I just postulated and said, here's a syndrome. And not only that, now that they define this in people in this paper, they then went to the animal model and they knocked out the gene that's causing the defect. And they reproduce diabetes in normal rat model. That was modeled.

On this podcast, we talk a lot about causes of death, right? People who listen to me are very familiar with the Four Horsemen, and we know about cardiovascular disease, and we know about cancer, and we know about neurodegenerative disease, and we can talk forever about these things. But we don't really talk about the very, very end, perhaps with the exception of a fatal, myocardial infarction. Mm-hmm. And about 50% of MIs are fatal. But about 50% are not, and they're just setting you up for maybe heart failure, or something else. So as difficult as it is, I'd love for you to sort of explain the mechanics of death, of, and we can start with the more common cause of death, which is cardiopulmonary death. We could talk about brain death after, but I'd love for both of you to sort of describe what's happening, both medically, socially, cognitively, like to the individual through that process. Peter, do you mean like the moments leading to the death, as a body shutting down? Yeah, in those final hours, what is really happening? What does it mean to die of cancer? Like, well, I think for many people, it's a very foreign idea that this woman had breast cancer. Okay, there were cells in her breast that, all of a sudden, acquired mutations, those cells escaped from her breast and went to other parts of her body. But there's still a bit of a disconnect. Why did that? Why did the invasion of those cells to her bones and her lungs and her life? One thing to get right out of the gates here is body's die. Living things die. It's, I think, a lot of a sub-sorb, a notion of death that it's some foreign invader, something that comes out of the woods and grabs us, and, otherwise, I was just fine and then, no, and as you don't know better than any of us, there are all sorts of things we can do to promote life. And there are a lot of ways where wired to hang on to life and to run from anything that's a threat to us. Those are all true and all natural. But included on the list of natural things that we do is die. So, you know, it is, that's what a body's supposed to do. I just want to get that clear. There's nothing wrong with you for dying. This is the way it's supposed to go. So, your body knows how to do this. So, let's talk about what the body knows how to do. I mean, in general, depending on the cause of death, whether the pathway might be cancer, is you're mentioning or heart disease or neurodegenerative diseases, there's a final common pathway of a body kind of shutting down. It tends to shut down by organ system, you know. And it doesn't follow a neat and tidy pathway. It can happen kind of spontaneously in a kind of a moment they're here and then they're gone. But very often, especially these days, most of us, like 80 plus percent of us will die of chronic illness. We will meet the thing that eventually awaits our death, well in advance of the death. Oftentimes, if we're trying to prognosticate, help a person or family get a sense of how much time is left. We're looking at things like, are they in and out of bed, you know, much? Are they getting up and out of bed? So, if you're asleep on the couch or in the bed, 50 percent of the day, you know, and if that's sort of a progressive process, more and more fatigue, more and more tired, that usually in the context of chronic illness tells us we're heading towards the end. And an interesting food and fluid is a big one. So a body trying to die a GI tract that's on its way to shutting down will stop sending hunger signals. And this is a big one for the audience to hear because a lot of us, you know, food equals nutrition equals nourishment equals life. So if we see someone we love or ourselves not eating, the impulse would be, well, put some food into us. That's life. I don't want someone to starve to death is often my way to do it. And also love, right? Yeah, it's how we show our care and exactly symbolically the act of feeding another is, you know, the nourishment, the love to your point, bridge, it comes with that there's so much around food. But then before we cut over to bridge to explain more, that's that could piece of the puzzle. You know, the body again is sending you a signal, don't put food in me because it will hurt. If a gut is not able to process the food, it sits in place and can cause pain, same with fluids. If we're forcing fluid into a body that's trying to die, that fluid will pool and cause trouble. So the judgment of call when to push the food and fluid and when not is up to really a dialogue, you know, sort of a song and response with the patient. Once you know, you might try a little bit of fluid. And if that ends up in their lung or ends up swelling, then we pull back. But back to your question. So as a body's trying to die, it will stop sending signals for that food and fluid. And that's to be generally respected, not pushed past mental status. So people often get really fuzzy in their thinking. Or all, and delirium is very common. So oftentimes they'll be disoriented. I think it's 1912. And they're in a forest somewhere where they're in a hospital bed. So that's very common. And B.J. Delirium is not uncommon in the hospital. A lot of times with otherwise very healthy patients who are in the hospital to get surgery, the loss of circadian rhythm, the use of narcotics and other medications can easily induce delirium in a person who's otherwise not going to die. Yep. Is this a different form of delirium and what is really underpinning it? Hmm. I don't know that it's a different form of delirium per se. You know, ultimately it's a similar pathway that it looks the same. So you can have a hyperactive delirium which are very easy to spot. Someone's jumping up and down on her bed and going kind of nuts and acting in a way that's not compording with the context of their sitting in a hospital. So hyperactive delirium can be easier to spot. Very often it's hypoactive delirium which is we often miss, especially in the hospital setting. Might just be a little tangential thinking or not quite clear on what day it is. Something that's not so obvious and very often the person's just silent. And that's more often the case I'd say at the end of life. It's more likely to be a hypoactive delirium and so it may be hard to spot. And the person's been sleeping a lot anyway. So you might not, you might miss it. But one reason to bring it up is because if you, if you don't know what to look for, I think a lot of family members and loved ones will be at that at the bed, trying to e-count every last moment with this person and looking for clues about what's going on for them. And last relational moments and exchanges. And very often I've heard from a lot of people reports of, well gosh, my husband never said a mean word to me in our 50 years of marriage. And I've been traumatized for the last two years since he died because of his last words to me where this vulgar something or other. And or he told me that he had to get out of his, you know, some harsh comment. And it, oh, I, it's one of those big takeaways for you audience. Just please keep delirium in mind because what it also means is that person who is delirious is not, you cannot, they are not themselves. So whatever they're saying, you, you really cannot take it literally, you really cannot take it literally. So that poor woman, was suffering for, you know, if someone had told her about delirium, then she would have understood. She took it very literally and was suffering immensely. So anyway, that's a note about delirium. It does feel like an important moment to pause just to note a couple of things, which is, you know, delirium at the end of life we take as seriously as we would in a more acute setting or someone's an ICU with expectation to recover. And we think about environmental factors that influenced delirium, like lighting and noise and interruptions, right? Because if we can minimize delirium, we want to want to want to treat it and care for it. I think the other thing about this space is that we enter into the like rich and nuanced and complicated space of interpretation and the meaning that's being made around what's happening, right? So in that story, someone's, I was sitting at a bedside once with two daughters and their mom was dying. And she had been mostly quiet. I hadn't really talked in a couple of days and we're sitting there talking about her and telling stories and the her kids are telling me about her and she opens one eye and she kind of sits up and she says to her daughter, I love her jacket and I looked at the daughter and the daughter just bursts into tears. And you know, I'm sitting there thinking like, oh, this is so nice. Like mom gives the kind of like, I'm expecting something positive and the daughter's like, she's never complimented my clothes before if anything. She always looked at my, my dress in this critical eye. Like this is so off, you know? And I think that could be one of those projections that we're going to get to the end and dad's going to say mom's going to say the thing that we never heard them say. And they may and that might not feel good. So it's complicated and so interpersonal and personal and subjective and you know, it's one of the reason why two of us being here together and why this work is done often in teams because we could both be in the room with the same person and have very different kind of hits or interpretations around what's happening, what's most important in the room, what needs to be tended to. I've had this so much to say about this stuff and that delirium thing. I mean, there's a big on this point of altered consciousness and what people are saying, what's coming out of people. It's also true that deep dark secrets can sometimes get revealed. That's also true. It's a bit so much needs to be interpreted and it's and therefore held lightly and because you don't there's these are final moments. You may never get the clarity of what mom or dad or that person actually meant in that comment, which is another trick to holding death in our living is to hold it lightly because we keep we will find ourselves wind to apply a story of meaning on all of this stuff as a human's what we do. But one of the great lessons around this work is just, to hold that carefully and lightly. It's not always what we think it is. And on that note of delirium too, I will say as a medical person, I was taught that delirium is inherently a kind of suffering that it's uncomfortable that that to be confused to be disoriented. It's self uncomfortable and it's certainly problematic for the loved ones. So we always medicated it with anti-Sycox, how it paired all in others. We just thornsing just shut it down. I will say my own arc of my career as I've gotten as I've sort of deluded the medical piece with other ways of thinking. I'm not so quick to shut that down. There may be something either vital happening for that person in the bed to express whatever's in there and maybe something that's helpful for the person to hear. I gave you the counterpoint that it's helpful for a loved one to hear in a de-contextualized way. But I think one of the meta messages here is dying, it doesn't can't always be shouldn't, perhaps, admit me to use that hard word. It would be so tidy and immaculate and clean and perfect. I want to disabuse, I think we'd both like to disabuse that notion of that that's a good death. So a quiet death, the person. So I've been increasingly would not medicated delirium unless I had a conversation if you were my patient. I'd say Peter, hey, you know there might be moments where you can get a little confused, et cetera. And if that happens, would you rather, you know, maybe there's an opportunity for me to ask it? Would you like us to kind of air on the side of medicated that and help you sleep through it, you know, or talk to a family about that? But the bottom line here is it's not such a one-to-one thing when we see this, that means suffering, that means medication. It's much more mysterious than that. I'm Peter Atia. This podcast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterAtiaMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.