to five hundred to five hundred get to the thlooping tube. And one gets to the egg. Wow. Let's go to the question. Why do you need so many sperm? But the classic answer used to give is they don't like to ask for directions. It's meant to like to ask for directions. But this is probably why. Let's also define what makes up the ejaculate because we've talked about the sperm. So how a sperm made because an important consideration for a sperm is it can only have half the genetic information contained within all the other cells in the man's body. So when does that take place? So the testicle makes sperm. It takes about 60 to 70 days. And it's a process called myosis. So in a car assembly line, you want everything to be the model T assembly. You know, mass produced, you want it all be the same in myosis, which is unlike myosis. You want things to be different and to be a little easy peasy. So you get what's called recombination. And so that's the source of evolution. So the chromosomes blend in a different way and separate a different way. And through that process of a couple of those, you get half the number of chromosomes, which is required to join the other half. But it's not always the same half. Correct. Yep. And it's Lucy Goosey. It's not the same. It's what it started. Yeah. A funny story, which I think I've shared on the podcast before, but if not, sure someone will be amused by my stupidity. I had to take the MCAT before doing any of the pre-med stuff because I had studied engineering. And then I decided I wanted to do medicine. But didn't want to spend two years preparing. One year taken the post back and then the MCAT and then doing it. So I was like, I'm going to just wing it and take this MCAT having never taken a biology class since high school. And I didn't even, I think I took one by, I took freshman biology, right? So I am studying my heart out for this little MCAT test. And the physics and the chemistry are fine. But this biology thing is killing me. I bought this cheap study guide. I didn't have the money or I didn't want to splurge for the official study guide. Like there's an official MCAT study guide. But the thing was like 60 bucks. But there were these knock-off books for 10 bucks. I was like, either just as thick. So I buy one of those. And every time I encounter the word myosis and my toses, I assume it's a spelling mistake because I bought the knock-off book. So I'm treating it as the same thing. Every time I see the word myosis, I'm like these guys. They just misspelled it, idiots. It's my toses, my toses. Finally, on the night before the exam, which I still remember, it was August 17th. Was the day I took the test. I realized they were too totally different things. Big things, they might go ahead. That realization might have got me into med school. Because I think I barely, I think I barely got a 10 on the biology section, which was, you know, it's hard to get into a good med school if you get below that. So anyway, to this day, I get such a chuckle out of the confusion of the nomenclature. But again, just to explain for people, my toses is what happens when cells are dividing in our body. Constantly, where they're trying to create a perfect replica of the entire suite of DNA. So really, to my knowledge, the only time we're undergoing myosies is in the creation of an egg response. That's right. Now, remind me, do, do our women born with all of the rags. I feel like that's something I vaguely remember. You're going to have, you'll have a guest, yes, 5 million eggs at birth. Okay. 1 million, no 5 million eggs at conception, 1 million eggs at birth, and you basically ovulate a thousand in your lifetime. Okay. So by the time you're 45, you're out of eggs. You actually ovulate, you ovulate one a month, but you actually produce 10 a month. So you'll lose 10 for everyone. So there's a lot of waste, but there's no their stock in a stage of perpetual space. Really just boom, you know, and they get older and they don't evolve really. And then they mature when they're asked to at that time, but sperm are constantly renewed. So if you look at that, just a mass space problem because the testes are, I mean, if we, if we did, if we did the same thing women did, would we just have to have an enormous set of testes? Is that the reason that we continue to repeat or why do you think out of the box like that? So I'm not sure of, you know, is a whole issue of, you know, what's the source of human evolution? It's really sperm. Yeah. Because they're constantly dividing. They're constantly influenced by the environment. And they're throwing off mutations in epigenetic changes. And what's most interesting for me for this talk is that whatever happens in sperm happens to offspring. That's an interesting point, right? So it's trans generational. Yep. So what does that mean? Does that mean that the father is more likely to pass on environmental stressors than the mother? Probably, yeah. And that's definitely been shown. Hmm. Okay. So let's go back to it. So the sperm is the actual cell. Where does it get the little tail from? And what's the, what is the other part of the cocktail that is, so one of the most, a magnificent transformations of a cell in the body is the making of a sperm. It starts with a sperm and a colonial stem cell, which looks like other cells. That's from an colonial stem cell is actually the first and the bottom of a tube. It's there's 12 stages of tremendous analysis. That cell is remarkable. It's actually the human male embryonic stem cell. So I've a patent on that cell. Hmm. Because if you take that cell and you put it in a niche environment like a embryonic stem cell, it'll become embryonic almost like in its, it can become multi-potent. Disgusting. It's a blurry potent. Yes. Multi-potent. We don't know about puripone, but you can form tumors. It's form bone, you know, ex-isome, mesodermaxidr, xodermen, and adermium. You can do all three layers of the body with that adult, sperm and a colonial stem cell. Is there any other cell in the body that is capable of that? No. I mean, there are stem cells in the bone marrow that might be stem cells in fat. But none of this, none of this. We showed the capability of cell is magnificent. And so I I think it's, you know, it's the source, like women have eggs and embryonic stem cells. That's the male embryonic stem cell in my opinion. It hasn't been taken advantage of yet with cell-based therapy, but it is really incredible what this cell can do. And a man potentially has access to this cell his entire life. Yep, and thongs he's making sperm. So that starts out and it usually reproduces my�otically, and then, in puberty, it'll go down the path of myosis, which is a couple steps more than my toastes involved with myosis, but it's the having and the mixing up of the chromosomes and the newness of the genome introduces mutations and stuff. And most mutations are bad and some are good. And we, you know, you don't really think about that. But we can have a long talk about genetics versus epigenetic. Actually, let's focus on that first second. I hadn't considered that. So when the cell that is becoming a sperm undergoes myosis and it divides, what's the fraction of times when this becomes an anniaploid sperm and explain maybe to people what anniaploid is? And what's the process by which that thing gets discarded? So if you look at healthy human sperm for chromosomal content and what's correct and what's incorrect, probably 2% of them are off. They're still being made. They're just off because it doesn't really, it doesn't really click the system to negate it. We don't know at what level of chromosomal abnormalities the system will say this is not bad. This is absolutely defective, yeah. But I would say if you look at making a sperm, it's very logarithmic. You're probably looking at one out of four that are being made, go through the epididimus, which is the next 10 days, which is a collecting duck after the testicle where it matures, get to be genetically modified and you'll see these zones, different epidimus zones and things like that happening. And there's a lot of post-production modification, not of DNA essentially, but I think there's a filter going on where a lot of the bad anniaploid becomes out because if you look at the chromosomal abnormality rate and testicular sperm before it goes through the rest of the system and compared to a jaculate, it's higher. It's 2 to 3fold higher. So something is getting into filter? Yeah, and just so folks know, when we say anniaploidie, we mean you don't have one copy of each chromosome. You either have none or you have two or anything that's not one is bad. Right. Yeah. And when anniaploidie occurs in the fusion of the sperm and the egg, is it, do we know, I guess we can figure out pretty easily, if it's maternal or paternal in origin? Mm. If you look at the embryo, it's kind of hard to tell. There are some markers of paternal and maternal origin. It depends on where you're going back in my toes to some myosis. So they can sort of ascribe it in the embryo. In the sperm, you're really going to have to look at the sperm. And if you see a translocation, some characteristic change in sperm, and you see it in the embryo, then you know it's paternal. Yep. Okay. But not usually. And, you know, 98% of sperm are typically normal in a guy with infertility. It might be 95%. Here's an example. If you have a patient with Klein-feltre syndrome, yep. A male with an extra ex chromosome in every cell in their body, or a transgenic model with that feature. So this is a man who's x, y instead of x, y. So 47 chromosomes, not 46. Yep. And theoretically, he kind of has a distinctive look, right? 10% of the time. Oh, really? 90% of the time, even men with Klein-feltre is you'd never know. Okay. So that's the board question. That's the board question. That's the M-cat question. Yep. So the, all right. So in these men, if you look at their sperm and you ployty, right? So every cell in their body and in the mice, the transgenic mice, all have an extra ex chromosome. Yep. Only about 10% will have it in the sperm. Meaning they will produce an x or a y sperm. Just like everyone else. The only difference is they have a two-thirds chance of producing an x, and a one-third chance of producing a y. I'm assuming that a 50-50. We know that. That's math. That's math. Yeah. So biology is not math, I remember. Yeah. So the, and I do Klein-feltre space in just a day that I've heard it on, and they're not doing pre-amplotation genetic diagnosis of the embryos that they're going to create from their sperm, because the chance is not that high. So it goes from in mice 0.1% chance in of normal men having x, x, y, sperm, or x, an anti-plate sperm and abnormal sperm. To 1%. And humans it goes from 1% or so to 10%. But 90% are still, that's remarkable. That's amazing. It's remarkable how efficient this is. I interrupted you. You were in the process of explaining how we actually make this sperm, where the tail comes from, and the whole thing. It's all done in the testicle. Yep. It's an amazing machine. Weird question we should maybe get to is, why is it out in the breeze like that? I think it was temperature related. But why? Why? Why does it need to be a little cooler? Yeah. Yeah. We probably have ourselves in the field for years. I would guess, because I like to make things up, that it's so energetically demanding, that it's giving off more heat in the process of creating something that is going to be so efficient to be able to swim 20 miles effectively. And that's very glycoletic. I'm assuming, right? Like the amount of anti-plate that must be generated. That's a lot of fun. It's a lot of fun. That's like, you know, for an electric motor in each wheel. Yeah. So that would be my guess is you just, that's not the date of the test. It's an overheating problem if you try to keep those guys inside. And I think overheating could be translated to talk to the date of stress, which is a cause of a lot of infertility. Anyway, it's, we don't know is the answer. Right. And it's an interesting that, you know, overhearser inside. So men get in hot baths and they're cooked. Women get in hot baths and they're okay. So it's funny. I had a buddy over who shall remain nameless. And he does not have kids, but he would like to have kids. And we, we saw on the other day. And he went up to my freezer beforehand. I didn't really know what he was doing in there. I thought he was getting a drink or something and he came down with ice packs. And there's two companies they do that. Yeah, he so he basically, we were sitting in the sauna and he was in the sauna, but he's got ice packs all over his groin. And I immediately understood why. I'm usually doing that. But yeah. Yeah. We'll come back to whether or not that's an important strategy for men and the sauna who want to have kids. Right. So the complete sperm, the first half is called sperm, eo genus, sperm out of genus is the whole process. Spermio genus is when you go from the round cell stage and you get half the number of chromosomes and then you have to make a tail and then hold motor assembly. And that is the most profound transformation of a cell in the body. It takes about three weeks to go from that stage. And we're learning now. It's a lot of it's vitamin A driven. Three weeks of the six or seven to make a sperm. And then it goes, then it's complete and non-model and it's packaged. It has give us some size comparison. Before the tail is on, what is the size of that cell? Probably similar to a, you know, a lymphus half the size of a lymphocyte. Okay. Or half the size of a red blood cell, a couple of micron. And then the tail makes it, 35 micron tail. Yeah. So really magnificent engineering feat. It's got micro two bills in the middle. And there's these sort of links to the tail. It's like a kite and the engine runs and it tail lags. And it's a remarkable 300 genes control movement of sperm alone. You know, there's mitochondrial DNA in there, all that stuff. It's just wildly compact. 10 times more compact than any other cell in the body. From mitochondrial density standpoint, from any, from a cytopazic standpoint, a nuclear standpoint, it goes from histones to proteimes. So the DNA is condensed a lot more because it's got to go on the road. Right. So it's got to be packaged really well to survive outside the body and be in good shape. Because it's, you know, it's the, it's the transgenerational. So a lot of energy in that. And then during the epidemics, which is a collecting duct, which most people don't know about. Sorry. One other question, where is the ATP or carbohydrate rate or whatever the glucose stored in the sperm? Sword probably in the cytoplasm and in the tail. Okay. It's like a, you know, when you think about a rocket ship with its payload, it uses a solid fuel, obviously, as opposed to a liquid fuel. It's packaged for that one shot. I assume it's the same here. There's no transporters to bring glucose in or anything. It has its solid fuel and one shot go for broke. A try. Yeah, it is a lot like a rocket, isn't it? It is a lot. So that's going to bring the physics in, the physics. So then there's two week period where it stays in the epidemics, which is a, basically a 35 foot tubule with estrogen and there's a lot of post-modification of the sperm. The epidemics is 35 feet if you stretched it out. Ah, flier. And just for folks, 700 feet of tubules in the testus. The epidemics is on the back of the testis of the carbohydrate. It's a carbohydrate organ in the back. Yeah. And this will come to this. I'm sure later, this is prone to infection and that'll probably factor into maybe some of the issues that deal with fertility. Yeah. Okay. So epidemics has been relatively understudied, but it has actually become very important epidemics, ohms. And there's a lot of modifications. We don't really understand. I wrote the chapter for our textbook on reproductive physiology. And it really is a lot of work in the 50s and 60s, but now we're being understand, like DNA fragmentation and the quality of sperm is driven by the epidemics. A lot of the quality of sperm, not the shape and stuff like that. And things that have based on its residence time within the epidemics. And what other environmental influences that occur there, because the epidemics is not as walled off from the body as the testuses. Imminologically, in other words, it's more susceptible to drugs, exposures, heat, et cetera. Testuses very walled off. Very little happens in the testis because the serotonous cells that line the tubules have a blood-brain barrier, blood testus barrier. Same as the brain. It's highly protected. As protective, yes, Harvey Cushing at Yale did that in the night late 19th century. It took brain dead patients and injected them with die, methylene blue, I think. And the blood brain barrier came about when it, nothing went into the brain. And nothing went into the testicle. The two areas of the body that were completely immune from normal transport processes. Well, let testus barrier. So the two things that we know happened in the epidemics after production of sperm are motility improves. So sperm begin to learn progressive motility. So they start moving forward as opposed to not moving or moving at circles, which is important. And the most curious thing is they learn how to smell. And meaning there's basically a chemical signal that they need to be able to track to, which I'm assuming is the egg. So the follicular fluid. So they actually detect follicular fluid. So if you take testicular sperm and inseminated into a uterus with insemination technology, it'll just be killed. If you take an epididimal sperm and you do that from the top of the epididimus, it'll maybe run in circles and it'll be killed by the immune system of the female. It has to go through that whole epididimal cycle. So it's at the end of the epididimus where it's stored. And that's how many weeks? Two, ten to ten to fourteen days. 600 million sperm live in a bucket, a pot of soup called the cod epididimus. And you ejaculate from that pot, which tells you a lot about sperm quality because it can get old. But that's sperm, if you put in it, will know exactly where to go and it'll move forward. Because it's like a shark sensing blood in the water. One part per billion of follicular fluid can be sensed by a sperm. So that's incredible. So it is literally an olfactory sense. It's a smell sense that sperm have for the follicular fluid. So they know exactly where to go. Again, it's, you have to wonder how many years it took to perfect the system, right? You do have to wonder, do we know what the chemo receptor is? Yes, it was published in Nature recently and something that's really interesting. So it's an olfactory type receptor. Do we have anything else that we can, is there any smell, Peter? Yeah, is there anything like what is the most noxious thing that we can smell with our nose and at what concentration can we detect if? No idea. Yeah, because I wonder just for comparison. Give me a minute. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I've always thought about this. If I like to hunt. And so anyone who's ever bow hunted, especially, knows that animals can smell at a level that we can't even fathom, right? They can smell us literally a mile away if the wind is just blowing their direction. So it's always seemed to me like we have really, really insufficient noses, right? We were given lots of superpowers in many ways, but smell wasn't really one of them. I think I would agree with that and it also say that if you, if you block a sensory bank of the five yet others increase remarkably like I'm Braille. I mean, I'm a micro surgeon, I, this doesn't matter as a lot, but I can't do Braille. Or hearing, I think you can crank it up. If you lose a sense and you see that with people who are deaf from you. In terms of your ability to see and I don't think seeing better is really the issue, but hearing and smell, I think it can crank up. So one part per billion, this is kind of remarkable. So you mentioned that at the base of the epididimus is basically the launch pad. How many are stored in that half a billion? Half a billion. So five ejaculations. Yep. Okay. That's a pot. And what's the time to rebuild that? You mean to fill the data? What's your data? Which you fill? I don't know. And the rate of the reason I ask is if, if we're going to come to this, I'm sure, but is there a frequency of ejaculation that is too much that if a guy is say ejaculating every single day is that insufficient to get a complete replenishment where if he's having infertility, you would say you can't move it to every other day or whatever the number is? So that's a great extrapolation of the pot of the pot of soup idea. And so on that note, I would say typically we recommend every two days of abstinence between Essex every other day is too authorized. Right. But not for the semen alphas. That's for conception. Okay. Because depends on what old you are in your biology, but most men need a day or two to refill to recharge completely a day or two. So that's why we do that. That's why recommend that. That's sort of a generalization. Some men are fine every day. Okay. I had a guy once who had to banks burn for hepatitis treatment. And he was like, Mickey Rork. He had a wooden leg and he was about 50. And I said, you're going to need to abstain for a couple of three days to do this semen alphas. So we could stamp I want it to be optimized when he looked at his partner. He goes, and she looked at me and she goes, he grabs, he grabs him and says, he can't do that. He's every day, he can't do that. I'm always going to do. So he was panicking. He had to hold off for a day. I was like, I said, often I have sex. He said twice a day every day. Like, look, so that was great. Then I had one man wonderful orthopedic surgeon at Stanford. And I asked him on my questionnaire. I said, how often do you have sex? And he wrote 0.001356. I was mad. He divided once a year. Well, 0.00 weekly. 0.00155. I was like, you know, avogadro's number right. Like, which man he was so frustrated that he was. It was a beautiful way to say that. It was the point zero zero one three five five. Yeah. So anyway, the. Yeah. So that's so there. For a similar analysis for diagnostics for infertility, when you, when you abstain longer, your sperm count will rise, but your motility will fall because it's older. So there's a, you know, there's a there's a max curve that you're optimizing for, which you would say is three days would be about right when you're not going to gain that much. You're not going to lose that much motility after that. It starts going. So there's sort of biological variability, which we try to minimize when we do the semen analysis. So two to four days of abstinence. That's a different period than what we're recommending for sex, which is every other day. And that's based on knowing the journal paper where you looked at, they looked at, I think 700 couples and they had them keep diaries. It was a Boston based paper. Keep diaries of how they had sex when they got ovulated and when they got pregnant. And then they said, do what you don't really do and then give us the diaries. And then they evaluated them and they found that having sex, say, ovulation is they 15 of the cycle. When they started having sex on 9, 11, 13, there were significant pregnancy rates. And every other day was the optimal interval. But even five days before and three days before there were substantial pregnancy rates before ovulation. But if you waited to ovulation and then had sex, that's about 20% of conception. So when you get the kit, don't react to it, predict in front of it. So front load the sex. Very important point. And why is that? Is that because there's a reservoir effect in this uterus? It's managed sperm survival for a day or two. So an end-on distress. If ovulation is day 15, how could a day 11 sperm survive four days? That's, it's nurtured once it's passed the vagina. But how many of them are surviving? Is it literally the lone wolf or is it the last hundred? Maybe some of this sperm bind to the oviduct and wait. Where is it remind me where the oviduct is? The uterus and then the philloping tubes and that's the oviduct and the oviduct is right below the where it is. They bind to the end of the phillium and just park. There's no egg. They'll just sit there and they'll walk. So again going back to our moon analogy, this is after you've done stage one stage two stage three. You're now out of gravity, right? Like it's actually not an energetic problem anymore. Right? You're not quite death, yeah, that's right. You've escaped the hostile environment. In this case of gravity. So now it's fun place. It's the right pH. It's warm. So do we have a sense? This would be a very interesting experiment of what is the longest duration that a sperm could survive for conception. In other words, to do the experiment, let's just make it as a thought experiment. You had a large number of women that you knew were going to ovulate on day 15. And then you would have them, you know, intercourse on day seven, eight, nine, ten. You create a histoplot or a distribution of what's the frequency of pregnancy across those things and kind of ask like what's the bottom fifth percentile, which is the theoretical possibility. And then the same thing after, right? You want to develop the value curve of the whole thing. But we know that once the egg is ovulated about eight hours and then it's over. Oh, this is a very important point. It really needs to be front. If it's only eight hours of survival, this is after ovulation, but eight hours instead, if it's not, this is a very, very left-tail curve. Correct. I did not know that. I don't want to sperm there ahead of time. So 80 percent of conception is naturally her at home. A curve when sex is front loaded as opposed to reacting to ovulation. And most of the apps that are available nowadays will tell you them. Peter, you're drawing a graph. I am. I have to draw. And it looks like it's algebraic. This is incredible. Okay. Yeah, just this is, it's easier for me to think about these things graphically. And to think that it basically shuts off at about eight hours. So I give some, some more physiology. I, there was a study that showed how long it took to make a sperm. And it was published in science, I think, in the 60s. And they gave men, uh, trudyated water. They gave men, yeah. They gave men radioactive hydrogen. Trudyated water. Yeah. And then they biopsy their testicles, which would never be done nowadays. But I did it all different. I gave dooderated water with a, with a group at Berkeley. And we gave healthy men, uh, durated water for a week. And, and then we checked with the first sort of dumb question, why didn't they just measure the ejaculate? Why did they have to biopsy this, the testicles? Why did they just want to, to swan in the bus from out of Genesis? But we didn't, we had a little bit of a section. It's a torture, the guys. But they weren't, I don't know. What, that's wild. But that was the best data. And we did dooderated water, which is not radioactive. And we could measure that. So we gave them, a dose. And then we watched their ejaculate weekly. Yep. And we looked for when they rated the hydrogen showed up in the, in the DNA. And it was an average of 74 days. So normally say three months to make a sperm. So somewhere we're 42 days. And that's making that's going to the epididymus and getting ejaculated. So that's, you know, so I'm so, we talked about maybe two months in the testis and two weeks or a week or two in the epididymus. And then maybe a couple of weeks to ejaculate. And this was all the average 74 days. So actually, it changed the timeline enormously to a much faster one. That. So 74 days. So when you do anything to a man for till, you wise, you, you're not going to expect to see anything change for at least two and a half months. And when you talk about full replacement of that seam and it's probably, it's probably in the being 90 days. When it's all replaced, the pot is replaced. Yep. So that's a limitation of what we do. Because 42-year-old women want now. And we have three to six months. When I did a study on fixing varicocials, which is an infertility problem in men, it's surgery. And I looked at the mean time to conception. It was about seven months after repair, which is two cycles of sperm production. So let's now define infertility. Again, we've been using this term quite a bit. But I suspect that actually has a formal definition. So one year of inability to conceive after having after after six, using six. Okay. So. Doesn't have to be timed in, of course, just has to be whatever the couple does when they think they're trying to conceive. Okay. When someone shows up in your office, is it usually after they've gone down the rabbit hole of trouble shooting the female partner or are people doing this in parallel? There's a large bias in Western worlds about how infertility is evaluated. And it's a complex, the reasons are complex. But I would say my practice is not typical. So most of my patients have been through a lot before they come to me. And typically, I think Keith Jarvis' data was good in about 23% of men get a formal evaluation for infertility before couples go through IVF in North America. And how does that differ from the rest of the world? Let's say from the biggest sense studying the rest of the world. But there are countries like Germany and Spaniard single ensures and government pays. And it's also recommended by society guidelines. Like American society, reproductive medicine, WHO, etc. That both partners get evaluated simultaneously. But the bias is female gets very evaluated for lots of money. And the men typically may get a C-men analysis, but may not. And it's very complex reasoning there. It's a different beast. You know, they're not part of the problem. They refuse to do it. There's a lot of denial. It does get at your masculinity a little bit to get checked out and things. So it does go deep for men. It can be a little bit of a problem. So I would say that lately with large ensures coming in progeny, may even and things like that. You're seeing a lot more men up front, which is fabulous. And we can have long discussions about the biomarker concept why that's good for a field. And good for men's health. And good for longevity. Okay. So let's talk about your work up. What do you do when a guy comes in and what are the things you want to know about him? So getting a guy in is a great. Usually they're dragged in by their partners. Usually the partners come along to make sure they show up. For me, it's one visit. So we do one visit and I do everything else where they are, where they are. I don't ask them to come in a million times anymore. So it's a very different kind of practice. But I try to get everything done in one visit because when you get them there, it's rare to get them there. And the physical example, so you do a history, a very thorough history, which is usually preceded by a questionnaire. I give 200 questions. And that has all the hot baths, stuff, and all the exposures they have. And they have to do that before they see me because I think it's a really important part of it. If you could pick one an multiple choice question, what matters the most is probably the history. Hmm. History of paternity matters. History of exposures matters. Etc. Physical exam, very important. One to five percent of male infertility can be due to a major medical issue, test this cancer, diabetes, things like that. So physical exam, varicocials is very important. You could be missing a vast difference. One in five hundred men have perfectly normal testicles, but no, they have a natural vasectomy. It's congenital absence of the vast. They're going to be sterile or infertile. Can you explain what that we haven't talked about? How have vasectomy works and why a guy still ejaculates, but is infertile? Explain what the vast difference? How the whole thing works in the plumbing? Right. So we asked, we didn't enter that question. It was the what's the seamen consist of? Yeah. So it's about 10 percent vaso fluid with sperm. It's about 80 percent, some of the vasco fluid, which is an accessory sexically and in the back of the prostate and about 10 percent prostate. So typically during ejaculation, prosthetic fluid, which is clear and sticky, will grease the barrel of the rethra, sort of pre-com. Then during the ejaculation process, the pellet of sperm gets pumped from the vast difference into a chamber called ejacatory duct. And this happens quickly. And then the cellanovesico is like a bladder contract sends it into the prosthetic urethra between the bladder and the the outdive world. There's two valves. One is the bladder neck. It closes and one is the urethra sphincter that we pee through and that opens and it gets forced out with muscular contractions. So that happens in seconds. Yeah. So therefore if the vasove runs is clipped, you're getting essentially 90 percent of the volume. You're just missing the 10 percent of the volume that contains the payload. So in 3,000 men I've done vasectomy zone at 30 years, two men have said, my volume went down and I said, really, one of them banks sperm and he had a similar analysis before and after and he did go down by 15 percent and he noticed it and I said, good for you, what do you want to do now? But it's so can be noticeable, but not usually. And so the colors are saying, the opacity is the same, the whole process of liquefaction to same viscosity, etc. So physical exam, do you need an ultrasound? How are you able to detect if a person is congenitally missing of as diverse? Pure physical exam. What you feel it? Interesting. So my fingers can feel two and a half millimeters and the vast difference is like piano wire. I mean, it is different than anything else in the cord. So I did a study of third of my men with absent vass were were only found out having procedures until I saw them. I usually just do the exam, but it is an expertise thing. Yeah, yeah, it's not like the PCP can figure this out. You have to be doing this all day every day. Yeah, I think you need to be trained on that. But if you're well trained, it should be a purely a physical exam. How what percentage of men are congenitally missing? They're one 500, one 500. What's common genetics, these in America is cystic fibrosis. So the big implication is these kids, these men can't conceive naturally. They have a natural use sperm retrieval techniques and IVF, but they definitely have the chance of passing on cystic fibrosis to a child. Why is that? Because the congenitally very interesting biology, but men with cystic fibrosis, the most common genetics in America, have no vast difference. Okay, so what's the venn diagram of cystic fibrosis and congenital lacking vast difference? The genes for that were discovered. It's a, you know, chromosome 7. There's 17, 1800 mutations of maybe 2000. So they clone the genes and got the variants in late 80s. And then they found that there's another group of men who are perfectly healthy to not have cystic fibrosis, which is a major metabolic disease with a short life expectancy better now. Those men had absent vast difference in the absence of disease. They took the genes set, and looked at them and they were the same. That's not as many. So you have homozygous or heterosygous. So you have a carrier, cystic fibrosis, we'll have an absent vast, but a full-blown CF patient, cystic fibrosis patient, we'll have no vast difference too. So it's a form-frust of cystic fibrosis, but it doesn't have all the chemical and metabolic side effects. So in other words, when you identify a man who does not have CF with a congenitally absent vast, there's a very good probability. He's a carrier of CF. Yes, and you can use you to find it, which we can genetically test easily. Okay. Yeah. And then you have to worry if there's a 4% chance in America anyway that a partner might carry it. There are two carriers. You have a 1 in 4 chance of having a very affected child. Yep. So that's the big concern in my practice. And I'm proud to say in 30 years we have no CF children. Okay. You know, it's all about good engineering and doing it right. So that's the vast difference part. What else on physical exam are you looking for? So cancers, infections, epidemitis, yeah, tell me about epidemitis. Obviously anything that interferes with that section of the journey is going to be critical. And so remind me, is it EBV that we typically are measles, moms, what's the infection, moms, moms. Okay. But that's typically, yeah. So among viruses in the world, there aren't many that get into the testicle like other things. Very little gets into the testicle similar to the brain. But the mumps virus does it about a third of the time when you're a child with mumps, you know, the parodid gland infection. It's a glandular disease. So it really only matters when you're puberty and you get mumps. And then it goes to lots of glands to go to your pancreas and cause diabetes. It can go to the salivary glands and then go to the testicles. It's some kind of, there's an open time open, open, open, you know. So just one more reason why everyone should really get the mmR vaccine when they're a child is like, we, you know, not with sending the tragedy of the DNA of children dying from preventable diseases. But this is, this is another non-lethal but significant complication of the flu. And it will cause viral necrosis and a deema of the testus. And then similar to a brain, it's in a calvarium, right? The brain is in a fixed base. So when it swells, you've got to do something because it can die if it swells too much. Testicles of fixed cavity with the tuna galogenia. And so if it swells too much, it necrosis. And then you get fibrosis. And then you get sterility. And it's, you know, I've got techniques where I can find sperm and lots of these men, really the pockets. But most of it, you're belating the testus. It's going to scar and die from eschemic necrosis. So Zika Ebola, these are, I mean, the CDC called me when these were coming around Zika, you know, Zika's been transented to semen because of the, and it's definitely issues with a child. And when these, when these pandemics were curing Ebola too, I got to call that the air was an Ebola patient who survived when did the Institute survive the hemorrhagic fever. And then a year later, transmitted Ebola to a partner who transmitted to six other men. And it was another outbreak in South Africa. Meaning the patient that survived Ebola, the virus managed to survive in the testies, somewhere. Okay. But it was transmitted sexually a year later when he was well. When he was asymptomatic, he had already developed immunity. Right. So there are, we don't know about tests, but we know that mumps will do that to the testus, but their Zika is also persistent in the semen. But in that case, you have to think they would, wherever the virus hung out, it had to be very, very immune privilege. Yeah. Or at low levels, like low viral loads, where there's no disease. I'm not sure. But these are, of concerning cases. But then it was transmitted at a low viral load and even lower viral load. Right. So it's tricky. Yeah. And there may be bubble with your glands. Maybe it's some of the skull. It's hard to know. But yeah, it's getting away. So, but most viruses don't go there. So the big one would be COVID. Right. What, what did COVID? There was a big deal about the AC receptor being in the lung, being in the testicle. And maybe COVID infection would make you sterile. There was one Zika paper in nature that looked at if you'd infect mice or there's rats with Zika that testicles shrive up and they get infertile. And that caused a huge scare in the field. But we really didn't see it. Maybe see it and see if we don't see it in fertility. And what is it about the Zika virus that does this? We're not sure. Why did it in rats? But it's a blood testus barrier thing. It's an amazing barrier and nothing really gets through, including viruses. But mumps does only a puberty. And Zika does. Zika doesn't have animals, but we didn't see it in humans. But I thought you said that Zika was leading to an insufficiency in cases. Yeah, but that could be seminal. That could be just in the semen itself. Not in the sperm. Like Ebola is probably seminal. It's not testicular. It's not on sperm. It's around sperm or in the fluid. That's the conclusion so far. So COVID, the big worry, was when this Chinese paper came out like, oh my God, it's going to the lung bind to the AC receptor. It's testicle has it too. It's going to make men's sterile forever. And there were cases of infertility with bad infections. And was that just the fever, which jiplocky does it even after a flu, or was that COVID specific? And we didn't know a couple of colleagues did some papers. One which impressed me was at out of cedars was a bunch of men, maybe not reproductive age, and died with fluorid COVID. So they got autopsies. And they looked for virus in different locations in the body. And I think out of 10 men or seven men, one had it in the testicle. So these are men with the words of infection. The highest viral load you can imagine and only one of them had it. So I believe that there is a risk of it. But at it's say in the thousand men, I've seen since COVID, I think there were two cases that I would say were unexplained. Where men were either fertile or had normal seeming quality had a bad COVID infection, maybe hospitalized, and three months later, sterile. So I think there's a low and tell me, first season right there, what is the phenotype of their sterility? Aside from the presentation that says I can't get someone present. So sterility means no sperm in the semen. And typically, if you measure the signals to the testicle. That's literally what it means. I'm sorry. Okay. So literally no sperm in semen. They stopped. Okay. I understood. Yeah. So it's a primary problem. So the third thing we do, history physical semen analysis is a third. Fourth would be hormones. And that's what we check in men too, because production of sperm is driven by the brain. So nothing happens to sperm being made without the brain telling you what to do. Same with eggs and controlling it's all. A homostatic mechanism with negative feedback. Classically, antibiotics to our users. Yeah, which I want to talk about in detail. Can we go back to semen analysis? You're looking for obviously the count and the motility. What else do you look for? So in the semen analysis, there's several features. I consider it sort of a poker hand. There's a volume, how much of the semen volume. There's a count concentration of sperm. That's numbers per mill. And then there's motility, which is percent motion. You do a forward progression. So how good is the quality of motion? And typically, some measure of shape called morphology. There's three liquid issues. Liquid faction, a glute nation, uh, in viscosity. And then you look for other cells that aren't sperm. They're called round cells. And you're going to be puss cells or immature germ cells that are early ejaculated early. And presumably you want to see fewer of those. Right. There's a number of less than a million normal. Okay. So if you ask me, well, how do I look at a semen analysis? That's a little different. I look at that as a poker hand with each card as a meaning. But they have a look. So if you said, what do you mean by that? So if the volume is low, that's one of five things. You're always going to find something. It's at the collection error. I call it first samples and drone. Guys not good at it. Right. You know, it's like, okay, I've got to put it in the cup. And I got to stop doing what I'm doing. Okay. You know, so, so you do a second sample. And then there's low testosterone can cause it. There's an apps and vast difference, which means you have an apps in some of us ago. There's a jack toy, a structure. And by the way, do you ever have that on one side and not the other? Or is that always okay? Yeah, that was very, very low segmental. Yeah. And so there's five real issues. So when I see a low volume semen, as a surgeon and as a doc, I mean, I'm going to find something. So that's really good. Other than that, the semen analysis, I think I've been published as saying it's a blunt instrument for fertility. Unless it's zero, you can't really say much about their fertility because people can see it all levels. And people are there. Are there, you know, obviously you rattled off a whole bunch of parameters that you can access there. But are there certain null states that don't exist where everything is amazing. But this one thing is horrible. Like do you see scenarios where everything is remarkable? Perfect. Motility, but bad morphology or specific morphology. I'm sure you haven't isolated. You do see isolated things. Right. So one of them is called, I call it syndromic sperm shape problem. So you can have a perfectly normal semen analysis, count motility volume progression, and the sperm looked terrible. And so there are rare conditions, one in 5,000, where you might have globos with spermia or two tailed sperm or pinheads sperm. So if you look at shape, 4% should look normal, just terrible. We've all discussed about why 4% of human sperm being normal is normal when 99% of animal species in the wild have normal looking sperm. But it's all a construct. Right. It's all a construct of who someone decided what normal is. But in men who have large abnormal forms like 4% of normal, if they're 1% normal. And you look at the abnormalities. I'm sure I'm still confused on that point. Are you saying that in a, you would consider it perfectly normal if only 4% of the sperm are more phologically perfect and 96% or not. And that means the 96% that are not could be pinhead could be double tail, a more fissive tapering in it. Going back to the original. That's a math petition. That's not a great number. Is it? No. And if you look at marine species, 99, 9, 9 look perfect. If in the wild. Yeah. And presumably that's because they're environment is so much more hostile. Like they're doing this all in the ocean. I don't know, but it's, it's amazing that we're that good with the sperm. But again, it's a construct. It's like putting stars ordering stars in the universe, Cassiopea. Someone named Kruger said, this is what our normal sperm looks like. And but we know that two tailed sperm have double tailed. I mean, it might be the two tail might not be the worst thing in the world. It's just extra rockabusters. But what about the pinhead? What is the pinhead and why? There's no nucleus. It's a tail. So that's a true problem. Yeah. It's like a little tiny head and moving along. So if you, if you, if you rule out, if you, if you give some buddy credit for their two tails, what's, what is your normal go up to from 4%. Oh, it depends. But maybe 20. Okay. So they're still 80%. But they will fail. They will fail. They will fail. They're going to be amorphous, the heads of a little rounder, heads of a little narrower. Those are called stress patterns. Some things like hot baths and varicocials and smoking will do that. We just do that bad. All right. So in the case of 1% normal, you've got to look at the 99% because that's not the story. The stories and the other, the other chunk, right? Yeah. And if they're all looking the same, then it's in drumic and then you have a problem. I see. So the more homogeneous the abnormalities are, the more likely that you have a peculiar ideology. And that's hard to fix. I mean, they'll fail with sex. They'll fail with inseminations. They'll fail with IVF. They'll fail with IVF and XC. And sometimes with global subspermia where they're called lollipopsperm, they just have a big round head with no acrosome. There's all nucleus and there's some of the components. They'll just bounce off an egg. They'll never work. They'll never do work naturally. And to get them to work with IVF, you have to single sperm inject them into the egg and then shock the egg with calcium to a calcium or pz electric to get it to sort of to actually fertilize. Because it also introduces the sperm is important with fertilization. Not only has the bind, but the calcium channels are regulated by and what shuts to doors to polyspermian and egg is calcium activation. This is the reason why even if you launch a hundred sperm at an egg, it's only one that can get in because the first guy that breaches sets off the calcium channel that shuts the, I mean, the star wars space analogies here are just phenomenal, right? Million years. Yeah. Yeah. Million years. No more breaches in the whole. So there's so more biology can matter a lot, but it's very rare. So I'd say twice a year in my practice, I'll see this because everything's failing and everything looks normal and they ask me what's going on and I'll look at it really closely and say you have this issue and there's not much we can do to treat it. Now we're going to try sperm sorting technologies which are on new in the market, microfluidics and things like that and I've been throwing that at them. Sometimes it works sometimes it doesn't. And is that something that we know the genetic underpinning of? We're getting their PLZ's A to deficiencies. One of them recently discovered that that runs the calcium channel which tends to be associated with certain look like locals of sperm. Yeah. So it's like coming around. Think about that for a second from an evolutionary perspective. That that's Paul. That is the single least desirable genetic mutation you could acquire. Yeah, unless you're not making sperm. Yeah, but this is a dead end to the genome. Right. Right. So does that mean it is only an and acquired mutation never inherited? I mean it can't be inherited presumably unless it's home as I guess but even still. That's one of the 50 we throw off in each generation, 50 mutations. Yeah, that's just incredible. I think what I would like to emphasize in this podcast is how fluid evolution actually is and it's sperm driven and it's transgenerational. So if you ask me what's the theme for today? It's a sperm matter a lot. A lot a lot more than we've given them credit for. All right. So let's talk about so basically just rounding out the seamen out houses, physical on the seamen analysis, what if motility is the problem? So I look at in my poker analogy of the hand, if you have anything looks good but the motility is low, I think of short-term toxins. So not severe severity. So things like exposures, so medications, I think about habits, pot, smoking, hot beds, I think about behaviors, lifestyle, I think about so I look for an exposure in that individual. Basically picked up on the history. Varacocille is an exposure, things like that. And if the count down and the motilities down, I think of a large severe exposure. So there's a there's rural flushes and there's fortified and there's two of a so I would think of more of so my goal when I see that seamen analysis, see that patient is to figure out if he's not normal. Why? And by the way, do you get that analysis the day he's in the clinic with you or is that something you follow upon an appointment with? Pretty much have it in my hand when I see them either. They give it to me or I get one, I want that there because that's when I look at them I'd like to have that in front of me to say, what kind of poker hand are you playing? And this is something that's standardized and automated through my go microfluidics. How is the how's the assay actually done? So the guy ejaculates and it takes it to a lab. Oh, I mean how's it used to be done manually? Okay. And now it's done with the hemsatometers and like it's done with machines. Okay. Peter assisted seamen analysis does most of them in IVF groups. So it's really standardized. Oh yeah. Okay. I like the you know I like the bespoke suit. So I like the hand made seamen. So when I have mine repeated I usually have someone do it by hand because there's observations I like which is hey, you know what, one percent more foology but all the others look like this. Those comments are incredibly valuable that you don't really get from a computer system that's seamen analysis. But it's faster and you don't have a lot of human effort involved with a computer. Are they using AI for this yet? Yeah. I mean some people are for sperm selection a little bit. But yeah, there's a lot of stuff to help out. And now it will be really helpful for a morphology to standardize it because one man and Kruger in South Africa correlated bad sperm shape with IVF outcomes and did not find that they were good when the sperm looked bad. That's what the four percent came from. But it's really hard to do that every time and do it well because it's so hard to do. Well, helping AI and she learning can help standardize the look. Because sperm, you know, it's just this hard. Yeah. Given how good AI is at image recognition. This should be like this should be a one foot pot. Yeah. Okay. You mentioned hormones. You were obviously alluding to LH and FSH. What else are you looking at testosterone? Right. So it's a abnormal amounts of sperm. Yep. You need a proper amounts of testosterone and FSH. Think of it as a flowering a plant. You need the water. You need the sunlight. So if testosterone and FSH are key to getting normal amounts of tea, testosterone, you're going to need LH, which drives it. Same in women. You know, these are all named in women and females. So that signaling is really important. So there are cases of genetic infertility like common syndrome or men aren't making any sperm, but they're just not sending the signals down and you can just give them the signals with injections. Sorry. These men are not making FSH and LH. No. So they have virtually no testosterone. Right. Okay. Norse sperm. But you can give them the signals. Yeah. So H, C, G, FSH injections and they will be fertile. Oh, so if you gave those guys, so is the problem in the pituitary not the hypothalamus? No, it's it's the alfactory node in the hypothalamus. So they don't smell either. So could you give them chromid and would they make no? No. Two turns not not working. Yeah. It's the G and R H is the G and R H is not to a turn. Okay. God. So what about estridile? Does it play a role? Yeah. So estridiles often estridiles sort of a mild poison for male infertility. So everyone needs estridile level. Female hormone levels testosterone gets converted to estridile. So that's a byproduct of it along with DHT. And then estridile goes back to the brain and is a feedback. So if it's there, the brain knows how much testosterone it's making. So if there's too much estridile, the brain senses it's of negative feedback, senses hate. There's too much of this. So let's make less testosterone. So it will lower your testosterone depth higher. So when estridiles made it gets metabolized differently than testosterone, it goes to the liver or to fat. And a Roma tases converted to something else or testosterone gets converted to female hormone and romates us. So you can get high levels being obese or having liver dysfunction. So alcohol, you know, how it calls, roces, hepatitis. It'll rev it up and it'll make a lot more estridile level. And there's some medications that do it too. And that will act in lower your testosterone, which will lower sperm production because you're not watering the plant. If you correct for testosterone, so in other words of the guy has normal FSH, LH and testosterone, is there an estridile level by itself that is problematic? Not usually. Okay. So it's really only high estridile in the context of suppressed testosterone. That's when you would act on it. If you see that there's a low count and that testosterone's low. And you could say you need to lose 100 pounds, which is the the key secret for everything, right? But you can also give a Roma tases inhibitors like weight lifters use to keep their levels down. Okay. So those are four big pillars. Anything else besides the history exam, the analysis and the hormones? And then to usually do two semenalces, three weeks apart or more, to get a sense of things because it varies quite a bit. So a lot of a very important point is that the semenalces, any feature of that semenalces vary by 50 to 100%. So never make a decision on one semenalces. It's really hard. Yeah, especially if it's the first one as you said for all the right. So I could do a lot of consulting for the FDA and they do, you know, they do medications and reproductive age men and they're trying to show the semenalces that are going to the FDA and they're saying, can you help us interpret this data for the FDA? I said, garbage in garbage out. I mean, there's so much variability. You really can't say anything. It's really hard to get. So you have to do at least two samples. And it's still very spider. There's interobserver variability, who knows the semenalces. There's biological variability on wetter systems like so that's the big problem with studies. So what percentage of drugs that are going through an FDA approval process are having a semen analysis as part of the evaluation? I don't think many. Why is that? Because usually the indications aren't reproductive age men and women for some of them. If they do, they'll do animal models. They want to human states to do animal models. They'll do beagles, so mice and beagles and if there's no fertility effects, they don't really look at semenalces and those, they'll look at fertility effects in animals. If there's nothing there, then they'll probably not require human studies. If there's any suggestion of a problem in the animal models, which is a million dollars of work. So if you ask me why I patented this amounting on your stem cell, I want an in vitro test for human infertility that we could use instead of animal models. Save the animals, save a million dollars, do an in vitro's manager and this is model and see what if there's an effect at all. It just seems to me that in this day and age with people reproducing at older and older ages, we shouldn't just assume that because we've developed a drug for blood pressure or diabetes that it's not going to be used by people with fertility. I'll give you a silly example. Have GLP1 agonists been tested for fertility? Okay, well, because it's sort of an off-label use of a diabetic medication. But it's no longer off-label. It's an on-label use today. But it looks like it might be out of the limit. But even if it was on label, I mean, I just using that as one example of a drug that was initially approved when we thought, ah, this is going to be for people who are not having kids, but the truth of it is, you're going to have lots of people that are trying to reproduce on many of these drugs. Absolutely, and you know, there are 80,000 chemicals out there that have our not been studied reproductively that are commonly in used in industry. European commissions are a little better off. They've screened them and they've warned about them, but America. Why isn't? I don't know. It's attention to detail. It's one of those things that just doesn't, I don't know. Is it under the purview of the FDA or the EPA? Probably a combination or maybe everyone's thinking it's the other person's job. I'm not sure. But they're untested in there out there. Well, why don't we just talk about some of those things then now? So this is, I'm sure, kind of a contentious topic, but as you know, there are lots of discussion around microplastics. So I don't know how far we want to go down that rabbit hole. I recently did a podcast on this topic. I didn't really touch on fertility because I just didn't see any great evidence. I talked more about things where I thought there was a little bit more evidence. Obviously with the microplastics story, there's quite a bit of smoke, but there's no real fire. My conclusion from the analysis was there is enough smoke that takes steps where they are reasonable and reduce your exposure to these things. So everything from microplastics to PFAS chemicals to EVALA, the thalates and even the PM 2.5. There's no reason to expose yourself unnecessarily this. If you can take relatively straightforward steps, eliminate 60 to 80 percent of your life, do it. Tell me what your impression is of the effect of any or all of the above on fertility. So all those sperm are made constantly and are susceptible to that. We know the testicles are pretty good place to me and insulated from exposures. I also think there's a lot of smoke there and there needs to be in need to be sorted out, but such, but the 80, 60, 80,000 chemicals that are being used that aren't really tested at all. I think the only way to know is to do do stem cell and vitro testing as much as you can before you put it on at the IDI Investigation drug stage, not at the final stages for clinical trials, but early on do it. So you're screening a way in advance of getting into clinical trials and where the money gets big. But I think that men, there are windows of susceptibility and men, unlike maybe with women whose eggs are constantly exposed to toxins, men have windows and one of those windows is birth and early development, the first 12 weeks of life. So there's a good idea early. When all organ systems are developing, including testicles, I mean, Sean is fond of this one with maternal beef conception, estrogenized beef consumption, their sons had lover sperm counts when they were 20 years later or something. So I think that's a window of susceptibility also think, you know, puberty is a window of susceptibility when things turn on. So I think if exposures and those moments are probably going to matter the most to men, I don't know, I don't know about other times. And what is your advice to a guy when you're giving him counsel on everything he can do? We're going to talk about everything. But on this particular domain, if he says, hey, should I stop drinking Starbucks coffees in those plastic cups with the plastic lids and do should I get a reverse osmosis filter in the house like where are you telling him to draw that line? I'm not great at that because the stress level goes up so much and I think the stress counterback balances any amount of microplastics you save. You double the stress and a man in testosterone level fall and then just production falls for a whole different reason. So my my my testosterone level when I left residency, oh, I bet. So how old was I 33? Should I had a pretty good? Yeah, total T, 220 nanograms per deciliter. Did you measure LH? I'm just probably low. Yeah, I'm sure FSH and LH were totally low. I don't remember that. I'm not referring to that secondary free testosterone of light. So think of me to four. Yeah, well the sleep deprivation the stress the so what the stress to stress is the sympathetic nervous system it's fighter flight you're running from a woolly mammoth. It doesn't know what you're running from it doesn't know whether it's sleep or travel or financial or emotional. It's just the body is we are cats and dogs. We have the same binary nervous system either you're on or you're off. And when you're on do you want testosterone? No you want cortisol you're running for your life. And do you want fertility when you're running for your life? And any species? No you're trying to save your life. So cortisol goes on testosterone is nowhere to be found for utilities. No it turn off all that stuff. Then when you outrun the woolly mammoth and you're behind a rock and you grab the berries and you catch a nap, boom testosterone shoots up because it's resting restore and you have to rebuild for the next run. And how quickly do you think that it occurs in humans? How quickly? Yeah, how quickly can that dates easily. We can reverse onxtrust. Yeah, is it? It's not we love acute stress. All species love acute stress. We love that starvation intermittent fasting. It's really healthy. But not low-level chronic stress. Not connected to your computer. Not your emails. Not the workday that never ends. Terrible for us. And the best manifestation is erections because the erections will fall if you're under stress too. Pinos are the mind of its own according to the Vinci. I had a guy come in, you know, he came in. He was like 25 and San Francisco, a startup guy and he comes in and says, I got to see you. I said, why? I said, I lost my erection yesterday. He's 25. He said, first time. He said, yes. I said, all right, come on in. Sweet Coupton. And he's got his act to go. It looks good. And I said, what happened? He said, you know, I just thought my erection, I did never happen to be before. I think something's wrong. I said, okay, tell me about yourself. Just getting his a round of funding. He's traveling half a million miles a year. He sleeps like three or four hours a night if any. And he's constantly running and I said, congratulations. It's been logging to the human race. This is amazing at the first time. I know. It's like, we're talking about it. You're not in purvious stress. Stress has a defects. So clearly, the fertility women who are sort of marathon but how the great study was a moderate exercise, moderate exercise men, a road blog on this called, can you be too fit to be fertile? Moderate exercise went to extreme exercise measured as two hours a day of viotu 80% maximum capacity. So pretty heavy workouts for 12 week periods. So moderate to extreme and then back to moderate sperm counts fell by 40% when it moderate to extreme and constant sperm testosterone fell by 50% and then went back up. So that's a kind of a, and there's also military studies of men under acute stress during, during, you know, hell weeks and training, where they were taking their testosterone and LHs and they were dropping by about 50% with severe stress. And that's okay for a day or two or a week. But when you're doing it chronically, we're not built for that Peter. We're not built for chronic stress. That's a long-termity issue. Yeah. Let's talk about the use of antibiotics steroids. So, or let's talk about it more broadly with sort of the three most commonly used approaches to testosterone replacement. So the way I see it is the three most common approaches are using either clomophine or inclamophine using Hcg or using exogenous testosterone in one of its derivatives. Would you agree that those are kind of a big three? Okay. We'll just briefly highlight for everybody why each is a little bit different. Exogenous testosterone, you're just giving testosterone the body senses it and immediately shuts down the hypothalamal natural production. Yeah. So LH and FSH will go to zero. Testosterone will be as high as you want it to be. There's no limit how high it goes. I've had a couple of people on this podcast who have blown my mind with how much testosterone they've talked about taking not clear how that's possible but nevertheless they're doing it. Okay. Hcg is synthetic lootinizing hormone. LH so you give a person Hcg they will make testosterone. So it's endogenously produced. But they're making so much of it that they'll also suppress LH and FSH. So LH and FSH will come down. Testosterone will go up. And then clomophine or inclamophine block the signal of estrogen at the level of the hypothalamus. So the hypothalamus thick thin. Oh my gosh. We need more testosterone. It ramps up FSH and LH production which has the same effect as making more testosterone. But you'll now see high normal FSH and LH. Yeah. And the two different classes are the LH and clomid versus testosterone. So unlike testosterone, shutting off the natural production that LH, the ACG and the coma phenincloma phenyl stimulate natural production. So you keep your testicular size. You maintain your fertility. Whereas the others you're going to shrivel up your testicles and not maintain your fertility. And you can't generate levels that you can with the exogenous testosterone. But these you'll never get to 3,000. You can't do that. Because it's tightly regulated. So question one, if a guy is taking exogenous testosterone. And let's just say he's been on it now for a few months. Is he able to create sperm? Not 95% chance he's not. Wow. While he's on it. Yeah. Understeady. Can he create it once he's stopped and will definitely address that. But just to be clear, even a couple of months on exogenous testosterone in any form, injection, topical, oral, whatever, you basically have shut off the ability to make sperm because your testies themselves have shut down. Right. No signals. Yep. Okay. No gas to the engine. Now there are some ex-newants. Okay. So there's there are formulations that are topical that are less potent that way, less inhibitory than injectables. So there are variations in the spectrum of exogenous testosterone that will maintain some of your fertility. There are formulations. At least the, I don't want to go so far as to call it the marketing material. But for lack of a better term, the marketing material is suggestive that the more frequently delivered variants. So for example, the intranasal variant, which is delivered three times a day, the oral variant delivered twice a day have a less of a negative impact because they're producing far lower surges than if you did a weekly injection. Is that what you're referring to? Yeah. So they do more physiologic. Yep. They're in the normal range more. What gives you side effects from testosterone, including sterility is the spike too much. Yeah. So in your experience, has that born out. Yeah. So men, you've seen men taking the testo three times a day doing an nasal keeping their sperm counts. Keeping their sperm counts. Okay. That's interesting to note. What about the oral testosterone the twice a day? Love it. So in testos when I can that, I can that and that can no wait. And it was not available in America for 50 years was available in Europe. And a couple of researchers that you say, as been wife team, beautiful. Decided what happened was we were worried when we took oral testo three to the lower, right to the the areas system and go to the liver, cause liver cancer. So it was always verboten. Even though there was no evidence this was happening in Europe for 50 years. Yeah. They wasn't not much. It's a bit of the approved E a approved it. So the so this group came up with a way to get it metabolized through lymphatics. So it can absorb through lymphatic and never hits the liver. And it's really good. I mean, there is a non-respons rate of around 10 percent. So 10 percent men, some like gels too, 15 percent will respond. There's groups that won't respond that well. But it is really good. And you can describe it. Oh yeah. You know, I'd be interested to hear your experience with it. We have prescribed it now to maybe a half a dozen patients. One of the silly challenges we have with it is we actually have no idea if they're therapeutic because trying to get their blood drawn to figure out when to draw their blood to actually see the that for example, if a guy takes the drug at eight o'clock in the morning and then at one o'clock in the afternoon, which is sort of what we're told is a great window to take it so that you get that middose, middose, right? If he does his blood draw at seven o'clock the next morning, he's been 18 hours off drug. He has unmeasurable testosterone. He's going to show up at 200. He's going to look like I did 50 20 years ago. His LSH and FSH are still completely suppressed because that doesn't go away over 18 hours. But you know, I don't know what to, I don't know how to interpret like what is he walking around at during the day, which is what I care about. It's hard to know. I mean, usually you don't want to do it right away too. So you want to give him a couple of weeks to stabilize he niestatically, right? But usually you can get pretty good levels because the half life isn't that short. They say it peaks in five hours. So I don't know what the half life is. I feel like 12 more like 12. You wouldn't dose it at 100% decay, right? You have a dose at 50%. So you show he's probably not responding. We can check it at different times, but it's probably not much of a response. And what are you dosing it at? It comes in 100 and 2. It depends. I usually go to the middose 298 twice a day and then you can double it or go have whatever. I usually start out not the lowest dose. Yeah. And it depends what you're trying to solve too in the problem, right? If you want them, you're not going to get them to 800 or 1,000 very easily. You can get them, you know, 4,500 to 600, 600, 700 pretty well. But no side effects. I haven't seen anything. Maybe a couple dozen men really well tolerated. Interesting. So this is not something you use when you're trying to get a guy from 300 to 1000. You could, but not probably not the first choice. Yeah. And now you're taking 500 twice a day or something crazy like that. Yeah. And twice a day is a big deal for men. It is. Yeah. And what about the test? How are you? Are you used like never, you've never been tolerated. Yeah. What's the experience like? We've never used it. Well, have a flu and try to get you're just hostile level off. You can't do it. You have to spray it in your nostril each nostril three times a day. And it's gooey and it's gel-like. And I just, and within a week we'll call and say, I can't do this. Yeah. We've had more luck getting women to use this. Maybe. Yeah. Okay. So let's go back to the biggest other difficulty. The two types of testosterone replacement or supplements. One is sort of, we'll call it the natural ones. The inverse is the exogenous ones is the side effect profiles different widely. It's very difficult to get polycyteemic or thickening in your blood with the physiologic levels. It just doesn't happen very often. I don't think I've seen it once or twice. But if you take testosterone as honestly, you're at risk for polycyteemia or blood thickening. So testosterone stimulates epipotent. And the kidney, you make more blood. I have to eat love it. But if you went along flight and you're dehydrated, you're going to throw a clot. And people look at it for longevity. It's like it's very careful. Yeah. Because I've seen 70-year-old men want longevity and taking this stuff and then they have a clot and they have a stroke. And now they're 71 and they're not, they're not, they're the whole thing. And deep-frying that that the clot risk is proportional to hemoglobin hematocytes. And what level are you saying? It's time to try. It's time to try. I mean, the studies aren't broad, but drama-same just did another paper on it. And the most significant event occurring with testosterone replacement or supplementation is polycyteemia and events. And so the high level for hemoglobin 17, matricrate 50, you start seeing events happen about 18 and definitely 19. And one of the things we do with patients who are injecting testosteronecipionate is, and we have some patients who love doing this. I think it would drive me nuts if I were trying to do this. They injected every day. So they'll do 10 to 15 milligrams every single day. And it actually produces the same effect, which is they don't have the polycycemia because they don't hit their legs never hit these crazy peaks. You know, 10 years ago, everyone I saw that was prescribing this was prescribing the standard was 200 milligrams every two weeks, which was crazy. Yeah. So what is your typical injection schedule once a week or two twice a week? And I think twice a week, well, you can have the dose right? Yeah. So that is a little safer, but then it becomes the intensity and just a bit of a minute. I can't do it like that or whatever I want to pellet. So do you put pellets in? Okay. I do them all. Yep. And what's your, do you find that the pellet also? I don't know the kinetics of it, but I would imagine you're pretty super physiologic for a month or so, maybe. Yep. So pellets are like the long-term contraceptive for women. Yep. You know, in the arm, they put it in subcutaneously. We put it in the butt. And it's a couple of minute procedure in the office and it gives you, you don't have to worry about anything. There's no compliance issues. We don't have a lot of side effects or consequences from it. It's done with a trocar and a thick needle. And you get, you know, pretty quickly within a couple of days, you'll get a level and then it'll slowly decay pretty much half of it by three a month or so and then the rest by four to six. It's supposed to be a six month physiologic level, but normally it's four. Yep. Four or five. And, you know, men feel great for a while and they can feel it because it's slow, but it is even and you do have this risk of pithything, you know, things like that. But there's a three-month peri-break risk and then usually there's, when you're in the normal range it kind of goes away. So I don't see a lot of consequences with that if it's six months. I really don't. So let's go back to the the clomid HcG route. What is the, what is the extent to which fertility is preserve preserved when a man is on one of those agents? So clomid is, let me give it for fertility all the time. So I'd say, very good. Yep. It might even improve it. HcG depends on the dose. So like you said, high doses suppresses, so you to be normally, for earlier, you want LH and FSH going to the testicle. You want the water and the sunlight. You want the testosterone. If you've got the testosterone, what your FSH is, you don't have a sunlight, you're not going to bloom. So I usually add clomid to HcG if the dose is about 1,500 units, 3 times a week because that's going to start suppressing the FSH and clomid will keep it going and then your fertility is preserved. 1,500, 3 times a week of HcG is a whopping dose. You're saying beneath that, you typically don't have issues with FSH and LH suppression. Well, LH will because it's LH. Yep. But not FSH. Maybe 1,500 units start seeing it. Okay. So that's where you protect the fertility. Yep. And you will just give and what dose of clomid will you give on top of that regimen? Depends. I mean, usually half a pill a day. Half a pill, half a 25, half a 50, 50, 50 milligrams pills. Yeah, it's usually half. You give 25 every day. These are staggering doses. How higher these guys testosterone getting? Did testosterone is driven mainly by the HcG. So I shoot for the normal range of 500 to 1000. I don't. Yeah, that's a man. I ran a ballad guy. Oh, no. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's interesting. I mean, we don't, we don't like clomophine at all. Um, just because, well, they're all bunch of reasons, but they have to do with kind of lipid stuff. But even when we would use it, we would probably use 53 times a week. So that's about the same. Yeah. 25, 25 a day. Um, but for most guys, that would be sufficient alone, even without HcG. But you're saying, okay, well, it's the HcG that's driving the team. We're just trying to protect it. If you say, what do you give on high-slicious monotherapy? Yeah. What would you give for clomophine? 12 and a half to 25, typically depending on how sensitive do you prefer clomid or enclomophine? Do you? So it's very interesting. Clomophine is really good. And it's an interesting FDA story. So, uh, clomid is not approved for men. And clomophine is neither. Clomid to prove for women and clomophine is not approved for either. Can clomophine's compounded clomid is available for 50 years. So a lot more data. And once this, this is, I remember was a trans-ice of your, so they're different. And the estrogenic effects are slightly different. Um, so I have enormous experience. I've five hundred sixty men on clomid and I have fewer on enclomophine. But, uh, it was developed for older men to preserve the preserve their testosterone levels as they age because the signaling tends to get weaker. The patuitare tends to get lazier. And this is the keep your testosterone levels up more physiologically than taking testosterone. So it went through some very good randomized trials that were published. This was clomophine clomophine. Okay. Clomophine. And they were done by reputable people and field and published. And then it went to the FDA for approval for secondary hypogonatism. So age-related changes, not, not primary, just a key to failure in age-related and your deficiency of aging male or Adam. Right. FDA sat on her for a couple of years and said, nope. Why? Good question. So it's published. They're good trials. It's safe. It's as good as clomid. And um, that didn't approve it. And I think it's hard to know. But I think the reason was that there's such an uproar about testosterone in America right now. And the FDA doesn't like what's happening. What happened is you can, you can, you can advertise your drug to the consumer now. Right. So you know all the, you know, the biological response modifiers for psoriasis, you know, all those drugs go on and take you five seconds on the benefits and the lesions go away and then 25 seconds on side effects. Right. So you can do that. If you do that with testosterone, what you hear is do falling asleep after dinner? Are you not as athletic as you used to be? Are your erections that as good as the used to be? There's 10 questions in the adult question here. And everything guys are going to be like, yeah, everyone who ages as those issues, right? So it's like no brainer if they go on TV, they're going to want this stuff. So the cats out of the bag and that's their stuck. And so now when any testosterone trial comes back, they're going to point out the FDA make sure that we point out the dangers of testosterone replacement. Okay. So this is part of that energy, which is, um, when we don't want another testosterone. So I think there's another reason Paul and it's everything you just said, but H C G and testosterone are schedule four. Which means you cannot prescribe them through like these testosterone clinics that don't even see patients and you know, are literally just not not being doctors, right? They're just sort of giving it to anybody who shows up in pays. It's a coin operated testosterone dispensary. But clomid and I assume by extension and clomophine are not scheduled, right? Which means you can coin operate those. And my guess is that's probably why the FDA is saying what it's saying is we don't, it's already bad enough that the clomid cat is out of the bag, but given that we don't want to put another one of these unscheduled drugs out there in the in the land of sort of shady medicine. And you know, the indications are pretty clear and they're really safe. You know, I, they're really safe drugs and I, I like the my, my effect is someone comes in who's young, who maybe wants kids, hasn't had them. And they have a low testosterone of 220. You measure their LH, which no one does, it's low, secondary have a gonism. So it's not a testicle failing, right? It's a signaling issue. And that's probably stress. So I say get rid of your stress and they say how do I do that? It's like a one, okay? So exercise, acupuncture massage or yoga. I mean, for men, I say physical activities, the best thing for sex. So as an aside during COVID, I had two groups of men. They said, what do I do in my life, some mess, you know, everyone's like some mess. So half of them had drinks at five o'clock, started drinking a lot. And the other half went out for runs. They got a pellet on, which most of the country did. That's a great story that helped them story. And then about six months later, these guys really, it's not working. And they started shifting over to exercise. So I was very proud of these guys. I was really happy with like nice because that's the best way to handle stress is when you have no control over things. Go for a run, go for a walk, get out there. It's so good for you. It's deep, decompressing, hold, get your mind off something, anything, surfing, whatever. So they don't do that. So I said, well, let's do this. I think what's happening is this. I think it's just stress. Maybe try traveling less or whatever. And then I'll give them a clone. And I'll say, let's try this for a couple for three to six months. And let's see how you feel. Sometimes it's sexual health issues. Elections aren't typically that dependent on testosterone. Typically it's other things. And so if that's the issue and I'll say, I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. Maybe maybe you were higher before. And we don't know that, but let's do something pretty safe and easy. And I'll double your testosterone with triplet. I'll see how you do. And then I'll check and let them at three and six months. How you feeling? I feel great or hey, it's not working. I feel the same. I was like, well, it's not testosterone related. Whatever your this symptom is you're having. You wouldn't have it with it to stop. We know levels of testosterone above what you should not have symptoms. Right. We know libido, we know erections, we know fertility, things like that. And what are the approximate levels for each of those? I don't know. Rections I would say the best study is about 290. Yeah. So most guys that are having difficulty with erections are above 290. There's some other issue. Usually. But you have to prove it to them. And I'm fine with that. Is that what this is safe? And that you know, you're convincing them. And then what about libido? libido I'd say 350 is sort of arranged. It's pretty sensitive and it's harder to call because there's a Beatles driven by so many different things. And fertility. fertility I'd say 300 is a good one. The start with how much FSH and LH. I don't know. Okay. And then obviously the other thresholds would be anabolic capacity like muscle, muscle mass and things of that nature. And mood tends to be a lot more variable in my mind. Absolutely. I think there's nits around testosterone. And those are some of them. But testosterone is a more cantailer and equilibrium story where if you're low, you have symptoms in your low. Those symptoms will get better when you go up. But then there's a point where it flattens out. And there's no increase or improvement in symptoms. Sexual health symptoms are classically ascribe to that. There are there are also it's a linear relationship in testosterone. That would be blood and muscle. Yep. So more is better for making blood, doping and also blood doping and also for muscle. Absolutely linear. Yeah. And with I I'll tell you why I find that interesting Paul. And I only learned that really in talking to body builders who were taking 500 to 2500 milligrams of testosterone a week. Because my initial reaction to that was you've already saturated the endrogen receptor probably five logs. I mean that's five logs. But like at least one or two logs earlier. Why? How would you still get it? And they're but they convince me. No, no, no, there's a real difference between 500 and 1,000 and 2,500 in terms of muscle mass. Which it sounds like you agree with. And I don't understand the physiology of how that's possible. I mean, how many anrogen receptors would you need to you have to upregulate them when in fact you'd be downregulating them. So I'm not sure, but it's not so the effect is indirect. The effect of testosterone muscle masses and direct. It's not that you're going to do it in create mass. You don't just create mass. What it allows you to do is recover from injury. Right. So if you push the system and you need two days to recover, you can go to one day. You can push it again harder. So that's what testosterone does in the primitive world. Right. If you're a caveman. There's even studies that show, by the way, that high enough doses of testosterone will increase muscle protein synthesis absent the stimulus. Absent the lifting stimulus. So it's the potential to recover that isn't proven. I'm not sure that's receptor driven. It might be several pathways going on that are logarithmicly better. But it allows you to push the system and go back and push it again. And that's how you build muscle. All right. So now let's talk about the guy who comes to see you. He's been on exogenous testosterone for three years. So he was given poor advice three years ago. He went to some shady back alley website. And they just, you know, he was 27 years old at the time. He just wanted to, I mean, this is tragically a very common story by the end. Right. So this guy's been on 200 milligrams of testosterone a week for the past three years. He's now 30 years old. He's met the love of his life and low and behold, they can't seem to get pregnant. So he's in your office. During the history, you find out pretty quickly. He's been on 200 milligrams of testosterone for three years. Tell me what his sperm analysis looks like. Do you see there are no, there presumably there are no sperm. I would bet 95% confidence that he would be no, I have no sperm in the same Okay. So 200 milligrams a week. So what are you telling him now? How are you going to solve this problem? So it's funny because a lot of guys come in and they look good. And I want to examine I'll say, are you taking anything? Are you taking because they never put it on their medication. Right. You never write it out on the history. You always have to get it out of it. If they look, if they're super jacked, but then they have tripled testes. Yeah. And there's zero. And then wondering, what, you know, right? So I will look them in the eye. So you're taking testosterone. And I'll look them in the eye until they answer. And if they look down and they don't say anything, I know they're on it. If they look in the eye and say, no, then I know they're not, but they'll always look away because it's this verboten thing. So this is the same, by the way, as I'm sure you experienced as a resident and the ER, the people that come in with foreign rectal bodies and abdominal pain, that's the one thing they emit from their history. Right. It's like, they tell you, you know, this is the last time I ate. This is this. This is this. But then you get the x-ray back. And there's like a candle stick in their colon. And then you say, what is your Hopkins? What about this? Can't, yeah. What about this candle stick? And they're like, oh, I totally forgot to mention that. Yes. Yes. That was lit. What I went in. Yeah. Yeah. So typically, I'll say, so my theory is about this is if he's, why is he taking it? So if he's taking a franabolic sense, you know, he probably has a pretty good idea. And I want, let's send you, it's give you a little research we're doing on the lifespan of anabolic store users. So remind me at the end of the story, it's give you a little brief about what I know about that. But so I, so when you take, so how he takes it matters? So if he's been in constant use injectables, that's the most suppressive of fertility. And if you turn a gland like a testicle off long enough, it's off. So I gave a lecture to the Antiquity on covering men from hypogannas, a men-young men. And I asked them a question at the end because I, my whole procedure comes from steroid users. I, I take notes when the anabolic guys come see me because they're really smart and they know a lot about reactions, biology. That's incredible. Yeah. But it's a science. Some of them are PhDs. I took notes for years and it came up my approach along with what I know, right? So it's very much in concern with cancer with them. So everything I say is sort of built on a large experience and it's called getting off the juice, the blog. And I have people read that blog, do it and say get about 80% of the way and then call me and say, you know, I need help here, now I'm here. Yeah, we'll link to this in the show. No, it's for sure. Getting off the juice and there's a PowerPoint in it. So the recovery is usually possible in young men, but it depends on how much they took, how long they took it and how they took it. If they do it like a cycling effort, that's the best. Right? So if you cycle steroids, you recover the bituotary, you get back to normal and you hit it again. That's actually quite smart. Constant use is not. Constant use for longevity, whatever. It's not a good idea for fertility. So that's going to be much more suppressive injections or worse than orals or any gels. So the next thing is how long, so I asked the end of the society, since I answered all their questions, I said, have a question for you, can you turn a testicle off like an a thyroid or adrenal gland if you suppress it enough? Can you turn it off for good? And they said, yeah, that's a bad question of ours. We can do that. And I said, because we believe it's always reversible in the field of infertility and men. And so that got me a little worried. And so now, it kind of worry about five to 10 years of use. After five or 10 years of use, you may not get it back. Either the ability to make sperm or the ability to make testosterone native. So we typically tell men in our practice, don't, you know, two years would be the absolute ceiling. Maybe are we too conservative? Maybe. Okay. Depends on dose, they get everything right. If they're too, 250 a week. Oh, I mean in our practice, it would be 50 twice a week. Yeah. Okay. I did a study, published a study on the fellow in Houston of a guy who took it for 25 years. And we drove at him with its gonadotropens as Hcg and FSH. And we didn't get anything, but he had testiculate. Now we got a a low number of sperm back. And I just had a guy from Louisiana and I come in 25 years of chronic use. I did a mapping procedure to find sperm in his testicle. And he's going to be having a kid, but he made a couple of sperm after, and that was for the baby. But you pump him full of Hcg and synthetic FSH. And get nothing. And then you have to look in a testicle because production can be low enough to be there, but not coming out. But this is the rescue protocol. It's LHFSH. Basically there's three ways to do it. One is never stop the testosterone suddenly. Interesting. Because men all hit the dogdobsical poop and they'll flop over like they have the flu. They'll feel like shit and they'll get right back on it. They're feel terrible because they have nothing going on. If you take the testosterone away, their persistence turned off. They're not making their own. It takes time to get the system to reactivate. So that's the hardest. So I always taper testosterone over what we're doing. Six weeks typically you have the dose for two, have the dose for two, and then offer two. And then you measure. And that's like getting out of the white water into the green, the green wall a little bit. So that's a little smoother. So taper. And then I offer them two options. One option is taper alone. Tap it with clomid or inclamaphine, which is a little quicker getting the pituitary to turn back on. So that will soften the blow of the feeling of feeling completely fatigued or more aggressively HcG and clomid. That's interesting. I guess there's no. It's about six weeks or there's no. So it's interesting. If you give clomid the pituitary will make FSH and LH, it doesn't shut off. It takes a while. Well, that's a way more cost effective approach than giving synthetic FSH's pricey. Yes, a couple thousand a month. Yeah, in America. Yeah. So is there any reason to do that over the clomid approach or is it just that it's faster? I think you might gain a couple of weeks of time. Okay. So for most people that's not sell a price worth. With that taper over a month or two, I usually check their T levels at around two weeks off of the last testosterone. And that's the lowest they'll be. And if they're in a good range there, that didn't you can use that as a predictor of their response. It would be good if they're in a normal range. Oh, really. Okay. So we want within a couple of months to see them back to 600. 300 would be okay. Okay. To make sperm. Okay. All right. But then to get them to where they want to be, depends on their symptoms and what they're happy with. I'm not sure. I'm not, you all know it'll say you wait longer to see how high you can get them. That's the lowest they'll be, but they'll be off of testosterone. And if they go along that taper and they're not tolering, I try to tell them, don't go back. Just stay there because time will help you. Yeah. And if you're not going to feel maybe that gray, but try to do this because if you don't, you'll feel back then we have start over. But if you just maintain it for a while, you'll feel better. And some of them dip a little bit. But remarkably, most men do really well with that taper. Now, before I want to get on to some other topics here, but just to close the loop on this, do you ever advocate kind of crazy ideas for guys that are using testosterone to use lower doses and then combine it with H C G just as we were talking about the climate plus H C G of growth. Okay. So not in unreasonable approach to combine, clomid with testosterone at low doses to preserve. Test your evaluation. I operated on a man to, to test a clear this primary tree of on a man who's asa spermic for genetic issues. And he was on testosterone for 10 years. And because he needed it, he was in statistical's or failing. And I said, you're not going to make sperm on this. So we put him on H C G, which didn't do anything for him felt terrible. And did that for a year? And he said, I can't do this anymore. I said, okay, or maybe a six months and I said, I need a little more time for you to be off testosterone. But since you've been on H C G for six months, I've been with those to do him on three thousand three thousand three times a week. That's a whole vial a week. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Then I said, okay, let's add in a low dose T gel to testosterone gel. Yeah. To get your testosterone up. And we're going to lower the H C G to 500 three times a week twice a week. And I did this primary tree of yesterday boom, plenty of sperm. How old was it? 35. Interesting. So you can, you can maintain whatever's going on in a testicle with H C G and take any testosterone you want. That was a that's on. And it's in the world. It was in, yeah. It was the here's that here's the catch though. The caveat is it was done in, I think, finished body builders. They were doing a cycle steroids huge amounts that took loados H C G 500 twice a week. And John Aimer has worked out in Washington has worked out all the exact doses. But 250 to 500 twice a week is a good dose for that. It keeps your intertesticular testosterone high. Keep your sperm production going. And they went on both concurrently for 12 weeks. And their sperm counts were normal the whole time. That any dose of T. Now what happened after that is people start saying you can preserve your fertility on testosterone placement, which is possible. The mistake the mistake the story. But it was only 12 weeks. And if you're doing it for three years and you miss your dose of H C G, boom you've done your cook, you're going to go to zero. So on a post testosterone without it. So you have to be 95% compliant. And do you think that there's a difference between H C G and Komet in that effect? Is it a adjunct? The comet doesn't work even near the C G is the one. Yeah, the comet doesn't improve intertesticular testosterone levels like H C D does it's ineffective. It will potentially make you more recoverable. If you do it 80% you'll be zero even though you're, you thought you might have a sperm count. But your recovery will be faster because it's done something. But the only way to maintain your current fertility is you have to be 100% compliant with dual therapy. You can't go on monotherapy with testosterone. Outside of fertility, given the popularity of testosterone replacement therapy today, is there another advantage to just doing dual therapy? Obviously for fertility, we wouldn't be talking about it. But can you think of any other reason why it might be advantageous if a guy can deal with the hassle in the cost? Yes, depends on the indication though. I mean, if everything but fertility, like any other health benefit, I think muscle mass. So with aging, it's a great one. I mean, you know, used to be growth hormone with age-wasting syndrome, things like that. I mean, muscle mass is a key for men, right? As I say, but I'm saying, as opposed to just being on testosterone injectable to do the dual therapy versus just monotherapy. I mean, if you're going to do some kind of therapy, if you've committed to doing therapy, I think I think the only reason would be if you want testicles to be big. I'm just just volume. I just created a new procedure to make testicles larger naturally by putting a fat injection in the hydrosale space in men on testosterone because they don't like their small testicles. So it's the equivalent of the Brazilian but procedure for the testies. Yeah, so it's all natural and there's no prosthetics and that you can't tell and it looks that makes nice and big and it's all testist fat grafting and it's fabulous. But that's not a care to prove. No. No. Yeah. Um, creatively approved. All right. So let's shift gears and talk about other modifiable factors. Let's talk about heat. We've talked about it a little bit for fertility. Yes, for fertility. So tell me about the impact of cold plunging and sauna and hot tubbing on for fertility for men. Okay. So the testicles is outside the body. Yep. It's three degrees cooler than the rest of the body. So 95 versus 98 degrees Fahrenheit. And then there's a reason for that unknown. We had that conversation. Don't really know why. But it may be that it's an immunologic sanctuary and that's the only way to do it in that God or Darwin can figure out. But if you heat up the testicles, it's also close to the skin. So it's a radiator. So when the heat comes down in our turbo blood, it has to cool. So it raises in lowers and there was a journal in the journal of air reproducible results about 20 years ago. A man went to Big Sur and wore nothing and he measured ambient temperature and then he marked on this leg with a marker where his high-scrowed him hung how low it hung and he could tell the ambient temperature by how high or low his scrotum hung. He became a thermometer. So it does go up and down. Is that Peter a tealactic? Journal of air reproducible results. Oh, good. Really cool. But it's show that it's very temperature-centitive. Right? And it goes up and down to regulated closer to the body when you want it warmer, et cetera. You go into a cold shower or a plung where your testicles are way up there. In my abdomen. Yeah. And that's all the creamous dirt muscle and it's all temperature-driven. So it spends all of its time regulating its temperature to state 95. Now, sauna's baths, hot tub shukuzi, steam rooms, change that. Right? The worst one of those is anything underwater, submerging underwater because you're one centimeter away, you're liquid, it's a liquid, you're going to turn that temperature. Maybe not the inner part of your body, but little kids going into hot tub right? They overheat. So testicles will certainly overheat. So you get into a 105 degree hot tub, which is a very typical temperature for a hot tub is 105 to 110. You're saying within a relatively short period of time your testies will assume that temperature. Absolutely. Yeah. You're 70% liquid. And this is right at the surface. So I did a study published in the Brazil and Journal of Eurology. Very, I published 200 studies. This was the hardest one to get in. Everyone said we know that it affects fertility. So I don't, we're not going to publish it. So the American Thailand, the Brazilian Journal of Eurology. Then went to the New York Times as a press release. That's how popular it was. It's probably my most cited paper ever and it's certainly not my best. It's very interesting. I took in fertile men with low sperm counts and stopped the tub. They were in hot basicus. I used to wear jacuzi, jacuzi called mepsit-snop. Don't use that word. So I don't use that word. So hot baser tubs. And I told them out and they went up 300% they're seeming, and now seeming quality went up 300% total amount count. In three months or four months and 600% in six months. So you have to give us some time. And that's that curve, right? The recovery curve. And we didn't look at fertility. We just looked at that recovery. And someone was zero and went up to close to the age range of these men. They're 35. So fertile men. Yeah. And you can see. Yeah. These are men who are not able to conceive. You're making the diagnosis. I think it's your hot tub. Let's get you out of there. And they have a sixfold increase in sperm count. Total models per count. I mean count motility mainly driven by motility. Interesting. So it's motility that the price. The biggest one. But cost of count might have doubled to me. Chilly may have gone up threefold kind of thing. So sixfold increase overall. Then I calculated after that. I calculated a lethal dose of tubbing. So what's the lethal dose? Yeah. What's the other 50? Yeah. So lethal dose to me means you're zero. Yeah. You do it enough. You have no sperm. And it came out to be 20 minutes of a hot bath or a tub 20 minutes on 140 degrees three times a week. Would probably make you zero. Wow. There have to be a lot of guys out there who are spending at least three times 20 minutes sessions in a hot tub that's at least 104 degrees a week. And the highest group, the biggest interesting, the largest group of people in Tubbs at Northern California, we did this study. We're environmental lawyers. I don't know. It's like, sure job. That's stressful. It's okay. This is something that probably isn't California. All right. So then I think there's been studies. That was the, I mean, the only study ever done prior to that was a PhD thesis at Vastro College. Where someone had a guy dip their testicles into a bucket for 20 minutes that really hot and looked at their sperm counts or their fertility and they went, they went, they really. That was the only, and I couldn't even find it wasn't published. I had to go, yeah, to figure out the thesis thing. But that's how little was written about it. And they gave me so much fact for publishing. This was really funny. And the New York Times had an article said, you know, a true condom and a true birth control pills and a true a guy into tub. It's like picture, picture contraceptive. So it's huge. And it's I asked it. I'd say 10% of my populations in it. And the next question is, what about sonas? So sonas is not underwater. It's not some version. But sonas are, you're not, you're in a hot room. You're going to, it's going to affect it. And I would say the effect is one quarter to one third. It's a profound as a hot math or some version. So my friend was absolutely right to have those ice packs on his scrotum. He's thinking he's reading. Yeah. He's listening to Jesus Mark out. The Turk protocol. Yeah. And then I would say steam rooms showers are probably fine. Yeah. Because you, you're in an ambient temperature's normal. And I think steam rooms are probably between sonas and, you know, defense, I'm a shatime you spend. But it's probably not normal, but not a hot bath. Hot bats are terrible. Okay. And then what about the cold? I don't worry about cold. I remember surfer magazine call me and said, um, you know, I'm on the California surfer right now. I'll be surfer. And they said, uh, I the editor of surfer magazine call me says are surfer from fertile. I'll let you say, is that water bad for them? Because California waters. Yeah. And I said, no, I've never met it in fertile surfer. So I don't think it's bad at all. All right. So the cold is okay. Because that you're such a plunge where you're talking seconds. Yeah. You know, your test was going to go up. Yeah. And you're going to be able to maintain the heat. I think if you did it all the time, it would probably be bad. Yeah. Because enzymes work in the testicle at that one temperature. They work opt-in. Okay. Let's talk about exercise. You mentioned one example of exercise that can be problematic, which was, I believe you said in a study where men were ramped up to two hours a day of exercise. I think there was above 80% of VO2 max, which is pretty stranyous. That was enough to put a dent in their fertility. Tell me about writing a bicycle. I'm a biker. I have old vintage bikes that I used to race in Connecticut. And I had them rehabbed and they're all Italian and they're all steel. And they weigh a ton. And the seats are from Britain, Britain. And they've got 10,000 miles on them. And they weigh four pounds. It's much like a Brooks saddle. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, all worked out. And it's like that saddle nowadays is about half the weight of a carbon bike. Right. So, but I love it. And I'm thinking of maybe going senior league and doing this gorgeous steel frames. And trying to keep up with those guys. Because it's not about the bike. Really. It's like when you get golf clubs. And I got $150 that a golf club. I'm going to be it's bad a golfer with $1,000 of a club. So it's really about the biker. But there are some differences. And you know, in terms of the momentum in the wheel force and all that. But I love my old steel bikes. So, and they see this and it's like hanging at my office when it comes to work in the morning and I bike in in terms of Cisco. And then I have the seat and I was like, you, that's a bad saddle. And so the issue really is that it got started that biking was bad for reproductive health with a Spanish competitive cycling study. So competitive Spanish cyclists, Tour de France, Calabers, cyclists. We're looked at their sperm counts for examin. But what was the control group of a control group of runners? I don't remember. I don't think itself. So in other words, it could have been the exercise that was the part. It could have been the intensity of the exercise. It's not a good study. Yeah. There. And about so there's sperm counts for a low. There are more follages we're off and they're extreme athletes. So it's so we know that and we know maybe they were on drugs. Maybe they were, you know, it's a big industry. They're super fit. They're certainly exercising two hours of, right? And so they said, look at these guys who are really healthy and look at their sperm counts, but this other day did come out. So I did a blog called Cycling into Childlessness. And I looked at a more comparable study which was British commuting cyclists. So every day people basically knew working Britain on different saddles and, you know, and I looked at their fertility and their fertility was far better than the average bread. So even if they were taking some hit off the bike, it was probably more than compensated for by their healthy lifestyle, which included probably riding the bike. But obviously there's a healthy user bias because anybody who's riding their bike to work is probably consuming less Guinness, fewer fish and chips, smoking less. In other words, riding a bike is a proxy for being healthy. But in spite of that, it didn't offset that health risk, at least unless we found people who were equally healthy who, yeah, I remember what they controlled for, but I think they did a lot of the socioeconomics. And it was just, I mean, it may just be an activity, but the bicycle, so is there a myth? Yes. Now, if you said, are my worried about bicycus? Yes. So I worry about sexual health. I worry about the pudendal nerve. I worry about seed anatomy. So the best seat for a bicycle. So if you're biking a lot, that's good. If you're biking and you're getting pelvic numbness, that's bad. So you need to get a better seat. The best seat was studied by the NACH, the NACH. I forgot. It was Dr. Schrader at the NH. The best seat is, the saddles that are shaped like this are bad for your set phones because they come into the middle and whether the arteries and nerves are to the penis. So it's an erection issue. Those aren't good saddles. The saddles with the two little tongs that held your Iliak crest bones with no nose. Yep. Perfect, right? So it's pressure. Where the pressure is, outside facing leaning in, so we gave those to police in Washington, the bicycling police done in like national cathedral area in the parks and they all gave the seats back a week later. I said, I'm doing this. He said, what's going on? He said, we don't know where the seat is. We go sit down and it lands somewhere. You have to have the nose for bicycus because they use it to guide, where they sit down. They use it to guide, where they sit. So the best saddle is flat or gel and the back cut out in the middle. And some kind of lean in like this. So cut out saddles. And then you should get it, you should get your bones fit. So you get a, you can do this online. You can ask them to send you a pressure pad and you sit on it and then you send it back and they measure the distance. And there's only a couple of different saddles, maybe 12 wits that you could do and you get it done, who are like me, you use a saddle, you use for 30 years and it's perfect, but it weighs 4 pounds. But that's good. It's a leather saddle and it fit to you. Yeah. Yeah. Not that heavy. Likeonic. Okay. Let's talk about alcohol specifically. And let's talk about any other recreational thoughts. Yeah. So fertility wise, I'd say, you know, the government wants men. So I'm going to talk about men to, you know, less than two glasses of alcohol a day is okay. They consider for binging. Now alcohol is a small molecule goes right into the brain, goes right into the testicle. It's definitely a poison, right? It goes everywhere. It's the testicle doesn't limit it. So I worry about it a lot. The effects I see are direct when it's abused. So I would say, I use see morphology, motility and count issues. So that's a direct effect as a direct toxin, because it gets it. It's one of the few things it's into the testicle. Second would be hormonal effect. So alcohol use tends to cause delivery to rev up, tends to cause more estrogenization. So you tend to get low testosterone from that. So it's a hormonal effect in a direct effect. Any evidence that it's having an epigenetic effect? God, I probably. No. I don't know about evidence, but I'm sure it does. Let's talk about common recreational drugs. Let's start with marijuana. That's the worst player for me. So THC, same thing, count motility, morphology. So it and it probably has an effect. We know it has an effect on fragmentation, which is a quality measure of sperm, not only the way it looks descriptive, but quality. And also probably an epigenetic effect. Some of the early studies on the sperm epigenetic showed alterations with nicotine and the pot. What I don't like about pot is depending on you ingest it and however you ingest it, you get a peak. You feel it. It goes away. You feel it's out of your system like nicotine. But it's, but it's two facts for a month or three weeks. And it's a deep pull effect. And it keeps coming back. So you get a low level toxicity, which I don't like at all. So I am not a phenopot. The other thing that really concerns me about pot and reproductive age men is I wrote a couple of blogs on this. A called the weed worries. And there's some compelling evidence from epidemiology and two studies, ten years apart validating each other that chronic pot uses a associate with testous cancer. And we think that that's causal? I don't know. It just worries me. weed worries me. Interesting. Given that it otherwise seems, you know, kind of benign. Personally, can't stand this stuff. But, you know, I know so many people that use it so frequently, that seem to have relatively few effects. I mean, it needs to be phenomenal. It's medical marijuana, right? So medical means safe. But I ask someone, you know, I have a lot of pot growers in the Emerald City up in New Orleans, California. And they have the artisanal stuff that wins awards and stuff and say, which is worse for driving, being stoned or being drunk, undoubtedly being drunk. Yeah. So it looks like reflexes. But, you know, like he said to me, well, we tend to stop the stop lights and wait for them to turn. Yeah. And we're stoned. I'm not saying that they're both that you know, driving stoned is good. But there are probably far fewer people that die at the hands of a stone driver than a drunk driver. Probably. And I think the science, you know, the LA story signs and LA, you know, like I've, like, you know, they have the lit up signs about open season traffic and the movie LA story. They knew say now, it's stoned, you know, drunk or stoned. Watch out. Yeah. We're going to get what do you think is the mechanism of action by which THC is having these negative fertility impacts? Not sure. I don't think it's the mechanism. I don't think it's the root. So I don't think it's talking or, you know, or edibles. But it might just be the chronic exposure. And I don't see there's some evidence that THC acts like LH and binds the receptor and neutralize and blocks it. But blocks it from LH. So you can get low to stostorones, but it's not, it's not been that profound. What about nicotine either synthetically or in the format tobacco? Bad actor at high doses, I think, to either one. Yep. It's nicotine. nicotine per se. It's the issue. And it doesn't last as long as THC. It does have, you know, count motility effects and fertility effects. We think probably both of these are our oxidants. It's the oxidants that do it. It's oxidizing things. You mentioned diabetes earlier as part of your history and physical. What is it about diabetes? Is it the high levels of glucose? Is it the microvascular damage? Is it the inflammation that typically travels in parallel with it? Why is Type II diabetes a risk factor for infertility? I probably all of them. I don't think we know exactly, but I'd say that I diagnose diabetes a lot and a lot of infertile men. I make the what's the physical finding you're seeing in the testies that tells you. Like, you know, how an ophthalmologist will often make the diagnosis because they're looking into the eye. So for me, it's usually their weight and their count motility are low. So I'm looking for a chronic exposure and then they have polyurethry or polydipsia or something to them like that where they're drinking a lot and they're peeing a lot because the sugar is dragging it out and you check their UA and it's full of sugar and you said, you know, you've earned some of them have an A1C that's a little pre-diabetic. But I think a lot of it is nerve-it-neurogenic too. They can develop an ED. They can develop a third of Type II diabetics. I have a load to stosterone. So that's a clue. And that's secondary. So you can plummet it can better right back. But that's probably the common one is the look, the sugars, and then the low T in the low sperm count to kind of a picture. It's a syndrome. And then we kind of talked about sleep and stress. Obviously metabolic health in general. What are some of the other modifiable things that you see the most common is a vericous seal? Okay. Tell people what a vericous seal is. So you could develop vericous veins in your leg. You can be in need treatment. And this is the same thing in the scroteum, but it's not related. And it happens in typically at puberty. You'll develop this. You won't know it. Sometimes I'll let's hit hurts. And it's a reflux of blood in the wrong direction. So the testicle drains to the kidney, which is uphill. And it wants the drain back down. The reason why it drains back down is because as a species, we stood up half a nine years ago. Maybe three quarters a nine years ago. And when you're an animal, your kidney and a testicle drains this way. There's no gravity. But when you stand up, you're now draining uphill. The system was never made for valves. And if you said to me, what's the reason our sperm counts are falling? I would say we stood up as a species. Probably not a good idea for male fertility because that mud that's supposed to be staying up there comes back down to the testicle pulls around it like a hot bath is warmer. And you have to affect it. And usually the first sign is a testicle on that side, which is the left. Usually it's smaller than the right. So the physical examiner testicular discrepancy in size. That's first thing you see. And then you feel above it and you feel a bag of worms. But sorry, there are no valves in that vein. In fact. So what's the head it has to climb? That's got to be the centimeters. So how is it doing that without a valve? I don't know. That's a big, that's a pretty big distance to travel about. It doesn't ignite. I don't know. Interesting. Okay. But there might be a few. But during puberty, but the growth spurred those blow. And the angle of the renal vein and there's a right angle. The right side has a natural valve off the vein of K. So it's kind of has to go around 270 degrees. So you don't reflux on the right left side of lesion and most men. You can be perfectly fertile with it. If you look at statistically 85% of men conceive naturally without varic sales. 80% will conceive naturally about a year. So the curves are very similar clinically maybe insignificant. But there's a difference. And it's statistical. But if you multiply that by millions of people it becomes important. And you'll figure that out easily on a physical exam. The best way is easy if I don't order a whole of sounds. If I can palpate it then it's clinical. And you will, that's an office repair. It's an outpatient surgery. It takes an out. We do my research. Yeah. So it's more involved than a vessectomy. Yes, it is. And because if you're doing it at microsurgery at the level where you don't cut muscle you want them to cover a cover quicker. It's pretty. It's an it's an involved area with lots of veins. But he's not under general. I use I use a triolation. Triolation. Triolation. So yeah. So that's the most common. Wow. And most men are fertile but they can be. So again you look at the semen also says a poker hand and you see countin motility being down. Nothing else going on and you see a varic seal and it's implicated. All right. Have we missed any other of the major? I'd say the major ones are varic seal and then I would look for hormonal issues. So varic cells may be 40 hormonal maybe 10 or 15 genetics. Yep. So they're non-modifiable now. Right. Okay. So you talked about a few of those already. What are some other ones on the genetics? Yep. The most common one is for zero spermist client filter. These extracts comes on the most common one for low sperm count is why chromosome this is interesting area. What is that phenotype look like? Now phenotype mean an in general? Yeah. No phenotype. Normal. Okay. A y-chromism deletion male? Yeah. Because it's only the long arm. Yeah. And it's only a couple of floors on the building. Got it. So there's regions that are missing. I see. Okay. So very interesting. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you made a complete deletion of the y-chromism. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Got it. So it's the long arm. It's deletions regions. Yeah. Yep. Not. Yeah. Right. Well, the genetic area. You're right. So rainy, rainy, a pair of found that in at MIT 20 30 years ago now that the y-chromism is a whole of mirrors. And in myosis, every chromosome has a partner except the y and the x and a man. And so the x, the y plays with itself. It combines with itself instead of finding a partner. It has to do the dance, too. And so it changes a lot. So it's very adaptable. It actually comes from the x through the million through to evolution. So there's a lot of x genes that are on the y and the y doesn't. We thought it was sort of a wasteland. Maybe hairy ears and tooth decay and things like that. But now it's probably more important. So there are regions on the long arm of the y. The short of the mides very important has a gene called s-r-y, which makes you male. The s-r-y is the male of sex determining if you have that gene, your phenotype will be male. If you don't have that gene, you're probably going to be female. It's complicated now, but that's sort of what it is. But the long arm has these genes that control fertility. And some of them took typically we ordered in men with a low sperm count of a little 5 million. So that would be a pretty common cause of a sperm count low than 5 million. And I published a study that if you have a y-chromism deletion, and you have a vericocial, and they both cause low sperm counts. And you fix the vericocial, you're not going to improve. Because the mon, it's non-modifiable in all ways. It's who you are. So, but if you didn't have the bicromism deletion and you fix the vericocial, you'll expect a good response. Two thirds will improve, one third or more will conceive naturally. So you could take guys of low sperm counts and you can fix them or not, but the drivers genetics. And the phenotype in offspring is simply inherited as a y-chromism deletion. Italy, there'd be, I just thought a couple of contexts. It's actually he had a y-chromism deletion. He conceived with help of technology with a low sperm count. Suns have it. They have no sperm. So you can inherit the deletion, but it might increase. So you're going to get what your dad had or it might be worse because mutations tend to get larger and large. Until they tried to conceive, they would never know this. Everything else is normal. So then there's, I would say, there's environmental lifestyle things. So I think obesity's a big one. Yep. And do you think that that's mostly propagated through the undercran system then? Yeah. Yep. And I think, you know, that's probably, that's a big one. Oxygen. Yeah. In terms of the percent of sperm with the lifestyle issues. And then lousy diet is probably something that, and so obesity and diet lifestyle recreational drugs, well, strive to view with them. Toxic exposures at work. So any smelly solvents, I don't, I'm really worried. Some airport fuels, you know, airline stuff, machine shop, oils, anything, anything benzene derivatives used to be pesticides and stuff like that, but they're pretty well controlled. So environmental exposures are, you know, kind of an unknown. I think viruses have a role. Yep. I saw you recently wrote about HPV and I haven't been thinking about that for years because there are men. You used to be half the men who came in when I entered the field 30 years ago. We didn't know what was going on with them. But now it's probably 10 or 20 percent with lifestyle issues and stuff like that. You can pretty much sort it out. It's not that unknown. But there are men who are like, what is going on here? He's a perfectly healthy guy. Practicing in California is incredible because everyone's so healthy. You have to look elsewhere. You have to ask other questions. And you know, when there's obesity, it's always the elephant in the room. But everyone's so healthy in eating. So I get to poke around places where no one else goes. Because I have to explain it and there's nowhere to go. But I did a study, so HPV is in most common. You'd re-arrote about that. Is that what's the link? It's hard to know. There's herpes, very common. The SDDs that we know about like the 11 common beasts, you know, like committee and gonorrhea and syphilis. We know a little more about it. And they're pretty obvious. But some of these like trick-amonus and stuff are pretty subtle. And I had, I was really concerned about this because one guy 20 years ago in the house professor UCSF, he sent me a picture of micro electron photograph of a sperm with a hexagonal herpes virus in it. I don't even know what's Photoshopping. Like this is virus in a sperm. Like, yeah, it looks like this. Where's this? You think that's what's causing it? I don't know. But normally when you see infections as a cause viral or bacterial as a cause of semen and as you'll see pussels. So you'll see what's called piospermia, leukocytespermia, the round cells we talked about. Yeah, semenhouses will show up in higher numbers. They tend to be destructive and it tend to lower motility. So you tend to see a certain look to the semenhouses. But I am normal count normal. Well, tilt is really low. A lot of the sperm are dead because it's been wiped out by these cytokines and all the white cells. And then maybe you'll find the pathogens somewhere, right now. But cultureing myocoplasma, CMV, all these viruses. So Joe Dorisi really bright guy. UCSF went to MacArthur Ward. He took my patient semen and he had a, my suspect when microarrays were popular in the 10, 20, 20, 20, and he had like 2,000 all mammalian viruses on his chip. Everything. And we ran fertile guys and we ran infernal guys and looked at semen, not sperm. And 99% of the infertals are positive for something. And 98% of the normal is a positive or something. So ubiquitous was the word. And so it left us high and dry because you can't really do much with that. So it's out there. But I do agree with your assessment that the pathologic phenotypes, the worst ones, are probably doing something. The question is how do we measure it? What do we look for? And we'll see when I also says I said early on, it's a blunt instrument. It doesn't really, it varies a lot. It's tough to do it. But I love whether we do genotyping on spruce and sperm, probably not. You know, I don't know. And when you look at HPV, it's probably one of those things that might be in the ejaculate after ejaculation. Might be coming from another fluid source. And not in this brim itself. So it's effect would be post ejaculation, which could still have a fertility effect. But it won't be probably as deep. Right? And what if for example, like I has processed the tightest and the prosthetic fluid has plus in it, then that could sabotage the whole thing. And right. I mean, the problem with the male system is it's all through the same tube. Right? And so urine comes to that tube and see when it comes to that tube. So you have to look for infections in the urinary tract and anything like that when you're doing fertility because plus cells kill whatever they see. Yeah. So if your urine infected, you know, so that's a big deal. Now, have you done work with interest at intratusicular PRP and stem cells? Just stem cells been not PRP. Okay. Not a big fan. Okay. As a trained stem cell biologist and someone trying to experiment from skin and working with some of the best stem cells times in the world, I have a lot of respect for them. But it's not that simple. So we've had, you know, people have injected bone marrow into there's there's 560 off so we're off the shore stem cell companies in the world that will take your money and do things like stick PRP in there. They'll stick bone marrow aspirates fat in your testicle. And I'd say my experience has been, it's not been favorable. I, you know, these some of the toughest cases in the world and they come to me after that. And I do my techniques and I don't find anything and the trials aren't really real. They're kind of here. Come here. We're going to do this and then we're going to do a microdeception on your testicle. But they didn't have one beforehand. So the chance of finding it even without that is ex and they're finding ex. So, you know, it's just not well done. And I have my patients investigate all that and I say, you do the work. You tell me who you found. Let me call them. Yeah. So I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll be my, the workers. And then I'll call them and I'll say, hi, I'm just wondering about need do have any papers or what's the science behind it and they usually hang up or, you know, it's really interesting. But self-fired states unfounded. Yeah. I've had it very similar experience with a few of my friends and patients who have wanted me to talk with some of their, their stem cell docs and you're pregnant in space Peter. Yeah. And so I accept the fact that they're not going to have remarkable peer reviewed data. But it is amazing at how few individuals can provide even one cell layer of scientific reasoning. And it's a topic I'd like to explore more deeply on the podcast. It's, you know, my guess is there are some indications for where it makes that. I agree with that. But boy, I'd like to figure it out without people wasting things. I think there's a better way. There's a there there. But it's just not not that easy. Yeah. Um, so what is the, let's just say for every hundred guys that walk in your office who are struggling with infertility, what percentage of them will be able to conceive, assuming they are able to fully comply with the prescriptions, you, you provide the life style or pharmaceutical, for example, hormone modulation, et cetera, without requiring and let's exclude the 40% vericocials because you're going to fix those guys and they're fine. So 100 people who don't have a vericocial, um, who don't have a genetic condition, I'm going to really simplify this. Okay. So these are a hundred guys that presumably have showed up with some eyeatrogenic reason for infertility. How many of those guys are going to be able to conceive without resorting to IVF? I would say that's the goal of my practice and I would say the answer is most. Wow. But the caveat is we've got to tell you about the woman. Because, because I will defer. No, no, no, no, no, no. So the point is I did a paper. This is the only data I can give you. And so I did a paper where I saw men for their infertility values. You got it done. And I, I thought they were fine. They had vericocials and stuff, but there's seem analysis of normal and my investigation of their admits lifestyle. Everything was good. And I said, you're fine. You're cleared. No one's ever said that before. And they went home and they said Turquin Virgato was wrong with us. I said, it's not what I said. I don't do women. You know, I don't, it's, you know, my expertise. I'm saying something positive here. Right? No one's ever said, most people would say, I'm not sure why you're not conceiving. I said, I'm pretty sure you're not the problem. Yeah. Okay. Didn't get interpreted like that. I got me a little angry. So I did a study with USC. And I took these men that I cleared and I called them up a year later. And I said, what happened last year after Turquin. Clear do you had a resident do this? And the answer was 65% of it conceived naturally. Another 15 to 20% conceived with IOI or IVF. These women were 35 or sold year and a half in fertility. They weren't going to wait around. Most perceptions occurred within six months. I didn't do anything for them. I didn't fix the rarec seals. I didn't touch something new medication. I just said, you're fine. So I published it as a lifestyle study. Not that I was right. And the idea was they probably made changes. They probably took a nutritional supplement. They probably timed their sex better. They probably got out of hot tubs. You know, it's stuff and they were taken pills. I have a list of what they did. I had a table in that paper that said that 65% natural pregnancy rate. That is higher than anything I can offer as a treatment than we have published on. Right. So if you fix their varicocile or you rarely get a 65% natural conception rate. So I had a table of all the published conception rates for the technologies that work. And I'm saying this is a better. So it doesn't, if that addresses your question, that's the only data half. What advice do you give a guy who comes in your practice? Maybe you don't see a lot of these guys. But let's say you get a guy who comes in and says, hey, look, I want to bank my sperm. I want to freeze my sperm. Now, presumably you'll get a lot of that if a guy is undergoing therapy for cancer or something like that. Is there anything a guy needs to know? And would you recommend a guy do that if he's 40 doesn't have a partner, but says, look, I want to have kids. And isn't there something to the idea that my sperm are better today than they will be in a decade? So huge issue, paternal age, paternal age and fertility, paternal age. So we can go there. But I don't pay value judgment. I say good idea. I am a disclosure. I'm on a board of legacy. I love their mission driven the way their mission driven. And so I like the fact that going from military and exposed patients in this and that and VA. So, but I'm I'm for that. I think it's the lowest hang fruit in the field, especially obviously for chemo for cancer survivors and things. Like, I don't care what you think might happen with your cancer. I would still bank it. I started a non-profit called banking on the future. 16 year olds to 21 year olds with cancer. We'll do it for you. We'll pay for it five years. Just do you have this as sample? Because it's so much harder afterwards or not. So you would advise any male that hasn't reproduced and who might want to, who's undergoing any chemotherapy for any cancer, just play it safe. Bank for cancer. Yes. Now, who should anyone do it for any reason? Probably not. But again, I don't pass the judgment if they're worried about something, then I'm worried then they should. Well, paternal age, do you worry about? So good question. And you look at like National Guidelines for sperm donation. 40 is considered older paternal age. 50 for sure. If you look at risks to offspring, miscarriages, stillborns, autism, birth defects, things immediately related to conception, prematureity. Those go up with paternal age. Then you look at birth defects. When they're born, those go up with, you know, one to twofold. And then the worry, someone are the single gene defects. And the epigenetics like psychiatric morbidity. So the autism schizophrenia dyslexia by polar disorder potentially Alzheimer's in offspring. And they're not detectable with young. So big issues. So I've written a lot about that published on it. I was actually having my second child at 50 when I was writing this thing which I've been doing this, you know, writing a paper on all these risks called we put in with the island of Chenco from your first epits per. But I think it's a hockey stick curve for risk to offspring. And you think the the inflection is 40 or 50? I think it's more like 60. I think there's a slow linear increase in risk to offspring from 25 to 50 or 60. And then there's an inflection and then there's the blade of the stick. And I think that's log with me. Same curve as women. But they're formal. Yeah, but their shift in 20 years earlier or something. Yeah, so the shorter curve, but the same thing 40, 38 to 40 is kind of a point where things really ramp up with chromosomes. The men's stuff is not chromosomal. So if you take the curves together, they're different spans, same shape. But I think the female curve is on top of the male curve. This is not a the same relevant relative risk, right? So women, you know, you go from 25 to 40 your chance of a miscarriage. Oh, it's chromosomal. It goes up quite significantly after that, very significantly. And the consequence of women's issues with offspring related health is basically miscarriage. Yeah, in many ways, it's almost easier to detect, right? Because very. So it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it can be more dramatic, but it usually now prevented with with pre-imitation jacksets. Yeah, matter different. You can't detect these things. There's single gene mutations. This is the the machinery is constantly working. It's getting old, the quality control of the process goes down and little gene mutations get in there that are all we've been always being spun off in the heat of the engine and they're getting they're not getting vetted. So the machinery's not doing a good job. So they're getting through and they're not going to be they're not going to be lethal. They're going to be deleterious. So that's where you get things and autism's a classic one, the turn of age related. Looks like that's the biggest risk factor for it. And that worries me a lot, right? So I think it's interesting. The facts are that human evolution is entirely driven by sperm. Yeah, because eggs are just saying they're correcting the problem. It's entirely driven by sperm. And half and so 50 mutations a year, generation usually gets spit out for each of their nature paper, probably between generations. And there's always mutations occurring in 14-year-old fathers, but it goes way up with 60-year-old fathers. So the rate of mutations goes way up with age, but average is 50 over a reproductive life. And most of them, half of the mutations that we are throwing off as a species are not ears or hands or feet or height or thing that it's all neural developmental. It's a half neural developmental. Yeah. So when you think about well we're seeing, you know the Martians from the 50s and the movies with big heads. Yeah, that's kind of where we're headed. Autism dyslexia by polar disorder. You know these are neural developmental neurogenitive issues. And why is that? Well that's what's going on. I mean that's where we're being stimulated. That's where we're being asked to evolve. Look at the last 30 years, right? Funny. One of the biggest investors in Salesforce said to me, I said to me, you know, I realized that was dyslexic when I when my son was born. And I said really, he said, yeah, but you know what, it helped me be the man I am to realize that Salesforce is going to fly, given the first 500,000, given the first million they ever took anymore money. And he said, it let me focus. I was so autism is one of these is where you put out you ignore a lot of input and you find the gift and it's amazing. If you go down the rabbit hole of what they're good at, it's like their whole brain trust is there. So is that a disease or is that where we're headed? I mean, I think it exists on a spectrum. I think anyone who's who's probably spent time with kids, you know, using ASD as an example, boy, you know, you know, mild versions of it the way it can be defined because it really has three categories now in the DSM5. I think the mildest version probably comes with more superpowers than limitations or maybe equal amount, but but clearly the more severe it gets it's pretty debilitating, but this this I did have internal recalling it disease though. Yeah, but maybe it's not disease. Maybe it's where we're headed. Maybe it's the future. Maybe the non-sequitors that come out of those brains. I mean, look at who's changing the world right now. These have been spoken about. Yeah. But again, I would argue most of those people would be in category, you know, my class one, no class three. What's the what's the thought success rate, right? So if a guy is 40, he goes ahead, he freezes and banks his sperm, assuming they were good to go in. Right. Are they very high probability of thawing correctly? So when you freeze sperm, it's about a 200-year-old process. Right. Right. Well, the use for about 75. I forgot through the Italian science. This was who froze sperm and snow and then thought it and it was live a couple hundred years later after Leewin who came up with a microscope, the found it was moving and it was possible. So egg falling is very new. Egg freezing and falling is very new. This is very old. So everyone is thinking about sperm now because eggs are being frozen left and right, but this is much older technology and the cell is much harder than an egg. So it does a lot better typically. When you freeze it, it's the freezing process that kills sperm, be from icicles on the inside. Yes. And then while it's frozen, it's usually no issue. No issue. And then there's another problem when you thought rapid their temperature shifts. So that's where the kill rate comes from. And a good sample half of it should survive. Okay. And so in so how much sperm would you tell a guy to bank if he has to do it, if it's the definitive samples for his life. So meaning he's 40 or he's about to undergo chemotherapy or some other exposure where he should just assume he will not have normal sperm again. What are you telling? So I usually say depending on the technology you're going to use, but if you're sperm counts normal, three to three ejaculates is one kid's worth of sperm within some of the combination technology where you would thought and then and then turkey based it. So 10 ejaculates for three shots on goal for three kids. But three kids with low technology, but 10 ejaculates will give you most of China with IVF. Got it. Oh, you say low technology. You mean IUI or something like that? So there's three levels. Sex, no tech. Yeah. High tech is IVF and in the middle is IUI. Yep. That's the stuff that's turkey based. It's relatively straightforward. Yep. Yep. To the cheap. I street kids for that, but plenty of sperm for IVF. So three ejaculates would be more than enough if they're normal for IVF. Yes. So the population you're talking about may be cancer survivors, half of those will not be normal. They're really looking at IVF. Yep. So they don't need that many. Yep. But I think three is a good number, but it's an insurance policy. Yep. Okay. Well Paul, this has been a super interesting tour through the world of male fertility. I can honestly say I knew very little about this coming in. Some of this stuff I understood pretty well, the hormone stuff, but boy, a lot of this stuff I had no idea. So I will be studying my notes from this. We're going to link to a lot of this stuff you've created. You've got a lot of great content out there. So we'll make sure people know where to find podcasts too. Talk to me about that. Well, we started a podcast last year because the blog of 15 years and we're just doing timely topics and it's me and my associate Rob Clyde is a director in Hollywood and we take on Anthony Bourdain. We're going to be the Anthony Bourdainament's health. We're going to just take on the topics to stostroon, et cetera, penis myths, and just talk about stuff that everyone is asking questions about but no one's talking about. And like you dated driven answers. Okay. What's it called? Talk with Turek on all channels. Got it. Okay. We'll make sure folks know that. Um, you have a clinic that you run up and down the coast to California. So obviously we'll make sure folks know how to how to find you there. But presumably I think we've given folks a roadmap for their local urologist as well. If they're getting the work up basically it sounds like if you're being worked up for fertility with your urologist and they're not going through the steps that we've described maybe you should find somebody else. Yes, I think it should be done. That's the first step. There's a lot going on now that the biomarker concept, you know, with relates a lot to your views on medicine 3.0. We now know, the paper came out two days ago looking at longevity based on the semen analysis and then Danish done the regular hospital at Copenhagen. They looked at 70, 4,000 men over 50 years and found that those guys would say normal semen quality live three years longer all causes and then with low sperm counts in the way they were younger. This was a one, you know, a single payer system so they have all the data on it is very much a landmark study. So I'm if you ask me what excites me about the field, I would say as the author of the biomarker concept early in my career, I would say I'm really happy that we're scaring couples to realize that their fertility is a measure of their health. And now we have our foot in the door. If we can get a sperm count, get them in the office, we can actually tell them a little bit about their trajectory and it's becoming more and more every day and we've never had a chance to do preventative medicine with young men. So it's a mental play in a big way because they're partners of bringing you men but who cares? They're in the office. You father, I prostate cancer when he's 50, someone had colon cancer in the vah, you know, so I have now an NP-Molly Jessup who's medical and it's like, okay, you know, what's going on because there's metabolic stuff and you can pick up diabetes and we're we have an opportunity it we've never had ever. It's to get men at younger ages and you know, I was a professor at UCSF for 15 years in doubt share, I left and I went to Yosan University to a traditional Chinese medicine I lecture there now. We had a conference last week and I lectured and I liked it because I thought Western medicine may be your view too is too reactive. They're always trying to get men out of trouble or get patients out of trouble but we're not thinking about getting them from unhealthy to healthy which is the preventative aspect. We're just not very good at it. Your general surgery every example you give is a guy who's a Disney bat, you get a back, whatever but you have a thing next step like kidney stones is great. We're all just we treat them all day it's fun it's endoscopic it's lasers it's shock waves but what are we doing about that stone? I mean how come how come we're not preventing these more it's just not it's not on the radar. I go to the Yosan University in traditional Chinese medicine fabulous place and it's all holistic so I see patients who get referred by acupuncturists and they come in their diets under control there's dresses under control they're doing acupuncture there's sorted out and what do I find varicocials because they don't find those but the phenotype is totally different than the Western referral and I think that's I have a love that because that's 3.0 that's mentioned 3.0 what's they're doing they've been doing it for 4,000 years it's interesting how we don't give a lot of street cred to it but in my view a much of we don't understand about fertility certainly men possibly women is epigenetic and the drivers of epigenetics which are marks on the DNA not DNA mutations 50 gene mutations a generation doesn't explain it there's other stuff going on epigenetics is all lifestyle and diet ran it's all lifestyle and diet driven it's everything in your book well Paul very interesting stuff thank you again for making the trip out here and the thanks for sharing your insights and great yeah all thanks Peter

Getting this looked at now is a great way to get ahead of an infertility problem 10 years hence. For sure. Women are born with a finite number of eggs. Actually the most eggs you'll ever have is when you're in your mom's womb. So let's just walk through how IVF works. Usually about 70% of the eggs for a list. That's an important message for anybody listening. If you're trying to get pregnant, you should not be on a GOP when agonist. Right. You can be on it pre-pregnancy just the recommendation is to stop for at least two months. Okay. Now having said that there have been lots of you may have read about a zempick baby. Do you caution women or do we know anything about too much exercise? Extreme exercise can be associated with fertility issues. We talked about cemion analysis being kind of a marker of other health outcomes. Your periods are also a marker. Don't wait to get pregnant to figure that out. There may be something important you need to know way ahead of time. If a woman came to you at 20 and said, I just want to double down on my career right now. I want to do x, y and z. I think I want to have kids. I at least want the optionality. When should I freeze by? Hey everyone. Welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Hey Paula. Thank you so much for coming to Austin and sitting down to share some remarkable insights. You know listeners last week will have heard us talk about all things that pertain to male fertility. As promised, we're going to now talk about fertility but from the female perspective, the physiology here is different but no less complex. There are some pretty unique things about it. One of them being that unlike sperm, which seem to be an infinite resource, men are constantly generating literally billions of these things. The exact opposite is the case with women. Tell us a bit about that. That's right. First thanks for having me. Thanks for inviting me. It is true that when an embryo or fetus develops the gonad differentiates into either a testis or an ovary. And the main difference is you said is that sperm is produced throughout a man's life's time whereas women are born with a finite number of eggs. Actually the most eggs you'll ever have is when you're in your mom's womb as a fetus. And by the time you're born, there's about 2 million or so eggs. And by the time you start menstruating, you're down to maybe 400,000 or so. Wow. So fivefold reduction from birth to say average age would be maybe 14 when a year. Yeah. Yeah. 12 to 14. And we don't know why exactly that happens. But most of the eggs in the ovaries actually undergo a process we call a treasha. They basically die. So once a woman goes through puberty or girl goes through puberty every month, if she's not on her monocontrosception, one of those eggs grows. Actually probably a group of eggs every month starts to grow but then one kind of takes over and it's released from the ovary and usually finds this way into the the thlopian tubes. That's the tube connecting the ovary and the uterus. And then normally, if there's not sperm around, the egg is just resourbs and there's no pregnancy and the lining of the uterus sheds and a girl or woman has a period every month. If there's sperm around, there's a chance that that egg might fertilize and that fertilization usually happens in the phlopian tube actually. And then that now, as I go to embryo, travels down the tube into the uterus and some of the time implants into the wall of the uterus or the lining of the uterus and establishes a pregnancy. Okay. So let's now talk about a woman in the prime of her reproductive age. She's 20 years old as an example. And let's talk through the cycle of what is happening and the role that hormones are playing. One of the things that to me has always been fascinating about this is the selection. So with males, we don't have to think about that problem. The selection tends to be maybe more metabolic or stochastic. In other words, which sperm is the sperm that makes it? Isn't really pre-determined? How is it that let's say from day zero when a woman begins her menstrual cycle? And all of a sudden, everything starts to turn towards the next cycle. She's about 14 days out from ovulation. We start to see the interplay of loot-nizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone, particularly FSH. Walk me through what's happening in that period of time that ultimately leads to one and only one egg being the chosen one. Yeah. Yeah. It's a little random in women as well, actually. But it's true that the pituitary hormones, namely FSH or follicle stimulating hormone and LH, loot-nizing hormone, are what drives growth of the, we call them follicles, the eggs are inside the follicles. And as I said, usually a cohort of eggs starts to grow and then... Tell me what grow means. The follicles start to get bigger and the cells surrounding the eggs start to divide. And what do they look like prior to all of that happening? These are cells that only have 50% of the genetic material, right? They've already undergone myosis. Yes. They're kind of arrested in myosis. Myosis is not completed until they actually ovulate and then in some cases are fertilized. Yes. So we have an arrested cell that has one of each of the mother's chromosomes, including one X chromosome by definition, one of her two sex hormones. And it's kind of this question makes sense, but it's, is it still in its young phenotype? In other words, if the, if the woman is 20 years old and all of the cells in her body are functionally 20 years old, is this egg prior to ovulation still basically an infant cell? As far as we know, although there's some data recently to suggest that perhaps the cells surrounding the egg are met about a glee active, maybe aging. Certainly we do know that the quality of the eggs decreases right as women get older. So that affects how the eggs and the chromosomes ultimately divide. That's part of the reasons harder to get pregnant as you get older, even though you're ovulating, you may be releasing an egg every month, but that could be abnormal. And if it's abnormal, it likely won't fertilize and you kind of don't want it to fertilize if it's abnormal and establish your pregnancy. But you're right. They're pretty much arrested in time. During, certainly, you know, before puberty and then every month a few start to develop and then one, we don't really know how that one egg is selected. It's definitely her monofactors play a role, but it's somewhat random, one kind of grows and then eventually is released. Now, not to anthropomorphize this too much, but one would sort of assume that natural selection runs strong. And if a woman by the time she begins her fertility stage of life has 400,000 eggs, just say on average, she only has a finite number of shots on goal. Right? Let's just say 12 per year and I don't know. Let's just say, if you look at peak reproductive maybe 20 years. Right. That's a tiny sliver of 400,000. That's true. You would have to assume that there is some selection that's happening to pick the best few hundred of those 400,000. Is there any evidence that that's happening? Only in that the ones that usually result in pregnancy are chromosomally normal. So most of the embryos are chromosomally abnormal and that's because most of the eggs are chromosomally abnormal. So there is selection in that sense that at most of the time only the chromosomally normal embryos are the ones that implant and continue to develop. And when you say chromosomally normal, are you referring to the egg or the zygote? The zygote, but most of the abnormalities in chromosomes that happen and the zygote are believed to be related to maternal age. And does that mean we think that the abnormality occurred way before ovulation or when do we think that that occurred? We think it occurred in the stage of myosis that happens as the egg is developing that much. That ripening phase. Okay. So explain how that happens. So if you were to sample eggs from a five-year-old girl, nowhere near reproductive age, do we both so every one of those is in a state of frozen myosis where how many things have to happen before it is ready to undergo full myosis. In other words, how does it go from that stage to just, I'm sorry for using big words to the listener and please feel free to explain what I mean by anyoploidy. But how do you go from that frozen myotic state to an anyoploidy state and please explain what I just said to people? Sure. It's a little bit of a black box, of course, because we can't see exactly what's happening. But the way we understand it is that the cells start off, including eggs cells, is having two copies of each chromosome, but eventually has to become one copy in order to combine with a sperm that also has one copy of each chromosome. So during that process, there has to be disjunction of each of the pairs of chromosomes. So there are 23 pairs of chromosomes, including X and Y, the X chromosomes. And during that disjunction phase is when we think most of the errors happen, because if they don't divide evenly like 23 and 23, you're going to get an extra one, you're going to be missing one, and then when it combines with sperm that also has a half-loids set of chromosomes, there's going to be an abnormal number and that affects development. And that completion only occurs during the 14 days leading to ovulation. ovulation and then fertilization. Yes. Okay, so that explains why to my earlier question, there must be something even though they are quote-unquote frozen in time, there is either something going on with the egg or maybe the metabolic milieu around the egg from those cells that is changing the probability of success for that division of genetic material. Right. And because as we know, that as a woman ages, the probability of successful division goes down. Right. So something changes as a woman ages, but we don't understand exactly, but whatever it is that's going on makes those chromosome errors much more likely. I'll tell you a very interesting story. So a very close friend of mine has a son with Down syndrome. And he's he's probably 20 now. So this is the son, of course. So this the story I'm telling occurred roughly 20 years ago. So when there's son was born, I believe he was their third child. Obviously this is, you know, but this is probably at a time. I don't think they knew until this was, in fact, I know that they didn't know until birth. They hadn't done amniosenties or anything like that. So they're, you know, they're sort of dealing with this right in the aftermath of their son's birth. And the doctor, the the GUI and came in. And my friend says he never forget this, the guy looked straight at his wife and said, look, it's important for you to understand that this is your fault. Oh my god. My friend said he wanted to jump across the table and kill this guy. Yeah, I don't blame him. But then what he realized is what he was actually saying is this is the result of the egg releasing one to many. So they're, they, you know, he had two copies. Was it 21. Yeah. So two copies of 21 instead of one copy of 21 came from the egg. And you know, it's interesting. My friend, when I have talked about this many times since, and he said, I really came to appreciate what he was trying to do there. All be it. And then completely in a proclamation way. He was just trying to explain that there is a reason for this. It is maternal and whatever. But anyway, it always stuck with me as like, that's a great lesson in bad bedside manner. For sure. Yeah. But, you know, he made the point. So, so the point here being is, while trisomy 21 is a very common form of anyploidy. It's also not lethal. There are many lethal forms of anyploidy as well, right? Right. Trisomy 21 can be lethal, but not always. Okay. So some of those pregnancies do continue. And they're depending on the chromosome of your maladies. Some only do a develop to a certain point and then stop developing. And some are actually compatible with life birth. But usually have some abnormalities. And do we know, for example, that for if you were to look at all miscarriages that occur inside the first trimester, would you be able to hazard a guess as to what percentage of all miscarriages inside of 13 weeks are likely the result of anyploidy? Definitely the majority of them probably close to 90 percent. Wow. Yeah. Okay. So in other words, maybe someone listening to this, whose experienced miscarriages early in a pregnancy can take some solace and understanding that that was the body's way of correcting something that was inevitable sooner rather than later. Yeah. I think that's true. Yeah. The very miscarriages are very common. Yep. And that's the most common cause. Although there are other causes. Usually we don't do a whole lot of testing if it's just one miscarriage because that's very common. We just assume fetus or embryo was abnormal. But if a woman has like two in a row, then that weren't some additional testing to make sure. We're guardless of her age. We guardless of her age. I mean, obviously the chances of finding something else goes down as a woman gets older. But yeah, because you don't want to miss another cause that's potentially treat it well. Okay. Well, let's put a pin in that because I actually want to understand that more. But that's interesting to me that if a 40 year old woman had successive miscarriages, you wouldn't just chalk it up to, well, she's 40. Of course, these are anyploidic eggs. Okay. Yeah, that's true. I mean, that's most likely. Most likely. But you don't want to miss, especially at 40. You don't want to miss some treatable other treatable. Because you only have so much time. Yeah. So again, one of the lessons here hopefully for people listening is if a couple miscarriages, they shouldn't feel that they've done something wrong. That's fun. We're going to beat herself up thinking, oh my god, that I have one too many cups of coffee was like, I'm under too much stress. No. Yeah. Greater than 90% chance, this was a bad split. Yeah. And that's the way. Okay. Yeah. So let's go back to this process. So it's day zero. So a woman just begins her period. We're just getting ready to embark on her next fertility cycle. The pituitary gland is secreting, loot-nizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone. Walk me through what is happening in the next 14 days that leads to that ovulation. Right. So a group of eggs or follicles are starting to grow. One gets selected. We don't really still don't know that. We don't understand why. It's random. Wow. And that follicle that's in a follicle. It's follicles kind of a fluid build, just like structure that surrounds each egg. So that continues to grow. And then eventually what's happening hormonally. So those cells surrounding the eggs are producing estrogen. That estrogen is preparing acting on the uterine lining to build up the lining to potentially support a pregnancy. And then what happens just before our ovulation is there's a surge in a hormone called LH, loop-nicing hormone. And that's what we think triggers ovulation or release of an egg. So all that has to happen before an egg is released. So it kind of busts out of the ovary. Finds its way to the tube. How energetically demanding is that. We learned last week in talking with Paul that the ATP requirement for those sperm to travel hold that distance is unbelievable. How passive versus active is the movement of that egg? How metabolically demanding is it? I don't know that we understand it completely, but you would imagine that their energy is required for that to happen certainly. It's not passive. It's not just sort of a diffusion down the philopi-intubes. Right. Prosthag landings are involved and a lot calcium all kinds of things up to happen for that process to occur. Okay. How long the proximately just keep people a sense of how long a philopian tube is? Probably a few centimeters, like back to 10. And everyone's probably used to seeing the image of ovaries being these little eggs and philopian tubes having these little fingers that tug up on the eggs. What is actually in between that space? How does the egg get from an ovary into a philopian tube? Is there an actual connection there? There is actually, yeah, they're not stuck together, but they're kind of in close proximity. So that those fimbre or finger-like projections kind of sweep up the eggs once it's released from the ovary. Got it. And it's otherwise in direct contact with the peritanyum. The ovary and the tube space between the space between the space between the. Yeah. Yeah. The picture's always show like the tubes out here, the inside here, but they're actually everything's like closer together in the pelvis. Yeah. And you mentioned, okay, so egg is now in philopian tube. How long does it take to get through the length of the philopian tube into the uterus? About five or six days? Okay, so completely different experience from the sperm which are racing at rakeneck speed. They uncover that distance in seconds. Right. So what regulates the speed with which the egg travels through the philopian tube and how does that impact fertility? Is there a scenario whereby it happens too quickly and things don't work? I don't know about too quickly, but there are hair-like projections in the tubes, Sylvia, that kind of help with motility of the egg down the philopian tube into the uterus. The abnormalities on the female side have to do more with potential abnormalities, have to do with like scarring in the tubes or if the tubes are blocked, then then it interferes with the egg like encountering the sperm. And what leads to that? A number of different things, infection probably most commonly, but also scarring from previous surgery potentially or a condition called endometriosis. So there are a number of things that can affect the tubes as well. And so is the day for it, assuming a woman's cycle is predictable and normal and we would just say day 14 is ovulation. That is the day that the egg leaves the ovary or that is the day that the egg reaches a certain place within the philopian tube. Pretty much the day that the egg is released from the ovary. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And usually encounter sperm in the philopian tube. And that's where fertilization usually happens. And then it takes a few more days for the embryo now or preembrow to travel down the rest of the tube into the uterus and hopefully implant if it's normal. Now, one of the most interesting things here that is worth repeating even though we talked about it last week in case anybody missed it. How many sperm is the egg encountering at the time of fertilization? Really? Yes. Yeah. Millions. So why is it? And I know the answer to this question, but it is so cool. Why is it that one and only one sperm out of millions or even less than that? But let's just say it's hundreds of thousands. Why does only one get to transmit its genetic material into that egg? Well, once an egg is fertilized, there's sort of a chemical reaction if you will that happens to prevent any other sperm from fertilizing eggs. Because that would be bad. Yeah. You only want one sperm and one egg to combine. Yeah, it's like an electrical force field that immediately activates around the egg. Exactly. I find this so fast that it is fascinating. Yeah. So, okay. So now we have and by the way, what is the relative size of an egg to a sperm? The egg is actually much bigger in the sperm. I don't know exactly in my crons. How big it is, but I feel like I used to know this answer and it's shocking how how disparate they are in size. Like the egg is I believe the biggest cell on the body potentially. Yeah, I've checked on that, but I believe that's true. All right. So yeah, you have this massive egg that's basically like this sun and like this tiny little sperm which is like the earth and you know, colliding with it. Okay. So, fertilization takes place and how long from fertilization, how long from impact until you have that single cell, Zygote that actually has a lined up pair of chromosomes? Is that a matter of hours? Yeah, within a few hours. Okay. And then what is the process that occurs for cell division? When that Zygote goes from one to two to four to eight cells. And so a how long does that take? And and b at what point does it implant into the uterus? Yeah. So most of what we know actually about this is from a vitro fertilization or IVF because we can actually see that happening in the petri dish. So usually the with IVF, an egg is fertilized with the next day. We can see if it's fertilized and we know if it's fertilized because it has what we call two pronuclei. So DNA from the sperm and DNA from the egg. And then over the course of the next couple of days, it divides into maybe six to eight cells. So about three days after fertilization, it's six to eight cells and then by five to six days, it's about 60 to 80 cells. And that's kind of the stage where it implants in the uterus. So five, six days after fertilization. All right. So with that said, now we've a pretty good understanding of what all needs to happen for fertilization and implantation. What is the biggest risk to that? And when does it cease to become a zygote? By the way, I don't remember any of my terminology here. You have zygotes and blastas, fears are blastas. Yeah. Yeah. A zygote, I think, is still a single cell that's been fertilized and then it starts to divide. We call it a pre embryo. Okay. And then by two weeks, we call it an embryo, but in IVF, we call it an embryo even in the first few days. Assuming that we have chromosomal alignment, it's two weeks out. So we have a two-week-old embryo that is implanted, what is the greatest risk that is faced by that embryo to coming to fruition as a fetus? Or in fact, going all the way into the third trimester. Like so in other words, we've taken the biggest risk off the table, which is anuploidy. What are the other risks it faces? So once a pregnancy is established, I mean? Yes. So if it's a normal embryo, chances are pretty good that it continues to turn. Okay. So normal, so normal, if we're a macromole, it means chromosome or normal. What else requires normality? Any other genetic issues that get in the way here? There are other genes that play a role in embryo development where those are less understood, but there are certainly other genes involved. So you could have a chromosome-ly normal embryo that fails to develop for other reasons. Okay. Okay. And then there could be uterine factors that also play a role. So a number who may implant, but if there's some structural abnormality for example in the Uvers, maybe that pregnancy can continue and may result in a miscarriage. Got it. Okay. So let's talk about a patient that comes to you and they're going to say, you know, we're having difficulty conceiving, what are the questions you have to to render the diagnosis of infertility, meaning we need some intervention versus, you just need to make a few adjustments in something and I'm not willing to put the label of infertility on. So how do you, is that about be the first bifurcation in thinking? Yeah. We want to take a full medical history, both partners if it's a couple, and that includes, you know, medical history, reproductive history, psychosocial history, sexual history, all those things are important, lifestyle factors we ask about all those things. And the definition of infertility is is trying for about a year. So I'm protected in, of course, for about a year without success. That's the sort of medical definition of infertility. But we start our testing after a year in women who are less than 35 and after six months, if the woman is older than 35, even though it may take longer to get pregnant, if you're older, if there's something wrong, you kind of want to know about it sooner rather than later. So if a couple, female partners over 35 and they've been trying, having time and of course, at the right time, and still not pregnant, then we would initiate some preliminary investigations. On the female side, what's most important usually is we want to ask about the woman's menstrual cycles. You know, are they regular, she's tracking ovulation? Do, does it look like she's ovulating, et cetera? The male side, you know, we want to ask about sexual function and they had a semen analysis. If not, we usually order one because we're interested in the sperm concentration, the motility, the sperm, the shape of the sperm, those types of things. Yeah, one of the things I was very surprised by in the podcast that we did last week on male fertility was how infrequently men are getting evaluated and how many missed opportunity. Then there was how much how much wasted time is being generated because infertility is being assumed to be the responsibility of the female, responsibility might be the wrong word, but it's just assumed that well, that's more likely where it is. So, through no bad intention, the guy is not getting evaluated when the reality the issue could have been with him all along. That's right. Times wasted. Right. When you look at the data, it's about a third of the time, it's a female factor, a third of the time it's a male factor, another third of the time it's some combination of male and female factors. So, yes, definitely one of the first things that we do is the semen analysis on the male partner. And do you guys do that yourselves as well or do you? At the fertility class. Yeah. If there is an abnormality, we usually refer that male partner to a reproductive urologist for further evaluation. But these days, it's recommended, actually, that men, even if they're not trying to get pregnant, sometimes assess their semen analysis and because it can be a marker of other health problems, just like a woman's menstrual cycle can be a marker of other health problems. So, I should qualify that one year timeframe. If you have some reason to believe that you have a fertility problem, I wouldn't necessarily wait a whole year and then go see a provider. If your cycles are regular, if you think you might have places to go over, you send or something, then you definitely want to see somebody sooner than a year. Is it possible to say anything about fertility rates changing over the past 50 years? Is there any statement you can make on that? Yeah, there are some data that seems to suggest that infertility rates are increasing over the last several years. It's pretty common. I don't know if your listeners know, but about the lifetime risk of infertility for each person's about one in six. So that's close to 20%. In the last few years, the United States seems to be kind of a plateau of the prevalence, but let me just ask you to clarify in question, Paula. So if a woman gets pregnant in her 20s, but then in her 30s meets the criteria for infertility, which she be considered one of those one in six? Okay. So we're going to say that the one in six means someone who wants to get pregnant at a certain point in their life can't. Exactly. Lifetime prevalence, exactly. Exactly. And as far as the reasons for the increase in infertility prevalence, it's not super well understood. Part of the reasons delayed child barriers. Is this what it does say? You could make it 100% if every woman decides to have a baby when she's 70. Like defamation will have 100% for mortality. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. So women are waiting longer, of course, to start their families, to pursue education, careers, etc. Maybe they haven't found the right partner. And so that defamation is contributing to increase rates of fertility. There's some data that show that sperm counts are decreasing globally. It's a little controversial, but that might be plain and roll. There might be a slight increase risk and sexually transmitted diseases as well. So all those things are probably factors. Is there an analysis that's tried to get at this by normalizing to female age? Because it seems to me that if you could say rather than make it lifetime prevalence, because that's going to be subject to all the problems you stated. But what if we just said for women aged 28 to 32 to 32 to 35? Like if we made narrow buckets of age, we could we could then kind of get a better sense of whether there's a true infertility issue. Has that analysis been done? It's definitely been looked at by age. I don't know the data off top of my head. It's been looked at by age over time. But definitely your chance of infertility is higher. If you're 40 compared to, if you're 20 or even 30. But do we know if a 30-year-old woman today has a higher rate of infertility than a 30-year-old woman 50 years ago? We think so, but I don't know that data off top of my head. I got it. And so if the answer there is yes, we would then, I don't know that it would answer all our questions, because it could still be explained by decreasing sperm count. It could still be explained by increasing paternal age. You know, this would be very difficult analysis to do. Right. Environmental factors as well. Our exposures are different now than we're 50 years ago. Well, and then the question of course would be if this is an environmental reason, what are the environmental triggers now? You mentioned STDs a minute ago. So how do STDs in which STDs play a role in fertility? The ones most well-earned are to probably gonorrhea and climediore, which are very common sexually transmitted diseases. And on the female side, those particular infections can ascend to the phlopian tubes and cause scarring in the phlopian tubes, which then interfere with that process that we talked about earlier, or the egg in the sperm meeting and can lead to infertility. And is that something that happens if it is left untreated, or is that something that's easy to address with antibiotics, if caught early? I mean, if it's caught early, then it's usually treatable with antibiotics, or there are some issues with antibiotic resistance, especially with gonorrhea. But usually if you catch it early, it's treatable. But if it's late stage, or it's unrecognized, or untreated, then it has more likely, more likely to send to the phlopian tubes, where usually cause fertility problems. How prevalent is gonorrhea today in the US? I think it's pretty common. Really? Yeah. Yeah. In certain populations is more common than others, but unfortunately. And there's a number of reasons for that. Some of it is just lack of awareness and education about safe sex practices. Maybe less testing, as well, especially you saw that during the pandemic for sure. How does it present? In women usually with pelvic pain, fever, vaginal discharge, those are the most common symptoms. And is it equally transmissible from male to female and female to male? It's probably more transmissible from male to female. And is it an STD where the person who has it knows it? Like if a male has it, does he know he has it? Not always. It's not. It's not transmitted this readily. Yeah, not always. Okay. What about HSV? Does that factor in fertility at all? Not as much. No. Climity, again, I apologize for my ignorance. I just don't remember any of this stuff since taking the USMLE exams. Tell me how Climity presents and how it impacts fertility. The same, actually. Yeah, very similarly. So pelvic pain, fever, usually they're both present together. Okay. And does it have the same pathology where it creates? It ascends the phalopian tubes and scars the tubes. Yeah. So if it were a case scenario, if a woman undergoes a severe infection with one or both of these, it's not treated in time. She has completely scarred phalopian tubes. Is it still likely that she could get pregnant through IVF? Are the eggs still general? Is the are the eggs in uterus still preserved enough to? Yes. Yes. It doesn't usually affect the uterus or the eggs or the ovaries. Yes. Now, she may not know that she has blocked tubes until she starts trying because you wouldn't necessarily feel different if you're two sort of blocks. So one of the tests we were talking earlier about, you know, what testing we might do in addition to a semen analysis and getting immense real history, etc. is we usually do an x-ray test. It's called a histrocellpingogram or H.S.G. for short. Yep. And it's done specifically to evaluate whether or not the tubes are open. So are you just injecting contrast in, you go into the externally, you go into the cervix, into the, and you just inject die and take an x-ray. Exactly. And you're looking for how smooth. And so tell me what is a normal phalopian tube look like on that test. So first the die. So it's done in radiology facility usually by radiologists, although some gynecologists do this test as well. But usually fills up the uterus so you can also see the uterus. And then the tubes are kind of like these wire like, yeah, what's the diameter of a normal phalopian tube in that setting? Like less than a centimeter. Yeah. That's that's pretty big. Yeah, the whole tube, but the actual sort of opening. No, yeah, how big is the lumen? My crons. Oh, wow. Okay. Or millenures. I don't know. Exactly. But you can see it. Definitely see it on. Yes, right? And you can see it. It's probably a millimetre or more than not my crissure. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And then the die is filling up the tubes and then spilling out the tubes. So you can see that. The ovaries are not visualized because of the finger-like projection. So it's actually spilling die into the parent neum at this point. Right. Okay. Right. And based on that visual inspection, a train radiologist and gyn can say, that is smooth, that looks great versus that is jagged and or obstructed. Right. Now, if it's obstructed, I assume that the woman has a much bigger problem, which is every month, one of those eggs comes out. It's not getting past the point. Right. Does it just atrophy and get reabsorbed? Yes. I see. So it wouldn't necessarily cause pain. Yeah. No. By the way, we didn't talk about this earlier. We took it for granted. This is happening with two separate sides. Yeah. And like it's just mind boggling to me that there is one that is being selected and the one that's happening in one side, somehow that signal is making it to the other side to say, you don't, you can't do it this month. Right. How does that sound? That's what I who knows. We don't know. We have no idea. No idea. No idea. Something to do with the receptors on the eggs in particular, her monolmule you, maybe there's some, you know, nerve, the players are all, we have no idea that actually. But it is on average 50% from one side and 50% from the other side. And it's a coin toss. Right. And it's not necessarily alternating, but it's on average 50%. Right. It would be like heads is left, tails is right. If you throw it for enough times, it's 50-50, but not necessarily back to back. Exactly. Yeah. Again, I, this is mind boggling to me. Yeah. It's fascinating. It's not only, it's, it's mind boggling if it were just one overy. But the fact that these things are physically, you know, a foot up or not a foot, but half a foot apart. And some signal is transmitted in this woman's body. Yep. I mean, it's, yeah. Yeah. We don't quite understand it. That's incredible to me. Yeah. Yeah. Or, you know, whatever that egg that's being selected somehow develops the appropriate receptors or whatever that only it can respond to, you know, the hormones. Yeah. It's not necessarily signaling to the other ones, but it's something is happening to that one that's being selected. Yeah. That's making it the so-called dominant ballacle for that cycle. Yeah. I suppose that's a more likely, unplausible scenario is that something stochastically triggers one and only one to develop a high enough receptor concentration for FSH or LH or something so that it becomes the only one that can receive. It's the only one that develops the radar. Right. Now, of course, when we do in vitro fertilization, we're giving much higher doses of FSH and multiple X are growing. So you can overcome this process and get multiple X to grow. Yeah. But we don't totally understand physiologically. What makes just one grow each month. Okay. So let's say you do the analysis and I assume if you if there's scarring on one side, but not the other, would you intervene or would you just say no, we just have to, it's just going to take twice as long for one to get through. Yeah. There's still a chance to get pregnant, although whatever process calls the scarring and the one to, probably affected the other tube as well. So just because it's open, doesn't mean that it's functioning normally. Certainly can give, give it a few months of trying. But the other issue you have to worry about is what we call an ectopic pregnancy. If that tube is not normal, if fertilization happens, that embryo can implant in the tube. And that's kind of a very dangerous situation because obviously the tube can accommodate a pregnancy so usually eventually that causes pain and if it goes unrecognized. So surgical emergency. Yeah. Exactly. At how many weeks of gestation is a woman typically? Because that's, you know, I did my training in general surgery. So that was one of the things we were always thinking about was ectopic pregnancies for women presenting with abdominal pain. But I don't think I know the answer to this question, which is how many weeks of gestation is a woman when she's showing up in the ER complaining of abdominal pain? Usually about six to eight weeks pregnancy. It's two months pregnant. Right. Now, remember we time, yeah, pregnancy from like two weeks before ovulation. So she's, you know, by the time she recognizes that she's pregnant, she's already a month pregnant. Yep. So in the next month, it's probably the most common time or those, the topic pregnancy is present. So when a woman has an ectopic pregnancy, can that philopian tube be salvaged? Sometimes, sometimes if you recognize it early, it can be treated either medically or surgically and that tube can be salvaged. If you recognize it late in the tube ruptures, then often time the treatment is to just remove the tube, plus especially if it's not functioning normally. Yeah. So when you remove that, let's just say it's a young woman. She's 25 years old. You can't salvage the tube. You end up taking the tube. You're leaving the ovary. Right. So you still want her to have her endocrine system intact. Right. What's happening to the eggs that come out of that tube? They just get released into the abdomen, the puritanamin, resort. So do you tell that woman your fertility rate just went down by 50 percent? Kind of. Yeah. Yeah. She can still get pregnant. If she has the other tube intact, but most of the time if the egg ovulates from the right it's going to try and go down the right side. Although there have been cases where, you know, you can ovulate from the right ovary and it can travel down. It makes it's way over to the middle of the way. It's way over there. Yeah. It's rare. Wow. So it could happen. Yeah. What are the risks for actopic pregnancy besides former STDs that lead to scarring in the tube? A previous surgery, pelvic surgery in particular like ruptured appendix or something like that. Endometriosis can cause scarring of the tubes. Those are probably the most common. Okay. Any genetic component to this? If your mom had an actopic pregnancy or you? Not that we know of. Let's go back to our hypothetical case here. So woman comes in. Let's just assume for the sake of simplicity. The work up on her male partner totally fine. Yes. His sperm are fine. The radiograph shows that she has at least to the to the eye normal phlobion tubes. What's the next step in the work up? So we want to assess her cycles and ovulation. So if she's ovulating regularly, then we call that sort of unexplained. How do you know that she is? Let's say she is determined by the fact that she has a regular period. Does that alone tell you that? Usually. Usually it would be unusual to have regular periods and not be ovulating. But what it could happen? How stringent is your definition for a regular period? It's not 28 days necessary. Not necessarily. Yeah. There's a range. You know, it could be anywhere from like 21 to 35 days Wow. That's a pretty big range. Are you more. So you are less concerned with the number of days of the cycle and more concerned with the fact that whatever the days are, it's just repeating over and over again? Yes. If you mean duration of the period, yeah. That's not as important as how frequently the period is. How you'd be happy? It was 21 days, but it was always 21 days. That's better than 24, 28, 31. Well, there is some normal variation. So sometimes all, I'll see a patient should say my periods are very regular. Sometimes they're 26 days. Sometimes they're 32. I consider that normal. Yeah. It's not. Okay. Usually, always 28 days are always 21 days. There's some normal variation. Irregular would be your skipping months or maybe you're getting a period, every three months or and what's happening in that situation in a young woman? Yeah. There are a number of different causes. Probably the most common is something called polycystic ovary syndrome. It's a very common hormonal condition. We don't know exactly. What causes it? I feel like I'm saying that a lot about women's health. Right? We don't know exactly what causes and because we're not investing enough in women's research. Why do you think that is? This this came up on another podcast on HRT, which is another one of my big sort of rallying cries, which is how pathetic it is that we haven't done in a research. I mean, why do you think this is given how important a subject this is? You know, political reasons, I think gender inequality, all kinds of reasons like that. Do we have a sense objectively that there is a difference in this type of research? Or do we think it's just that well, maybe there's equal amounts of funding, but the innate problems associated with the female reproductive system or female health in general are so much more complicated that even at equal funding levels, we're going to be far behind in our understanding. Yeah, no, I think it's a good idea. There's just a data that the funding for women's health research, it's like 10%. It's like up the overall NIH budget, for example, it's very small. If you look at reproductive health, it's even smaller. So it's a huge issue. Let's talk about polycystic ovarian syndrome. So what's the prevalence of it in, let's say women age call it 15 to 30? Yeah, super common about six to eight percent of women will have polycystic every syndrome. Most common symptoms are irregular periods. Also evidence of high-endrogen levels, and that can usually present with acne or excess hair growth. We call that here's a toism obesity or being overweight. That's also part of the syndrome, not everybody who has the same. And the endrogens are specifically testosterone. Could it be just testosterone just DHA, DHA? But both, but typically elevated testosterone from the ovaries. Yeah. Okay. So is that the cause or the effect? We don't know. We don't know, but it's definitely almost all women with PCOS that they have higher endrogen levels. And why is PCOS seemingly also highly associated with insulin resistance? Again, we don't know exactly, but we think the endrogens play a role. We think there might be some genetic factors that play a role. I don't know that we understand why, but we certainly have recognized in the last several decades that most women with PCOS also happen to be insulin resistant. But we don't know the direction of causality? No. We know that not everybody who's insulin resistant has PCOS, of course, because not all diabetic, serencelerate. There we also know that some women with PCOS are not insulin resistant, correct? Probably on some level they are, but they're able to compensate. And certainly it's more likely if they tend to be overweight as well. So it's definitely multifactorial. And I guess it's like we're treating PCOS now more like other complex diseases, like obesity or hypertension, etc. There's lots of things going on. But based on what you just said, if there is any causality between them, it's more likely that the PCOS is driving the insulin resistance than the other way around. Given the number of women that are insulin resistant who do not have PCOS, yeah, that's probably true. So then the question is what do we need to do to treat PCOS? Right. So depends on the goal of the patient, right? So if they're trying to get pregnant, there's one set of treatments. If they're not trying to get pregnant, but they have PCOS, then we usually focus on their cycles, because it's generally not a good idea to go too long in between cycles, because what can happen is the lining of the uterus can overgrow. If it overgrow too much, it can become what we call hyperplastic, worst case scenario cancers. You definitely don't want that. So it's important to be shutting that lining or to be on hormonal suppression so that that doesn't happen. If the goal is to treat the hyper-indrogenic symptoms like the acne and the hercetism, again, hormonal treatments, usually effective for that. When you say hormonal treatments, you mean like spironolactone and things like that? Well usually start with birth control pills. Birth control pills are very effective for most symptoms of PCOS. It'll regulate the cycles, decrease endrogen levels, help with the hercetism and acne, etc. So let's talk about why. So a birth control pill is a high dose of a synthetic estrogen and progestin that's given 21 days and then paused for a week. I mean, meaning you take it every day, but the last week is a placebo. So is the reason that that helps with the hyper-androgenism because it raises sex homoenbinding lobulin so much that it mobs up all the excess testosterone? Part of the reason. I'm impressed by your endocrinology knowledge. Yes, that's part of the reason. And by the way, you can't take it that way you described where you have a bleed every month, but you don't have to. Many people take it continuously these days so you don't have a period at all. But then doesn't that address the issue that you were talking about or does the synthetic estrogen, the synthetic progestin offset the hyperplasia and then you don't care? Right. When you take the combination of estrogen, progesterone usually the line becomes quite thin. Then anyway, okay. Okay. So two mechanisms of action. When you're taking those hydroceases of estrogen and progesterone, it's suppressing the pituitary hormones, namely the LH and FSH. But the LH is what drives the testosterone production in the ovary. So that's one mechanism. And the other one is the one you describe. So the estrogen component of the pill will increase the sex hormone binding lobulin. So you have less free testosterone around. So again, that will help with those symptoms. We talked about. Okay. So women with PCOS doesn't want to get pregnant. Right. Just wants to reduce the androgen impact and protect her uterus. A constant or a contraceptive is a great strategy. It's a great strategy. Yeah. There are others. You know, it could be a progestin IUD. That's a hormone way of IUD. So there are a number of different ones or just taking progesterone every few months. That usually will help protect the lining, but probably won't decrease the hydrogen levels. Can how often do you place women who have PCOS also with insulin resistance on metformin? Do you find that or any of the other diabetic agents to be particularly useful? Occasionally. Yeah. And that's an important point because women as we said who have PCOS or insulin resistant, which predisposes them to diabetes. So those women need to be screened periodically for diabetes. And we commonly use metformin to either treat pre-diabetes or to try and prevent diabetes. Does insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes independently impair fertility? All things being equal. Absent PCOS. That's a loaded question. Yeah. In some cases, I mean, there's some data that shows that metabolic diseases of chronic diseases can impact fertility mechanisms again are unclear, or probably related to both ovulation, dysfunction, and also endometrial receptivity. Okay. So now, I assume that's the easier way to treat PCOS is the woman who does not want to get pregnant. So now let's talk about the woman with PCOS, but who is also trying to conceive. Right. What is your playbook? So we always counsel these patients as well. I should mention whether they're trying to get pregnant or not, especially if they're overweight or obese weight loss helps with all the symptoms of PCOS. So healthy diet, lifestyle, etc. And how much of a role are GLP1 agonist playing in this? Now, how much more success are you having with treating PCOS that way? Yeah, increasingly. And they're very successful as you know for weight loss and there've been some studies on PCOS patients specifically very effectively. What if you know any of those data? I'm not familiar with you. Yeah, they work really well, just like they work. Can people with diabetes or people who with obesity without diabetes? Problem is you can't get pregnant while you're taking them in the current recommendation is to stop for at least two months. And you pardon my ignorance why? Because we don't have any data on whether they're safe. Yeah. And so FDA is saying when FDA, I forget the FDA's classification for this. There's like ABCX or something like that for every drug. Yes, and I haven't looked for that one specifically, but I'm sure it's like X because we have no data. Okay. So that's an important message for anybody listening. If you're trying to get pregnant, you should not be on a GLP1 agonist because we don't understand the impact of that. Right. You can be on it pre-pregnancy just the recommendation is to stop for at least two months. Okay. Now, having said that, there've been lots of you may have read about a Zempek baby. So like people getting pregnant on GLP1. So there is a registry. And so far to my knowledge, there haven't been reported birth defects in that type of thing, but obviously we're talking about small number of patients. Yeah, that's the second point. Now that you mentioned that, now we're called hearing about that. So presumably these are women who have taken either, you know, some of GLP1 tied to a Zepatide and presumably they get pregnant, yes. Either intentionally or not. Okay. So that's a very interesting, interesting registry to follow. Right. Right. Now, of course, once they find out, they're pregnant usually. There's just a council. It's not a plan. Yeah. So we don't know what would happen if you continue on something. Anybody wants to do that? Yeah. Study at the moment. Yeah, it doesn't make sense. We certainly don't want women who are pregnant to not want to eat. Understanding that a woman who's got PCOS is going to be first counsel to make these changes that effectively help her lose weight and increase her metabolic health. Let's say she is somewhat successful, but still unable to address the concern. Right. So luckily, they're very good. Obulation and do see medications available. So what we would typically recommend for someone with PCOS to help them formulate more regularly is a medication called letrasal. The brand name is Femara. It's just a medication you take for five days in your cycle and then we can usually assess the ovulation with ultrasound. And what does it do? Basically, it's category of medication called aromatase inhibitors, which blocks the conversion of testosterone to the estrogen. Right. And the estrogen that lower estrogen, somehow triggers the pituitary to increase the accretion of FSH and LH and that stimulates the ovary to again get one of those follicles. And is the reason you use something like an aromatase inhibitor as opposed to clomophene or Hcg is just that it's a smaller nudge and you're starting out with it? No, we used to use clomid first line for PCOS, but then there was a study that came out several years ago comparing the two and show the pregnancy rates were a little bit higher with letrasal. Clomid's perfectly good as well, but letrasal's better for PCOS. So if you have access to letrasal, that's very counterintuitive. Well, if you think about it, when you you take an aromatase inhibitor, you're going to lower estrogen, but not, I mean, I guess it depends on the dose. I guess I'm trying to think of like an astrasal, which I'm more familiar with than letrasal. I suppose if you took a milligram of an astrasal every day for five days, you would drive estrogen down, but I didn't think you would, I didn't think that that reduction in estrogen would lead to a high enough amount of petrope and releasing hormone, which is effectively what has to be happening. It has to be going up to drive this accretion of LH and FSH. Right. Yeah, yeah, that's again, that's still counterintuitive. To me, I would just think that giving 50 to 100 milligrams of plummet would have a much bigger impact on that. It also works, but yeah, correct. Yeah, randomized control trial had to have comparison show the pregnancy rates were better for some reason with the letrasal compared to Clomid. Okay, and does it matter when in her cycle, she takes the letrasal? Usually, it's recommended from day three to five with the first day of full bleeding we call that day one. Yep. So early. What if she's not on what at the point is, is she's not having her period, how do you then time it? We induce superior, not a real period, but we induce a withdrawal bleed by giving progesterone typically. Okay, so you give a woman progesterone and then by withdrawing the progesterone, you cut that's so cool. Yeah, you guys are so manipulative. I know. How much does this research zone do you give? Usually about 200? No, 5 to 10 milligrams of a mojoxy progesterone acetate, or you can give micro-nice progesterone for about seven to 10 days. Only five to 10 milligrams of micro-nice progesterone? No, micro-nice progesterone 200 milligrams. Okay, yeah, so the full party dose of micro-nice progesterone for five days. Yeah, but drugs see progesterone acetate five times. Yeah, and then and by the way, do you have a preference for MPA versus micro-nice? No, not really. Okay. It's because it's such a short. Yes. So you give the full dose of endometriol progesterone for five days. Yeah. The second you take it off, it's the withdrawal of progesterone that causes the lining to shed. Right. And then we call that day one and then you set on day five, we go ahead and start ripening the follicle right, ripening the follicle with the aromatase inhibitor. Three to seven. Yeah. For five days. Okay. Wow. Yeah. Very cool. Yeah. And then we usually do an ultrasound around a 12-ish and you could see one of those follicles starting to grow. Usually, not all patients will respond. So sometimes we have to increase the dose or sometimes we have to try a different medication. But most patients with PCOS will respond to that medication. So would you say that every single woman out there with PCOS who wants to get pregnant has access to a doctor that understands what you just described and can do that for her. Or do you worry that too many women are being shunted to IVF too soon without an attempted something like this? I definitely think they're probably not enough people who totally understand management of PCOS, especially in the context of fertility treatment for sure. And even in the context of non-infertily treatment, often what I hear from patients had irregular periods. Somebody told them to start going on the birth control pill. They never told them why. They didn't even know what they had PCOS, right? It happens to be the correct treatment. So great. But you know, they've gone years now, not understanding that they have PCOS and the implications of that, which as we talked about their metabolic implications, etc. So that's a problem. But once they want to become pregnant, very few general gynecologists are set up to be able to treat patients with either a comment or letra's also some of them do, but it's not like a fertility clinic with reproductive and chronologists because we're set up to do monitoring seven days a week in that type of thing. But not everybody has access to it for fertility specialists kind of buried dependent on where you live. A little bit better now with telehealth, but still access to the salon. You have to do the sonogram when you're doing this. You don't have to, but you want to know whether the woman's responding meaning that she's actually ovulating. There are other ways to assess that. If she gets a period at the right time, that she probably ovulated or if she gets pregnant, of course, or you can check a progesterone level in the Lugneal phase. The second half of the cycle, if it's elevated, she probably ovulated. Yeah, we just happen to use ultrasound just easier. And how much of what you're describing is covered with typical health insurance? Depends, depends where you live, and the United States is very state dependent. So some states have infertile insurance mandates where your employer's insurance policy has to provide, infertility, diagnostic, and treatment. But many states infertilities not covered, or they might just cover the testing portion, but then not cover the treatment portions. So that's a huge problem. Okay, you're in Oregon. I'm in Oregon. And what is the state there? We don't have an infertile insurance mandate yet. Although we're working on it. It's actually a bill in session. This regular session now that we're trying to get past because we infertilities of disease, like every other disease, and we think it shouldn't matter where you live. You should have access to the appropriate treatment. So in our state, it kind of depends on your employer and whether they provide that particular insurance coverage. And so if a person has health insurance that does not cover reproductive care, how much would be the cost of what you just described the outer pocket. Yeah, so lecturers all and clomid or just oral maturity. Yeah, they're cheap. Yeah, but then you add the ultrasound monitoring that could be another $300 at your pay not a pocket. And then if you're doing like intra-utering insemination, for example, which we haven't talked about yet. But let's just say just what we talked about is still a really cheap treatment, right? Relatively. Yeah, so a few hundred dollars a month. But for some people that could be a lot. Yeah, but relative to what we're about to talk about right. This is this is still well within the purview of out-of-pocket. For sure. Compared to what's coming. Yeah. For sure. And so you kind of alluded to it, but I'm guessing you're saying, look, we would give this three tries. Would that be a fair assessment? Usually. So we'd go through three consecutive cycles of this. And it's interesting. So there's two ways that this treatment could fail. Right? The first is each time we did the ultrasound, we just didn't see an egg. So not respond. We were not responding to the follicle stimulation. Right. Let's talk about what the implication is there. Alternatively, you could say, God, three out of three months, we actually got ovulation. But we didn't get fertilization. Right. If you were three months of that, I assume in parallel you're doing the male work up because nothing would be a greater crime than going to a regular job. Right. And then you figured out the sperm was the problem. Right. But let's assume you have that box checked. Would you be more inclined to continue that treatment for another three to six months? Yeah. Yeah. And someone who hasn't been ovulating, they haven't tried for a year even. Right. Have anything met the criteria for total? Exactly. So there's nothing magic about three months. But that's, you know, at least a check-in point where we say, hey, do we continue doing this? Or do we move on to something else? So if it's a young person and this is like the first time they're ovulating in their life, then yeah, we give them more time on a less invasive treatment, less expensive treatment. Okay. If they're like 3840, you know, we probably move on to something else. Okay. So let's go to the first case I described. So you get no ovulation. Yeah. Okay. Three times no ovulation. We're not going to waste her time anymore. But she's still young. So what's your next step in the algorithm? So typically, so it's I mean, we've tried higher doses and different medication like plummet or whatever. Still not responding. Then we typically move on to a class of medication called Genata trope ends or essentially FSH or follicle stimulating hormone, same hormone. Not average. You don't give HcG directly. It's a little bit of combination. We do eventually give HcG to trigger ovulation. But so we could either use those medications with either time to intercourse or an intra-inion elimination or with IVF. Okay. That middle option with time intercourse and in some any intra-inion elimination is kind of fallen out of favor a little bit because those medications are very expensive. Quite a lot of monitoring, success rate with IUI or time intercourse is much lower than IVF. So we usually skip that and go directly to IVF. Okay. If you are going to use FSH and LH give me a sense of cost, what dose are you using of HcG? So if the plan is just for time intercourse and treat our insemination, we use maybe 1 to 3 ampules of FSH and 75 units. The whole cycle, if you include the monitoring, IUI, etc, could be like $3 or $4,000. So you can see, yeah, we're a big step up. Yeah. After a few cycles, it's almost the same cost as an IVF cycle. So you're like better off, especially if the patient wants to have or the couple wants to have more than one child. Yep. You know, the advantage of IVF is you can freeze embryos. So if you want to have two or three kids, you might as well just do IVF and bank those embryos because otherwise you're going to have to do the same thing all over again for your second kid or your third kid. Yep. I see. So basically, intra-utarin insemination has largely fallen out of favor based on does that also mean the cost of IVF is coming down? Is that also making it more attractive? Yep. So IUI's very common still. I see. Okay. But we do it. You know, we were talking specifically about the patient with the US who's not obligating. Right. Right. Right. Right. Got it. Got it. But otherwise, if you have a patient who is obligating and has maybe unexplained and fertility tubes are open. Yeah. In this case, you don't have to use a hormone to make her ovulate. You just need an ultrasound, which is relatively cheap to know when she's going to ovulate. Yeah, we still use the medication though because we super-opulate. So normally you just make one egg. So when someone's already ovulating, the goal of fertility medications is to get them to release more than one egg. So two eggs, three eggs, more eggs around, higher chance that one of them is going to be normal and one is going to fertilize. What does the graph look like of number of eggs versus probability of twins triplets, et cetera? Yeah. That's one of the downsides, right? So the risk of multiples with the oral medications, like, kilometer letters all, is about 5 to 8%. So not super high, but definitely higher than if the patient were to conceive without medication. So that's something we counsel them about. But it's very common as a first-line treatment to do oral medication with IUI, even in the context of normal sperm, I would say, although it's more important. Of course, if there's a male component and then if that didn't work in three cycles, then move on to IVF. And with the injectables, what is the risk of multiple pregnancies? Much higher, like 25 to 35%. Yeah. Okay. And how many eggs are typically? It depends on the dose of the medication. So of course, when we're doing IVF, we want a lot of eggs. So it's 10 to 15 eggs. But if we're doing IUI, it could be like three to five eggs. Or it depends on the dose and depends on the age of the patient, et cetera. So what's falling out of favors injectables with IUI? That's kind of, we don't do that very much. Got it. Makes sense. Yeah. Back in the day, when every time you're in the grocery store and you saw the cover of the national inquire, and then it was like, this woman just had 47 babies, like what the hell was going on in those areas? I think in the early days of IVF, well, even before IVF, when people just had access to injectables in IUI, most of the multiple pregnancies were from not from IVF, but from injectables in IUI. Because literally there were women having eight and nine babies at a time. Yeah. That famous octopalid case, I think that was actually an IVF case. So in the early days of IVF, when IVF was not very successful, we had to transfer many embryos to get decent pregnancy rates. And some of the time, more than one would take. So the pregnancy rates were the multiple pregnancy rates. But you're saying that situation, they would have transferred eight and all eight took. Yeah. I'm not saying it was the right thing to do, but that's what happened. Okay. One can split into two, but yeah. In that particular case, more than the recommended number were transferred. So now they're very strict guidelines from the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, which is our professional organization that almost always were transferring just one embryo these days. Unless a couple says, I'd actually like to have twins. Yeah. We kind of discouraged that. Why? Because twins are riskier. They're riskier for the babies and for the mom. So the riskier in an IVF setting? No, they're just riskier in general. But as is our IVF twins, do they pose any more risk to either fetus or mom than naturally conceive twins? Yes. There is some data that was suggest that IVF pregnancies are more complicated. Have a higher risk of complication than spontaneous pregnancies? We don't know exactly why. If it's the IVF or the fact that people who need IVF have underlying conditions that may predispose them to some of these complications. Overwhelmingly, the data is reassuring that pregnancies do find the babies to find. But we definitely know that twins, whether you're conceive them spontaneously or with IVF, the risk of almost every pregnancy complication is going to be higher. So this is the risk of pre-eclampsia, helps in blood clot like anything that is retention, hemorrhage, yes, need fersy section, all those risk premature delivery. Got it. All those risks are increased. So we don't intentionally like to produce twins although it happens sometimes, obviously. So, oh, this is fascinating stuff. So let's I'm just trying to take this in some sort of thoughtful order. Should we now move to IVF? Would you want to say a little bit more about IVY? We haven't really talked directly about IVY. I don't know what it is about when people say turkey-based or it went to me, pringe like that. It's just such a gross image to me. So I am deliberately not going to say other than that woman ago that I just said it. But just so that people know what we mean by intruder and insemination. Just to be clear, you are not using a turkey-based or definitely not. Okay, thank God. Must disgusting. I don't know why. Yes, so gross. So can you explain how IVY is done? We've already said that with IVY, you largely favor an oral preparation. Usually. Yeah. Okay. So that means you're using an oral set of hormones so that the woman doesn't have a massive proliferation of follicles. So male ejaculates, do you want fresh semen or do you care if it's frozen? What's the difference in success? Yeah, same, same. So we have, you know, single women as well and female same sex couples who would also be doing, and don't learn some ination in that case. And we don't see any difference between fresh semen and frozen semen. No, assuming the sperm is not on the ground. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So the indications for IVY would be either those scenarios I mentioned, single women, same sex couples, or if there's a couple with unexplained infertile, you just can't find a reason. So you just want to try and sort of optimize their chances. Or if there's a male factor right. So if there's like this, you know, lower sperm count, lower mortality, the idea with IVY is that the female partner would typically take fertility medication to increase the number of eggs. She would track her ovulation when she's ovulating. She would come to the clinic. The male partner would come to the clinic, produce the sperm sample. We process the sperm, which is basically, you know, we collect the best sperm in a small volume, and then place that sperm directly into the uterus through the cervix. So the problem that you're able to overcome on the sperm side would be number and motility. Yeah, or morphology, like any abnormality in the Cemen analysis, as long as it's not very chromosome. So, I mean, obviously you can't overcome right. Right. So, so if the sperm are too few, they don't move well enough if they're defective in most ways IVYF. Yeah, it's more specifically XC, where we actually, in which stands for Interacidoplasmic sperm injection, where we actually take a sperm and inject it directly into an egg. So, first of the beer male factor, that would be the recommended treatment. But, you know, the sperm's a little bit low, but it's not too bad. Then I UI, we would try a few cycles of that first. Okay, so when in the woman's cycle, how many days before she ovulates, do you want to inject those sperm into the mouth of the uterus? Essentially, the day she's ovulating. So this is interesting to me because one of the things that I took away from the discussion with Paul last week was that if you look at the probability distribution curve of when a pregnancy occurs, the the ejaculate enters the uterus prior to ovulation. You have a, I forget what he said, 80% of pregnancies occur when the sperm are there prior to ovulation. Only 20, and I could be wrong on this I've already forgotten. I think only 20% occur post ovulation. So the tail falls off much quicker. Yes, it is true that if there's sperm around prior to ovulation, it can hang around for a while because it lives two to three days or so whereas the lifespan of the ovulated egg is much shorter. So based on that, wouldn't it make sense to put the sperm in prior to ovulation? You can use it just to risky to try and anticipate when that is. You know, if it's a straight couple, we'll tell them to also have an error course. There are a couple days around the time of ovulation, but the pregnancy rates in these probably back early studies that have looked at this show that probably the highest pregnancy rate if you do the insemination on the day. God. That you think the patient is ovulating and we're doing that with ultrasound. Usually, LH monitoring. So patient will either monitor her urine, LH, and remember LH goes up just before ovulation. We typically also look do ultrasound based on the size of the follicles. We can tell we sometimes trigger ovulation with HCG, which kind of simulates the woman's own LH surge. So if you want to be pretty precise. How big a dose of HCG do you need to? Usually 5,000 units, which is half a vow. It's a lot, probably more than physiologic, but it the purpose is to cause release of the egg and then we time the insemination to happen when we think the ovulation is happening. Okay. Do you ever do the following? This is like me just thinking out the box. Get the male to bank a ton of sperm. So take weeks to get or if she's going to a sperm bank if it's a single or same-sex couple, whatever. Just get multiple allocats of semen. And starting so on day one, insert, day two, insert, day three, give 10,000 IU of HCG, insert, and then day four insert. In other words, cover your bases and just have lots of seam and sitting around and then force the ovulation. Wouldn't that be just a... I mean, you could do that or the couple could just up-sex and you know, I think. Right, but we then introduce another variable, right, which is that what if the what if the semen are what if the count is low enough? Because if if he's ejaculating every day, you're not having a chance to fully rebuild the supply. What if his motility is anything other than perfect? Or in the other case, what if we're dealing with same-sex couples or a single mom? Yeah, there have been studies looking at like two IUIs compared to one. And specifically in like same-sex couples or single women, show no difference. And remember, especially if you're paying out a pocket for all these things, it has to be worth it to yeah. So at some point, even if when I proposed worked better, it's going to approach the cost of of the 5GF. Right, like how much better and is it worth like another $400, five days now your cost to be your IUIs cycles all of a sudden? Yeah. $2000, you know, yeah. So those are practical considerations as well. So feel free to partition this in any way you want. If you look at all uses of IUI, what is the success rate? And feel free to, again, divide that up into different cases. The pregnancy success rate really depends on the age of the female partner. So if it's a young woman in the 20s, success rate might approach success rate for natural consumption, which might be 2025 per cycle. But if you're, you know, if it's a woman over 35, might be 10 to 15 percent. If it's a woman over 40, might only be 1 to 5 percent per cycle. Wow. And that's because, again, it's all about quality of the egg. So even though an egg is released, maybe two eggs are released if those eggs aren't normal, they're not going to for a less than implant. Okay. So we've covered a whole lot of fertility treatments. It seems that the likelihood that a woman who's undergone some of the things we've discussed that still ends up going down to the IVF pathways is reasonably high. Yeah, the majority of people don't need IVF again. It depends on the age of the female partner specifically and what the problem is. So let's just go sub 35. Okay. So of all women who present with defined infertility, which if she's under 35, means more than a year of regular sex and no pregnancy, walk through the success rate of pregnancy by modality. So under 35, infertility for a year, how many are successful with just an oral treatment absentee IVA? Yeah, again, distorted depends on what the cause of the infertility is. Is it unexplained or is it PCOS? No, let's say unexplained. Yeah, unexplained? Probably less than 50 percent will get pregnant with IVA and have to move on to IVF because unexplained to me means either they're it's bad luck or more likely if something going on, we just can't figure it out. And those cases almost always IVF is going to give you a higher chance of success. Oh, sorry. Yes, that I can understand for sure. I'm saying how many of them will need to get IVF? Or is that what are you answering? Yeah, yeah, that's what it was getting at. And you know, for PCOS, their problem was they just weren't ovulating. So probably 80 percent of those people will get pregnant with just ovulationduction and IVI. So there's no therapy, basically, is the dressing of the body. Yeah, if it's very severe male factor, it's probably I UI, not going to work. Yeah. You know, so really kind of depends on the, you know, what the ideology of the infertility. And so now if we talk about age 35 to 45. Yeah. So, and again, let's take PCOS off the table in this age group. So let's just say we're talking 35 to 45 year old women. PCOS, not an issue and let's just also assert male, not an issue. That's been worked out unexplained infertility. So I guess now technically you would call it six months of, of of of of not getting pregnant would be sufficient. But here how many what percentage of women will get pregnant absent an IVF strategy? So depends how long you do it for, right? So most of the time we're only doing it for three cycles. It's like I said, it's not cost effective to do it for longer. So I would say in that age group probably the majority of women will likely need IVF. If they are not successful after three months, theoretically if you continue doing I UI, a lot of those people will eventually get pregnant. But we tend to stop at three. Yes. And so again, what tell me at three months again, what percentage are going to be successful with three cycles? In that age group, unexplained infertility. unexplained over 35. I don't know the exact number but probably under 50%. Okay, but that could be a third potentially. Yeah, because it's just right per cycle is something like in that age group, let's say 10 to 15%. So it's. So you go one minus that number times three. One minus that to the third power should be about 30%. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. So now let's talk a little bit about IVF. First successful IVF, baby, 1978. If my memory sort of. That's right. That's right. First was a test tube baby, which is kind of weird because I would imagine it was in a peach edition, not a test tube. But anyway. Yeah. Yeah. We've come along way since then for historical context, I don't know anything about that that girl. But do you know anything about how that was done back in 1978? Yeah. Actually, there's a recent documentary drama called Joy that goes to her name. A little name I believe is Joy. Yes. Well, that's a great joy. Brown. It's first Louise Brown. I believe your middle is Joy. Got it. But it's a movie about the first IVF. That's great. Now, of course, they tried for many many years before they had the first success that these were two doctors. So tell me again. What I mean, maybe this is all on the doctor drama and I can't wait to check it out. But what kind of IRB approval was there how much controversy was there around this? It must have been a huge deal. Yeah. There was a lot of controversy. Like, you know, this was playing a good phrase. Yeah. Yeah. And this was done at the time, primarily for women with tubal factor block tubes. I think, can't remember the exact details of the couple. But I believe they had tubal disease. And IVF works great for tubal disease because of course you're bypassing the tubes altogether. Where was this done in the UK in Britain? Okay. I see. So that's probably, I didn't realize it wasn't done here in the US. So, so tell me a little bit about technologically how they accomplished it back then. Yeah. I think the first cases they were actually doing surgery like under general. They were a self-reserved or less. Let's go back, I believe. Yeah. To retrieve the X. Oh wow. And then they were combining the X with the sperm in the test tube, petridish. And then I think they were transferring the embryo. Maybe back into the tube in those days or maybe through the cervix. I can't remember the details. But yes, a lot of has changed over the last 45 years or so. Wow. Yeah. Despite that success in 1978, what did it look like for the next 10 years? From 1978 to 1988. Yeah. How prevalent was IVF in terms of being, I mean, I guess when did it get to the point where anybody who could afford it could access it? Much more recently. Yeah. The first IVF baby in the United States was born a few years later. I think maybe 1980. One or so. Okay. In Virginia, I believe. And it took like probably many decades for it to become sort of commonplace throughout the world. So now most countries, there's you can access IVF, not everybody can access IVF. But in some countries more than others. But in, you know, depending on how you look at it, it's kind of you and kind of not, but you know, 45 years. But in medicine, that's, it's a relatively recent development and it's been only in the last maybe 20, 30 years that has become, you know, standard. Okay. So let's just walk through how IVF works and then we'll kind of dive into the ins and outs of some of the nuances. So, so a one comes to you, probably she's progressed through some layers of treatment. Yeah. Yeah. You know, you've collectively come to the decision that this is hands down the best opportunity both for success and, you know, risk. So how does the treatment go? Yeah. So typically we do a bunch of screening tests on both partners. I include some blood tests, a seamen analysis and ultrasound to get some assessment of their egg number, the woman's egg number. And then when the cycle starts, takes about two to three months to complete a cycle of IVF. And when you say egg number, are you determining that through an AMH or through a physical examination of the ovaries? But so we do an ultrasound, we can count the number of follicles. How small are these things? You know, a few millimeters. And you have the resolution to see that on ultrasound. Yeah. Okay. And that gives you some sense of about how many eggs that particular patient will produce with a variant stimulation. And we use AMH as a hormone. You explain what AMH is in how it works. Yeah. AMH is a hormone stands for antimilarion hormone. It's secreted by the cells that surround the egg. So it tends to correlate with the egg number. Okay. Doesn't tell you anything about fertility or pregnancy rates or anything like that. Ages still the most important factor in that sense. But it does give you an idea to have a normal number of eggs. So just number. So two women that have the same number of eggs. If one woman has high quality eggs, the other woman does not, they could still have the same AMH level on a blood test. Right. Okay. If there are different ages, they're success rates can be different. Yeah. Can you give me that remind me the range? So a pre-obually a sort of pre-pubescent girl who has a billion and not a billion, but right a million eggs, but who is not fertile. Does she have a higher low AMH? She has a higher AMH. We tend not to use it in that age group because it's less reliable. But in a normal AMH would be like about two, I think the year it's peak around predestilator, but leave. Less than one is considered low. So a woman who's older. But what's the difference between a 16-year-old girl who probably could get pregnant if she walked past a guy versus that never happens, by the way. But if you have like a 16-year-old girl who is at the peak of her fertility versus a 30-year-old woman who is still fertile but has lost a step. What's the difference in AMH? Yeah, it's a very narrow range. So like above two, we consider that's probably normal reproductive age. About two is two if that's different. Now it can be high two and patients with PCOS for example have very high levels. Okay. Different things. Yeah. Above two, you know, that's usually good number of eggs. Less than one, low number of eggs. So this is kind of a binary test. You're not interested. It's a continuum. It is, but you're not looking at, oh, this woman's 1.6. This woman's 1.7. This woman's 1.7. This woman. Yeah. Yeah. And you're going to like you look at a TSA or something. Right. Right. And the assays also vary variable depends where you have it done. Whatever just gives you a 90-year- Okay. Like are the egg number average for your person's age, more than average, less than average. And it helps us because we can determine what dose of medication to use during IVF and we also can give kind of expectation to the patient like you're probably going to make five to 10 eggs maybe not 15 to 20 in that type of thing. So it's anyway. When she's ready to start cycle, everything usually starts with their period. Usually we depending on the age again, but usually the patient starts on a couple weeks of birth control pills. And what that does is kind of suppresses the ovaries because we want all the eggs to kind of grow up the same rate. Yeah. Stop the pill. Then you start the ganata tropans which are this. That is injectable. Yep. And they're injectable just under skin kind of injection. So I mean H C G and F S H. Not a H C G, but primarily F S H. Okay. The little bit of L H. Okay. Okay. So you're on those for about eight to 12 days. And then every few days while you're taking those medications, you have to come into the clinic for ultrasound monitoring and estradiol levels, blood levels. And we can monitor how many follicles are growing, how big they are, et cetera. Usually medications are pretty well tolerated. And what dose of L H and F S H is she injecting relative to what she would normally make? Is it a two x five x 10 x depends on the age again, higher doses for women who are older, but much much higher doses. More than 10 x. Yeah. Hmm, maybe not quite. Okay. Maybe five. Okay. Timbagal symptoms. Most common I would say is bloating as the ovaries get a little more enlarged. There's a small risk of something called ovarian hypers stimulation syndrome when the ovaries get a little bit too stimulated, but that's exceedingly rare. Usually your signs is happening. We can always back down on the dose. Sometimes patient doesn't make it. So many eggs as we were hoping. So sometimes we have to increase the dose or change the protocol. But usually we guess pretty right. And then once the follicles are a certain size, that's how we know the eggs are mature. Because of course we can't see the eggs on the ultrasound. You can only see the follicles that continue. Yeah. Right. So then the patient gets Hcg, which is another medication, which kind of simulates her own L H surge. And the purpose of that medication causes the final maturation of the eggs. And if we did not do an egg retrieval, she would release all those eggs. But of course, we time the egg retrieval to happen just before the woman ovulates. So that medication is very time sensitive. And to be clear, were you only giving her FSH before, are you giving her L H as well? A little bit of L H, but mostly of the H. And why are you using L H versus Hcg? Kind of just to simulate the physiologic. Is that a good one? I didn't realize there was a difference appreciated by the body between them. I thought I thought that there were similar. So we use Hcg for, but the body of course doesn't have Hcg until the patient's pregnant. Yeah. But it works well to as a substitute. So there is L H out there as a drug. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. It's combined with comes as a combination drug. With the FSH. Yeah. Got it. I see. Yeah. So how do you prevent her from ovulating while you are giving her FSH and L H? And she is building and she is the right thing. Yeah. Yeah. Good question. There's another medication that we give. It's called the G&RH antagonist. And basically blocks the L H surge from happening until I see. So we're giving her FSH. The L H that's attached to it is very, very low. Right. And that will prevent an ovulation. Yes. The antagonist. Well. Yeah. That's basically blocking the G&RH, which is another hormone. I'm surprised that the fact that you're giving her so much FSH with a little bit of L H isn't enough to suppress the G&RH. But anyway, it's clearly not. Yeah. You have to see her that. Okay. So you give her a G&RH antagonist. And that basically puts a block between her hypothalamus and her pituitary. Right. And so then now you control the switch. Right. And the switch is in the Megados of HcG, which is an L H analog. Right. And do you harvest the follicles in the philopian tube? Or do you dig into the ovaries? In the ovaries. Yeah. Okay. So the Egregory Volt has happened two days after that HcG trigger. Wow. Yeah. I would have thought, so it would have taken two days for her to 36 hours specifically. So she usually takes it in the evening and then the retrieval is the day after in the morning. Okay. So once it comes into your office, a day two days later. And like, walk me through this. So you layer on a table. You've got an ultrasound on her over and you're literally putting a needle in there. Well, first of all, she's asleep. Phyllis, sleep or just local. Yeah. Yeah. So this is done in a surgery center typically. Okay. We're clinic with anesthesiologists present, ib sedation, so it's like a colonoscopy or dental extracts or something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's all done vaginally actually using the ultrasound. And that day there's a needle that's guided by the ultrasound. That goes through the vagina into the ovaries. So we don't do transdum. Dumb question. Why? It seems don't you have a much straighter shot going through the abdomen? No really. We just don't want to go through the peridneum. In there's a lot of stuff between the abdomen and the in the ovaries. You can't just manipulate and move the bowel out of the ultrasound. It's much easier through the vagina when they're sitting right there. Yeah. So again, just pardon my ignorance of the anatomy because again, I'm probably still locked into the image of the ovaries being like this. But you're saying no, Peter, the ovaries are probably sitting right on top of the vagina to the side of the uterus. Just stick a needle on either side. And so literally out of the vagina, not even going through the cervix. Yeah. Okay. So that still strikes me as a very delicate, complicated procedure. I mean, that's a surgery. Yeah. Relatively minor type surgery. But so how much do you have to dilate the vagina? Because what I'm thinking about is how to get your hand in there. You don't guide the needle. You don't have to get your hand in there. Yeah, you should watch a YouTube video. But it's just the ultrasound probe. Yeah. And then there's a needle guide. That is the needle guide inside the probe or a long side. Alongside. Okay. Yeah. And the needle, it's a long needle, right? So your hand's not in the vagina. 16. Okay. And it goes through the vagina into the over. You're doing this under ultrasound guidance. You see exactly. So you, that somebody else is obviously manipulating the ultrasound for you. No, you have it in your hand. It's a vaginal ultrasound. That's right. Yeah. So you're doing both. Yeah. So you're looking where you go. And with the ultrasound and you're using the needle to puncture the overy, get into the follicles. And the needle is attached to like a vacuum suction. And so the fluid and the follicles collected goes through the needle into the test tube. And then that test tube is handed off to the embryologist. They look under the microscope and try and isolate the egg. Now, yeah, I'm just so full of dumb questions here today. Paula, how do you prevent yourself from sucking out like 300 non follicle eggs and ultimately destroy your long term fertility risks? Well, you only go into the large follicles. Yeah. Which are really the only ones you can see on ultrasound. There's gazillion bags in there. But you can't even see them. And you're not running the risk of sucking up those eggs. No, no, you're just going into the follicles. It looks like a big is the ovary. The ovary, you know, a few centimeters at that point. But each follicles about two centimeters, I would say, and there might be 10. How is each follicle? Two centimeters? It's a diameter. But you said the ovaries only a couple of centimeters. No, it's like maybe five six, like a small, like plentiful or something. Okay. Wait a minute. It's a three-dimensional. Yeah. So if you have a plum or a tan-dreen that is the ovary, you're saying each follicle is two centimeters in diameter? Roughly. That's huge. One point five to two. I mean, I wouldn't have even thought it was one centimeter. How many follicles are in there? Well, on average we get 10 to 15. So yeah, maybe the ovaries is bigger. So I'm thinking more and unstimulated ovaries more like a plum when it's stimulated, more like a grapefruit. Okay. All right. Okay. I see. So you have really good resolution of where the follicles are. Yeah. Okay. So you're not running the risk of sucking everything out of the ovary. No. No. And we're just getting fluid, right? We're not touching the tissue of the ovary. Just the fluid and the follicles. Okay. But if the it's only a 16 gauge needle. Yeah. Does that mean you're puncturing the follicle? Each follicle. It's punctured before it enters the needle. Yeah. The fluid. So you do it one at a time. Yeah. You go pin into a follicle burst it open and the egg cause a 16 gauge needle is probably only a millimeter across. Yeah. You suck out all the fluid. And you don't have to take it out each time, right? You can go from follicle to follicle to follicle. You just have to go in typically twice once on the right and once on the left. Yeah. That I mean again, this is that that's pretty interesting that that works. Yeah. If you it's easiest maybe to just like watch a video of it and then you get the idea. Yeah. I'm just thinking of all the things that could go wrong and how like the needle could get gunked up with like tissue and then you got to pull it out and put it back in. All those things can happen. Yeah. You know, there's always a small risk of bleeding, small risk of infection, small risk of injury now. The more. And this is happening. You do this on both sides because presumably you're stimulating both sides. Yeah. Okay. So how long does that procedure typically take? Happen out. Okay. And you've got the embryologist next to you and here she is under the microscope going check check check check check check check. Yep. And here she is validating that you indeed are getting ripened eggs and they look different presumably, right? Like those are easy to identify under a light microscope. Basically they tell us they got eggs. We don't know if they're mature yet we know nothing about them yet. I see. But long we get the eggs. They go to the lab and then the rest of the process happens there. So in the retrieval we're just aspirating all the follicles trying to get as many eggs as possible. Okay. So then let's just assume that the woman is doing this not to just freeze her eggs but because she wants to get pregnant. Okay. Would you then go ahead and when she wakes up have a discussion that says we got this many eggs how many would you like to fertilize? How many would you like to freeze? That discussion has happened way upstream. Yeah. Typically we're fertilizing all of them. Got it. Okay. Yeah. There's no reason not to fertilize. Okay. So tell me the time course now and how you move from retrieval to fertilization. Right. So then the the eggs are sitting in the petri dish in the lab. What's the medium? It is this proprietary medium that it is proprietary. Yes. No. So meaning each lab will have its own medium. There are commercial companies that make it but the exact exact components of it. Not entirely known. So there are different companies that have different mediums. Yes. I believe there's more than one but it's meant to kind of emulate the the fluid in the tubes like word fertilization would normally happen. So how much of a competitive advantage is it for an embryologist? How many options do they have to choose from commercially? Of media? I think there's not many media companies. Yeah. I see. Yeah. Is this a huge area of innovation in the field? It must be. Really? I mean. I would have guessed this would be so important. I think they got it down. Okay. Was there a day when this was a problem? I'm sure. Yeah. Maybe in the early days. So you've got the embryologist transfers this to the media? Yep. Okay. Few hours later the eggs are inseminated. So with conventional IVF, we just put a bunch of sperm in there and let the fertilization happen by itself. With XE or interest rate of plasma experiment injection, the embryologist takes a single sperm and injects it into each egg. And the only time again you need to do XE is if the sperm is so dysfunctional that it can't even on its own with no barriers make its way to fertilization when placed in direct proximity to an egg. It probably could but maybe there's two few sperm. So anytime there's a male factor we tend to do XE. Any male factor you just ran out of XE. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And in fact, a lot of times it's done even when there isn't a male factor because fertilization rate is a little bit higher with XE compared to IVF in very few cases. You don't get fertilization so you don't want to find out. Oh, by the way, sperm can't fertilize your egg. That's the whole problem I'm on because then you got to lay the egg. So for again, for a couple listening to us now, this is something they need to be talking about with their fertility doc which is, hey, do you do XE out of the gate no matter what or yeah, it's a little controversial because it adds cost. How much cost? You know, it's probably another thousand dollars or two thousand or something. Probably a thousand. Okay. But so the data to be clear shows that XE and IVF have similar success rates for non-male factor. But I'm just telling you that a lot of times we're doing it anyway because we don't want to find out small, very small percentage cases that have zero fertilization. That's like not all that conversation. Yeah. Yeah. Because you've lost those eggs too. Right. Right. So that's part of the reason that we do it. But technically, if you just look at the data, success rates should be the same. Okay. And conventional IVF, if non-male factor. But a lot of times there's sperm factor so we're doing XE anyway. Sorry, what do you these go into the media sits at room temperature? Sorry, at body temperature, you put it into a 37 degree of the body temperature in incubator and then all the micromanipulations happening in. What are the types of manipulations that are needed to foster the right environment? How much you are moving the fluid around? How often you changing the media? This is like the most important cell culture experiment of all time. Pretty much, pretty much. And to be fair, it's done by the embryologists and up by me, but they stripped the eggs first, which means they removed the cells around the eggs. Then a few hours later they're injecting the sperm into each egg. And then the media these days may or may not get changed over the five or six days that we culture the embryos trying to like not have to take the embryos out of the incubator if we don't have to kind of thing. So by the next day, usually we look at the embryos to see or the eggs see if they're fertilized. Usually about 70% of the eggs fertilize. So let's say we get 10 eggs. You can expect maybe seven of them. We'll be fertilized in another seven embryos. So we discard the unfertilized eggs, continue to culture. Can you tell that grossly or are you having to move them under a microscope? Under a microscope. Yeah. And then we culture them in the Petri dish. At this point are they all in one dish or are you separating them? They're in one like droplet of oil and there might be more than one droplet in each dish. How are embryologists trained? How does one become an embryologist? Yeah. Well, there's no clear pathway. There's not like a whole bunch of embryology schools. So that's probably why I wanted to be an embryologist. What would I do? Mostly like I'm a apprenticeship. Almost you might start working in a fertility clinic and do some basic kind of lab prep work initially. Most of them have some sort of, you know, undergraduate science background. But you don't have to. But anyway, you gain experience in the lab and then eventually you become a junior embryologist. So it's like a mentorship program. How many years would it take for if I started tomorrow working as a lab tech who was doing nothing but cleaning Petri dishes? Yeah. How many years would it take for me to be the head embryologist in your lab? It might take four to five years. It didn't take a while. Yeah. Now there's some formal schools available as well that with online programs, with some in-person components. I mean, this seems not to take anything away from what you do, but you could have the best fertility doctor if they don't have a good embryologist. You're not going to have great success rates. Oh yeah. I would say the lab is almost more important than what we do because they're just more variability. But luckily, you know, at least the United States labs are pretty, pretty good. But yeah, that's like the- Like think of the point in the way. I mean, I- because I used to work in a lab. Yeah. I just think I just can think of a hundred ways that could get screwed up contaminated, jossled, like all these things that could go wrong. Super important. Yeah. So I'm most of the success rate. Probably more related to what happens in the lab than anything I do or one of my physician colleague does. I guess the question is, how does it- Well, let's finish the story in the one come back. Yeah. Okay. So how many date you go to 14 days? No. No. No. No. Five, five days. Okay. I have six days. And depending if we're doing a fresh transfer or freezing the embryos or fresh transfer weeks. So you'll take both, right? We do both. Yeah. Although these days most of the time we're freezing. Because you're doing genetic screening. Because we're doing genetic testing. Okay. So let's go through that exam. Okay. So we're capturing these embryos in the Petri dish for five to six days. Mm-hmm. Then we look at them again. The ones that have made it to that stage, which is usually only half of them. So remember your seven. Now maybe they're three or four. So what explains that? So most likely the ones that didn't make it are the premise. I'm only abnormal ones. Remember we talked earlier about those ones. So not making it. And there were a reason it's only half is because by definition you're doing this in women who tend to be a bit older. Like if you were doing this and if not that one would do this, but just as a thought experiment, if you did this exact thing in 18-year-old girls, presumably you'd have a much higher success rate. Yeah. The blast, we call that the blast stimulation rate is a little bit higher in younger women. Also you have more eggs and more embryos, of course, right? Yeah. But yes, the blast stimulation rate, the ones that make it to day five or six is a lower percentage. The older woman is because higher proportion of those embryos are just going to be abnormal. So the ones that make it to day five or six are more likely to be normal, but that not necessarily normal. So we can also do genetic testing on those embryos, which involves biopsyne them. So we take a few cells from the embryo, freeze the embryos. So yeah, let's talk about that. So how many cells do you have at five days again? Uh, altogether you might have like 60 to 80 cells. Okay. So you take two or three of those. Pyrusic. Pyrusic. Yeah. And they're from the perimeter. The trophobloss, right? So that not the embryo directly, but the cells surround the embryo. You still have full genetic material there. Yeah. And so you do that for each and every egg and then you every embryo. Sorry. And then you freeze each embryo? Yeah. I mean, with the freezing process is like. So the freezing process, uh, these days is one called vitrification is called in, and it's like this special kind of freezing that doesn't result in ice crystals. So how do you do that? There's a process. It happens in the lab there's a machine. It does it that lowers the temperature and uh, so the rate at which they lower the temperature. Right. It's rapid. Okay. So it's like a nitrogen, the right, basically. Right. Right. It's supposed to all day as we did slow freezing. Um, so it becomes like a glassless, glass-like state with all crystals. But the, it works really well. And the survival is really high. And then you store them at what temp, like liquid nitrogen temp? Yeah. So they're, it's not like in your freezer. No. And, and then how long is it take typically to get the genetic results back? Uh, typically within a week or two. Okay. Yeah. And what depth of genetic testing is being done here. Are you doing whole genome sequence or are you just looking at a handful of SNPs that are pre-identified as the ones that matter? Yeah. Good question. So it's evolved over time. And I should say it's still very controversial because there's always a risk of harming the embryos. You're only looking at a few cells. So is it really representative of the embryo? I mean, we do it a lot. And the data definitely shows that if you transfer normal embryo, it has a very high chance of implanting. But the issue is recently has been, are we discarding embryos that are maybe normal? Uh, because we think they're abnormal based on the genetic testing about the genetic testing is flat. So whole, there's a new, a new genetic testing is really easy to identify an employee. That's, it's a chromosomal analysis is triggered up to do that right? Okay. Right. So most of the time we're using something called next generation sequencing, which is you know, very high level sequencing, but it's not whole genomes sequencing. So you're getting targeted. Yeah. And you're looking mostly at chromosomal abnormalities. Unless you know that the couple is a carrier for some genetic mutation that you also want to screen. Yeah. So let's say one of the parents, well, this would be a bad example, but... Sistic fibrosis, like let's say both. Yeah. So both of them have our carrier for CF. And so there's a one in four chance that you're going to get two copies of CF. So then you're looking directly for this CF. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. A sickle cell. Yeah, there's a whole bunch of them. Okay. And part of the screening we didn't mention it, but most people doing IVF will get carrier screening to see if they're carriers for any genetic mutations. Usually. That's a pretty common scenario where you have two people that are CF carriers, neither of whom have CF. Most of those people would say, I'm going to do IVF because I don't want to take the chance that might kid. Okay. And then what about people who come in and say, oh, but, you know, one of us is each in APOE4 carrier. And so we're each a three four and we would really like to not select a four four as an example. Yeah. So one is that are you able to look at that and to, you know, does that sort of cross an ethical line? Yeah. It's a little more controversial when you're talking about a non-deterministic adult consequence genes. With variable penetrance, right? You may or may not get Alzheimer's or whatever it is, right? So it's a little more controversial, but we're kind of going in that direction. I would say we're definitely going probably in the near future towards whole genome sequencing where we can pick up even mutations that happen to know of what we call denover, right? Like you might not be a carrier, but it might just happen randomly. So you could pick up some disease that way. And then what you're talking about is like, like, Barack, you know, Barack? Yeah. You know, often we know ahead of time patients carry or we can test for it, but LPA for cardiovascular disease. Yeah. There's a whole bunch of things, right? So people are starting to talk about polygenic screening of embryos, but it's a little more controversy because the science is quite settled yet. And it's one thing if you're already doing 9vf and we have these embryos here and we're just going to add another layer of testing, like which one of these embryos is at higher risk for like whatever diabetes or high-peter gender? Whole different story if you're saying, oh, you should do IVF because of because we want to, you know, get the embryo with the lowest risk of these diseases. So we're not quite there. There's a very controversial plus it's expensive and, you know, we're already talked about cost barriers and there are ethical issues as well or we now, you know, is there a form of, you know, positive eugenics and that type of thing? So that particular type of testing is still controversial, but anti-poit testing, testing for chromosome abnormalities is pretty routine, pretty standard. Now there was a day when people weren't doing any genetic testing and the embryos selection was just based on morphology, right? Yes, yes, which is back in the days where we had to transfer more than one embryo because we didn't know. You could look at two embryos and they could look both normal, but one of them is chromosomeally abnormal, one's not and you can't really tell. So we had to transfer more embryos to get decent pregnancy rates. Now with genetic testing because we know that a chromosome or normal embryo has a pretty high chance of implanting, not 100%, like maybe 70, 75%, so there's still reasons for some reason. That's not the whole story, right? Because even chromosome or normal embryos sometimes don't implants. Yeah, that's lower than I would have guessed. Is it? 70 to 75% for something that's cromasomally normal, negative guessed at that stage, given all the selection of state tests. What is the concordance between chromosomeally? Let's go one step further. Chromasomally genetically normal and good morphology. How can be portrayed to a Christian? It's good correlation. We use both, right? So if there's one of if there's discordance there, which one are you relying on, or are you discarding, unless you have concordance that's positive for both? In reality, the ones that have poor morphology are even frozen or biopsied, they're just started. Because we knew. So we selected it out. Yeah, so there might be a little bit of difference in morphology between the ones that you've actually decided to freeze and biopsying keep. And presumably have the genetic testing on all of them. Do you would preferentially, of course, transfer the ones that are cromasomally normal, even if the morphology gradies is a little bit lower. Yeah, so you have, so we've selected out bad morphology. Let's just say you harvested 15. You fertilized 10. Seven had good morphology. Six came back genetically good. Those would be reasonable numbers? Yeah, the six out of seven is high. Yeah. So five came back genetically good. Let's say, a young person. Yeah. So you got one third, one third of what you harvested, you could implant. You're saying each of those is 70 to 75% success rate and yet you would only implant one at a time. Yeah. Which is interesting. Because if you implanted two, let's do the math. You're talking about 50% chance. That's right. Let's just say, yep, twins. Yeah, which is high. Two high. We just can't take that risk. Yeah. I mean, you know, obviously, you know, we believe in patient autonomy, patient usually gets to make that decision. But you're going to make the case for where this one is not a gradient. Okay. If you want to help the baby in the end, you want to help the mom. Yeah. Okay. So now let's talk about not it's time to implant. So how does that process work? So that process is much less complicated. But equally important. So usually does it's timed, right? It has to happen at a certain time in the cycle. So we either use the one in its natural cycle to time it and time it at the time that implantation would normally occur, which is like the second half of the cycle. Or we use what we call a controlled or program cycle where we basically give the woman the hormones. And then again, time, the transfer to happiness specific time. The actual process kind of like a pap smear. It's basically doesn't require any anesthesia or anything. We do do it under ultrasound guidance. So abdominal ultrasound. We saw one of the embryos draw it up in a little catheter with a little syringe on the end. Place the speculum in the vagina and then just pass the catheter through the cervix. And we're looking on the ultrasound for the placement. And where are you implanting it? About 1.5 centimeters to 2 centimeters from the top of the u-race. So a few centimeters through the cervix. And how do you make sure it doesn't come out? I mean you can't, but it doesn't usually you put it in there kind of slight, describe it kind of like more like peanut butter in there. It's not like you can stand up and it comes out. It's a total volume you're injecting. Like the deep microleaders like really small. Yeah. And what is the inside of a uterus look like? At that stage. Because you've timed it so that this is a uterus that doesn't have a lining yet, right? That's the lining. How thick is the lining? It's about 7 to 10 millimeters. But it's going to get a heck of a lot thicker. So it's still, it's only, this is technically only about 14 days past her period. So are you doing it artificially more into the luteal phase? So it's roughly 7 days or so after ovulation. So the one is thick and ready. Okay. And that's one of the things we check with ultrasound before we do the transfer to make sure the lining. So what does that, what does it actually look like? Is it like, is it it's a tentacle fingers or on the ultrasound, which is how we assess it? It basically the two walls of the uterus are, you know, opposing each other. It's not like you can see. It's a potential space, not a potential space. Exactly. And then on the ultrasound, the lining has a different equidensity than the one on the cell frame. Right. So we can measure the thickness. And basically the combined thickness of the two posing walls has to be at least 7 millimeters or so. And if you get in there and do the ultrasound and it's not, are you going to come back and try to do it another day and have you lost that egg because it's been thought or can you keep that egg in the medium now? We essentially assess the lining a week before we do the transfer. I got it. So we would not thought the embryo unless we were sure the line is going. It's go time. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, because once it's thought, I mean, you can refuse it. No, I'm sure it doesn't do this. Not a good idea. Yeah. Okay. So I see. So once you put that egg in there, every, that's right. That embryo in there closer to the top of the uterus. It's in that it's largely being held in place by the opposition the wall. And then are you done or are you still doing ongoing hormone therapy? Um, sometimes we give supplemental progesterone. That's another hormone that helps maintain the pregnancy and then usually, you know, 12 to 14 days later, the patient has her first pregnancy test. Hopefully she's pregnant. We usually follow the pregnancy for the first few weeks. Can you tell she transfers to her non-ivid? Yeah. Wow. Um, I just kind of amazing that this all works. Yeah. I've been doing it for 30 plus years and I still find it fascinating. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So how often does a woman go through all of this and for whatever reason you can't get enough eggs or the eggs you get are not cromazomally normal and her next alternative is an egg donor. Yes. Unfortunately, more often than we would like, uh, again, it depends on the age of the patient. But sometimes, you know, patients do multiple cycles. Maybe they don't have any normal embryos or maybe even the normal embryos where we transfer, don't take or number of different things can happen. So the most common reason someone would need an egg donor is usually a internal age. So someone who's older and is tried to get pregnant with her own eggs hasn't worked for whatever reason and then now she's looking at egg donation as an option. That works really well. So usually egg donors are young women and their 20s, early 30s sometimes and they produce multiple eggs and then the age of the uterus doesn't seem to matter as much. So the success rate with donor egg is quite high and so about 75% whereas, you know, for women over 40 using their own eggs, success rate might be 10 to 20%. Her in cycle. Per cycle? Yeah. Wow. 10 to 20%. Yeah. For a 40 year old woman. Yeah. Untested embryos, right? Or the name it, not get any embryos, right? Normal embryos. Yeah. I did not really realize it was that low. Yeah. How many times can a young woman be an egg donor before you worry about? Is there anything you worry about if you're counseling these women? Because I assume the same women are coming to you as egg donors. Yeah. Sometimes people do it multiple times. Sometimes they just do it once. Does it pose any risk to you? No. There's essentially undergoing the IVF process themselves or the least the first half of it. So there's the risk we talk about over an hyperstimulation which is rare. Rists associated with the retrieval and Esthesia. But is there anything that like restricts her ability to get pregnant later in life? No. Barring any complications from major complications. It does not seem to impact future fertility. What is the typical fee for it's collected by an egg donor? It's usually between five and ten thousand dollars depending on where you live. Okay. So that's a lot of money. There's real incentive to do that period. Yeah. And so a woman could do that a couple times a year if she wanted to. So the guidelines up to six times. Six times a year? No. Six times lifetime. Oh. Okay. Up to six times. Yeah. And that's a little bit arbitrary but you know the professional side is decided. That's kind of a good number of times. Maybe most people don't do it that many times. You might just do it once or twice. And so what do you and maybe you don't do this? I don't know. But how women who undergo egg donation or IVF via egg donation? What do you discuss with them about the appropriateness of timing in explaining to the children that they have a different genetic mother? So before anybody does egg donation or even before they donate eggs, we always have them meet with one of our mental health therapists. Just as a cycle educational visit to go over these types of questions and best practices around what to tell the child went to tell the child. General rule is tell them early and tell them often. So you basically want to normalize the thing. And you definitely want to be the ones to tell them and you don't want them to find out some other by some other means like somebody context them on 23 amere or something like that. And early means what? Like telling them before they understand reproduction? Like how are you telling them? Again, it's a little outside my area of expertise but when they're quite young like it could be like four to six years of age or then it might depend on the child and you know how much her they are, etc. But basically in there's different ways to introduce the concept. I mean obviously if it's you know a same sex couple or if it's a single person might happen earlier, suppose to a straight couple. If someone's listening to this and they're trying to figure out how to select a good IVF clinic. What what what are the things they should be looking for? Because I would have to assume that it's like any other field of medicine, right? Not all doctors and not all clinics are created equal and just because you see a lot of advertising doesn't tell you anything, right? So so in the other way, you're going to have to become a very very intelligent consumer. For most people, this will be the single most expensive out-of-pocket health care expense they have. Yeah, that's true. And so it's not just that it's the most expensive health care decision that we're ever going to make, it might be one of the most consequential as well. For sure. And yet I mean, I know what I suggest to people when someone says Peter you know my wife and I are thinking about getting IVF, what do you think? I just go down the rabbit hole of like here's a hundred questions I would ask. Yeah. And it usually begins with tell me your success rate individually. I don't care about the national success rate. It means nothing to me. So how would you counsel someone who's trying to come up with their checklist of questions to ask? Yeah, there's a good, it's a good question. And you know, these days is a little bit easier because obviously there's the internet and there's suggested questions online. You could look at, it's true there is some variability amongst clinics. Although there's a lot of consolidation happening in the field as well. So a lot of practices are becoming common to most clinics. But some of it is practical, right? Like which clinics are close to where you live? Because as a... Yeah, you gotta go in every few days. So you can't be going to another state. And you know most people can. But in most major cities you have multiple options. In most major cities that's true. Yeah. So you're right about individual clinics, success rates although technically it's hard to use those to compare them to each other because you don't necessarily know the patient population, right? So how do you normalize it to... Right. So one thing for sure look at the success rates. And we're one of the few fields of medicine where actually you can get clinic specific success rates. So... You mean publicly it's available or... It's available? Yeah. So... Where do you find it? Well the CDC... Until recently, there is a law actually this is you have to report every IVF cycle in the success rate that was passed in the 90s. So because of that the CDC tracks this, although all the people that work in that department were fired recently. So we don't know what's going to happen with that. But also our professional organizations called Society of Assisted Reproductive Technology has a website called SART.org is the URL. And all the clinics in the U.S. or most of them are on there. And they have to report their success rates and they're published every year. There's usually like a two-year lag because the babies have to be born and everything. So I would send people to that website first. Look at the clinics in your area, look at the success rates, keeping in mind, right, that populations might be different in different clinics. I probably would go to a clinic that does a sufficient volume. You have to do at least 100 cycles I would say, but ideally more than that. Your clinic has how many doctors? Our clinic has about six doctors. And how many total cycles do you guys do a year? We do like six to 800 retrievals a year. There's a lot of variability. There's some clinics that do thousands. There's some that do like 50. So that would be one factor that I think is important just volume. Like, and you have how many embryologists? We have something like nine embryologists. Yeah. Yeah. There is a shortage of embryologists, you know nationwide and reproductive chronologists because of demand for IVF is going up, right? So I would definitely look at the clinic's success rates, look at the volume, the other thing, you know, with the internet, especially, you can look at patient reviews, you know, word of mouth, and got to take those with a grain of salt, right? Yeah, they tend to be negative selecting. Right. Not everybody who has a great experience, necessarily going to post it on Reddit. But everyone who has a bad one does. Yeah. Yeah. So you have to take that with a grain of salt. But they're objective ways. And you can also like, interview your doctor. Yeah. What are questions you should be asking of the doctor that are independent of the objective metrics that we might have just discussed? You can ask about their sort of philosophy about protocols, about things like add-ons, like genetic testing, you know, for example, is like, are you a clinic where everybody is encouraged to do a genetic testing? You know, that's not necessarily the clinic I would choose, right? You talk to the patient about the pros and cons and you let the patient decide. We do a lot of genetic testing, so it's not like I'm against it or anything. But, you know, you want to get a sense of the vibe of the clinic. You know, are they just, you know, interested in money, not that doctors, everything like that. But you know what I mean? So sometimes it takes having a consultation with one or more clinics to see where you feel more comfortable. You know, on a little bit bias towards some academic centers just because our missions include education and in research, etc. But there's several very excellent private clinics as well. What would be some red flags if you're going through this process? And by the way, do you have a, is, how much of a Delta is there in cost within a same city or, do prices tend to converge within a given geography? Yeah, within a given geography they're pretty similar and it's not cheap. Yes, so what are we at today? Fully low to cost? You know, when IVF cycles probably around $20,000 per cycle. That doesn't include genetic testing or does. Including genetic testing. Okay. Per cycle. But how does that compare to 20 years ago? Is that more or less inflation? Prices like most things have gone up. It has. Yeah. Okay. I mean, in all, I guess it should go up just based on the cost of labor that goes into all these. Yeah. And there's, you know, even though the genetic testing is coming down. Yeah. Innovations and things like, you write like you think as volume goes up eventually prices go down. But that quite hasn't quite happened. And that's new things get out of it. And it just tends to become more expensive. And most people are probably still paying out of pocket. Most people are not getting this covered by insurance. Again, depends where you live. Yeah. Yeah. But across the country. Yeah. And I think there are now there are 24 states that offer some kind of fertility coverage about 15 of them include IVF. So most of the, you're right, most places. They're paying out of pocket if your employer doesn't happen to offer infertility insurance coverage. Yeah. So red flags. You know, again, the communication with the clinic. So a lot of your experience is going to be communicating with nurses and, you know, just setting up a coordinator's. Yeah. So you you know, you want to get a sense of what that is like because that could be stressful if it's not smooth. And oftentimes, you know, our clinic included sometimes it's not smooth. I mean, there've been, you know, some things we try and do like texting and apps and things to make the communication, you know, easier. But it doesn't always work the way it's supposed to kind of thing. And you want to get time with your doctor. So some clinics, you hardly ever see the doctor. And you see maybe the ultrasound on a firm not that that's bad. You know, but it's kind of nice. Some patients prefer to have that sort of more frequent interaction with their actual probably a sweet spot in volume where you, it's from an inverted you ship where if they're too low, they don't have the reps if they're too high. It's a bit of a sweatshop and if actually you want, you want in the middle there. Yeah. Okay. Let's pivot now and talk about a few other things. So what's on the horizon medically for extending fertility? So there's a, there's a study going on at Cornell or Columbia. Columbia that's looking at the use of rap a mice and to extend fertility in women. Now I have to be honest with you, I, there was a day when I knew what the study was and what the inclusion criteria were. I, I, I, I don't get the moment. I'm assuming you are more familiar with this than I am. Well, what is the question that is being asked and how is it being asked in this study? Yeah. So there's a lot of interest in extending fertility right? Like up until, you know, 100 years ago, women were basically dying at 50s. Yeah. Average age of menopause. So it's a kind of a recent phenomenon that we're actually living a third of our lives, you know, postmenopause. But infertility starts to decline way before you go through menopause. So there's a lot of interest in trying to extend fertility. Now, of course, egg freezing, which we haven't talked about yet, is one of the ways you can extend fertility. And it works pretty well as long as you're young when you freeze your eggs. But again, it's a relatively recent phenomenon, not a, you know, usually covered by insurance and it's expensive, et cetera. So it's not the answer. Because you're paying basically half the IVF cycle to harvest and then you're paying to freeze. Yeah. Exactly. What's the cost of freezing? About a thousand dollars. Well, $10,000 for a cycle. And then about a thousand dollars a year for storage. And you're recommending that women, if a woman came to you at 20 and said, you know, I'm going, I just want to double down on my career right now. I want to do x, y, and z. I think I want to have kids at least want the optionality when should I freeze by? Are you going to just say, do it now? Because no. Yeah. Yeah. I wouldn't recommend all women in their 20s freeze their eggs, because most of those eggs will never be used. So you'd be doing it for nothing because most of those women probably not need IVF, they're pregnant spontaneously, right? Got it. Okay. This week spot we think is like early to mid 30s. That's where it makes the most sense. Like, because you're about to kind of get to the probability cliff where it starts to really decline. Okay. Right. And if it doesn't, if you think you might want to have kids, but you're not in a place in your life where you think that's going to happen in the next few years, then doing it early to mid 30s. It's probably the time where it's most cost effective. Very highly likelyhood that you will use them. If you have for the first kid maybe for the second kid. And you know, it might be worth spending $10,000 and $1,000 for you. And do you freeze them? You freeze every egg you retrieve? Only then a mature one. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. And what's the for a typical 30 year old? You're going to get what we talked about earlier. Probably 10 to 15 per second. Sometimes more, but that's not true. And how many do you recommend a 30 year old do? Yeah. So there's some calculators online. So the younger you are, the fewer as you need, because more of them are going to be normal. So someone 30, you know, I think 10 to 20 would give you decent chances success. No guarantees. There's never any guarantees. But even, you know, study show that even if people use those eggs and then are not successful, the fact that they did something proactively, there's some psychological benefit in doing that. So even if, you know, ultimately doesn't work out or you don't end up using them. But at that age, maybe 10 to 20, obviously if you're, you know, as you get closer to 40, you might need 20 to 40 or 50, which is not practical for most people, right? Because you can't do that many cycles. And it's expensive and there's a risk involved. So so I think egg freezing is a great option for for women. I also think as a society, we should try to make it easier, obviously, for women to have kids during their peak reproductive years or 20s and 30s. So the whole different question, but I think heavy options is a good thing. So back to the Rapa Mison question, they're basically saying, look, is there a way that we could push that out a little bit? And so how is this study testing this? Yeah. So Rapa Mison, as some of your listeners may know, is kind of used in other sort of anti-aging contact. So there's some animal data that shows that maybe Rapa Mison might extend fertility in that. Remember the egg cell death that we talked about earlier by preventing that to some degrees so that the eggs last longer in your fertile for more years. So there's some data in like mice primarily, there's some data show that it's not helpful as well. So the data I would say is mix in animal models and the study at Columbia is actually trying to test it in humans. So believe it's a few months study where they're giving relatively low dose of Rapa Mison, I forget exactly maybe five milligrams daily. And then they're daily, not weekly. I think it's daily. Okay. But in first time. Percentual. Well, we'll pull it up and put the ash on. I should have known this. Yeah. And then I think there are outcome markers, AMH. I believe it's that home own. So I don't know, I'm not. It's a relatively inexpensive study. They're not, they're not, they're not. Invasively looking at follicles. And because what you have to believe then is in just a period of a few months, you could pick up a signal of more or less AMH reduction. Right. And even if you can, like, what does that mean? Really, AMH is, so this study could be negative. And if the study is positive, it's interesting. If it's negative, it probably doesn't tell us much. Right. If it's only three to six months. Right. Right. To really do the study, I mean, you need like, you need a few years. Right. You need pregnancy, outcomes, or at least, you know, menstrual, you know, menopause, age of menopause. So that would take for a long time. And you'd have to take it for many years. Probably. Right. Yeah. That's going to be a really difficult question to answer. Yeah. Yeah. Humans. Yeah. And, you know, I'm, again, because of the animal data not being consistent. You know, some studies show, yeah, maybe it's helpful, but other studies show that it might be actually harmful because of the way it acts as being immune as a press of things. So I certainly, for any listeners trying to conceive, I would not recommend wrap up my sin. But yes, I'm curious about the data coming out of Columbia and other studies. Are there any other things that a woman can do to maximize her fertility beyond? Let's, we've already addressed sort of PCOS, we've already addressed kind of the metabolic stuff. But, you know, we hear things all the time like stress, sleep. I mean, these things seem self-evident. But what would be kind of the most common things you would be saying to a woman who is otherwise experiencing eye-atrogenic for lack of a better word infertility? Yeah. I think all those things are important like lifestyle factors. They're rarely the sole cause of infertility. They can, they can certainly exacerbate infertility as well as any other disease. So I think the lifestyle factors that promote health are generally the same lifestyle factors that promote fertility. So healthy diet, you know, avoiding. Is there anything we can say more on that? I mean, it's like, what is a healthy diet as it pertains to fertility? Is it different? Right? Does a woman who's getting ready to conceive, does she need more fat in her diet? For example? Yeah. Yeah. As you probably know, the data on diet is not great for anything, especially not fertility. So I would say there's very little evidence that there's particular diet that's good for fertility that's different than what's good in general. So for most of my patients, I recommend a Mediterranean diet that diet is palatable most people and has fair amount of evidence that, you know, it's reasonably healthy and that's like a lot of fruit and vegetables, whole grains, protein mostly from, you know, fish and olive oil and those types of things. So it's not that different from what I would recommend for anybody. By the way, I think I said, I had for Genica, I meant idiopathic, but you know what I meant. I think from the end of the, yeah. So what about supplements? I'm sure you get as this question all the time. There's no shortage of over the counter supplements that people, you know, report in grace fertility. I get asked these questions all the time and have blank stares because I don't know. Is there anything you can point to and I love framework. So maybe one framework is are there supplements that correct legitimate deficiencies like vitamin D or B vitamins where we could make a case that supplemented with these things happen? And I'm talking beyond just the prenatal vitamins that are obvious and necessary. We'll leave that to the side because it's so self-evident. Versus supplements that are kind of more grab bag mystery supplements where you're not actually correcting some obvious deficiency, but we think it might increase fertility. So the day around supplements, even, less robust than the day to her own diet, I would say. Yes, if you're correcting deficiencies, I think you can make a case for that. So there's, you know, a lot of women, reproductive age women are iron deficient, for example, and they need to be on iron supplements. You mentioned prenatal vitamins obviously full of casters important for anybody trying to get pregnant. People who live in Portland, Oregon, like I do, we tend to be vitamin D deficient. So I usually recommend vitamin D for people. But other supplements specifically for fertility, the ones I most commonly hear about are things like Coke U10 or DHAs, another one. And there's some data that might be helpful again. It's not very robust. DHA, which just increases endogenous testosterone pressures. Equality, like who knows. Yeah, I mean, the data isn't great. So I don't want to improve libido. Maybe I think people have studied that. It doesn't work so well. Okay. Yeah, it is a week and Virginia right. But yeah, the data is not very promising. But so for most of these things, you know, the data is not there. And probably will never be there, right? Because there's symptoms that are there. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So it probably doesn't hurt, though. And so I'm, you know, relatively supportive of patient wants to take Coke U10 or some data around it. Sure. And do you think it's just psychological where? No, no. If they, if they, if they take it and they feel that they're doing something better, it reduces their stress around it. Like it's for me, I can't help but think that stress has such a negative impact on fertility. Oh, for sure. And on many aspects of health, for sure. It's so difficult to quantify, right? Like we can't act. We don't have a biomarker for stress. Right. Even measuring cortisol doesn't actually tell you anything about the experience of stress. And so I just think so many negative health outcomes are a result of it. And therefore anything that a person can do to improve their stress. Yeah. I agree with you. And if taking supplements helps with that, sure, I'm all for it. Yeah, I'm not advocating that we should be going crazy on it. Right. I have it in split. But I just wonder if any of the efficacy of those things is mediated through that reduction of stress. Possibly. Yeah. And as long as it's not harmful, that's, you know, great. So, and when we say the data isn't there, it's just because it doesn't mean that it doesn't work. It's just nobody's shown when we're in other weather works, right? So it's quite possible. Yeah. Cook you tend to have some effect that we don't know about. And, you know, my feelings if I don't think it's harmful. And, you know, patient wants to take it. Maybe he helps with their stress, sure. I'm for that. Other things, you know, stress, every almost everybody has some degree of stress in their lives, right? Like some more than others, unfortunately. But it's really hard to get rid of all the stress. Like it's not helpful to tell patient. Well, you just need to be less stressed. I'm like, okay, now what? But, you know, finding ways to cope with the stress is really what we're talking about. And that can be different for different people's, for some people, it could be exercise for some people, it could be meditation for some people, you know, whatever mindfulness is. Whatever it is. But definitely, I think it's important. Same as sleep and we talked about diet, you know, exercises is important. Do you caution women or do we know anything about too much exercise for women who are trying to conceive them? And we certainly hear stories about, you know, college athletes and women who are doing a lot are actually having difficulty even maintaining a regular menstrual cycle. So, if you're dealing with a woman who's, when you're taking that social history and you're trying to understand, what are some clues to you that her exercise might actually be too much and that might be impacting her fertility. Right. Right. So, extreme exercise can be associated with fertility issues, although I think for most patients of benefits of exercise as we know. Yeah. But how are you dealing with what is extreme for so-so? So, if it causes any change in a person's cycle, so for some of the most more extreme athletes, sometimes they'll their periods will stop altogether, there's a condition called reds, it's relative energy, deficiency, and sport. And basically the body is very smart. If you think like, there's not enough energy around to support a pregnancy because we're spending it all on this exercise. We're just going to like shut the whole thing down and it works really well. But the patient stops menstruating. So, obviously, they're going to have difficulty getting pregnant. They're not ovulating. If you're not menstruating means you're not ovulating. Also, has other implications that for things like bone health, because the ovary in addition to making eggs also makes estrogen and estrogen super important for bone health. So, yeah, definitely if you know one lesson for the listeners, keep track of your, we talked about the seam analysis being kind of a marker of other health outcomes. Your periods are also a marker. Of course, if you're on hormonal contraception, you might not know what your natural cycle is doing. But if your cycles are regular or if you're not having them at all or if they're super painful or they're super heavy, and sometimes you don't know what super painful or super heavy because no. It's not because of that, right? But thankfully, this generation of young women is talking more and they're seeing an internet, et cetera. But don't wait to you're ready to try to get pregnant to figure that out. You know, there may be something important you need to know way ahead of time. And we've already talked about obesity, but on the other side of that is there a certain body fat level beneath which fertility is also impacted? Yeah, there's not like a cutoff, but certainly being overweight or obese can impact fertility and being severely underweight. But for the underweight people, similar mechanism, if you're brain thinks, there's just not enough. It's usually going to manifest through a mental area. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. So healthy weight, healthy diet, exercise, sleep, sleep can also disrupt its sleep. Good effect ovulation and fertility stress. We mentioned all these things. All things you mentioned in your book as well are all the same things that are important for fertility. Lastly, what do you think is the most promising area of research? And if we're sitting here in 10 years and we're talking about this and we're looking back at the last decade. What do you imagine you will be most excited about from an innovation perspective? Yeah. It's a very exciting field of medicine. There's always sort of the innovations happening. I think let's see, Genec testing will continue to evolve as we learn more about genetics. I think that'll play a big role automation in the lab. You know, a lot of the steps we talked about earlier are like literally embryologists sitting at the microscope doing these things. But now there's some companies developing these like lab ownership concepts where you put in the egg, put in the sperm, embryo comes out. So microfluidics or yeah, microfluidics, it's a whole process being automated, which I think is it's very interesting, right? And it could potentially improve access if you could put these. So do you see this as more of a cost reduction or more of a success improvement? Maybe both because you know reduce error potentially, um, usually the cost that things tends to go up before any time, anytime there's an innovation before it comes down, maybe ultimately it'll come down. But I imagine costs worth increase. So that's kind of an exciting area in vitro maturation. That's where the eggs are like maturing in the petri-dition instead of a in a woman's body. So potentially in the future, woman wouldn't have to take all these injections and you just take the immature eggs, put them in the petri-dition and give the petri-dish the medications if you will. That's in very sort of early stages, not quite as successful as conventional IVF yet. So we're not quite there. I assume because it's difficult to harvest, un mature foggling. And even that maturation process, we haven't quite gotten it down like it happens in the body. Um, other things, a real game changer would be something like in vitro-gemmy to genesis, which is making eggs and sperm potentially from skin cells. So even if you run out of eggs, if we could take like a skin biopsy and, you know, reprogram that cell to make a nake, then potentially, you know, anywhere we in that. Very early. I think we'll see it eventually. It's been done in mice. So we're probably 10 to 20 years away. What's the obstacle? Basically reprogramming skin cells, it just the whole process, it's very complicated and not easy. People are trying their couple of companies. Meaning it is the challenge taking the skin cell back to a stem cell and then the stem cell in the brain. Yeah. And which of those two steps do we think is harder? Skin cell back to stem cell or stem cell into egg? I think they're both hard. Um, I don't know, there's a couple of different approaches including, you know, we work do research in this area as well where we're taking essentially the nucleus from a skin cell and putting it into a into another into an egg into a placing the genetic material. Exactly. So we don't have to reprogram the skin cell. We're just working on it. And is it easy to separate the chromosomes? No. Okay. It's going to sound. It's very complicated. But because I mean, myosis and, but, and it's hard for it to happen efficiently and equally, it's that it was working on it. But we're, you know, probably 10, 20 years away from. But that would be an alternative way to get to that. But then you need donor eggs so that has its own limitations because it's not like donor eggs are easy to come by either. Yeah. That's true. Although I guess what it does is it, it helps the older woman who is able to make follicles, but they're just exploiting exactly. You're a solution to that problem. Yeah. Yeah. Another thing we're working on is something called mitochondrial replacement therapy where basically similar concept you were taking like you have an older woman. Let's say she undergoes IVF. You have a donor that undergoes IVF. But you take the nucleus out of the older egg and you put it in a younger egg. So essentially the cytoplasm is from the young egg, including the mitochondria. So we think part of the ageing and just like other aspects of ageing, you know, acquired mutations in the mitochondria. So you have a young cytoplasm. Young mitochondria. Maybe those eggs will do better or that nucleus will do better in that young egg. Unfortunately, you can't do that. And you know, it states legally, but we're, we're doing trials in other countries. This is kind of a remarkable field. Again, it's still amazing to me how well this works. Right. Like if you think about it, this is, and I don't mean this in a, in a, in a disparaging way at all. It's, it's very brute force. Right. It's very mechanical. So. And yet we're, you know, as a field, not, I think having an enormous impact that is, is relatively recent. You know, and you can use sort of think about the timescale of this. So it seems to me that early intervention is better. Yeah. You're point about women who have any sort of irregularity in their cycle. If they're in their teens or twenties. Yeah. If for no other reason, beyond just the discomfort of it at the moment, getting this looked at now is a great way to get ahead of an infertility problem 10 years hence. For sure. That to me is a very important takeaway that that I don't think it's probably appreciated enough. And while I don't think we have a high listenership of 18-year-old girls. My guess is that message through parents who are listening might, might make its way to potential future patients that would, that would, would find up find themselves on your doorstep. It's also comforting to hear just how high the probability of success is in the modern era today. And it sounds to me like we're converging on quality. Right. Where is that would imagine this? This was a field that was a bit like the Wild West 20 years ago where you had a bunch of charlatans out there who were maybe not charlatans the wrong word, but just low quality practitioners. And I'm guessing today with consolidation of groups we're seeing less and less of that. More standardization, yes, for sure. I'm still blown away at the concept of the embryologist and what's required to do that and how that we don't have a more formal training path. Especially given that you said that we have a shortage of such people that seems like an incredibly rewarding career for somebody. So hopefully we can foster that. Well, anyway, Paul, this has been great. I feel between this podcast and the podcast on male fertility, I have a much better sense of this and how to address it, both very different problems, but completely comfortable. We're later for sure. Yeah, appreciate your time and your expertise. Thanks for inviting me. It's been fun. Thank you. Yeah, thanks for having me.

I want to understand more about living. And I have an idea that we could learn a lot from people who are dying. One thing to get right out of the gates here is body's die. Living things die. I think a lot of a sub-sorb, a notion of death that it's some foreign invader or something that comes out of the woods and grabs us. And otherwise, I was just fine. And then, not. I'm wondering if I should be in palliative care now. I mean, there are realities. I mean, palliative care is just good health care. Yeah. It is just one of the cool things that are in branding. But yes. Yes. Yes. It really does. Are there certain regrets that people have shared with you more often than others? What they all seem to have in common is they regret not letting themselves feel. Artificially or accidentally putting a wedge between you and anything. How much of either of you followed the sort of cellocybin work, the Roland Griffith's work? I think it can be. Amazing. It's a medical decision making, power of attorney, things like that. So one sort of public service announcement here is advanced direct is very important. You can download a form on life. Yes. Like this is a freak. But you don't need a lawyer to do this. What about the role of forgiveness? I would say more commonly what I see people needing to learn how to do is forgive themselves. You've always spent a lot of time with people in, by definition, the final stage of their life. What have you learned that changes the way you live your life or the way you want to live your life? Hey everyone. Welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. BJ. I'm amazing to have you back again and project great to meet you for the first time. Thank you guys for coming out here. BJ, you and I go way back. You're a previous guest on the podcast and we've spoken a little bit about some of the topics we're going to get to today. But when I reached out to you a few months ago to talk about this idea, you immediately suggested bringing Bridget along. So let me just share with folks what I wanted to talk about and I would love for you to share why you felt that this would be a great three person discussion as opposed to a two person. So I reached out to you and I said, look, BJ, I want to understand more about living. And I have an idea that we could learn a lot from people who are dying. And people who listen to this podcast know that I think that quality of life matters as much and potentially more than length of life. And a big part of that probably comes down to things that people think about during their life and during the end of their life. And maybe that there are regrets that people have that only surface at the end of life. So anyway, I kind of ran this idea by you. Actually, I think I ran the idea by you as do you even know anybody that would have thoughts on this and you said I'd love to talk about it. And so yeah, well, first of all, thanks for having us, Peter. It's good to see you, buddy. And I just love the setup for this conversation. I think we're very happy to be talking to you in general, but also to kind of continue to form the it's not quality of life versus quantity of life kind of false dichotomy that you've done so well to re-approximate. So we're really happy to be here and talk about this stuff. So, but why bridge it? I mean, so for me, a couple of thoughts. I mean, one is I just love bridge it in a mind and we get to work together and mirrored ways over the years. And the subject, you'll hear us again and again, we're going to work the idea that there's an objective and approach to death that is the way to go. You're not going to hear us citing much data because it's not a very well. It's an easily studied phase of life and what data do exist in to be qualitative. But this with all that subjectivity, it feels really important to have other voices sharing their point of view on sort of a similar outlook. So that's in part why bridge it. And also to for both of us, I just I mean, to speak for you, but I think the one of the things we should get up front to is, first of all, I haven't been my work in the last four years has pulled me farther away from being at a bedside. You know, and but either both of us have spent many countless hours in hospital bedside and other places that will be drawing from. But I think to get to the questions that you're interested in answering, so much of the work preparing for dying begins earlier in life, one way and another. So the idea that I think for your audience to imagine deathbed scenes that in the final moments there's this great epiphany or a climax of some sort can happen, but that's really not the norm. A lot of the action is in the days, weeks, months, years preceding the death moment. Mendef is a moment. And so one thing I think we want to get across as you've brought quantity and quality of life, we need to bring dying and living together. They are part of a whole. They're not at odds. And so that and so and so when do we begin dying, Peter? Like the second we're born exactly. So in some ways, all of us have some access to the subject already. Bridget and I are just a little bit closer to it on some level. So Bridget, what drew you to this space? I'm sure this is a question you get asked the moment people find out what you do. It's, it is an uncomfortable place to to stand. What's drawn you to it. You know, we all have our places in the world. And while this is an uncomfortable place, maybe from the outside for me, it is a pretty comfortable place. And that was sort of what got me there. I had many people in my life die. And I was in pretty close proximity to those deaths. And I wasn't freaking out. And so there is something in me. I looked around and a lot of other people were freaking out. And I was sort of like, oh, this is weird. And my unaffected, my guarded in a way that makes it some kind of numb and no actually it was more just that there was something in me that was okay around dying and also really curious about it. So that's how I got to this work. Can you say a bit more about that? What, what if you're comfortable with what were some experiences you had growing up? Yeah. My cousin, Kristen died when she was 13 and I was 18. She had pulmonary primary hypertension. And I was with her the day she died. And as you can imagine, a 13 year old dying is a pretty chaotic scene. She was not in a like official dying process that anyone was recognizing. So it was a crazy, entramatic. And there was just a stillness in me. I mean, I was very affected. There's a lot of emotion. I felt fear and overwhelm. But I also felt really able to be there for others. You know, I was 18 and the adults around me were as you can imagine all over the place. And so it was less about others, although I felt quite connected to her. It was more about being able to be like stay in my own body and be in my own experience and pay attention to what was happening, make contact with what was happening. So it was a pretty internal kind of experience and awareness. It wasn't until later experiences with one of my best friends, moms a few years later that I felt sort of that capacity in relationship to others as like a main supporter. The first imprint was really like there's something in this experience for me. PJ, people who listen to our first episode will be familiar with your story. But invariably there are a few people here who aren't. You want to give the super readers digest for a view of your story and how it probably shaped a lot of what you do today. For sure it did. I mean, so I went into medicine very simply because I had been a patient. I mean, I had no, it's not like I was pre-ordained ahead into medicine or I had never considered it. But at age 19 sophomore college, around the time bridge that you're having your experience at the bedside one way or another, my I was in the bed thanks to an electrical injury. At Princeton I was screwing around on a commuter train and climbed up on top and I had a metal watch on my left wrist and the electricity arc to the watch and that was that was that. So came very close to death. The lost and you know, you could say part of my body died. I had lost both legs and one arm. Part of them. And so that was a really big wake-up call to make. And for people who aren't familiar with that type of injury, I mean, I've seen you without a shirt on. I know with the, you know, it's it's it's not like, oh, we just cut these things off and you'll be, we'll be home Friday and we'll see what clinic next week. The burn, the magnitude of these burns, the skin graphs that are required. How long were you in the hospital? I was in the burning it for about three months. So burning it's horrible. Oh, just, that's a special place. It's not, I don't know what to compare a burning it to. For the patients or the people providing the care. It is careers very, very special people in those units. Yes. And careers tend to not last very long for a lot of reasons. There's a, these are houses of pain of a certain kind. So anyway, three months in that particular setting, which was that says a fair amount to your point about the complexity of electrical injury. I mean, that means I was on the edge for a doctor. Did you do lose kidney function? I don't recall that. I don't recall that, but I wouldn't be surprised if it was dinged. I remember, I remember looking over at the monitors many weeks in and my heart rate was, you know, 190 and, you know, just sitting there. You know, so there's a lot of fallout from an injury like that. And it takes a long time for the body to settle in and declare what's going to live and what's not. So the amputations were sequential. They take a little bit to see what tissues viable, all the while the risk of the way generally people die from burns is infection because you lose your immediate defenses to your line of defense of your skin. So hyperstair oil environment, no windows, nothing natural about it at all. You know, anyway, so that went on for a long time and tell I was out of the woods and then it was clear I was going to survive and then becomes the sort of longer work of learning to cope with this new body. And that's a, that was then tailed a lot of morning, a lot of grief, a lot of effort, a lot of creativity on my behalf as well as a lot of people around me. So took many, many months and very, to get out of that setting from the burning it into a step down unit and then into a rehab unit and then outpatient. And then begins the work of re-entering the world. And that's its own challenge with the visible disability. And as you say, the skin grafts, I was, you know, I used to be so ashamed of that, look, I used to cover it up. And then, you know, there was the work of kind of getting used to it and being comfortable in my own skin, literally again. And that took about two years before I was going to show anybody this, you know, and then five years again, hit another milestone for me to sort of being, inhabiting my own life again in some level and being anything other than an object to glare at. So anyway, there's a lot to say about, you know, a very slow process and it's ongoing, you know, I recently had a procedure. We don't need to go into details, but it's fall out from a, a central line that was being placed in my neck that got botched and clotted off in 35 years later, I had fall out from that. So it's an ongoing process all the time. I get new legs every two years or so, and that's its own process. So it does not end. So a moment ago, you alluded to the idea that kind of movie deathbed scenes are probably the exception and not the rule. I want to kind of explore this idea a little bit more, but I also want to help people maybe understand the population level, what death really looks like. So on this podcast, we talk a lot about causes of death, right? People who listen to me are very familiar with the forehorsemen, and we know about cardiovascular disease, and we know about cancer, and we know about neurodegenerative disease, and we can talk forever about these things. But we don't really talk about the very, very end, perhaps with the exception of a fatal, myocardial infarction and about 50% of MIs are fatal. But about 50% are not, and they're just setting you up for maybe heart failure or something else. So as difficult as it is, I'd love for you to sort of explain the mechanics of death, and we can start with the more common cause of death, which is cardiopulmonary death. We could talk about brain death after, but I'd love for both of you to sort of describe what's happening, both medically, socially, cognitively, like to the individual through that process. Peter, do you mean like the the the moment's leading to the death, as a body shutting down? Yeah, in those final hours, what is really happening? What does it mean to die of cancer? Right? Like, well, you know, I think for many people, it's a very foreign idea that this woman had breast cancer. Okay, there were cells in her breast that all of a sudden acquired mutations, those cells escaped from her breast and went to other parts of her body, but there's still a bit of a disconnect. Why did that? Why did the invasion of those cells to her bones and her lungs and her life? Well, Bridgio, me talk about a little bit of some of the medical physiological stuff, and you can talk about that. Yeah, that's fine. Yeah. Well, starting with this sort of more kind of cut and dry, more anatomical physiological things happening as a body's trying to die. And I like that phrase trying to die because we often find ourselves intervening in a body that's trying to die. It is one thing to get right out of the gates here is, and then bodies die. Living things die. It's, I think, a lot of a sub-sorb, a notion of death that it's some foreign invader or something that comes out of the woods and grabs us. And otherwise, I was just fine and then not, no, and as you don't know better than any of us, there are all sorts of things we can do to promote life. And there are a lot of ways where wired to hang onto life and to run from anything that's a threat to us. Those are all true and all natural. But included on the list of natural things that we do is die. So, you know, it is, that's what a body is supposed to do. I just want to get that clear. There's nothing wrong with you for dying. This is the way it's supposed to go. So, your body knows how to do this. So, let's talk about what the body knows how to do. I mean, in general, depending on the cause of death, whether the pathway might be cancer, as you're mentioning, or heart disease, or neurodegenerative diseases, there's a final common pathway of a body kind of shutting down. And it tends to shut down by organ system, you know. And it doesn't follow a neat and tidy pathway. It can happen kind of spontaneously in a kind of a moment, they're here and then they're gone. But very often, especially these days, most of us, like 80 plus percent of us will die of chronic illness. We will meet the thing that eventually waits our death while in advance of the death. So, we'll get that diagnosis. That someday will be the thing that ends our life. That's it's own. We could talk about that. That's its own kind of ball-o-axe. It comes with that fact, whereas no days, many of us, most of us died more spontaneously. You're very alive than you're very dead. Not a lot of in-between. So, in this in-between thing to get to find to your question, Peter, is the sort of shutting down phenomenon. So, oftentimes, if we're trying to prognosticate, help a person or family get a sense of how much time is left. We're looking at things like, are they in and out of bed, you know, much? Are they getting up and out of bed? So, if you're asleep on the couch or in the bed, 50% of the day, you know, and if that's sort of a progressive process, more and more fatigue, more and more tired, that usually in the context of chronic illness tells us we're heading towards the end. An interest in food and fluid is a big one. So, a body trying to die, a GI tract that's on its way to shutting down will stop sending hunger signals. And this is a big one for the audience to hear because a lot of us, you know, food equals nutrition equals nourishment equals life. So, if we see someone we love or ourselves not eating, the impulse would be, well, put some food into us. That's life. I don't want someone to starve to death is often my way to- And also love, right? Yes. How we show our care and exactly. Symbolically, the act of feeding another is, you know, the nourishment, the love to your point project comes with that there's so much around food. But then before we cut over to bridge to explain more, that's that could piece of the puzzle. You know, the body again is sending you a signal, don't put food in me because it will hurt. If a gut is not able to process the food, it sits in place and can cause pain, same with fluids. If we're forcing fluid into a body that's trying to die, that fluid will pool and cause trouble. So, the judgment of call wind to push the food and fluid and wind not is up to really a dialogue, you know, sort of a song in response with the patient. Once, you know, you might try a little bit of fluid and if that ends up in their lung or ends up swelling, then we pull back. But back to your question. So, as a body's trying to die, it will stop sending signals for that food and food and that's to be generally respected, not pushed past. Mental status. So, people often get really fuzzy in their thinking or all, and delirium is very common. So, oftentimes they'll be disoriented. I think it's 1912 and they're in a forest somewhere where they're in a hospital bed. So, that's very common. And BJ, delirium is not uncommon in the hospital. A lot of times with, otherwise, very healthy patients who are in the hospital to get surgery, the loss of circadian rhythm, the use of narcotics and other medications can easily induce delirium in a person who's otherwise not going to die. Is this a different form of delirium and what is really underpinning it? I don't know that it's a different form of delirium per se. Ultimately, it's a similar pathway, and it looks the same. So, you can have a hyperactive delirium, which are very easy to spot someone's jumping up and down on her bed and going kind of nuts enacting in a way that's not compording with the context of their sitting in a hospital. So, hyperactive delirium can be easier to spot. Very often it's hypoactive delirium, which is we often miss, especially in the hospital setting. Might just be a little tangential thinking or not quite clear on what day it is, something that's not so obvious. I'm very often the person's just silent. And that's more often the case I'd say at the end of life. It's more likely to be a hypoactive delirium, and so it may be hard to spot. And the person's been sleeping a lot anyway, so you might miss it. But one reason to bring it up is because if you don't know what to look for. I think a lot of family members and loved ones will be at that at the bed, trying to e-count every last moment with this person and looking for clues about what's going on for them and last relational moments and exchanges. And very often I've heard from a lot of people reports of, well gosh, my husband never said a mean word to me in our 50 years of marriage. And I've been traumatized for the last two years since he died because of his last words to me where this vulgar something or other. And or he told me that he had to get out of his own. Some harsh comment. And it, oh, I, one of those big takeaways out is just please keep delirium in mind because what it also means is that person who is delirious is not, you cannot stop yourself. They are not themselves. So whatever they're saying, you, you really cannot take it literally, you really cannot take it literally. So that poor woman was suffering for, you know, if someone had told her about delirium, then she would have understood. She took it very literally and was suffering immensely. So anyway, that's a note about delirium. It does feel like an important moment to pause just to note a couple of things, which is, you know, delirium at the end of life we take as seriously as we would in a more acute setting where someone's an ICU with expectation to recover. And we think about environmental factors that influenced delirium, like lighting and noise and interruptions, right? Because if we can minimize delirium, we want to want to want to treat it and care for it. I think the other thing about this space is that we enter into the like rich and nuanced and complicated space of interpretation and the meaning that's being made around what's happening. Right? So in that story, someone's, I was sitting at a bedside once with two daughters and their mom was dying. And she had been mostly quiet. I hadn't really talked in a couple of days and we're sitting there talking about her and telling stories and the her kids are telling me about her and she opens one eye and she kind of sits up and she says to her daughter, I love her jacket. And I looked at the daughter and the daughter just bursts into tears. And you know, I'm sitting there thinking like, oh, this is so nice. Like mom gives a kind of like, I'm expecting something positive and the daughter's like, she's never complimented my clothes before. If anything, she always looked at my, my dress in this critical eye. Like this is so off, you know. And I think that could be one of those projections that we're going to get to the end and dad's going to say mom's going to say the thing that we never heard them say. And they may and that might not feel good. Right? So it's, it's complicated and so interpersonal and personal and subjective event. You know, it's one of the reason why two of us being here together and why this work is done often in teams because we could both be in the room with the same person and have very different kind of hits or interpretations around what's happening, what's most important in the room, what needs to be tended to. I've had this so much to say about this stuff and that delirium thing. I mean, there's a big on this point of altered consciousness and what people are saying what's coming out of people. It's also true that deep dark secrets can sometimes get revealed. That's also true. So it's so much needs to be interpreted and it's there for how lightly and because you don't, there's these are final moments. You may never get the clarity of what mom or dad or that person actually meant in that comment, which is another trick to holding death in our living is to hold it lightly because we keep, we will find ourselves wine to apply a story of meaning on all of this stuff as a human's what we do. But one of the great lessons around this work is just, you know, just to hold that carefully and lightly. It's not always what we think it is. And on that note of delirium too, I will say as a medical person, I was taught that delirium is inherently a kind of suffering that it's uncomfortable that that to be confused to be disoriented as itself uncomfortable and the certainly problematic for the loved ones. So we always medicated it with anti-cycotics, how it paired all in others. We just thornsy just shut it down. I will say my own arc of my career as I've gotten, as I've sort of deluded the medical piece with other ways of thinking. I'm not so quick to shut that down. There may be something either vital happening for that person in the bed to express whatever's in there and maybe something that's helpful for the person to hear. I gave you the counterpoint that it's a hurtful for a loved one to hear in a de-contactualized way. But I think one of the meta messages here is dying, it doesn't can't always be shouldn't, perhaps, made me to use that hardware to be so tidy and immaculate and clean and perfect. I want to disabuse, I think we both like to disabuse that notion of that that's a good death. So a quiet death, the person. So I've been increasingly would not medicated delirium unless I had a conversation, if you were my patient, I'd say Peter, hey, there might be moments where you can be a little confused, et cetera. And if that happens, would you rather, maybe there's an opportunity for me to ask, would you like us to kind of air on the side of Medicaid and that and help you sleep through it? Or talk to family about that? But the bottom line here is, it's not such a one-to-one thing. When we see this, that means suffering, that means medication. It's much more mysterious than that. One of the things I've been thinking a lot about lately is how people died hundreds of years ago and thousands of years ago. So let's use thousands of years ago before before the advent of any medicine at all. So admittedly, they weren't living that long and admittedly, life expectancy would have been into the mid to late 30s. But people always confuse that for meaning nobody lived beyond that. Of course, that's not true. It just means so many people died young, like infant mortality was through the roof, tons of trauma and infection. But clearly, there were people that were living into probably their 60s. And I'm sure some of them were dying of cancer. Right? So I wonder, absent any medicalization of death, what death looked like then? Do we know anything about this? I mean, I don't from the books. I mean, I can imagine. But, and I think we knew that people died more acutely. But to your point, that's probably because they didn't know they were harboring a tumor or atherosclerosis, whatever else. So it looked like they were. And I think suffering, I think an average human had a different relationship to the day-to-day suffering and pains that went with being alive. And I think modern life has been tempting, has tempted us with the idea that we could always be comfortable. And that pain is a problem to root out and fix quickly, get back to the norm, which is comfortable always, which is just crazy talk. So I think part of it is we've induced people's pain by offering these fixes to them. By virtue of having something to offer your suffering, we might be more primed to tune into our suffering and seek that fix for it. And we kind of pulled this ourselves forward over time through modern life in such a way that back in the old day, I don't imagine that people were so distracted by their daily aches and pains. So I'm kind of getting off your question. I don't think we know, and these among us, I don't think we know from an historical, like I couldn't tell you factually what used to be the case. But watching patterns and knowing that human nature hasn't probably changed so much in the last couple hundred years per say, I think one is that people harbor to much that lived closer to death, death and what they didn't and live closer to pain. And so in some ways, they suffered less because it didn't have, wasn't tainted by a sense of injustice or why me. I'm projecting, which is an irony because as I think about a person dying in their 80s today, I think of that as kind of a remark of a privilege, like that we could be alive in this period of time where we could make it into such an old age. But yet at the same time, it feels like a tragedy, even though ironically, the tragedy is those people that were dying thousands of years ago. I want to ask you a question, Bridget, unless you wanted to say something else about that, but I was going to ask you a question about pain. Please. Okay. So when you're talking to somebody who makes the decision to enter hospice care or palliative care, and I want to come back to making sure people understand the similarity and to choose their to quite different things to get into them. But let's take an example of an individual who is cognitively completely intact, but is faced with a terminal illness. And let's maybe even talk through different examples. Somebody that's got something is debilitating as Lou Gerig's disease where their mind is completely intact, and they're suffering a neurologic disease is going to kill them versus an individual with a cancer that has metastasized in just a matter of time. What are their greatest fears when they come to you and where does physical pain and discomfort rank on that list? I mean, it's such a humbling question. It's a little bit hard to answer when you put something like Lou Gerig's disease and cancer next to each other. Pick one. Let's talk through. I think the thing I want to say before picking one is the path that gets you to the intersection where you are thinking about entering hospice or able to tolerate that idea is very different, right? If you're facing neurologic illness or cancer or heart failure, right? Like the experience that patients and the folks around them have had maybe quite short, maybe a decade, maybe with really successful treatments, maybe this kind of downward feeling slope the whole time. And so you're really primed, I think, in different ways that intersection depending on what this last chapter has been like, have you been mostly healthy and felt pretty good and something happens quickly, have you been in and out of the hospitals sort of in this endless cycle, right? You're holding very different experiences and people have honed their muscle of adjusting and adapting and adjusting and adapting very differently, kind of depending on their experience of of the illness they've had. It's also really, really color developmentally depending on where that person is in their life, are they 42 with two young kids, are they 85, having lived a life they feel pretty good and full about. And so that's all the layer, you know, that's not all, those are a few of the layers of context that really inform. Given how much there is to unpack there and how I realize I want to go into all of that, let's take the step back and help people understand the difference between palliative care and hospice care. Yeah, great. So I sort of think of it as like palliative medicine is the big umbrella, palliative care is the big umbrella, and hospice care is sort of like the very end or the sort of backside of the umbrella. P palliative care is a medical specialty usually provided by a team for folks with a serious illness. Serious illness can be defined lots of ways and is defined differently in different health systems, kind of depending on how they're staffed and how their palliative care programs are kind of created to function, what purposes they're serving. But some of the BJU jump and at any point, but some of the big differences is that with palliative care generally there's no limitation around any disease directed or modifying therapies you might be pursuing and you don't have to be dying inherently or even clear that you're facing death. You could be diagnosed with a very serious cancer that actually has pretty robust treatments and you could live for quite a long time. Meaning many, many, many years. Many, many, many situations. What is the objective of the palliative care team? To think really holistically about who is this person? Where are they in their lives? How do they make sense of what's going on? What do they understand about their illness? Who's supporting them? All really grounded in this are their ways that we can help this person feel sort of as well as possible to treat the symptoms related to serious illness, to treat the symptoms related to the treatments of different serious illnesses. But in the context of whole life, which means you could have an onoclinic day, you could be seeing two people that seem on paper generally the same, right? Similar age, demographic backgrounds, diagnoses and be dealing with really different things when you walk in the room. Yeah, I mean, no matter how you slice it, the goal is, is the focus is quality of life. Period. Whether it's got a care hospice and by the way, for both bridges, so it's inherently interdisciplinary as Bridgette's saying. That's why Bridgette's social worker and I'm a medical doctor, but we work with chaplains, nurses, music, and atologist, potentially art there, as funters. In the subject matter, suffering in quality of life, there's no one discipline that has a lock on that stuff. But whether it's pad of care or hospice, the focus is really on helping someone feel as well as possible. And that is an inherently holistic question because it gets at their identity. Yes, as well as possible as defined by them. Right? And so for someone, that could mean very aggressive paid management. And for someone else, it could have a different relationship to the experience of pain. And they wouldn't put that at the top of the priority list. They might put more concrete or relational kind of supports, you know, higher up on their list. So our, you know, the beauty of our jobs and our work is to meet this person in this moment in time and identify what's up for them, what's most important and sort of where where it is that we get to meet them to work towards quality of life as defined by them. So what is the transition then for an individual from being under the bottom umbrella of palliative care into a more narrow, defined level of care as hospice? Yeah. I mean, I think there's some, you know, there's some like a world of ideals in that and then there's what actually happens. And the reality in this country is that folks are admitted to hospice very, very late, you know, the length of stay on a hospice program. This country's something like three week average. And so it's actually quite little bit of time. And when I think about when hospice is a good fit for folks, I think about wanting to stay out of the hospital, being in a place where they are ready to or being forced to grapple with the reality that there is not anything left to do to change what is happening in their body to change the cancer to delay the neurologic illness and or folks that are more explicitly ready to be supported in their end of life care or in their transition. And just done with chasing the treatment, you know, done with chemo. Yeah. Maybe there's it may be a, you that came on might have something more to offer them in terms of life spent, but they are just electing to be done with that. So whether the weather came out and other things have run out of run their courts and there's nothing left to try, which is often the case, or they feel don't worth what they're trying. They are just telling us that they're just, they don't want to try anything else. Either way, they would be much more likely to be hospice ready. Now you're saying the average length of stay in hospice and really there are as I'm aware of it and so correct me if this is not correct. There seem to be three paths to hospice. There's hospice in your home where you go back to your home and a hospice team comes there and cares for you in your home. There is a palliative care ward inside a physical hospital that provides hospice care, but it's still within a hospital. And then there are outpatient hospice facilities dedicated facilities for hospice that are not hospitals. With those three encompass the, the, how hospice care is delivered or is there another one? Sort of in terms of sites of care. Okay. This is where it starts to get really warm and complicated. You can shut us up, Peter, so many different so many tributaries. But to kind of back up a little bit, it may be orienting for audience here. So as Bridget's totally correct, palliative care is the larger umbrella. Hospice is this sort of subset of palliative care devoted to the final months of life. So to be real clear, same philosophy in a lot of ways, but by insurance and reimbursement lines and by policy designation, you can get palliative care alongside curative intended care. You cannot do so in hospice. When you go on to hospice, you have to give up that curative intended care. I can't just that. I mean, you can't have an IV line, generally speaking. Yeah. Generally speaking. So there is, it is a, the way it's set up is a crossroads. We'll make the point that dying and living look a lot alike. But in the man-made world of policy and health care structure, there are some important forks in the road. So one of them to go on to hospice is you no longer have access to or don't want curative intended care and things to go with it. And also someone somewhere has to certify that should nature on its course. You likely have six months or less to live. So those are the two forks in road to qualify for hospice. Poundative care, those are neither of those applies for a lot of care. So that's a really important distinction. So I'm trying to kind of, in one other point to make there as well. Poundative care is the larger umbrella. Hospice is the older one. So we started in this country with hospice. And since the 1982, when Medicare got in the business, we had those restrictions. And then people in the 1980s and 90s realized, why are we waiting to the final weeks and months alive to deliver this kind of loving care? And so the pat of care was born as a younger, bigger sibling to come to get outside of those restrictions. So it's a wonky issue. Well what's interesting is you just said that hospice care was the original. And it was six months of life expectancy. And today we're at a point where median or mean is three weeks in hospice. Well if that's true, and we think about what we know about what individual looks like when they have three weeks left of life, this is usually a person who's already in delirium already in the early stages of organ failure. This is a person who probably is already spending more than 50% of their time sleeping. And what I guess I'm hearing you say, or maybe I'm imputing, is should they have moved into hospice sooner? Have they have they been unnecessarily discomforted by pursuing therapeutic intent until that three week mark on average? Brad, you want to jump in there? No, you go first. No. I would say as in broad strokes, unequivocally, in general the answer is yes. I think we know that patients and families wait too long. They're suffering more than they need to and taking on treatments that are no longer helping them for a longer period of time. But there's a what can feel like a charade portion of care. And there's a lot of reasons like the patients and families not wanting to look at that piece of the puzzle yet denial is a thing, you know. And also referring physicians, perhaps is the the bigger reason that they are not seeing the writing on the wall or don't want to or whatever else. So it's very often that the physicians don't bring up hospice until way late in the game. So for many reasons, I think it is a generally true statement that we wait too long to invoke hospice. We wait too long based it based on our own state of goals of feeling peace and having some comfort towards the end and not wasting our time doing things that don't help us. And we also get into these situations where in my wife tells a story about one of her very close friends who died in 2018 from She had an abdominal cancer and her wish was to die at home. Mm-hmm. She was re-emitted. I think for a bowel obstruction and she was never able to get out of the hospital. Right. So she died in the hospital and this is probably probably not an uncommon situation where I think back to patients I took care of who heroic measures were done. Right. So maybe someone had an aortic dissection or a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm. They're old. They already have organ failure. You go ahead and do it. But this is a person who was cognitively completely intact when they came in. Three weeks later, they're intubated. They're on dialysis. You can't transfer that person to hospice. Right. Right. I mean, because of the moment you turn up because they can't have the ventilator. You can't have the dialysis. The moment you turn those things off, the person expires. So they're going to expire and I see you. Never what they wanted, probably. But so how often do you use in your experience are people in that no man's land where they now have missed the window to go into hospice? All I can say is not uncommonly. I don't have numbers to say. But that is not an uncommon story. And that's why if the second eye here someone say, I never want to die in hospital. My ears go out as a potential referer. Like then this person should really, we should really look to get this person to hospice. But this is be jay. I've never made anybody who wants to die in a hospital. I mean, I'm going to go on record right now and say, I don't want to die in a hospital. Now, I hope that my death is 35 years away, 40 years away. If I'm lucky, I don't want to die in a hospital. Yeah. I've watched too many people die in a hospital. It's never, ever, ever what you imagine it should be or could be. The goddamn beeping, the smells, the noise, the chaos. It is awful. Yeah. So if you were my patient, you were our patient, you know, would be, we'd be interesting to go down that road a little bit and brejji may have different things to say. But I hearing that and the stridency with which you said versus like, I don't want to be in a hospital, a hospital suck, but to hear that kind of level of passion, which comes from having been there. Exactly. Most people might not be as, you know, adamant about a design, but they haven't, they haven't watched a thousand of these deaths. And I'm, because all the more reason for me to really take what you're saying very seriously, you know, where of you speak it here. So, you know, so if you were under, if I were in any way involved in your care, I would pull up a chair and say, Peter, I heard you say that, buddy. And first of all, I might ask you like, is that a throw, I come and do you mean that today, you know, like really kind of get into get behind with what's what you're saying there and to see how durable a choice that is in the night, might say it very explicitly, like even in the abstract Peter, some day as you know, there's going to be something that's going to come along and is going to eventually your death. So let's, you and I are going to keep a real hawks eye on this together. And there's going to be crossroads along the way around treatment decisions. And what they're oncologists or cardiologists or whatever doctor may not share with you is what it means to take on this treatment and what might happen. And you know, we'll together, you and I will interrogate all these decisions and really dig in to see what's going to, what might land you unexpectedly in a hospital in a ways that you're kind of feel stuck. And I would also say to Peter, part of dying, well, is also letting go of all the things you can't control. There's not going to be so many things that we can dictate. That's right. I could get into a car accident tomorrow that ends up in an ICU where they struggle valiantly to save me, but I still die. And that means I'm dying in a hospital. Yeah. So exactly. So I would sort of disabuse you of some absolutism around this. But then we would, we would, you have just given us our marching orders as the thing to look out for you as Peter at Tia to not suffer more than you need to where you are when death comes is a huge point for you. So that's noted. So we'll we'll wrap that into our care together as we move through time. And we'll make decisions with that in mind. But that is because you were explicit about it. And then you say most people, and who wants that? That's true. But that conversation rarely happens. Rarely actually happens to get that goal stated into the kind of care plan. Yeah. Let's give a couple of examples of where that discussion has relevance. Right. So now let's go back to a couple of these examples. So you've had that discussion when a person is still in palliative care before transitioning to hospice or you sometimes waiting to have that discussion in hospice for the first time? Which conversation? About where? Yeah. Where? Oh. I think it depends. I mean, I think it depends on the kind of clarity or adamant a person comes into. So it might be one of the first conversations you have. Right. If somebody's had a really visceral experience in their own life, it could be the first thing they're thinking of with the diagnosis of advanced cancer or something. And it may be a conversation that's happening sort of weeks into hospice, depending on how things have evolved with the family and or how they're changing. So I think, you know, I do want to just step back, which is like I have seen very beautiful hospital deaths. Yeah. And I've also, yeah, the reason I'm so jaded is when you come from where I came from, you're running codes on people you're relying, right? They're dying while you're doing chest compressions on them and you're shocking them and you're breaking them. Yeah. Yeah. And so yes, I should really clarify. I'm coming out from a very narrow point of view that has maybe skewed my view too much. Maybe. Sure. I mean, we're all informed about those experiences, right? And the, the, I haven't, you know, not a physician. So I haven't had this experience, but I think coding someone while they're dying is a incredibly painful experience for the team providing that care potentially. But I have seen beautiful hospital deaths and I have seen people very clear in their sense that not dying at home is the goal. Yeah. You know, that to die in their living room with their kids watching is intolerable to them to know that they're leaving their family with that imprint because it is an experience that we've plucked out of our living rooms and most people don't have a familiarity or comfort with it. Plenty of people, I think maybe especially younger people who are dying are very clear. Like, no, no, I'm not going to do that at home. And if that means I'm in an acute care setting, like, okay, that's, that's sort of fine with me and preferred. And by the way, from an insurance perspective, because that must factor into this, if is there a fundamental difference in what an insurer, you see MS or otherwise will provide based on the option? Yeah, I mean, it's a great question. I kind of go back to your initial kind of laying out of the three trajectories into hospice. And I think we should be really clear. Like, the lion's share of hospice is what they call and reimburse for as, quote, residential hospice, which means in a place someone's living. Their home, their assisted living in a car or sometimes, I mean, it's a rather their calling where people are. It also could include the hospice facilities, like the resident hospice residences. Which are uncommon in this area. Yeah, so 80% of hospice happens where people live. Okay. And the remaining 20 is either in a hospital hospice unit or a dedicated hospice facility or nursing home. Or nursing home. Why is that rare? Because I don't, I would have assumed that the most economical and desirable place to provide hospice care would be an a dedicated facility. And it's for sure it's the assumption. So, you know, I've had hundreds of conversations being the social worker to go in and describe hospice and give hospice education and so many people, what the assumption is is hospice is a place that you go to die. And overwhelmingly that is not true. Right? Hospice is a service that comes to you where you are. And it's very, I mean, there's a lot of people that fear like, I'm, you're suggesting hospice you're going to send me away to die and that is a barrier because people don't want to be sent away. But then there's also disappointment of, oh, there aren't like a plethora of choices of places for me to go. We actually have to figure out how to hunker down and make this happen at home or find, and what does the regional resource of resources? What is provided? So, if an elderly couple who live alone, one of them becomes terminally ill, elect hospice. And let's just assume that the, if it's the husband who is sick that the, that the wife is not physically going to be able to do much, she was able to care for him before he had one critical last event because these things were typically as a step, right? You know, he's sick, but then he falls. And that's the sort of straw that breaks the camel's back. Does the home provision cover full-time support or something, nothing, even remotely close, which for how would she care for him if he is now bedridden, requiring pain medication, requiring medication for sedation, and any other form of comfort care? I wish you clean him. Yeah, you're pointing to, I think, one of the biggest systemic issues we have in this space, which is little to no reimbursement for caregiving and for the provision of a way that is from a hospice mean, then if you're not giving that. It means an expert team that's available 24 hours a day and comes to you basically as needed. And that, that could be once a week, that could be once a day. Certainly, I think the goal is often like a couple of times a week. And this is a, this is a huge, I mean, this is part of why hospice is underutilized, is because it doesn't always have the resources that people need to manage care at home. And the reality is, is that when somebody goes home, it's usually a communal effort. You know, folks are coming in and out when they're not working, they're taking off time, working, they're pulling in friends. If there's the resources, their hiring caregivers, which is quite expensive, thing to do. So it's a huge lift on caregivers, care partners and families to have someone diet home. So I didn't realize that. So you're saying that if a person elects home hospice care and they need full-time support, they're paying for that out of their own pocket. Yes. Yes. Which is very, that can't be cheap. No. No, I mean, there's multiple ways to hire caregivers. But, you know, in the Bay Area, for example, the range, the hourly range would be something like 20 to 55 dollars an hour, kind of depending on if you're hiring and trying to live your community or aid. No, that's just like a home health. Yep. Yeah. I got there so much to say and this stuff here, I mean, I mean, one year, as you're talking, you're reminding me about this home point just to make this case, like a lot of us in the abstract would say, I want to be at home when I die. Yeah. But then when it comes down to it, you know, when a few weeks turn into months and the family's burning out because it's at least 23 hours of the day is family and friends doing the work. So, you know, so a lot of us say, I want to be at home, but when it comes down to it, that is not always necessarily the easiest place or possible or even possible for all these reasons. And then to your question about why are they're not more hospice houses, just from that one's going to if they are not willing to pay to have someone come to your own house, they're certainly not going to pay for you to have a facility. Exactly. So, right. And so the medical system separates social services from medical services. So, the room in board of a facility, the infrastructure of the house, those are not be considered medical issues. So, therefore, are exempted from coverage. So, I worked at a hot one of the very few hospice houses in the country and it had to close as famous as it was, the world over. This sweet little six bed hospital is known all over the world. And it couldn't make it because there was, it does just no financial pathway. So, it's complicated. There should be more of these places and to note around your very reasoned incredulity there because that's much less expensive. When they alternative, it's to go back to an acute care hospital. But as you know, this is not a rational system per se. It's why you see that couple that you mentioned where he's dying and she's home and she can't bathe him. She can't deal with his bed pin. It's why you see in those stories, people go into the hospital, go to subacute rehab, maximum Medicare days, go home, go back into the hospital because there is this sort of not always explicitly called out or intended sort of like, how do we maximize the benefits that are here? It's one of those examples. And unfortunately, medicine is full of these, especially in the United States. And I'm very, I have a lot of great things to say about the healthcare system here. I really, probably know where I'd rather live with respect to healthcare, but there are so many examples just like this where both the payer, so actually I would say all three, the payer experience, the provider experience and the patient experience would all be better with a different system. Totally. It's more expensive. It's worse for the patient. It's worse for the care team to have the patient do what they have to do now to game the system. It's a real shame that even if you didn't care about the quality of an individual's life, if you just acted economically, you could just the bank account. You've just fallen the beans. Yeah, that's part of the joy and craziness of working in this part of the healthcare system. Because there's such and there's a, you get a line of sight as you say there could be this alignment where it's better care for everybody involved and cost less money. The whole part of care in the hospital has done a really good job over the last 40 years of gathering data. A week saved the health system lots of money. We improved care. All the stuff works, but it's still not scrutinizing the system for all sorts of reasons. You know, the the six month prognosis component of the hospice benefit was really an arbitrary place in some ways that was about getting it funded. You know, the sort of original thinkers were like, yeah, that should be a year. And that's probably more rate. You know, it should be you should be eligible if you're pregnant. But the fact that it's three weeks on average tells you how many resources are being course. Yeah, on the highest price provider. Yes. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, yeah. Well, the last, you know, for thinking about the last weeks and months and the swirl that's happening because you're getting sicker, all of these things are changing in your life. You're, you know, so much is changing your probably your, your touch with the healthcare system is really high that in that time to also get really sober maybe for the first time about what's important to you. Where do you want to be? Can you see this thing clearly? Like, it's almost an impossible time to do. So let's, let's focus on that for a second because this strikes me as a cultural issue. Right. It, uh, and you, you to live in this world, um, I would say I'm adjacent to the world, but I don't live in it. And most people aren't even adjacent to it. So death is a really foreign thing. The reason I suspect that this can gets kicked down the road so much. So much in fact, that after all the can kicking, people get to the end of their life, there's no road and there's just a pile of cans. So what is it culturally that prevents us from talking about this when we're 50, when we're 60, when we're 70, when we're 70, yeah, like, why, why is it because it's, it's, it's become such a, I don't, I don't know if I want to say it's a black box. I don't want to say it's a mystery, but but it's just something that we don't want to talk about. And as such, I feel, I really believe that that's why we get to that three, we, okay, fine, we're pulling the plug. It's three weeks and you fall off a cliff kind of thing. Um, do we know anything about other cultures? You know, do we know how is it in Japan? How is it in Europe? How is it in, in other parts of the world? Do we know anything about how, how, how, end of life functions there? A little bit culturally, there's a lot to study. I mean, often, it'd be so fun to take a couple of years and really study the anthropology around dying and which cultures, how cultures do this differently. We've been dying a long time. You know, so, but one thing, I think, is a great skill. Yeah. Yeah, we do. You will definitely do it. Yeah, I think you will not fail. You promise you. So, um, and I think what you're calling attention to, there's the, the culture, so I scanned an ABA in cultures, um, Japan, a place that generates its elders, you know, and aging and dying are different, but they bump into each other a lot. So, I, my armchair read, I'd say, life in Japan, where the comfort of being in old skin might be a different experience, but there you're still left with the sort of natural phenomenon, culture phenomenon of aging, bumping into this health care system idea. And that is the cognitive dissonance. We have these systems that are engineered and wired in such a way that are so at odds with mother nature on some level and so, blind to cultural issues in the name of science and so many sort of reductive ways that I think it's still, if you were in Japan, I think you'd still find a health care system that struggles with this question, even as the culture, uh, maybe doesn't as much. Similar probably in Scandinavia, but I think in those places, I know in the Scandinavian model, you will, one of the things that comes up for people then of life is, you know, other living issues like housing, like, you know, your relationships, they're still there. So, we, one of the things that makes dying harder in this country is the social determinants of health in society are not cared for, so you're still having your housing issues when you're trying to die. You still got billpaying things that are, you know, that's the stuff that makes dying extraordinarily hard in some cases or in many cases. You're saying that the lower, the wider net of the social safety net here compared to a country like Canada or Japan presumably just adds one more stressor to an already stressful situation. Largely, in any one sense doesn't do a justice, because as you said, the health care systems, these places, they can also do amazing work, and so I don't want to just blindly categorically denigrate a health care system in any country. There's some good things happen, but it is such a mixed bag, and as many problems as it solves, it creates some other ones, especially around issues that people are struggle to look at to your point still holds. Like, that we do have a problem in why Bridget and I came this far, science to see or smiling face, but to talk about this in such a way that allows an audience as large as yours to begin to think about this before it's sort of too late. This is, I think, all of our work as citizens to begin to rope this part of reality into our view so that we can prepare ourselves for it, and we can live with these realities and not be so surprised by the fact that we die someday. In part is so that we learn how to advocate for ourselves versus, yeah, I'd love to see our health system mature around these issues, and we'll continue to work on that or towards that. But I think the bigger note for your audience is what can each of us do to prepare ourselves in ways that the health system is not? In some ways, you're going to have to say no to health care to die well in this country, it's something you kind of have to say no thanks to medicine. One thing your audience needs to appreciate and why advanced directors are so helpful. For example, the system is it is by default modes of our health care system would be just do more stuff, prop your body up anything to give you a pulse. Unless you've written or stated otherwise, we're going to just try to protect you having a pulse. Most of us don't equate having a pulse with actually really being alive and that becomes a problem at some point. We in this sort of carnival where we can really prop up a body almost indefinitely so it becomes a you have to find a way to say no to that and unwind what that hospital can do. You have to get out of the way of that to die peacefully in this country. Does that make some sense? No, no, I mean, it makes so much sense and as you're saying it, I'm just reflecting on the internal struggle that I think most nurses and doctors experience and I we don't talk about it but I remember during residency the pride that I took in how heroic we could be. What we could do for a patient in the ICU, like how many central lines I could put in you and how I could look at all the different cultures and figure out the five antibiotics you need and how good I was at managing your dialysis and getting that CVVHD to manage the pressure and this and that and how I could alter the antibiotic into aortic balloon pump to just keep your heart like we were there was such a sense of awesomeness in like this technology. It is awesome. But then you take a step back and you're thinking, what am I doing? What am I doing? This is a physiological experiment. It's not a life anymore. Yeah. And you would say, well, is there a chance that this person's going to recover? Well, of course, there's always a chance, but how big does that chance need to be for the expected outcome to justify what you're doing? And there's two ways to answer this question. The first is economically. That's an easier way to answer it because expected outcomes are probabilities. It's what is the expected outcome of this survival multiplied by the cost of this intervention. You take the dot product of those. You add them all up. There's the cost of your health care system with respect and of life care. Let's put that aside. There's the human one. Right. There's the how many people are spending their last weeks or months in an ICU where they are for on tents and purposes no longer there. Right. Because the amount of sedation you have to put on a person to keep them in that state is extreme. They're now swelling into a Michelin man and is this what we want their families final memories to be. Something I have such a visceral memories of sitting in those family meetings in the ICU where the person the bed is unrecognizable. And the expectation that physicians and nurses and social workers and spiritual, that the healthcare teams should be able to have all of that expertise knowledge, not all of it. Just some of the expertise knowledge that you just outlined. And then also the very nuanced interpersonal capacity to with a relative stranger asks some of the biggest philosophical questions in a moment of crisis. I mean that is like in some ways a beyond human expectation of physicians which is where the and many do it. I mean just like with profound grace and beauty. Even when it really doesn't feel like it to them. But that's where sort of like the consumer side or the patient side is like you know come in having wrestled with it. Not because you were given a diagnosis of a serious illness but because we all do die and that and that kind of gets back to your original question like this is hard because it's kind of impossible to imagine not existing anymore. To actually psychologically spiritually philosophically grapple with like I'm here and I won't be and my children are here and they won't be and my spouse is here and they won't be and maybe I can kind of wrap my head around that being true for my grandparents maybe and then my you know it's like this is a fundamental sort of contemplation of being human and you know it's a good muscle good. It's a it's a life-giving muscle I think to start to flex when you are healthy. When you feel good when you're like it is actually true that I don't know when I'm going to die it could be because I'm hit by a basket could be from some unexpected instantaneous physiologic thing or it could be some process when I'm 85 like we don't know and collectively we have a hard time talking about and being in spaces together when when fundamentally we don't know. So let me ask you a question let's assume we put you in a role where you're you're an advisor that walks through the oncology ward okay outpatient oncology so they bring you in for a consultation with and maybe you tell me this is actually not a bad idea but they just say like we're going to bring you into the outpatient on-board on Tuesdays and we just want you to meet the patients okay now these are patients that are in all stages of oncology so let's assume that this is a breast cancer ward or not ward clinic and that means you are dealing with women who have just been diagnosed with pre-cancer, Dr. Carson on my side to DCIS all the way up to women who have progressed through every intervention and are now facing completely unresponsive stage for cancer okay you are introduced to Jody Smith she's 42 years old she's a mother of two and she has she was recently diagnosed with what is turning out to be a stage three breast cancer so she has a mass in her breast that they have removed and it's surgery they also found lymph nodes under her arm but the work up of the rest of her body found no evidence of cancer so she is now going to undergo chemotherapy plus or minus radiation and by the way I'm not entirely familiar with the odds on this but let's just say it's a 50% chance cure rate so and there's a 50% chance that this is never going to come back there's a 50% chance it will come back and by the way if it comes back she will die from this it will go on for years but it will come back in a distant organ what would you say to her when you introduce yourself and let's just assume she understands why you're there and what you do so if she says to you do I really need to meet you shouldn't I be meeting my cancer doc yeah what would you say I mean the do you need to meet me question is interesting um you know I think what I would want to know is what has this meant like what has this experience meant her so far right like what is so let's say she says this has been the most jarring terrifying thing I have gone through in my life I'm 42 I have a seven year old and a five year old that are my world it has never crossed my mind that I wouldn't be a grandmother and I'm now being told there's a 50% chance I won't be a grandmother but I'm a fighter and I have faith that these are amazing doctors and it's a coin flip I'm going to get heads yeah I mean I would join her in that I think I would also want to normalize the fact that she has never imagined anything other than being a grandmother I mean I think so much about those initial you know encounters or meeting of somebody is about rapport building right you have to get into a back and forth so that they feel you as another person there that's curious about their experience and you know you were quick to kind of like add context for me but you know actually the process of someone feeling comfortable to say like I've always imagined being a grandma and I'm going to be a grandma right yeah that's probably three discussions right that's not like that yeah there's a least I probably maybe no our kids names or she's told me something like you know she's asking it yeah but it's a okay skipping ahead but it's also skips over into like there's an international component that people I think are sometimes caught off guard by and also really welcome because they have been having this experience and you know nobody's had the time to say how are you what does this mean to you are you know oh you're waking up at night what are you thinking about when you wake up at night what what is the biggest worry that this brings up for you you know has it has it crystallized something into greater clarity I mean it seems to me that first of all based on the definition of palliative care she would be a great candidate for palliative care because she is still 100% for course press treatment but palliative care would bring in she doesn't seem to me that she needs someone to manage her pain she probably needs someone to talk to and talk about what she thinks about when she wakes up at four in the morning scared to death yeah right and that's probably not something that I'll call her in but she may need somebody to to learn about other impacts of the treatment and how that's affecting her life and is there anything to do to mediate that right so maybe her her interest in sex or her sexual function has changed and nobody's asked her about that nobody's thought with her about like how do we you know what can you do to adjust and adapt to still have access to that part of your life even though you have stage three breast cancer or with with stage three breast cancer how many of the theoretical patients that I just described of which there are tens of thousands in this country if not hundreds of thousands how many of those patients are in palliative care right now in very fraction yeah well I'm a couple reasons come to mind one is that people can flate hospice in paddock hair and so people say I'm not ready for paddock hair or they're saying I'm ready to think about dying yet yeah because it's it the idea is once I'm in palliative care we're not fighting yeah we're not treated which is and untreated and you know you say what palliative care is and people meet you in their failure they're like well why wouldn't who wouldn't want this and there is that kind of wondering if I should be in palliative care now I mean palliative care is just good health care yes yes yes yes yes yes yes often we're doing this very basic things what feel very elemental like sitting down and saying hi Peter I'm BJ you know yeah introducing yourself with some of the magic about care I mean that's a little it's extreme but that's true often what bridges doing our people our colleagues are doing is just some very elemental work that gets skipped over and everyone's expense so that's true um but I also don't want to land there the work of palliative care while often is very rhetorical not just the prescription pad for the MD often gets um we don't value the psychological elements is much the relational elements existential elements so I don't want to say palliative the work of palliative care is easy it does tend to the fundamentals of care in ways the rest of healthcare doesn't but it doesn't stop there there is real skill set that bridge has for meeting you timing her questions how she hears you when she calls this conversation and says it for the next time when she decides to bring up the potentials for suffering when she introduces mortality those are all that's a real felt experiential thing that doesn't just happen happened has it so I guess I'm saying two things there's a real skill set to this work that often gets shorts cited which is another reason why palliative care doesn't get invoked very often is you'll hear physicians especially and other people health systems oh I don't need palliative care I do that or they're not ready or they're not ready or I you know I'll take care of that I yeah because they're saying like I care about my patient I treat their pain um that may be true to a point but very often why people don't get palliative care back to your important question there is one I'm misunderstanding about palliative care is two an unrest in mating the work that goes into this relational stuff and so therefore a lot of people pretend or think they're delivering palliative care when they're not and third would be capacity you know we don't have enough of people who are forced to stop thinking about that so there's a big three reasons why people don't get into palliative care so let's say you get to know her better how often and let's just say she says you know I I really love being able to talk with you about this stuff because I'm scared and by the way this treatment's hard like my hair is falling out I'm sick I don't have the energy to like play with my kids right now like there's there's a lot of stuff in life that is really difficult even as I am hopefully going through this journey to come out on the other side healed how often would she get to interact with the palliative care team it's a there's an insurance based question ago it's a health system it's a health system staffing question and also you know a question about in any given system sort of what are the named priorities of palliative care in that system which can be quite different so there isn't a great way to answer that question I think it depends on it depends on staffing it depends on if she has other supports if there's a way to connect her to other supports and I think you know this is this is where our work at metal health I think folds in because the health system is not staffed or primed or any other number of adjectives you know to support people in the ongoing way that most would benefit from that's really like a community based resources you or intervention it's like where people are actually living their lives with this illness is where that support kind of is gonna come from and you know I think most people find that in their lives from their spiritual community or church community or friend group but I would still guess that from having somebody outside of their lives right you know her telling me her you know sharing your fears with me is very different than sharing your front your fears with your friend who's having their own very personal like you can't die how would I live without you you're supposed to be a grandma with me like don't talk about that right they're bringing all of their own you know myriad protections and guards from this subject into their caring for that person I think so often when we meet people in this counseling space right we might be the first person who hasn't kind of you know with all of the love and all of the the good intent minimized what the person is sharing because it's hard to tolerate our our people's fears you know we want them to feel better we want that to stop for them and so we say things like oh but you're gonna be fine like look how well you've done so far it's gonna be okay so how would your interaction change if I put you into a neurology clinic and you were meeting people who were all newly diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease so now we have people who show up with cognitive impairment but they're still pretty they're still good they're actually still okay but they've now had that emiloid pet scan the demonstrates the buildup of emiloid in their brain and certainly to the eye of a skilled neurologist the diagnosis is unambiguously clear it's a clinical diagnosis of course and they've now been given the diagnosis you were in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease we don't know the speed at which this is gonna progress but we know that it's more or less monotonically going to get worse yeah what are you asking that person I mean this is a very beloved space of mine that I've gotten just been more time in in the last few years and I I um I think for a lot of people one of my first questions is you know what do you understand about what's like what are the doctors told you what do you understand right because a person may have had many visits with their neurologist and the neurologist has given very clear information but let's say that this person for the sake of this case study watched their parent die of Alzheimer's disease and there's a strong erratitary component here and they now understand they were let's just say they'd been in denial for the last year while they were in the throat of a big exam they were like oh I don't know I'm probably just a little tired it's probably just you know a little distracted yeah but now they've been confronted with there's the emiloid pet scan there's the C2N blood test and here are the results of the cognitive test and you know you are on the same path as your your mom or your dad and they remember they remember what it was like for the last four years of that person's life so let's assume that there's not a lot of ambiguity in their mind about what what's what's happening yeah I mean I'd want to know more about their experience with their parent I'd want to know the things that they're most worried about so I'm I'm gonna just say I am most worried that I'm not going to be able to care for myself that the people I care about are going to need to take care of me and it's going to inconvenience them and I'm not ready to to to to to lose my mind like I'm young I'm this person let's say this person is 68 years old like this is on the verge of being early onset right and they're realizing that they did in another couple of years they might not be sent him and they're basically saying like this is a high functioning individual this is a person who's still working who is contributing who loves their life and they're basically mourning the loss of that yeah I would not enter after their mourning right like of course like of course like sort of of course to their feelings and it's sometimes that's hard for me to like pluck questions that I would ask out because it is such of a such a like in the moment thing but it's like tell me more about how much you don't want this to happen why what's the worst case like what happens between now and there like you know there's a certain amount of like creating and allowing for space for people to say the things that they're catastrophizing in their minds that they're so scared of that they don't want to have happen to lay that land in order to come back to in a trajectory of so you know yes you've laid out like a path but also so much uncertainty actually for like when how the per progression will happen and when and what the changes will be and the impossibility you know just how hard it is to to not know what that will actually really look like what are the considerations because again they're just in palliative care they're going to go and try all sorts of therapies deep down they know that the therapies in this space are far less efficacious than the woman you met earlier with breast cancer where she's really got a shot yeah this the most these therapies are going to do is slow things down but look if you slow them down enough maybe something experimental comes along so they're going down the path of I'm going to do this palliative care thing because you seem like a nice person and I like talking with you but I'm I'm going to do everything I can to slow this down yep so now let's fast forward a year or two things are getting worse what are the things you want to understand before you're so far gone that they can't even like walk me through the things you need to do to help them in their family prepare for what is effectively inevitable. How do you be a jump jump in if there's things bouncing around for you? Well maybe I could say real quick to kind of just double click as I say what you are saying I mean though early work whether it's a cancer patient or someone dealing with Alzheimer's that early work is so much of relational getting to know the person laying out a sort of safe place for them to fall apart share their fears without being shoached all that stuff so Bridget saying that I just really it's really key and that might take all of the first visit you may ask no questions about the diagnosis it might take five visits before you get to anything that for the reason you're supposedly there all that is to getting to know a person because we know there's some magic and a person being seen bearing witness them getting to express themselves is its own therapeutic value but then as the provider you are you are learning about what makes this person tick what inspires them what turns them off what do where their fears lie etc so you're gathering all this knowledge said that'll help you as you go down the road with them over time to be able to spot the look around the bend a little bit of this person and see what's coming up for that might be coming up for them and then you can sign up to them and say hey remember last time we talked about this or that thing or I know you told me how much this or that thing is source of fear I just want you know I'm not gonna I'm gonna be here with you or you know it just lends a much more specific ability for you to accommodate and accompany this person that's so much of the work is really it's an accompaniment and looking around the corner with someone so I just want to kind of before we move off that into other things that's what I just want that to get really clear what grids points are not casual kind of you're not just stalling for time that is the early lattice of foundation that's the foundation then the person gets to feel seen heard and held and then when that trust is in place a lot of other things become possible so so just to back up I think it's also rated it's not inherent that because somebody saw their parent die of Alzheimer's and they've been diagnosed with Alzheimer's and it's the worst thing that they could imagine it doesn't it's not inherently true that it ends up being the worst thing that they could imagine right they actually we don't tend to it's speaking of massive generalization but we don't tend to anticipate our ability to adapt very well especially when like the worst case thing is happening and you know sometimes having had familiar you know been intimately involved in this worst case thing you kind of surprise yourself or your kids surprise you know there's there's these things that unfold that you wouldn't have guessed would be a part of the experience and I think I really tried a whole space for that right to stay curious about like okay you're very sure that this experience is gonna look like this and together we'll see what it actually looks like and feels like I do you know in this instance like let's say that this person was also married or partnered I'm just so acutely aware of that spousal or care partner experience because potentially and are they part I mean sort interrupt you but are they also a patient like or is there a patient confidentiality thing where you can't really be there to support them because your patient is the spous foundational documents about a care the unit of care is the patient and family so okay so this is a very unique part of medicine then yes in another version we still bump into you know the western autonomy individualistic like the patient is the patient that is not we are not documenting in the chart about their spousal or if we are we're doing it very carefully but you have more of a attitude because you can think of the entire unit of support of that that that that that patient would define in this experience of Alzheimer's like the person whose body that's happening and like the experience of if we don't and if we don't start to get better at this in a major way right like her often experience right uh is central to their well-being is central to how to manage how far into this relationship or you broaching um you know medical decision making power of attorney things like that I mean these are these are and and are those those difficult discussions in that they they they require sort of a cognitive acceptance like I'm actually now putting medical decision making into someone's hands who are not my own because in the future I'm going to lose the capacity to make those decisions I mean how difficult the discussion is that you can really depends on the person right and how how you know have they really truly managed all of those decisions by themselves or they're used to some back and forth or they have a different model that's quite intertwined so um for some people that's really hard to imagine I think in my experience like in the neurologic illness space so often if a patient has someone which not all do that person's coming to visits right because they've been showing signs where they're not remembering or you know they couldn't get to the doctor's office on their own or get the zoom up by themselves etc so they're often presenting with somebody else and there's immediately another person to engage with their experience I mean the number of times spouses, adult children just are immediately brought to tears with the question how is this been for you because no one has asked them not because they didn't want to but usually because they don't have time right then neurologist is mostly there to think about the patient yeah yes yeah this gets complicated all of these things are such tips of icebergs I mean in that unit of care thing even in pad of care and why one reasons why we started metal outside of healthcare is to make good on that promise yes the unit of care is patient family but we always when I was working in the medical system in the cancer center anywhere in the matter like you can't build there's no way to build for the spouse so we'd sneak that family into the side or sometimes have an appointment with them or we would dub tail it in the appointment with the patient so it's yes there is space at least intellectual and emotional space preserve for the family members but very often it's still short-tripped with because the billing is yes so there's a lot to say about that and that's another reason why metal I mean probably 60% of our clients are the family members because there's just no place no one's asking about their experience to bridge this point so what are some questions you're gonna ask that patient as their cognition is declining and things that you need clarity on from them their wishes what do you want to understand well you brought up advanced directives in the dance care planning and so let's just spend a moment on that that's we should all fear 18 in this country you should have an advanced directive yeah and my guess is virtually nobody who's young and healthy has one that's true hey virtually anyone who's older and isn't healthy has one exactly I mean you know we have some questions in studies and also just casually if you give a talk how many people have an advanced directive you know maybe 20% of people raise their hand how many people think advanced directive is really important like most people raise their hands so there's a none of us many of us are not doing the thing we know we're supposed to do we just it's this just deferable thing like life insurance you know anyway so one sort of public service announcement here is advanced directive is very important you can download a form online like this is a free but you don't need a lawyer to do no you do not need a lawyer to do this so um and the most important thing to come out of an advanced directive if you had to pick sort of one of the questions that gets asked it's probably the proxy if God forbid you all the sudden you know an accident or something happens and we can't ask you Peter what kind of care is important to you who do you want speaking on your behalf in such a moment is that and that's probably the demos important question to get clear on and you know why would a young a young healthy person think about that so my first advanced directive I was in my late 20s when I actually finally did it even I been in these conversations for a long time and I one day was imagining you know something unexpected happening not being able to participate in a conversation lying in a hustle of it I was managing my parents who do not speak to each other trying to make decisions over their child and my you know casual partner at the time you know mostly casual partner at the time kind of sitting there trying to figure out how they belonged in the scene I was like I don't want that for them regardless of what happens to me and my body or you know what they actually choose like to actually put myself in the position of the people that those choices would default to yeah like I didn't want that for them I didn't you know if I was at all senty and I definitely didn't want to hear it but I didn't want them in throws of totally unexpected grief to be trying to negotiate that really surely it's an awesome responsibility I I'm very honored to say the number of people that have asked me to be the decision maker for them I can't imagine how many have asked you this BJ but I mean there are more than a dozen friends who have asked me this and I say the same thing to all of them which is it's an honor to do it but we have to sit and talk like it's not you can't hand me that stick and just sign my name on there because I like we're gonna have dinner we're gonna have a bottle of wine we are gonna talk in this through and you need to know how to do this job need to understand what you want and don't want yeah good on you because a lot people don't do that and again the job is not for you to and so I'm not my will yeah exactly the job is for you to honor the other persons which is speak on their behalf so to do that well you have to know the persons wishes and that's not a couple of questions that's a big old conversation and just as you do with the bottle of wine and dinner like that's what we're doing with patience you're setting a table that's comfortable often you're sitting you're asking intimate questions as providers you may be sharing intimate details too as part of a relational set a table for intimate things to happen so I just want to borrow your table setting there that's what we do too it's a important piece of getting to this level of detail so and it's also true like you don't have those conversations once and when a bridge is saying a lot of really important things I want to double click on another thing like that the advanced rective the the conceit is problematic right on the shoots you're asking someone to imagine putting themselves in this future oriented position where they're in a situation that they can't imagine where they can't speak and so what will they want then so it's a problem it's a problem it says best it's is is best as we have you know but it's a problematic tool and as people move through life with illness or disability their realization of what they can or might like to live with shifts you know we have data around this right you ask a bunch of healthcare providers if you were brought in your own emerging department quadriplegic from an accident would you want your colleagues to save your life you know most providers said hell no I could never live like that no go ask most people live with quadriplegia if they're happy to be alive and they said yeah I couldn't have imagined but you know same with me I okay you're going to lock three limbs off you cool that like no yeah but then you you know as it goes in this life we are adapted we have capacities that we don't know until something comes along to pull them out of us so part of this you know mind-bendervative as directives to allow room for that for a person's sense of themselves and their capacity to change in any direction so the all of that is a preamble to say you have these conversations over time multiple times and let the person change over time I think it's also like this is one of those places where you want to focus on the things that are important to you the experiences that are central to good days to meaningful time because you know having counseled a lot of people actually in the acute moments of having to make these decisions being able to reorient them towards like you know what I've heard you say is that your dad was like always in his garden he wanted to be at home like if you could hear your voice that's what and it was important to you blah blah like the ventilator doesn't get us there right that the what are we moving towards is is much more motivating than not doing x y and z not into bathing not resuscitating because those things for most people like exist from scenes from TV shows and are still pretty far away but we can really but it is easier for people to choose like the scene that we're going towards that they can square against how they knew their person so I I sort of I mean there's there are people who are very clear about abnc interventions being something that they would never want and and I certainly honor that maybe I hold it with a little bit of grain of salt but I honor it but I'm more interested in what I have been asked to be in that role to understand you know what what makes this person's life not because it's going to perfectly translate like if I can't dance under the full moon and volley like my life is not enough and you're like okay but what if you could like see the full moon from your bed like is that you know like we we that's that's a really important point where did I never thought of it that way I probably have just always had a bias towards okay what are the things we don't want to do right the where we talk like think about medical lingo DNR DNR no chess pounding no intubation blah blah blah blah but I like this framing better of okay like what are the minimum set of requirements you need to have to be really to just still hold some delight in life and you know what do we need to get you there that those are those are the steps we'll take there's some language around that Peter by the is a movement to change DNR to A&D allow natural debt to get away from the things we're not doing and the things that we're are doing just to make that point in it interesting because that's taking this that has that taken hold yet I don't know that it's taken hold but there's a there is an effort to dry I like that yeah I think you're going to your point it's a really if we have a sense of rolling towards yeah even if we have to be very flexible and allow our mind to change on route that's just a much more viable it's it's much more it's a much more deliberate path and it's also very helpful for those around us to know what to do versus just not to do what are the differences that you have both experienced in dealing with dying cancer patients between those that are quote unquote old and those that are young I mean of all the chronic diseases cancer obviously disproportionately strikes the young you know people in their 40s and 50s don't really have to worry about heart disease and neurologic disease for the most part but they're far from clear of cancer and there's actually an article out recently that even suggests that the incidence of cancer is rising in young people so I'm curious is to what you've learned about about living and dying from through the lens of cancer in the tragic cases which I'm just using this term sort of loosely where everybody agrees the 45 year old dying of cancer is tragic versus the part of life when someone is in their 80s and 90s and dies of cancer hmm well one thing that leads to mind my experience with younger people um I mean you can get very philosophical to say what is an old what is old you know you know and I've seen some kids die duh which I mean that's a whole new level of whole new level of sorrow and senses of tragedy on some level for the parents very very different level of engagement or awareness yes tentally I have but I have and I write and actually the child the kid the young person I have seen some we want to be very careful to not be judging and grading deaths this is why the problem of good death is a really problematic construct but and in terms of something instructive to learn from I've seen some younger people die so beautifully and adapt so remarkably to the reality that they're living it's just stunning why why do you think that is I mean my senses because you know could say because they haven't yet been around on this plan along enough to develop such concrete notions of identity I am BJ I am this I am not that expectation expectations since when do you think that kicks in BJ I think it's a spectrum of develops late teens early 20s I would say something like that is our sense of as we individuate and our identity sort of set up is something relatively independent compared to our earlier years but you know I certainly feel different about myself now than I did when I was 19 but but to your point I think these sort of these these the as we said earlier dying is a natural thing well do it and you know hey you know what's the problem is it's but when the problem is hey that it's really hard and the if there's a problem around dying it's the social pressures or the expectations from ourselves or others that make us feel that this is somehow that we're doing it wrong or that there's something wrong with me for dying etc this is where a lot of the problem comes so a kid and I may just have a much more fluid sense of themselves in the world I think that's a big one they may not have developed haven't seen enough of the planet to attach so firmly to it you know perhaps but those are just can those are guesses but there is a there's a theme and we have a colleague Chris Adrian who's a pediatric pad of care, rocket metal you know he would be interesting to talk to him but that's my experience with younger people it's now it's a very different conversation with their parents so yeah so that's one thing I mean they give space just up as a note like how complicated is because the grief the sort of anticipatory grief of a dying person is very different than the anticipatory grief of the people that will go on to live without them and that's the space that we're trying to negotiate these decisions and make plans right like kind of two very different developmental tasks overlayed right and I think in the experience of children of course this is not universal but in those experiences of children who are sort of clear like I think I'm dying nobody is willing to talk to me about that kind of like looking around for another kind of sober person to engage with them there but that's just kind of an amazing thought just to pause on that for a moment I've never really spent much time thinking about it because I actually didn't spend that much you know in pediatric surgery you saw some children who died but you usually weren't they really want to medical or pediatric service by that point so I don't I don't really understand what the what the what the what the metacognition is of a dying child but so so a 10-year-old child is is who's got cancer let's pick something like that there they're they're they're they're they're aware that something's happening I suppose I'm certainly are deeply yeah more than often sometimes with a more direct shoot to kind of the truth theiness of what's happening then then adults around them including the physicians and clinicians yeah yeah you know it's I think there's an arc for our development or we know a lot of kids yeah we go out in the world and as adults and we take on we try on all these other outfits for size and do the things we're supposed to do and should and stuff and then there's this can be this return to a sort of a playfulness and a lightness within all-age that would have you thinking that our wisdom was never higher than when we were kids we just didn't get seduced into thinking that someone else outside of ourselves new more than we did and started externalizing you know there's we could draw lots of fans of home and around that fluidity with which my three-year-old and six-year-old will you know sometimes they'll wake up me like do you think nanodide last night when are you going to die like they just there is a kind of curiosity that they have without the attachment actually to like the the deep meaning that that we may as adults kind of get into anticipating and then because we're anticipating feeling it right they can kind of just like ask the questions like well you be alive when I die mom well you be old right like they're just trying to figure it they don't get a no way in the same way yeah maybe as a way of putting them into a check yeah no totally it's not comfortable so I want to go back to something you said a second ago you brought up kind of anticipation of loss and death and then the actual event and the loss once that person has gone and obviously those two states exist for the surviving only one of those states exists for the dying they don't really have so tell me about the experience for the person who's going to die what are the things that they express to you as their greatest fears how often is it again pain physical pain how often is it not existing how often is it leaving someone behind and their suffering and then similarly I'm curious as to what the anticipated versus realized experiences of the loved ones I mean I think for for many people there's real fear about the physiologic experience of dying of pain and other symptoms right and I think one of the beautiful parts of our work is in in the nature of people being linked to palliative care hospice care there's some ability to comfort that right that we are here we are watching those symptoms we're working with you so could we say that nobody in the year 2025 needs to actually suffer during death I mean is that it's at two an extreme a statement for example is there a pain that is so deep that it can't be reached by the most potent narcotic is there is there a shortness of breath that is so significant that it can't be offset and palliated by probably an narcotic as well like a if you and sorry good we're going to say yeah well just from that sort of medication medication physiology yeah at that end of the argument or conversation yes to your question I think we can say that no one in 2025 needs to die suffering is long as you include the potential for sedation to be part of that it may take so much narcotic to quail your pain or your shortness of breath yes that we are actively putting you to sleep so if you include what's called palliative sedation then I think that is a true statement yep I think I just want to make a quick note on the use of narcotics in the setting like narcotic is a police term right it's a term of law and voice enforcement and the medicines that are being used in the time are opioids and it's only an important I mean not only it's an important distinguishment because opioids are often one of the central medicines in managing the symptoms related to dying and related to serious illness at a certain point and people for good reason in 2025 and the setting of how opioids exist in our culture are scared right and so you know yeah so it's an interesting I recently to podcast with Sean Mackie who's a pain specialist and we talked a lot about opioids because on the one hand they are a very important part of the tool kit of a pain specialist they would be an even more important part of your tool kit and they have been the most widely abused class of drugs in the history of modern medicine those two statements can be simultaneously true absolutely doesn't detract from the former yes right yes and there's a there is a fair amount of work you know if opioids are being used to manage people's symptoms and was serious illness like we we need to pause and ask the questions of like how do you feel about this medication being prescribed you have experience with it right because everyone comes with some imprint around the meaning of these medicines and if we want to help people use the medicines correctly to get to that place where they might be as comfortable as we're able to get them like we got to peel back the layers on the relationship to the medicines being is that a common phenomenon where people show up with a belief about this and is the belief that it's I mean it sounds like a silly thing to say do people think it's cheating do people think there's some nobility in suffering through death I'm certainly some people some do and not only like some people feel that pain is redemptive right that they don't want their experience blunted or muted or you know that they have such a commitment to a quote natural experience or they have been a person that never took pharmaceutical medicines or drugs anyway that this could be a real diversion from how they've understood or been comfortable in relationship to medicines and and I would say often there's there's a need for conversation in this space and at this point like unless you're living with no access to media everybody has some touch point reaction and bias about about these medicines and so maybe it's not a long conversation but it's a really important conversation and a lot you know people are worried about addiction people who are sober wondering how this impacts their sobriety right there's a super interesting thing I'd never thought about so you take an individual who's been sober yeah and their wondering wait can you really give me a benzo if you give me yeah if you give me fentanyl and morphine is that violating my sobriety how do you answer that question I answer that question usually with more questions around their sobriety what that experience has been like where they are with it now has it been important that there has been sort of absolute abstinence like you know that it exists if from different people questions that sort of there I might put in the camp of identity like do they are they telling you I mean I might say there is no from where I sit Peter there's no nobility and you suffering on necessarily being pain on the necessarily you as a sober person allowing me to prescribe you an opiate at this stage your life to me personally as your physician poses no moral quandary to me at all but what about you you know you're you're the person who's living in these shoes and and if you tell us absolutely no it's absolutely no benzos okay we will listen to you that may mean more pain than then otherwise but that's your call so the bridges point to be back to more questions and not putting it on the pace even though it's not even saying and by the way Bob you can change your mind anytime let's live with this decision today exactly if you wake up or you want to change your mind yeah not to change exactly yeah yeah and but in making it but also I'm in my your bridge I'm always knowing sort of the social clouds around some of these issues I will go out of my way to say we don't you know you're not gonna get addicted to these medicines we're gonna be using them judge judiciously a lot of people in the here get the morphine that's a there's a phrase I hang the morphine sometimes is a euphemism for essentially utilizing impatient and I mean it's not legal to do that anywhere we're not going to kill you you know we're gonna use only as much medicine as it helps your symptoms okay so there's a lot of room to clarify how we will use these medicines what they mean and what they don't mean so even if someone doesn't ask me those things I usually find an excuse to say those kinds of things yeah I think we have to step back to for a second because we're using suffering and pain yeah we're using suffering in a little bit of like a I would say not correct way because someone can have all of their symptoms pretty well managed and feel pretty comfortable physiologically and have an extraordinary amount of suffering so to say in 2025 nobody needs the suffer at the end of life like I think that's impossible pain yeah I think that we can for the most part we can say we will do everything we can to help you be as comfortable as possible like can we say we can do that perfectly no tell me about I mean I guess the outside of the well I think you're drawing one of the things you're saying bridge and I think it's really important is there's a difference between pain and suffering and we need these things those words and we're kind of casually yeah so help me with that a little bit more so pain we understand I think we understand shortness of breath and things of that nature yeah exactly so so let's let's bracket those can all be managed physiologically and we have done so pharmacologically now talk about the residual of suffering how much of this is sadness how much of this is grief how much of this is some yeah tell me more about what the suffering is once you've addressed those receptor bound physiologic things yeah I mean it's one of the reasons why you know precise new on symptom management is so important because it's when the noise and the volume of the pain often is turned down that we get to learn about the stories someone is telling or the things that are replaying in their heads about not getting to see their kids grow up or not getting to finish that piece of work that felt so important to them or the ways in which which they wish they hadn't taken something for granted right when when symptoms are allowed it is really hard to get into the places of suffering that are about in completeness they're about what you what we won't get to do or what we won't get to do with our person or our people there there's a whole sort of pot spiritually existentially around faith and relationship to God potentially or what that is for you and if that has stayed whole in this experience of illness right so there's just so much and like turning the volume down on some of the physical stuff really you know can I open up the space to you're nauseous you're not going to tell me how you're feeling other than the nausea you know only think on I mean it's so much like a lot of misconceptions around our work as we've had it time again one of them is that it's just about symptom management that we're symptomatologists essentially and now that's really importantly wrong it's a sort of hyper reductive and as Bridget saying in some ways the first thing to do is turn down the symptoms to degree possible so that the rest of you is present and that we can get to sort of like that's the starting line it's once we kind of get you comfortable enough so you can think about anything but your pain or your nausea that's when the real work begins of getting to know you and advancing your fears and your hopes and your dreams and that's the stuff that's really the meaty stuff that we want to get to and so comfort is a starting point in a way and just maybe to back up a little bit first so just what do we mean when we say the word suffering I mean I you know for me so pain is a sort of a stimulus you know there's safety to it tells us to stop doing what we're doing there's you know it's a it's a sensation it's complicated the pain pathway is not a simple one there's not a pain pathway and always involves emotion always involves cognitive stuff it just a matter to degree but that degree is so when we tip into something where your pain or other symptoms are causing a sort of a threat to your identity a threat to your sense of self a threat to what you see as real in the world that's when we get into suffering so suffering has a mosaic of physical emotional spiritual existential the whole the whole panoply of the human experience goes into suffering so someone may have an ordinate pain but if they believe that that pain is redemptive it's going to bring them closer to God or it's burning off some bad karma they're not suffering they might be very uncomfortable but they're not suffering it's not threatening their sense of self in the world and someone might have a very what looks to be a mild cause of pain but be suffering extraordinarily because that has undone their sense of being so that's yeah it's a really different notion it's not just the sort of physiological signaling cue does that make sense of it's a tweet yeah so let's not mix those terms or pivot a little bit to talk about how to pull all of this together right you guys have had good luck decades of being at the bedside for experiences that I'm sure you look back upon and think that was that was really a wonderful experience right that was that that that patient passed out of this world and their family escorted them out in the best way I can imagine and I'm sure you have seen the opposite I'm sure you have seen things that made you cry and made you think I weep for all parties involved what are some lessons we can take away from that what are I hate to call it do's and don'ts because that's such a stupid but you know what I mean what are what are some of the things that have in the process will come back and we'll talk about insights that you've learned from the dying because that's where I want to end it today but just from the process of the dying and their loved ones tell me tell me things you've learned that people should know that that that increase the probability of it being as positive as it can be versus the opposite well it's a toughie to toughie as we said the subject just really thwarts any sort of much objectivity or anything that smells reductive and in some ways that's the death that we as practitioners are heading for is something that allows for while we talk about a body or a person in decline that's our medical bias towards a physiology in the bodily it's also very possible that people can have behaving this incredible emotional and social and spiritual growth even as their body is in decline so part of it is our sort of naming and overcoming the biases we're born into in this particular culture in this particular world so and I think but what I want to answer to your question is it's so hard to answer but for me for me it these days the word honesty comes up for me a lot so the bullshit that we tell ourselves the partial truths that we tell ourselves the pieces of ourselves that we don't look at that we don't allow in because we're either ashamed of or whatever it is or blind spots or we've bitten the sort of autonomy in dependencing so much that we don't let any sort of social reflection in you know dying can be is this sort of great accounting it all has it's call coming out in the wash there so one thing that I see make a difference and head towards a do's and don'ts if each of us can take into our perhaps our responsibility but also our privilege to know ourselves over time and to dare to look and to see and to be true to ourselves to my way of thinking if you ask me this question five years ago I probably said some different but that's the bit that's my big takeaway these days as if you want to be ready to die well get real with yourself as soon or the better and because one of the things you'll allow in is a richer life right and one of the reasons why we would encourage people to think about death earlier in life is not just so to avoid the defaults of a medical system that doesn't think about these things but you also allow in the idea that you both your bigness and your smallness like I'm one of a zillion people has ever lived you know I'm a drop in the ocean but also allow in that the ocean would be different without my drop in it like that work of placing yourself in the world and feeling in right size to it all requires a lot of dynamic honesty and that takes effort you need to dare to look at yourself and that to me is sort of a big do if you do that well then the risk like so much of what we talked about today is it's not the problem of dying so much but the difficulties of uncertainty is so much of what we're kind of guarding against or working with not so much death but living with uncertainty and that's a that's something that we all do all the time so my answer to all that is you know get real with yourself and be as honest as you can one moment to the next and allow yourself to move and change with reality that's a mouthful but that's as close as I can come to a do yeah sorry does that and that's actually really a quite a profound one because on the one hand it seems so easy maybe not the right word so self evident but on the other hand it's so difficult and it's something that anybody with a modicum of introspection struggles with yeah and even when you think you got it oh I now I know I am well no it's relational beings whatever's coming tomorrow might yank all sorts of other things out of you that you didn't know or there so this sense of self this identity thing is a biggie I guess this feels connected but the word for me when I think about those like beautiful experiences or the ones that I walk away just feeling like not bad like I'd be okay with that is about connection right so and what does that mean like whether you or the person who's dying like your ability to connect to self to the environment to the people around you if there are there people there if your person around supporting like can you be connected and in contact with what's happening right it it when there's a lot of connection or connectivity in this time like the circumstance is matter but a lot of different circumstances a lot of different storylines can actually feel quite a liveening or even nourishing or validating because it is you know it's being in touch with what is real how many patients are permitted that medically in other words isn't that in part um constraint by their symptoms and the medications that are needed to again either sedate or control pain and then we talked earlier about delirium like I what fraction of of of patients that you experience in the final days and weeks of life have the ability to be in that state such a tricky question but I think many if the state is sort of any level of connection to what's happening right so maybe I'm not talking about like moving towards like totally conscious death or something I'm saying like even in delirious states there can be moments where there's just like real connectivity maybe we don't understand cognitively totally what's happening but your kid is sitting there telling you stories about the things that were important to them in their experience of you or there's some sensation in your hand that's receiving input from your spouse or the light you know like we just don't know that experiences so if we work towards environments and a focus on promoting the idea of connection I guess I just really believe that that translates regardless of mental status or like mental clarity and I think you know you said something earlier that like most people three weeks there's probably delirium I don't know that I think that's true oh yeah I don't or not me yeah I don't think it's most I think days before you maybe days obviously so common but I think I think there's option opportunity for connection the whole time well yeah especially if you include to yourself yeah and to other parts yourself then for sure and especially if also once you include inan objects and a nonhuman things I mean I have some of the most connected experience in my life have been with dogs you know for so once you broaden the scope of what you can connect to I think bridge it's points are really well placed you may have also allow surprise and to feel connection to a perfect stranger has happened to me I felt like my life has been saved by strangers many times one way or another say more just you know I'm just desponding about especially earlier days in these shoes and you know and it's feeling so alone and so in pain or whatever it is or just tired but just a kind of a person walking by just a little bit of eye contact a little wink just say hey I see you you see me just that infinite connect you just say nothing you may be they hold the door open but just just a little connectivity just the realization that it is an illusion to say you're alone um it's a really it can feel very real but none of us is actually alone so as you head towards the cosmos you know you know you are there's room this comes up a psychedelic work there's room to feel connected all sorts of things you can't name but you feel that connection you know so how much of either of you followed the sort of psilocybin work the Roland Griffiths work the end of life stuff and and what is your what is your take on um again not with standing the regulatory challenges of that um what is your take on that literature and it's it's efficacy I think I think anecdotally I have seen psychedelic experiences be incredibly helpful to folks that have kind of run into a place in themselves where they don't have you know they've kind of just hit a wall in their own imagination in their own mind as to what this experiences or what it can be that there's just this kind of opening that can happen um sometimes incredibly subtly that allows for just some you know slightly different insight not generated by the brain that you know so well or the parts of your brain that know so well and I think it can be amazing super helpful I'm really in my own experience and those of people I've worked with you know it's easy start feeling evangelical like this we should just be putting psilocybin out there like it looks in the water you know it's been there and let's be careful I mean I think we're gonna want to learn from reality as we begin to do more of this work in study let's be true to what we learn but on the whole these substances these medicines have been able to achieve you know in a session with a patient what you know months or years of talk therapy other things have been accomplished and you know it's not necessarily about learning something in those experiences can be but Mike's in for my time whether it's more that I get past my thoughts and I get into this embodied felt thing it's not a new it's not an epiphany it's just I feel the power of that epiphany or that idea in my bones and my flesh it's a kind of different kind of knowing which then allows for a super sense of connectivity you can't be disconnected that's just you know you're you are connected and you feel that and the therapy of that also you get to see what a well how silly our minds can be and it doesn't learn that very simple bumper sticker truth have don't believe everything you think and you then you come out of there with a new relationship to how you hold your thoughts and people get to that by other means right through meditation through prayer through deep transcendent communal experiences right so it's it's accessible by way of other avenues you've ever spent a lot of time with people in by definition the final stage of their life what what have you learned what have you learned the changes the way you live your life or the way you want to live your life well I can say something you know there's again huge beautiful question jazz Peter me but one is and maybe this is some really freer audience I think we all would love to you know I think many of us would say we'd love to be fearless and learn to go into our death unifraid or live a life so conscious that we have no regrets I like to kind of just my patience have taught me to kind of undo those strangle holds a little bit it's more the truth that I've learned from folks at the end is more like have a change of relationship to fear your relationship to regret the mark of living with no regrets yeah there might be an an or maybe something for you in that but I I'm not sure how if you're being really honest with yourself how possible that is so it's not necessarily it's it the lesson has something to do with coming around to accepting everything that's in you including the gnarly stuff like regret and fear and even suffering are there certain regrets that people have shared with you more more often than others well invariably or a bit invariably but they all the common thread depending sort whether it's I regret working to my chariote you know didn't spend this I didn't say tell my kids I love them that sort of the standard regret menu what they all seem to have in common is they regret not letting themselves feel or not letting themselves be true to the what they actually felt something got in their shame or something else wedged in themselves and separated themselves from themselves or separated themselves from other people they love and the regret has something to do about artificially or accidentally putting a wedge between you and anything you know like it could be spent a lifetime running from fear but if you watch a lot of people come around to when they finally got the cue that fear was just a natural part of being in a body like they became okay with fear they took away that sort of secondary shaming of fear and then fear became this it was sort of right size to them and it was defamed and I've seen that play out a lot of the same with regret you know so it's I think that the commonality back to your question is something to do with not being quite true to themselves or not allowing a trying to keep something out of their experience and all the work they did and when they kind of realized that it's all got to go anyway kind of welcome even pain just to get to feel anything is kind of wild and magical do people need to be really close to the end to typically come to that near inevitable realization or is that something people are realizing six months out where they can do something about it where they still have all their faculties and they can still you know mend a bridge or mend a relationship yeah absolutely they can happen anytime kids back to kids are doing you know they're coming their own works up they can do that pretty and so yes we can do this we can learn to do this is one another reason why we would invite the subject into our daily lives if you look at your window death and life for happening all the time you see it on your windshield you see it's like this is it's all over the place if you can sort of really be aware let these messages in then you can let the lessons in too towards reconciliation or why hold a grudge why be on any why would you ever cause suffering in another person knowingly or in yourself included etc so yeah and Buddhism was sort of a lot sort of founded around this question and to give you a life of practice around meditation how do you hold your mind so that you don't suffer unnecessarily so that you can be okay with the fact of your death so yeah there are bodies of thought and just your own personal experience of living daily life if you let it in you can gain these lessons anytime along the way of life yeah I mean I thought I don't you know if I think about my own learning like you you can't I don't think really hang out in this space a lot and not really wrestle with the reality that we don't know when we're going to die which means that this is my life I mean I think that's I've got too young kids so regular I'm kind of like okay this is my life just as like a management strategy but I think there's also like a a a tethered the reality that like this moment is what I have right it is not it may start to sound trait but it is not tomorrow is not promised to me ten years is not promised to me and if thought is true can I use that as this reminder that like this moment the way that I speak to you being tender when I do things out of my value system right staying really connected to now right is the invitation that comes from or comes next to our has come for me in being so aware of mortality right and that you do not have to be sick you do not have to be facing that in your life no one in your life has to be dying right now to be really to just take pause me like this is my life this moment and then the next do I remember that all the time absolutely not but it is a very available reminder practice yeah I stay intentionally stay connected to it I intentionally make it something my kids can be connected to because it's an arguable right we can we can have three different takes on everything that we've said today but it is an arguable that we are always living in the reality that we don't know when we're going to die yeah amen sister and I think that's that's a good back to sort of the do's and don'ts do have a relationship with all with mystery with not knowing you know do have a relationship with the present moment you know those are some pretty good do's I don't want to what I'm saying is not like light or easy it doesn't make me not afraid it doesn't make me you know not I feel very aware of how much I want to be alive and how long I hope my life is and also humbled by the fact that like what I have influence over and control over really in arguably is right now now you're not being ashamed of your fear and that's a difference I think a lot of people would be afraid and then what they're really experiencing is the shame of being fearful I'm very terrified every time I get on the plane yeah so and I think also sort of debatailing to is this word control comes up yeah it's a big one and I think in terms of if we're you know remotely dispense any advice you know it would be the frenety prayer it comes up a lot one way another I think a lot of your listeners will know this essentially sort of the ability to discern what you can control and focus some efforts there and let go of all the things you can't control and maybe in the middle identify that even though there are some huge things we can't control there is a lot we can influence right and that those are different and that there's like kind of a spets spectrum between control influence and like you know surrender and how do we build our flexibility well and how do you learn to sit with I think that message of the frenety prayer often I hear people myself included in the past but some friends take that that wisdom of that message and say okay I'm just gonna focus my attention on what I can control so I'm saying like I'm and then they have a lifetime of sort of focusing their line of sight in one direction I think what we let go of is the other half of that message which is not I don't give it shit about it because you can't control it like learn sit with all that you can't control practice not being in control that will serve you very well as you had to your death what what about the role of forgiveness how often do you encounter the dying who are wrestling with needing the forgiveness of someone or needing to forgive someone it's a big theme it's written about a fair amount that I love you know the things to kind of focus on I'm saying out loud I love you as I forgive you please forgive me these are thank you these are and there's you know these are tried and true messages that seem to cut a cross culture and stand up pretty well but so back to your specific question about forgiveness I don't know how to often I guess I would say more commonly what I see people needing to learn how to do is forgive themselves is probably if you know picking something in sort of common that one comes I see that a lot how does it present and how do you encounter it being at odds with themselves you know when there is no buggy man there is no they're just not comfortable with themselves they're at odds with themselves self-loathing self-critical even in the final weeks of life so if they've had enough so you know we have a bias there's a bias all the people we've seen have had the benefit of hospice and bad of care and so they've been loved on they've been heard they've been you know so there's an inborn bias to our experiences I don't know if I have like a good answer about the forgiveness piece I think I think it comes up I don't know that I think it comes up a lot a lot yeah again I think that might be the bias of people that you've spent time with over time those things have gotten to they're not a death there's no need for a death bed I mean there's not a lot of trueisms in this space that I generally vibe with and I'm pretty allergic to most of them but I will say that I do think there's kind of something to like people die the way that they live right like for most people those who lived in love die surrounded by love kind of thing yeah that or like if you had a lot of people around you maybe there's gonna be more people around you if you a person that dug into your life and really investigated your mind and you did that really easily and you shared your reflections and like that's also more likely to happen when you're dying right so if there's an experience you would like to happen if you're imagining into the future you're like I think dying in this way would be okay or more tolerable or nice or beautiful start doing it now like you want to forget like you're worried about forgiveness like investigate that now right you want to feel more connected how do you do that you want to be in your body more how do you do that right like that's the best way to get there at the end is that you're building those muscles now I mean some people do one-eighties with with a big diagnosis or the awareness that they're dying but mostly we lean on the places that we have hyper developed right because they're comforting because they're familiar in the face of this kind of vast thing I mean that might be the single most important insight of them all which is we die how we lived and we will what's the expression we we we rise to the level of our training it's really good effect right and it's in sports we talk about that right at fatigue you rise to level of your training and so we will we will default to our regular strategies the strategies that got us through life are probably the strategies that will get us through death and so what we should all be doing is imagining the death we want and begin practicing that at life and make that our scaffolding today. I think that about as good as advice as I can imagine is especially if you feel in the caveat that long the way I learn to deal with things when they don't go as planned you know again so like so that you don't have this sense of failure at the end I mean one of the saddest things I think we see as people who feel like they're failing at dying so no one to set it up as an accomplishment per se or an achievement per say but your advice that sounds really good to me. Right like we can't control for the outcome with certainty but we can build the muscles and the capacities that that are most likely going there are going to help us land in that place you know if you're a person who builds new coping skills or new ways of being in like high stress adversity like you'll probably do that then right yeah that's sorry it feels like a throwaway line when do we begin dying I mean you don't become a different person when you're dying you're still gonna be Peter you're going to be a bridge I'm gonna be a and that you know so it has already begun that active dying we never finished answering that question what goes in that like the final day or two when the body's really shutting down so active dying has its own kind of frame and we can revisit that any old time but everything up to that is some form of living so you can begin practicing this dying thing today well let's talk about that that final thing what is that what is that last 24 to 48 hours look like so the phrase we use is active dying to distinguish it from the rest of living dying and a body is you know is actively shutting down so system by system you know you'll stop your kidneys or shut down you're not making as much urine in part because you stop drinking probably a few days because days ago because your body couldn't handle the fluids so and thanks to kidney shutting down you get a buildup of toxic metabolites and get a little intoxicated little dreamy little that may be the course so that may be the the mechanism of your delirium so you're not eating you're not drinking as a general rule you're probably a little fuzzy and you're or entirely asleep breathing so the some of the two biggies those can happen anywhere along the way but the ones that tell you you're really close or when you have modeling of the skin this sort of lazy blueish experience where your body's just not moving blood effectively and you'll see skin changes and especially the extremities and breathing patterns change oftentimes you get apnea so long periods of no breath at all you often hear something that's sort of like a frightful phrase but the death rattle so which often is sort of a a gargling sound with breathing that's just because your oral pharynx is no longer the reflexes are dying out so you're no longer moving fluids as they pull in the back ear throat which is an important note there if your if your reflexes are no longer functioning you're not likely feeling it so a death rattle sounds pretty gnarly but it's generally probably harder for the audience in the person dying but those are the things that you that are typically experience in a body that's actively dying and that's only gonna last a matter of days at most hours to do a day or two I think the other thing that's happening is the experience for the people around that person right and there's so much to say in that space but I do think having you know counsel a lot of people there is there's a feeling of preciousness right we don't know when that last breath is going to come we you know maybe we really want to be there maybe we feel like we can't but often for someone watching and waiting it can be really hard to stay connected to our own experience so like people won't get up and go to the bathroom because they don't want to miss that moment they won't eat they don't eat maybe their appetite is low anyways which you know is fine but it is a time to be thinking about really basic needs and basic comforts for everyone in the space because that influences the space and the environment for for all and most people feel like this is the dying person's experience this is like all of the focuses there we're watching every respiration we're even matching the breathing we're creating anxiety in our own bodies because of that and if we can invite attention to everyone's experience and give permission to like you need to take a walk or take a walk it may mean that they die when you're not in the room and maybe that's okay maybe they die in the one minute you're going to the bathroom for the first time in six hours like it may just be that way that's a really really important point sort of like once you understand delirium and you can contextualize what you're hearing from a loved one that point rigid so it's pointy to as such an important one a lot of loving families keep these vigils and don't sleep don't do anything so that they can be there for the death thinking that that's the most that's the highest point to be there when someone dies is in that exact moment when they take their last breath and so it's a bridge it's point this is a lived experience for everyone so you gotta keep doing yet to sleep yes and it just I don't think any of us could tell you why this is but it is just a thing you talked to anyone who worked in hospice for a while it seems to be that a lot of people need to be alone for the final their final moments on the planet to really let go and so it's almost it's like I can't tell you why but it is a thing so you going to the bathroom or taking a walk or something and then the exactly the thing that that person needs to finally let go so the messages don't leave and therefore the person will never let go you're just potentially can make it harder and harder for that person to actually finally let go so go to the bathroom take a walk kiss the person goodbye on drink some water and know that not only they may they may be gone when you come back but that may be exactly what they needed to finally let go it's a hard one or family's to take in but it's just a thing well guys thank you very much for this discussion today very very very very very very difficult discussion not one we want to have I imagine for you guys that's pretty common you go to parties nobody wants to ask you what you guys do for the heck out of great story that the girls are holding yeah yeah it's yeah so but given how much of our time on this planet we spend heading towards the inevitability the one thing we will all be 100% successful at it's certainly more in the discussion yeah and more yeah and multiple discussions as we pointed out it's slippery it's huge and it's just I'm sorry to not it's it's a windy inherently messy conversation so it's not just us struggling to articulate something as much as we are articulating the messy this didn't complexity of something yeah well thank you guys thank you thank you beater

Why did I look better at 42 than 52? Start the discussion through the lens of preventive care. The absolute minimum thing I should use on my skin every day, it would be sunscreen. I tell my patients they have to use mineral sunskins, as opposed to chemical sunskins. cheapest trick and skincare, you can go to Walgreens and spend $6 on aquifore, and your skin will look better 30 days. guaranteed how much do you see trends that dramatically change what people are asking for? The images that are being posted are not real. I try to really educate my patients to stay away from things that are trending and really do things that make them look and feel better but natural for themselves. So what is it that you see to know that is most disconcerting? I think overfilling is a serious problem whether it's the lips or the cheeks. The companies will tell you that they are the only last one year in the face of the new week. That's definitely not true. Really, I show up in your office. I can't tell you what's wrong but I show you a picture of me 10 years ago and I say, I want to look like that. Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Tanush, Suzanne, great to have you here both. You're obviously in Austin. You traveled from Pittsburgh, right? Yes. Awesome. Well, this is a topic we get asked a lot about and sometimes when we get asked about topics, I already know quite a bit and this is absolutely an example of the opposite of that. This is a topic we get asked about a lot and I would argue that my knowledge is even below that of the general public. So I can't think of a time when I've done a discussion on the podcast on something where I know less than all things related to the health of one's skin and appearance. And so yeah, thank you very much for both being here and thank you for helping me even think about how to structure a discussion on this topic. Maybe before we jump into it, just give us each a little bit of your backgrounds. I think it was helpful to have not won but two experts here because you guys have sort of a different specialty, obviously within medicine, you have a different specialty, you overlap in things, but obviously do some things different. So Tanush tell us a little bit about your training your background and what you focus on. So yes, thanks for having us Peter. It's a pleasure to be here to talk about something I'm quite passionate about and I know it's very confusing for a lot of listeners to understand aesthetics and we'd love to demystify it a little bit. So my background, my core specialty is ocular facial plastic surgery. I trained in eye surgery and in facial surgery mostly at UCLA. But the due train in plastic surgery first, my original background is ophthalmology, ophthalmology okay. And then I did fellowships in ophthalmic plastic surgery and then another fellowship in facial cosmetic surgery in addition to that. My practice is limited to eye and face plastic surgery basically and that ranges from reconstruction of children, cancer, reconstruction for elderly and all the cosmetic surgeries that we can perform on the face, including nose, neck, including nose and neck. Yes. And I moved to 16, moved to Austin 16 years ago after training at UCLA and joined a large group here and we're also all the faculty of the medical school. So we are actively involved with academics teaching residents. We have a fellowship program, two fellowship programs in our practice and it's a real pleasure to be involved in academics because it's the cutting edge of science and we'd like to perform a clinical research and in the academic community which is how I know Susan. There's a lot of collaboration amongst specialties and we have an opportunity to dialogue and further this specialty that we care so much about. Awesome. Okay. And Susan, you are a dermatologist by training? Yes. And then I did a cosmetic surgery fellowship and I am in academic medicine as well. I'm at the University of Pittsburgh. I've been there about 24 years. So I got to see the evolution of this entire field starting with what we used to do at the time was surgeries and then maybe a few college in injections and now we have the plethora of all these tools that are disposal. And I train residents medical students and I have visiting physicians from all over the world that come in and I love the multi-specialty collaboration that we have because we both belong to the American Academy of Cosmetics surgery and we hear a different approach from different specialists maybe on the same procedures. In my practice I focus on everything with regards to skin rejuvenation, peels, lasers. I also do a lot of fat grafting. We do body liposuction, mini face lifts, eye lifts, but everything when it comes to the face is about really enhancing the appearance of the skin first because my feeling is that's the most important thing that everyone sees. So what a patient comes in like you who has not had anything done or doesn't know about the field. I actually like that because I can take that opportunity to really educate them and pick the right things for them. I appreciate you noticing I've had nothing done. We were talking before the podcast but it's worth me stating this now again for everybody to hear. There is something about this field of medicine that I have such a block in my brain to understanding. And Tunution I have met before, Tunution helped me with a scar so Brett Kotlus, a friend of mine who's actually been a former guest on the podcast introduced us. I faced planted one morning, due to some hypertension and sustained a pretty nice scar here that I think for the most part is largely invisible today probably in part because my face is leather to begin with. But I think in part because we did some five-few micro abrasion, we did a whole bunch of stuff and I was actually pretty diligent about staying out of the sun for the period of time after it, et cetera. And so I think we've also done a Botox treatment which it certainly reduced the wrinkles. Obviously it's long gone but I'd love to talk about that. My wife and her friends are, it's almost like they've done fellowships themselves the way they talk about this stuff and maybe that is just true of women in their forties. But the way they go on about these techniques, it must sound like that when I talk about cars in front of them. Like it's so foreign. So as I was saying earlier, I have taken a strategy towards my appearance that is probably illogical which is I'm just going to ignore it because I don't understand it and I'm going to focus on things I understand. I would view it as an enormous win of this podcast if in a few hours I decided to do something that was sustainable and going to help me look a little better at 62 than I should look. I'm 52 today. I looked at a picture of myself 10 years ago before this podcast. What a difference 10 years has made. I look so much worse today than I did 10 years ago and I guess that's not uncommon, right? I would guess 42 to 52 is a big reduction in appearance but it also made me realize, wow, the next 10 years that reduction will probably be greater if I don't do something proactive and to just find make one final point about my abject laziness on this topic. I can't even bring myself, this is going to sound so disgusting. I can't even bring myself to wash my face before bed which my wife is like, you are so disgusting, just wash your face. But I'm like, it's not like I'm that greasy who cares and she's like, she's always buying products for me. I just can't bring myself to do it. So you guys have your work cut out for me because if I can be educated on this, you can change the world. I was about to say that, Tynge, we have our work cut out. Let's start a little bit with the biology of the aging face and again we're going to limit our discussion today to the neck up, not that there isn't other things that are completely relevant around cosmetics but that's just a big enough topic, right? I told you that when I looked at myself 10 years ago, I couldn't believe how much better I looked. But I'd have a hard time telling you why. I can't put my finger on it, but I bet you can without me showing you those pictures. Why did I look better at 42 than 52? That's such a great question. And that's exactly how my patients come in. A lot of times they'll come in and they'll say, I feel like I look tired. I don't know exactly what's going on but I feel like I look tired. And I have these beautiful diagrams in my office and I show them the face of someone who's 20. The face of someone who's in their late 60s and I walk them through the changes. And the first thing I do is we show them the diagram with the skin peeled off. And you see about 11 different fat compartments in the youthful face that on each side of the face that are plump, they're robust, they're giving volume and they're giving a padding between the skin and the muscle and the underlying bones. And then you look at someone who's in their late 60s and you peel the skin away and you see a dramatic atrophy in all those fat pads. A few might increase in size but the vast majority undergo atrophy. And then in addition to that I show them what the bones are doing at that age too. So we will look at the volume of the 20 year old and the opening around the eyes are nice and tight. The cheekbones are nice and wide. The jawline has a really good definition. And then you look at someone who's in their 60s and all of a sudden the opening around the eyes are wider. Really? The cheekbones are less wide. Jobones less wide, less height. And so now you've got the escalpholding that's diminished and all the skin looks like it's just hanging. And that's what's happening but it starts early. So what I see on most of my patients when they come in and say I look tired and you said it. You look at your pictures 10 years ago. You look now and you don't know what's different. The first change is around the eyes and I'm sure it's in there. It can add to that. But basically what's happening is you're getting more bone loss around the eyes, more fat atrophy around the eyes. So you're starting to see the underlying anatomy which was padded before. So first of all this is completely news to me. Is this loss of bone comparable to what we would see in the reduction of bone density in a person's hips as they age? So a lot of it is hormonal. A lot of it is hormonal and you see it especially in women. If they start to see the aging changes they'll start to identify that in their early 40s. So this in other words is probably another reason why women would benefit from hormonal replacement therapy because maintaining estrogen levels would maintain bone health. Absolutely. And actually that's something we need to stress more and more to them because it starts in their early 40s. And then it just accentuates over time. But by time they hit 50 all of a sudden now for looking at them cross-sectionally a group of 50 euros compared to guides were 50. The men are holding up pretty good. Their facial bone structures good. Their fat volume is good. Their muscle thickness and skin thickness is good. But from 50 to 60 or 70 women will age about 20 years faster than men in the lower face especially. They will get so much atrophy and the mandible that those start to get that that's why women start to say I hate my neck and hate the loose skin and my neck. And if then it because if the mandibles retracting the neck becomes looser. Yes. Again this is remarkable because if you bringing it back to the one thing I know about bone it's when you look at men and women aging from a skeletal system. They're both going through a comparable decline starting in their 20s because we both peak both men women peak in the early 20s. But at about 50 women fall off a cliff. Whereas men just continue a linear decline and so the gap really widenes interesting to realize that the exact same thing is happening in the face. That's exactly it and that's why women come in the first things they say when they're 50s I hate my neck. And I think we jump to try to surgically correct it or to augment it with fillers or neuromodulators to keep the muscle from pulling it down. But I think we have to have a talk about hormone replacement. You have to catch those women before they're far along into menopause. Again I'm blown away by that fact. If I get hopped in for a second I love the direction of this conversation because I don't know if people realize how much science there is about the aging process. There were some seminal studies by Rorek and Pessa in the 90s and 2000s that kind of delineated a lot of what Susan's talking about where they looked at CT scans of similar and at the same individual over time. I think some of those studies had a 50 to 20 year span and there was quantitative calculations of bone density and bone projection of the mandible, the maxilla, the frontal bone and these bone structures all received with aging. And the bone is the foundation for the face. And so when we're talking about youthful fullness of a face a lot of that is the bone structure. And then as Susan said of course the fact compartments are a critical component of our facial aesthetics. And as we lose all that volume the reason why people start to look more skeletal as we age one of the most common areas that I see in my practice is people talking about their under eye bags and their you know the lines that are showing up and their eyelids and their cheek area. It's because we have ligaments that attach the skin down to the bone. It's called the osteocutaneous ligament to the network of the face. And those ligaments are the same for every single individual no matter what your ethnicity is. Of course there's variations on the theme but the orbital retaining ligament, the male are ligament, the temporal ligament, the mandible are ligament, the mass that are these ligaments are always present and then as we lose that facial volume from fat atrophy and the bones move backwards these ligaments are tugging on the skin and these deep lines start to show up. And that's really I would say one of the fundamental changes we see with aging of the face. What I guess I don't understand is the following. Again I'm just going to use myself as the example because I think I'm probably reflective of many people. Ten years ago I was less fat than I am today. Same body weight by the way I almost to the pound I'm the same as I was ten years ago. But I would bet my body fat was two or three percent lower. In other words I have accumulated fat in my body. Why am I losing fat in my face? What is it about facial subcutaneous fat depose that atrophies when for virtually every person the opposite is happening when they age they're actually adding at a post tissue subcutaneously and unfortunately often viscerally. So if I may answer that one it's interesting because I talk a lot to my patients about that now. The vast majority of my patients are female. So they'll come in and they'll see me and I can look at their face. Let's say they're under late 30s or early 40s and I can guess how many kids they've had. Because what happens is you gain weight in pregnancy doesn't have to even be a lot. But then most people with their fit they lose that post pregnancy weight. I've had none by the way just in case you were wondering. That's good to know. And then they lose that post pregnancy weight and what happens is they go back to being in the same weight that they were before they got pregnant but their face is there. Second baby more so by the third baby it takes a significant toll on the face that weight gain weight loss so you can tell on looking at a female face almost how many times they've gone through that weight gain weight loss. And so what happens the facial fat pads are very unique metabolically. Like I mentioned most of the time they're just afterfing as we age. There are a couple compartments that might in time get thicker such as the nasal labial fat compartment which is why some people have that deep fold. But for the most part they are afterfie and so if you go through this yo yo change with your weight and you're progressively getting thinner and again and some weight back it doesn't go to the face. It goes to parts of the body we don't want but the face continues to undergo that weight loss or the volume atrophy. But do we know biologically because it's almost like a lipid dystrophy where the fat cell becomes defective and can't reacumulate triglyceride or whatever it is whatever form it's going to store it in. I think this is a the edge of our like so many things in medicine. There are things that we know and a lot that we don't know. Yes so we know that it's happening we don't actually know the biochemical mechanisms. I think we're just starting to understand the individual receptors and specific nature of different areas of fat. So for example even in the eyelid region when we're doing surgery on the face and we're doing surgery on the upper eyelid we will see that the fat pads have different colors. So the medial orbital fat pad is lighter substantially compared to the much yellower and more orange lateral fat pad and that color will be different than the buckle fat pad. And one of the differences there's beta-carantine differences in the fat pads and that's probably just one of maybe a hundred that we'll eventually find out is contributing to the differences in the fat population. So we know that facial fat is different from abdominal fat which is different from lower extremity fat and we know this also practically speaking because when we're doing fat grafting procedures the source of the fat can have a different long-term effect when it's ejected into the face depending on what the source was. And so so we know that fat is not the same throughout the body and it's not the same in the face. There is a general consensus that beta-carantine is an anti-inflammatory mediator and higher concentrations and lower concentrations of beta-carantine can have some effect on the metabolic health and of fat especially how it responds to stress. And so in the world of longevity there's a lot of discussions about you know managing cortisol levels like sleep is helpful you know having lifestyles that reduce your overall stress level is good for your overall health in numerous ways. That's also true for the fat and the skin of the face because again a lot of this is not fully explained but we're starting to get more and more details as basic science progresses in this area that these fat compartments and the skin which we can talk more about is exclusive to the sensitive to stress that the body is experiencing cumulatively over time. So you know a lot of times people feel like they're really aging in their 40s you know people have midlife crisis there crises there are probably experiencing the maximum stress in their life at that stage typically and I'm just generalizing here but you know people will have a busy career they've got kids they've got financial worries and so people are under a lot of stress in their 30s and 40s and that contributes to some of the more rapid facial volume loss changes some of the skin aging changes with elasticity college and the last and changes at a curve of time and so that's where I think that this conversation really plugs in quite well into the line of education that you're providing your followers in terms of longevity benefits because the overlaps here with cortisol stress and what's interesting is that chronic elevation of cortisol in the body is actually anabolic to fat right you accumulate fat it's catabolic to muscle muscle decays fat accumulates it sounds like you're saying okay that's that's true from the neck down but above the neck chronic elevation of cortisol might have the opposite effect it might actually be catabolic to fat and therefore it accentuates the fat loss is that am I hearing you correctly in that yes I believe that's correct and and just yesterday in my clinic I had a perfect example of this had patients back to back one was 68 year old she was a six year old woman who has lived a very comfortable life she comes from affluence hasn't really had to work too hard in her life and has maintained things of course she's just skin care products and you know she's had a little bit of filters and Botox but no surgery and she looked ten years younger than her state of age because of the kind of life she's been living and then the next patient I saw was from rural Texas has been in the sign has never been taken care of her skin you know was working kind of a blue collar job difficult life a couple marriages failed she looked like she was ten years older and then this is common I'm sure you see this all the time as well as this and so so lifestyle stress factors clearly have an effect and one of the reasons why Peter perhaps this is not an area that you've kind of delved into in your vast experience in medicine is because the quality of science and aesthetics has historically been pretty poor you're giving me way too much credit I wish I could say that was I have delved into plenty of things where the science is poor there is some other mental block I have it might be that I'm not smart enough to understand it all but we'll continue and I appreciate your another reason why it becomes very murky to sort through the science and I'm sure this exists in other areas of medicine too but a lot of the individuals corporations you know factors forces that are delivering science to the masses and to physicians who are eating it up and you know regurgitating it to their patients these sources are questionable they're they're popular profiting you know as you I'm sure realize the aesthetic industry is a very very lucrative industry worldwide especially in the United States and all the forces that are delivering the science I'm sorry not I shouldn't say all the forces there's a lot of forces where those that are delivering the science have a vested interest in receiving monetary benefit from what they're pushing out there that makes things murky but I think going back to the fat compartments think about it with our patients in general you know the the role of the fat compartments in the face are to allow muscle glide so the muscles can move over each other when you smile talk eat chew all of that and now you don't understand why they should undergo such atrophy over time for such an important function but then we look at the metabolic activity of the fat and other areas of the body and it's very different so when we do fat grafting for example and we take fat from the abdomen which has the highest concentration stem cells free a dipocytes there and put them in the face the fat starts to be more like the fat from the abdomen when you put it in the face and if they gain weight it retains its source yes okay and then when they gain weight you have to tell your patients specifically don't try to gain more than a few pounds because it will hypertrophy like it would in the abdomen if they gained weight interesting is there an evolutionary explanation for any of this I mean I don't know if aesthetics if you think about this through an evolutionary lens but I mean historically we didn't need to look good beyond our 20s if looking if the purpose of looking good was to attract a mate so again none of us sitting around this table need to look good into our witty in terms because we're not reproducing do you think that factors into any of these observations 100% yes and so I think it's also good for the sake of the overall podcast for us to talk about the evolutionary aspects of beauty for just a moment which could be a whole separate podcast you could invite Nancy Etkov from Harvard to come talk to you about the psychology of beauty she wrote the definitive book on it and summarizes all of evolutionary beauty science I have all of my fellow's read her book because I think it's just a beautiful companion and evolution of beauty is a fascinating topic because when you think back to the evolution of humans you know why do we even care about beauty and so the interesting fact is that we're actually genetically hardwired to appreciate beauty and so there's this famous study from the University of Texas in the 1980s due to its Langlaw is sort of a well-known name in psychology she did what's called a preferential looking study of infants I don't know if you heard of this study but it's fascinating she took newborn infants who were literally weeks old barely able to see six inches away from their face and she showed them pictures that are considered beautiful faces of the beautiful and faces that are less beautiful and these newborn infants who've not yet been influenced by society preferentially we're looking at the beautiful faces and so that that natural drive for us to appreciate beauty is present even at birth does that suggest that that there is a definition of beauty that arcs time because I was actually going to ask a question which would be a great you know detour for us to take after this point about how much is the definition of beauty changing in other words if you took Matthew McConaughey and transported him back 10,000 years ago would he still be a hunk is sort of where I was going but continue with this point then let's come back on yeah I think that's the evolution that's a great that's a great question and I would say that the answer is generally yes there's two layers here the first layer is the genetic biologic drive that we have to appreciate beauty in men and women and then of course there is a societal impact that conditions us to appreciate certain versions of that beauty but the fundamentals are a heaven studied in the 90s and the fundamentals are that all humans across ethnicities all over the world have been studied and they appreciate certain features of beauty so there's symmetry of the face facial proportion and then they also appreciate sexual dimorphisms those are kind of the three categories and so symmetry when when a face is symmetric it's sort of canoes if you're out there in the reproductive world looking at the pool of your options symmetry means that this individual most likely has had good development nourishment and is most likely going to have good genetics for me to potentially connect with and pass on genetics together with facial proportion is similar in fact to go a little deeper into that averageness is really what people are looking for and that on the surface that doesn't sound so attractive to be average but if you take a hundred faces of men hundred faces of women and average them all down to a single composite you will average someone who has a little bit of a big nose or a small jaw or some aspect of their forehead shape and all that gets averaged down into a composite that is considered universally beautiful across cultures and again that sort of unconsciously in the mating pool from an evolutionary standpoint is connoting healthy genetics again to be able to pass on your your genetics with and then the third area which is sexual dimorphism we're talking here about strong jaws and med full lips or big eyes and women these tend to connote either higher estrogen levels or higher testosterone levels depending on what are you're looking at women or men and again that's fertility that's subconscious communication of fertility so those are the genetic absolutes that exist in all of us on the planet and then on top of that as you're kind of bringing up you know social media in this culture this particular wave you know wearing your hairs considered beautiful those are conditioned upon us based on society but it overlaps on top of that underlying genetic basis and how most can those things override again I'll just use examples that we can all appreciate like you know I might I was talking with my daughter about Cindy Crawford we were you know going and I was like look like look at a picture of Cindy today look at a picture of Cindy in the mid-1990s I mean there's simply no way to describe beauty in any other way like you it doesn't matter what your type is everybody would acknowledge Cindy is absurdly beautiful and so you're saying she is hitting it out of the park on those three things independent of what the invoke look of the moment is right so if if it becomes the case that blons are really attractive it doesn't matter like Cindy will override that if it becomes the thing that women who a 30 pounds are attractive it doesn't matter Cindy will override that I think you feel if you look at even different races that's a beautiful person in each of those they actually all have similar measurements so there are these masks that you can superimpose onto any image and really dissect down every single angle whether it's the cheek angle the jawline angle the shape of the nose the eyes and all if you look at that across different races they all have that same kind of measurement that they talking about the same the symmetry the upper third the middle third lower third the face the fifth's going across the face all of that if you look at a beautiful person no matter what race they are they all have kind of hit those measurements now then there are nuances like you said you change your hair you change your makeup you can transform yourself but if you take someone without makeup and just look at them that way they all kind of conform to those measurements doesn't this plot imply that over time beauty should be one of the most preserved concentrated traits of our evolution given the presumably the difficulty in acquiring a mate absent beauty in other words does it suggest that if you compared what we as a population look like today in 2025 to what we looked like 2,000 years ago 10,000 years ago a 100,000 years ago are we monotonically getting more attractive as a species can I jump in on one thing on this you would think so right because we're selected to be ramping it up exactly so we should be marrying someone that looks better or mating with someone that looks better and having our marginally look better but what's different is our diet so go back 100 years 200 years a thousand years we had to chew a lot more to really digest our food we were working our ambassadors we were working our jawline our palates were not as high our jawline was a lot wider our teeth were stronger and then as we have changed our diet and everything is cooked and we don't have to make as much effort to chew it you actually get more crowding in your of your teeth your jawline is a little bit less strong your palate changes more people become nose free mouth free there's as opposed to nose free there's that changes the shape of your face and that has been measured anthropologically and so it's interesting because there's a whole book on breath and they go through the anthropology of all that and the changes in the skeletons that they've gone back and studied and so that does fundamentally change now we have kids that have to have teeth extracted or we have to have palate expander now because we realize when we extracted teeth before we made the faces more narrow and so now the thinking is let's preserve the teeth expand the palate when the child is 10 allow those teeth come in so there's less grinding I'm so crowding and then that face will be better and a stronger jawline so it is something that we've changed and then just to kind of head into the area of sociology for just a moment 10,000 years ago if you were born in some place on earth Peter you're the pool the genetic pool that you'd be interacting with the tiny was tiny you know there's some fact that I'm probably gonna miss state but somewhere around 1900 most people on this planet had not moved within 10 miles of where they're born and now it's totally different and with social media and the way that we can connect with people around the world not only because we can fly all around the world but we're also seeing people on screens the the the apparent genetic pool of faces that we're looking at has exponentially blown up into this very strange world that we're living in in 2025 compared to where our evolutionary biology has taken us and I wonder also at what point in our development did other I don't want to say higher order but other things became priorities in finding a mate like I think for most all of us I think when we were looking for appearance was probably not the top of the list it was one of the factors you had to be attracted to the person but I would guess for all of us it was will this person be a great spouse will this person be a great parent does this person share my goals and values and blah blah blah blah it's hard to imagine our ancestors were we're had the luxury of maybe thinking about those things so yeah all of this is to say it's way more complex today but it is it is just as to hear you guys describe this it's entirely fascinating to play the thought experiment of transport a hyper attractive person today back in time 10,000 years and I would just be so curious as to how they would react to that individual I think it's a fascinating thought experiment and I think that if they meet those criteria that we're defining they would be considered a honk or a beauty yeah and then one last thing and then we can certainly move on to the next topic but in terms of timing it is important for us to be evolutionarily attractive historically not in the modern era until you're about 20 or 25 because we weren't supposed to live this long one of the issues that comes up with longevity and and trying to maximize our help span is that we were not really supposed to be living this long and healthy this long and so evolutionarily you know modern nature is not helping us with our appearance our appearance was supposed to carry us through until about 20 or 25 at which point you know your kids are old you know most people were procreating at 14 and then at 25 their kids were at the point where they were getting ready to procreate and then you know you're let out to let out to pasture at that point basically so so evolutionarily what we do every day with our patients is really fighting biology we're fighting genetics we're fighting environmental and natural existence that we have as a luxury of being born in this era how much do you see even even just speak about it through the length of your actual careers how much do you see trends that dramatically change what people are asking for in other words Susan 25 years ago did men or women come into your practice significantly looking for something different in terms of an appearance and an outcome that they wanted you to shape yeah I would say that's such a loaded question because 25 years ago if we think back there was no social media television was you know very basic they talked the maybe it was some shows that had life people on their on different shows where they would talk about beauty or fashion but you had to actually tune in and watch those shows to be able to see the trends magazines came out and that was the extent of it now you have social media and various channels on social media and then you have what we now know as influencers and they're changing what our patients are seeing on what's driving them and the biggest one that I can talk about is basically that very well known family in California that has monetized their appearance and set a lot of trends for better or for worse it's great to see that they're making it okay to talk about enhancing your appearance or fixing something that bothers you but where I draw the line is when they start putting out their transformations and this trend now is something that everyone wants to emulate and you're talking about young women changing physically changing their body drastically to conform to what you said is a trend which is exactly it and trends as the word says are not permanent so what happens when that trend ends the celebrities have the money to go to the doctors and reverse all that now will take surgery and they will have scars to show for it or hide for it from that but the patients that follow them these young women don't have all of that income to go back and then re-transform their body and they don't know the implications of that so I think we have a duty as doctors definitely to try to educate our patients about not following trends so strongly and look beyond the monetary aspect of it and so from that standpoint I try to really educate my patients to stay away from things that are trending and really do things that make them look and feel better but natural for themselves because I don't know in your pages but I know people want to come in for the enhanced butterx the Brazilian butt lifts and the small ways and you know that's something again that's being undone by that family now and you're going to see a whole trend that's coming up that doesn't look like that so what are what are kind of the top above the neck trend so so what I see as I look around is I see lip size being something that's getting bigger smaller bigger smaller where are we today by the way in lip size so just to continue Susan's lines of line of thought there we're in this again in usual era where the influencers that are affecting society are much more in our faces than they have been historically and they're affecting young people at much younger age which is why we just let my 16 year old daughter have a social media account and that influence so these influencers is it's quite powerful because what happens is on social media which is the primary exposure that people are receiving these days about beauty the images that are being posted are not real they're filtered their unrealistic exaggerations of some of those three original factors that we're talking about the symmetry proportion people will photograph themselves in such way with a look they look more proportionate they will you know they'll pull their jaw on certain way to make their proportions look look better someone has to teach me how to do this because anytime I see a video of myself you know I'm like that is the worst looking thing I've ever seen like I need to learn these tricks you know 20 year old and a lot of this is subconscious posing that's a term that I have you know have used for this concept where people are subconsciously posing like for example if you like a lot of people when they walk past a shiny building will stop and look at themselves and kind of like adjust themselves a little bit but the way is that new or is that something we would have all like in other words did our ancestors walk by a stream where the water was still and look at themselves do we I mean not that we can know that but possibly I think so but I think the it's becoming so much more exaggerated now to the point where we can you know confidently state that social media influencers are selling exaggerated forms of beauty ideals like the sexual dimorphism so we talked earlier about like larger lips or bigger eyes one of the most popular procedures in northeast Asia is surgeries to make the eyes wider you actually cut into the canvas and perform toaster surgery to make the eye look bigger and then of course this trend to have bigger lips you know fillers are being used left and right unfortunately to overdue lip volume and plump up lips and because the social media influencers are posting it it's becoming more exaggerated because these exaggerated gender traits are becoming normalized and so again the family that's as it's mentioning in in California they normalized over overdone lips to the point where people come in asking for it and we have to say no I'm sorry this is not a good direction for us to take you in so what where do you sort of interrupt to news but yeah where do you put you because clearly both of you seem to be more on the um well let me take a step back I was talking to somebody yesterday where I said one of the marks of a great surgeon is a person who is happy to say no is happy to say I'm not going to do this because I'm so good that I don't need your business like I can be as selective as I want about what I do um that allows two things that allows the right patient selection to get a good outcome so the discussion I had with a patient yesterday was about was about an orthopedic surgery issue and you know the doctor said yeah I think it's time to do the surgery and he was the patient was saying to me well he does sort of have a vested interest in doing the surgery after all he's a surgeon I said yes but I can speak about this surgeon in particular I've watched him say no to 100 patients because patient selection is the most important thing for him to drive amazing outcomes and he'll say no until it's time in in in the cosmetic world you add another layer to that decision and clearly you guys are both on the spectrum of you both you're both you know you're both the top of your field so you don't need an incremental patient you're happy to say no there's also it sounds like an ethical reason for you to say no my where I'm going with my rambling question is where do you think the field is on the whole are you guys the outliers or are you guys the majority is there either a handful of bad actors out there that will take any money from any 17 year old who's you know being dupped into thinking this is the way they need to look um I'm trying to get a sense of this scale of this problem I would say the vast majority of physicians are ethical um I do think there are some out there though where it is something that's monetized so they will mask treat patients you know their goal is to have surgery after surgery coming in and basically letting the patients make their own informed decision about it to an extent but I always look at it akin to managing hypertension or diabetes we never let the patients determine how much insulin or how much anti-habitants of medication to take and I don't think we should let the patients say that they want to transform themselves to some completely different person I just ethically think that's wrong I think that brings to mind a whole bunch of other psychological issues that might be playing there including what we call social media just morphism where people come in with pictures of themselves with a filter and say can you make me look like this picture and so there's recognized diagnosis of DSM five and oh and the DSM five I don't know if it's made it that far away it's something that is mentioned at different meetings now so I don't know that is made into the DSM five if not it probably six right if I could chime in I think that you know Susan's obviously a very ethical you know outstanding surgeon and physician but I do have to say I'm an optimist I have to say that I think the situation's worse than what you're saying I think that there are unfortunately financial incentives for physicians, nurses and the the broad spectrum of people that perform aesthetic treatments including you know Botox and filler injections it's very poorly regulated there are tons of people out there ranging from hairdressers all up to surgeons who will be happy to take your money and find a place to put the syringe of filler because they know it's going to be money revenue into their practice and so I don't want to be overly negative but I think this is sort of a cautionary warning to people who are listening to this podcast that when you're delving in the area of aesthetic enhancement you have to understand that there's an overlay where the person that you're seeking out advice from has a substantial financial incentive to treat you and it's I think it's a real issue I do yeah it's I'll tell tell you one of the things I always caution patients toward in my world is you need to be really careful when you're seeing a quote unquote longevity doc who is selling tests and selling treatments for the results of that test right when you go to see somebody and they're selling a biologic clock whose treatment is this supplement and they're monetizing those two things I just don't see how you can trust that individual I don't see how even a person with good intentions can't get conflicted there and I guess I never thought of it until you said that but the entire aesthetic industry is effectively that because you're not just selling a procedure you're often selling a treatment like you're you're you're you're getting paid on both ends and what's happened is like ten years were saying the the providers have changed so before it used to be only dermatologists that would do the injectables and then it became dermatologists in plastic surgeons and then it became the RNs and the physician assistants and those are still all medical providers including dentists who are very well trained can do that but then you get in certain states lack of regulation so you're seeing unqualified people who are not medical providers doing injectables and laser treatments that they may not be trained for and all of a sudden you start to open up a whole Pandora's box of complications there and this is a shame because patients might not know enough to ask about qualifications they might see that it's a nice storefront the person wearing a lab coat they look professional so from that standpoint they might go in trusting that this person has their best interest there might not be a physician overseeing everything we feel very strongly in our practices that there is a physician overseeing every treatment whether we're doing it our nurses or our peers are doing it we're overseeing all of that to make sure that if there's a complication that complication is ours no matter what we're going to take care of that patient so it is a shame and I do warn a lot of young residents coming into the field to enter the fields if they truly love the field and are passionate about dermatology, ophthalmology, aquaphystics all of that because if they're going into I think they're going to be the next glamorous doctor on social media they're not going to have a lot of treatments that they can offer because at that point all these other providers are doing those treatments they're going to have to find a niche for themselves to make a name for themselves doing something differently so it's really fascinating right now the times that we're living in. Do you see a change in residents today so when I was in medical school which is almost 30 years ago now that people and maybe it's just it's such a small sample that it's in a relevant statement but when I think back to everybody I knew that ultimately chose plastic surgery they all had a very artistic bet to them right like they I'm not going to say that they didn't pick it because it was also a lucrative field and things like that maybe if plastic surgeons made 50,000 a year they wouldn't have done it but I never got the sense that that was their primary motivation when I think back to my friends in medical school that went into plastics they were artists they really took an interest in the art of this do you still see incoming residents largely of that philosophy where they're interested in the aesthetic component of it the underlying physiology of it in other words they cut from the cloth you guys are cut from or do you see a trend towards no this is literally a cash machine and this you know it's one again as reimbursements are going lower and lower and lower across the entire field of medicine it is clearly more attractive to be in specialties where reimbursements either remain very high and or there's a it's mostly cash well I'll take a more optimistic tone here I think that those who are coming into residency and fellowships in the world of aesthetics I think really still have that same artistic mindset people who are painters or musicians they have that artistic mind and it's something we actually look for in our fellowship when we're considering candidates because we know that they have that right brain mentality of being able to handle medical problems but the the reality is that as you said medical reimbursements are going down the lucrative nature of aesthetics is high and getting higher as time goes by and so someone can go through all the training and then when they see that all are scuffing the door they're just going to want more of that and it can it can distort their ethics and they may not even realize they're doing it I'm not saying that there are physicians out there who are knowingly duping patients into having treatments but I think it just becomes as unconscious a drive because of the finances we were talking about that earlier and I do think it's a challenge because here we go again Medicare just got cut again in terms of reimbursements and that's sad because we're talking about in our university practices there's a huge push for doctors to see more patients because reimbursement is dropping and so the only way that the medical centers can compensate is to increase the volume there's only so many patients so in a day that we can see and offer really good care so to notion I have a very unique practice because most of our patients are self-pay so we have the luxury of time we can talk to our patients get to know them to the point that a lot of our patients come to us seeking medical advice and opinions on other advice that they've gotten from other physicians and we can help them to decipher the facts whereas there are other physicians may be fabulous but they have to see 30, 40 people on a day and that's a shame that's that's the detriment now that the physicians market is in because we're burning out a lot of really good physicians who want to give good care but find themselves having to see more and more patients so they can only spend 10 minutes of patient and that's really unfair and that's not why all of us go into medicine and for both of us we entered our fields before all of these devices and treatments exist it's I think we did come into it with a passion for what we love but we both have an artistic bandage which are personalities as well so we kind of gravitated towards this I want to put a bow on the social media thing for a moment um what is the most concerning trend or what is the most concerning request you are getting from people that you believe is sort of unique to the social media phenomenon what I'm seeing a lot more are teenagers now coming in asking for fillers and your imagiliters and their in their forehead fillers and your lips and that's sad because but why would I mean what an era modulator do anything when you're at that age anyway no but they're now being told that even 18 for example it's okay to start preventative Botox you don't need that until you're a lot further along in age so that's just an abject lie that they're being told yes and unfortunately they're also being made to feel very poorly about their shape of their lips they're being inundated with images unlike tenors of saying these are highly filtered images we know a lot of people who will take in their ways taken their thighs all of that change the proportions and then post that image and and what I try to tell patients is that what you see in terms of images that are on social media a are filtered b are taken um with certain angles of the camera to enhance someone's appearance and we will never at least in my practice take someone's photo that they took on their phone and then try to enhance them to look like their photo because what's happening is that you're going to make them look very different in life in real life so how you photograph you're only going to photograph beautifully if you're the most symmetric person and that's why even the most beautiful model on in a photograph if you look at them in person they're very pretty but you wouldn't think that they're supermodels sometimes but when they photograph they photograph beautifully because of their symmetry but for us with our forward facing cameras that we pinpoint ourselves to take our selfies they're going to just sort our face if you tilt one way you elongate the face so they're different way you shorten the face and patients get hung up on that and that's really sad because in real life they look fabulous now is this a 95 five female male problem that is arising from social media or other other and is the I guess from the purpose of this discussion I would guess it's mostly female my guess is the male issue is probably much more on antibiotics deroyed abuse and things that that young men are being influenced by is that safe to assume so what is it that you see tenures that is most disconcerting is there a particular product or a particular procedure that is that is showing up that is would have been unheard of before social media I was at two areas one is because fillers are non-surgical relatively accessible price points and low risk and are ubiquitous you can find a clinic within one mile if you live in a major city I think overfilling is a serious problem whether it's the lips or the cheeks over a volumization has become an epidemic and it's a serious problem not only because it looks exaggerated and distorted and strange but even when as a facial surgeon I go into perform surgeries I will find that filler has disrupted normal anatomy and so decades later the companies will tell you that filler only lasts one year in the face of the yet refilled it that's definitely not true really we see we have patients coming in who don't mention that they've had filters in the past but then in surgery I will see filler in their cheek or in their face because they had eight or ten years ago and it's still there and it's stretching the ligaments it's changing the structure of the tissues it actually makes routine surgical procedures later more challenging so that's one area and by the way other biologic features of the individual that would make that more or less true are there some people in whom fillers go away after a year or are you saying that for the most part they last long that's also another whole complex topic is the metabolism of howlonic acid and some people are higher metabolizers some are slower metabolizers and we actually don't have a good sense of that we have some general concepts just based on experience but there's very little science on that we can't really predict to one doesn't know one really doesn't know okay and I'm sorry you you're gonna get to a second point yeah no uh the second point is from a surgical standpoint there is a trend right now where people are asking for this high arched brow effect where it's a hyper exaggerated the tail the brow comes up very high it's called a snatched look about once every week or two I've got someone who seriously wants to have their face distorted with a surgical procedure with me and I have to say I'm sorry we're not gonna do that is it safe to say that anyone who walks into a physician's office to do this needs to be able to be over 18 to provide consent but is it safe to say or is it is it is it is it the case that people younger than 18 can do this in less reputable places without parent consent do we know this it should be 18 it's like an animal procedure you have to be 18 years of age to consent there are rare instances where where I will treat someone who's 16 or 17 if the parent is there and if it's for something for example a patient has a hump bond there knows that they don't like but they're not ready to commit to a rhinoplasty so I can use fillers in a creative way to help reduce their appearance of that but that's very far and few between the parent is there yes absolutely I did have a very interesting incidents where I had an 18 year old though come in and she had just had a rhinoplasty and was coming to see me for fillers and for neuromodulators and I asked her I said your 18s is someone here with you from under your parents and nobody was there with her and the interesting thing is so she is 18 thinking that she's an adult but she's only a junior in high school so I was very conflicted I kept referring back to something along the lines of you need to talk to your parents you need to tell them what we discussed here that really bothered me for a long time that here is this 18 year old who's still in high school that wants to do things and I don't see a parent there with her but I think I think it's not a huge problem probably across the board that people under 18 are getting treatments but they're getting fed all of this societal pressure I like to use the term beauty pressure they're getting like peer pressures beauty pressure that's now more extreme because of social media they're getting all this beauty pressure at a very young age 12 13 onwards and so by the time they get into their 20s they've been thinking about this for years and years and years and they're ready to dive into it now there's probably not a lot of people in my audience that are particularly young but maybe we can start the discussion through the lens of preventive care right so we can talk about preventive care and then move into sort of you know maybe where I am now where I miss the boat on pure prevention and I now need to start being active so for the person who's listening to this who's you know still in their prime from a from a from a aesthetic perspective so I guess they're in their 20s right we would say maybe even in their 30s depending on their genes the only thing I know is wearing sunscreen is a net positive right so yeah clear there I understand enough to say that UV damages skin is it damaging a last in is it damaging collagen or is it purely just these sun spots that it creates what is it that sun is doing that is damaging quite a bit okay so I'm glad you mentioned sunscreen because if anyone's gonna come and say what's the absolute minimum thing I should use on my skin everyday it would be sunscreen and in fact there was a four-year study out of Australia that followed people for four years and either they wore sunscreen or they didn't and the ones that did aged better was it randomized it was randomized so it aged better they aged better fewer lines fewer wrinkles and that's in a country that has a lot of sun so that shows you the power of using sunscreen now I'll take it a step further I tell my patients they have to use mineral suns as opposed to chemical suns screens because I'm not convinced of the safety of able bands on oxy bands on as hormone disruptors I do think there are some scientific studies that suggest maybe they play a role in fertility you can measure them in the bloodstream especially if you're putting them over the entire body the body the skin is a great portal for chemicals and enter into the bloodstream if it's the right size chemical so there have been already studies done I show a huge spike in the amount of these in your bloodstream after application after saying this for 15 years I think the FDA just a couple weeks ago finally told the companies they must do animal safety studies it's about time it's very late yeah so late I gave it very late and also the I'm starting trouble just I'm so on board with you about the problems with chemical suns screens because the other problem it creates is that patients think they're covered and then the chemicals that are actually protecting against the UV damage become inactivated over time and you don't know because you still have the film on you and you don't know at what time of day you no longer have any solar protection it's within an hour it's within an hour you put a sunscreen SPF 70 on go outside and it's going to be if it's strong sun it's going to be deactivated within an hour people will burn on SPF 70 SPF 100 there should be nothing above the SPF 50 mineral because you can't get into a formula what is the use case for the chemical sunscreen are they less expensive like what are they water like what was the rationale for the they blend in they blend in very easily so the people love it because there's no white film when they put it on a mineral sunscreen takes a little bit more work to blend it in or it's going to cost more because you're going to have to get a micronized or micronized formula of zinc oxide or titanium dioxide so my L to MD 30 to 50 I think I have one of each I'm pretty sure that's a mineral sunscreen it's you have to work to put it in right as that yes and some of them I'll to make some mineral some chemical wine so just double check got it okay and they make a confusing on purpose by the way so you have to go out of your way to actually find formulas that are primarily mineral because the companies want to sell you both products and they know that customer satisfaction is higher with the higher with chemical and you know this doesn't have to do this this conversation specifically but Susan has created skincare and so if I created skincare so we've we've really dived into this world of skincare and the marketing of skincare can really mislead consumers and companies that are creating skincare are motivated by they want people to be happy with their SPF when it's a chemical sunscreen they're going to be happier with it because it doesn't have that white pastey effect but it's just not as effective got it and the other thing that happens if you look at the amount of skincare cancer in the US it's increasing including melanoma so why do we have generations now of people from the late 90s on up who say they use sunscreen all of them and our skin cancer rate are going up I think it's too fold I think it's because a like you said to know the sunscreen's degraded very quickly when they put on a chemical sunscreen and I'm going to take a one step further when those chemical sunscreen absorb those harmful rays whether it's UVB or UVA the cells the chemicals absorb them and they neutralize those rays but they cause reactive oxygen species and those reactive oxygen species damage the DNA of the cells which then accentuates the damage that you're getting from whatever other UVA gets through the sunscreen so you're really causing more damage and probably causing these cells to become more atypical over time by the way you know that there's a there's a group of people who argue that and I don't agree with this at all that that argue that sun and UV rays have no causal role in melanoma and the the argument they put forth is sunscreen use has been increasing and yet we see a significant increase in the incidence of melanoma so they're pointing at the same observation they're offering a different argument I find your argument far more compelling yeah I think everyone should be using a mineral sunscreen so that's number one I think it's okay let's again just about the why so what is it that ultraviolet energy is doing to my skin that is deleterious so I'm going to throw out more than ultraviolet so we know there's UVA yep and UVA is the longer wavelength between the two ultraviolet rays that reach thirds that's a for aging we have UVB that's B for burns that's the one that causes a lot of the redness in the sunburns and leaves behind a lot of the atypia in the cells so UVB probably causes more skin cancers than UVA but they're both implicated but add to it we have high energy viscible we have visible light we have infrared light all coming from the sun so if we have five different rays and they all play a role in how we age so we worry about UVA UVB with regards to skin cancer but high energy viscible light and visible light also play a role in terms of hyperpigmentation infrared as well and now there's some evidence maybe suggesting that because infrared light can reach deeper into the skin it may have a role on fat atrophy and bone remodeling interesting so I'd like to see more studies on that I don't know how you could possibly do that in an ethical way but that's really good you could do it in animals I mean you could you could do animals studies assuming you you you had a comparable model for for for fat and bone because then that's the only way you'd have to use the isolated spectrum right you couldn't do it in sunlight because then you can't I assume you wouldn't be able to disentangle which energy wave was causing the effect but that's an interesting thought the yeah I think most of us think that I mean most of us I've always thought well the sunspots are unattractive but you know my pigments dark enough that they don't really show up that much and so okay so we know what's sun is doing I'm starting to drop you to about one more addition to talk about with the UV damage because we could probably spend the whole podcast on UV injuries but you know in addition to everything this isn't said a couple more things that I think are important to hear are for listeners is that UV also not only do know that a damage is a DNA and can lead to tumors cancer's melanoma but it also injures collagen particles elastic and particles a lot of the ultra structure of not only the cellulose have intracellular infrastructure but also extra cellular infrastructure so the matrix of the subcutaneous tissues the dermis is built by this beautiful scaffolding if you look at an 18 year old skin under the microscope it's this thick beautiful blanket layer of a volume because you've got this collagen elastic structure that's holding this holding up and is filled with water molecules that have lots of space to move around in and signals going back and forth so all of that collagen elastic framework also gets heavily injured by UV over time and it becomes cumulative and that leads to you know thinning of the skin loss of the subcutaneous fat layer loss of those intracellular connections so that people start to get pitting and find reliance and wrinkles and so that's just from an aesthetic standpoint just another area just to know from from UV damage so it is so I'm sure you've heard this before but so all of my black friends now are looking infinitely like on a relative basis their aging is slowing down and so they always say black don't crack and so how much of the difference that we see in black skin versus white skin is due to less damage from UV versus other genetic differences that enhance what you're describing it's almost completely what you're saying is the protection value of the increased malin and particles that people with darker skin have there's a fitspatric scale from one to six where we talk about the fitspatric one is someone who's extremely fair blonde blood burns all the time never tans and it goes all the way to fitspatric six which is dark the darkest skin that you'll see can't burn ever tans can't burn and we're all somewhere in that spectrum so i'm a three three plus okay we'll be yep maybe so basically yeah is there basically a linear relationship between one and six in terms of how well you will age skin wise i think yeah that's about right okay and and the melanin factors huge i mean just um you know just to counter that argument earlier about people who talk about trying to put sunscreens um and and so the the melanin evolutionarily if you actually look at what's happening when melanin is inside the cell it's not just randomly dispersed it's actually um the melanin forms a parasol over the nucleus to protect the DNA to protect the DNA so evolution has is showing us microscopically why it's so important to protect ourselves from the UV because we get this parasol of melanin it sits on top of the nucleus to protect it and when we were exposed when we're fitspatric two to six or two to five and you're exposed to sunlight we get immediate upregulation of melanin production by the tyrosine kinestrathaway and all of that melanin you know doubles and triple so that's why we're tannning that's why we're tannning is not an aesthetic it happens to be aesthetic but the reason we tan is to create more melanin to protect our DNA yes and it's only aesthetic in this day and age because it used to be that if you were tan you worked in the fields so it was not a sign of prosperity and affluence so it is only aesthetic in our current day and age but yes melanin's our own antioxidant so a very good antioxidant that's how it works okay to your point we could spend the rest of the podcast on it we won't we've established the fact that step one the no regret move protect your skin in the sun what's the next level thing that one can do for prevention so we may be on the same line it might be a little bit different I would say step two would be a retinoid of some sort and it could be in your was worried you were going to say that I know that's one more thing I have to apply well here's what I tell patients because you said you don't wash your face at night right do you guys see a brush your teeth at night do I'm a little bit of a little bit just flosser and teeth brush your tooth brush put your little tube of retinoid that's what I tell my patients so retinoids we have different categories there's retinal which is the weakest one and your body will go put it through two enzymatic changes to become retinoid gas it which is what you get the pharmacy and that's great if you're in your 20s late teens early 20s and you're just trying to be preventative with how your skin is aging and it's the same time maybe addressing some acne. Once you hit late 20s into your 30s and early 40s you need maybe something a little stronger and that's where a retinal to hide is a little bit better and that's the next conversion so retinal becomes a retinal to hide which then becomes retinoid gases so retinal to hide that middle step and there's more actual enzyme in your body that can convert retinal to hide to retinoid acid and that's less irritating for people to use so in your case if you get irritated very easily and you're going to quit it gives us an option to give patients something that's highly efficacious that is going to irritate their skin less because it gets converted to the active form after it's been absorbed into the skin and then the gold standard is retinoid acid and that has multiple different strains but that's someone who's in their mid 40s and up they're going to need it continuously to keep boosting collagen because our peak collagen production you want to venture a guess as to what age we picked in our collagen production. I would say late teens early 20s. Yeah 18. That was when our fiberglass were making the most of the matrix that I guess that because that's when in women bone density peaks in at about 18 for minutes about 20 21. Yes exactly so 18 we started to make less collagen elastin and glycosamine are like that so if we can add a retinoid in there we're telling the fiberglass to boost more of those production of those ingredients those peptides and those collagen matrix. If we are looking at the melanocytes those retinoids also normalize the function of melanocytes so that they're less aggregated less overactive and they also help to normalize the turnover of the keratinocytes. So they're working on the major cellular structure of the skin at the level of the DNA. Now my recollection is there were two concentrations of this stuff that you could get. Is that ring enough? The prescription? Yes. There's three point 025.05.05.1 and then there's like 0.04.08. Those first three are the major. And also custom formulations. Yes. Yeah. And the few times I'd tried to use this like I couldn't do it every day it just got me too red. Did that mean I was on too high a formulation I should have gone back to the aldehyde I was too young I probably tried this 10 years ago and never did it again. So I have I take a different approach and even most of my colleagues I tell people if they're trying to achieve a goal whether it's treating malasma, sun damage or they're getting ready for a child's wedding or we have to do a procedure. I would tell them to tough it out because if you use a red nook acid every single day your body acclimates to it very quickly it may take six weeks, seven weeks, eight weeks but you get your skin used to it and then you reap all the benefits but some patients are always going to quit. So from that standpoint then yeah so we would give you five days week right now the height two days a week red nook acid and tell you to start that way and then maybe as your skin acclimates to it you can change that proportion. Okay and by the way do you become more light sensitive when you take this to you? Does it make you? Does it make it even more important that you're wearing sunscreen in the sun? So those studies came out very early on which is why people start to say oh I stopped my red nook in the summer and that's the last thing you should do because initially when you start a red nook you will get exfoliation at the level of the dead layer of the skin the student cornium but after you've been on the red nook for a long time that builds back up. So you become less light sensitive you might always still be a little bit but you're a lot less light sensitive than when you first start a red nook but you should always have a sunscreen on and a hat and red noids have been shown that even if you get sun exposure they have the ability to repair some of that DNA damage early on so you really want to be on a red noid all the time. Okay anything you would add to that ten years on the red noid before we go on? No I think that was great I totally agree with everything Susan just said I have a slightly different protocol with red noids and people who are sensitive I might have them start out two or three times a week and then gradually build up to kind of nightly use over a couple of months that's one way to avoid the inflammatory aspect of red noid and then the other option would be to mix it with some over the counter hydrochordes on one percent cream I know people get really worked up about putting steroids on their face but over the counter hydrochordes on one percent is so such a low concentration that it's just enough to reduce some of that annoying irritation from the red noin in that first few weeks or months but I was going to also add you know when people are thinking about the core aspects of what should they be using on their other starting to notice some changes in their 20s or 30s in addition to sunscreen and red noids I think that vitamin C is a really important molecule to get onto the skin also. Try that too let me tell you why I stopped it was mixed with like ferric acid. For like acid. Yes yes and it's stuck. I just hated the smell of it. And the reason for that is because vitamin C is a notoriously complicated, easily reduced molecule and when manufacturers are formulating their vitamin C serums it might be a year from when it leaves the factory and gets on to your skin if for lucky and in that year all of the relatively inexpensive vitamin C serums are going to degrade and not actually have any bioavailability when that vitamin C is applied to the skin. And so the relatively more expensive formulations are being produced by manufacturers that are doing all sorts of manufacturing flips and tricks to try and stabilize that vitamin C. The product you're talking about which I think I can try guess is they use the ferric acid to stabilize the vitamin C so that it maintains its bioavailability. Other formulations of vitamin C will use an oil-based formula that's not equalous because then the vitamin C is much less likely to be reduced in that kind of formulation but those products tend to be petroleum oil-based and also have all sorts of negatives associated with it and then there are some products that will micro-encapsulate or find other creative ways of making sure that the vitamin C is actually bioavailable when it hits your skin so that product may have not worked for you but there are other options to find a stable vitamin C and this is one of those products where again we have our own custom formulas but I'll tell people who are price sensitive, go to Walgreens, buy a retinoid, buy a sunscreen you don't need to spend more than ten or fifteen dollars on effective products but vitamin C is something where you have to spend the money on it. And by the way what retinoid can you buy at Wal-Mart? Retinoid? And some retinoid. I see you can't get retinoid acid in that prescription rate. God right. And is there any downside of using retinoid you just need a lot more of it to make sure you get? The problem is if you try to push that enzymatic chain reaction you'll get dermatitis. Got it. Okay so in other words if you can afford it it's better to get the prescription and I'm guessing retinoid acid is not expensive. That's the finally it's come back down in price. I think now that they realize more and more people are willing to spend out of a lot of pocket to buy it. It's about eighty to a hundred dollars for a tube. That's two less. That's about three months. Okay. It's just lasting longer you're not putting enough. And just show me is though I'm doing this like we're going to talk about how to wash the face and do all that because I'm guessing you don't do this without washing your face especially if you've had sunscreen on all day. Are you putting this on like all over your face like this even over my beard and stuff? So I tell people first things first you have to put the right amount on. Okay. Because every time we give anyone any prescription we tell them to take this many milligrams once a day twice a day. We don't do a good job. Yeah right. I have time people how much sunscreen to put on how much retinoid to put on. So I always saw them hold up your finger and it should be from the tip of your index finger to your DIP joint. Oh my god. And that's a finger tip unit. If you can do a finger tip unit of retinoid every night that's a great way to measure the beginning enough on and how you can see your face. You can see I'm getting a triponin leak right now just thinking about applying that much stuff. Yeah and I have them put on their face including the under eye area because that's the thinnest skin. Yep. And that's the skin that's going to wrinkle and aged the first. So most people are afraid to go around their eyes and I tell them just don't get it in your eyes. Go around but make sure you're getting that under eye area. Once a week maybe on the upper eyelid and then once or twice a week on the neck because again this is the thinnest skin. We've got to keep the skin building collagen and the last skin. Okay. The vitamin C and for look acid would you put that on after? First. So you always put the liquid before the thickest stuff. So you're going to thinnest the thickest. Okay. Let's talk to that about how you wash your face before you begin this procedure. So I've just come in from whatever I've done. I've you know I'm brushing my teeth because that's the only time I'll do this and I'm going to wash my face now. What should I do? I'm guessing that the hand sanitizer next to my sink is another thing to use. So there's been a huge shift in so many areas of skin care that is now sinking more with what science is telling us. And so historically there was a belief that you would need to strip all the oil off your face and debris and dirt before you apply products. We're talking about you know skincare routines from 10 or 20 years ago and we now know that that is harmful. It creates inflammation. It disrupts the microbiome of the skin. It does all sorts of negative things. And so a modern cleanser that we suggest is usually something that is glycerin based usually there's also other versions but it's a it's a way of cleansing the skin without overly stripping the oils out of the skin. And glycerin based cleansers don't don't foam and so that's certainly my bias. I'm sure you might have some some other thoughts Susan but that's the first step to get the debris and superficial oils off the face and you know previously a product. And then as Susan said you go from thin to thick and so usually on top of that will be serums like vitamin C serum or retinols. And then finally you'll put a moisturizer on. Okay, so I think I'll see you. Any antioxidants serum? Okay. So we mentioned vitamin C with there's so many other great antioxidants serum that contains salamarin, fluoratin, glycerin. So how does one pick? How do you have that? That's where you have to look and see who's invested into in the clinical research based behind the products that they're promoting. So you tell me what are you guys we're using? I mean, I would say that generically speaking, if you can find a vitamin C serum that has a higher quality vehicle to make sure the bioavailability of the vitamin C gets to your skin, that product is going to have additional you know associated antioxidants that are going to be very useful and helpful. And you know again to avoid naming brand names here, you can find that quite easily and especially with the advice that we go ahead and name brands because honestly people just want to know. So let's just give some brands that you guys trust. Maybe across a range of price points. Sure. I mean, I'll give you some names. So I'll give you my brand name, but then also brands that I suggest other people as well. My brand name is called obvious skincare and it is designed to AVIA, AVIA. And we formulate these products to have metacluid efficacy, but we also incorporate some Ayurvedic wisdom, which is anti-inflammatory. So it has turmeric and other kind of eastern botanicals for anti-inflammatory here. And we have a vitamin C serum that is my micro encapsulated that also has a retinol in it and also has various other antioxidants that are nice and I'd that are all useful to apply to the skin right after you've washed it. Now there are other brands as well. You know, I mean we can name a hundred of them, probably. You know, I think uh but if you couldn't use yours, what are two others? You know, skin suitacles is probably one of them. That's the one I tried. Yes. When you said for like a 50. Yes. And that's a wonderful brand. I mean they they're really have names. But there's no getting out of this stink of it. There is this year ago again with a different brand. A different vitamin C form. So they they chose to use the the phrology approach to to kind of stabilize the vitamin C. But there there's many other brands as well. So what's another non-stinky one? Obajim. Obajim. Obajim. That's yours. No, actually that's not me. So that company's publicly owned and I only formulate for them a Susan Obajim D line. But their vitamin C serum has been around quite a number of years. Got it. So it's not you just yeah. So the original founder of Obajim Zeno, by my father. But he has since left that company. Got it. Okay. And so this brand has been time tested for 35 years now. And they make their vitamin C under an nitrogen vapor. So it makes it so much more difficult and challenging to produce. But it's a very stable form of eliscorbic acid without the phrologic. So what is here right here is this is not unlike what's the best diet for me. The best diet is the one that allows you to maintain energy balance that requires the fewest amounts of neurons to stay on. So I need to get three of these and figure out which one is the least annoying for me to put on. And it's no offense to that company. It won't be skin-suiticles because every time I've tried it the smell of the the the the phyriolomic acid or whatever has just been annoying to me. So I also know in Obajim they not I didn't do the study for them. But they have a study that shows that their eliscorbic acid penetrates about four times deeper than the one from skin-suiticles. Okay great. So I'm going to try both of you. And just to name some other brands. I mean their skin better is another one that I think you know produces good products. And you know maybe it's worth also mentioned because we haven't done this yet. Why is vitamin C so important? I assume it has to be pro-lean and collagen. That's one aspect. So vitamin C is sort of like a wonder molecule when it comes to facial aesthetics because yes, it is a precursor for the collagen synthesis pathway in the pro-lean synthesis pathway. But it also is a powerful antioxidant. And so antioxidant application to the skin not only has the power to remove injury, oxidative injury that has happened during the day. But it also has the ability to reverse some existing damage that's in place. Vitamin C also regulates the tyrosine kinisc pathway which is sort of a scientific way of saying that complexion which you know people talk about wanting to have good complexion. What does that mean? Complexion is something that across societies no matter what your physpatriarch scale is. People like to have a good complexion. And that means having an even skin tone which is even distribution of melanin. It doesn't matter if you're black or white or brown. You want to have people desire to have their skin look even without splotchy areas of pigmentation or nearby areas of relative depigmentation. And so regulating the tyrosine kind of pathway so that there's an even production of melanin throughout the skin is something that is valuable, very valuable and an aesthetic sense. And that's something vitamin C does as well. Okay. We're going to go from the serum to the retinoc acid. Again, I'm being selfish and talking about my demographics. So people that are 40s, 50s and beyond. And then it sounds like the last thing you said we want to do is as a moisturizer. Yeah, that's a curve. Okay. Yeah, I would say the cheapest trick in skin care, which actually is really true, is that deep moisturization locks down the skin barrier function and allows the skin trigger of the skin, dermis, epithelium to thicken just by having that a close of barrier. So you can go to Walgreens and spend six dollars on aquifer, which is basically petroleum jelly and put it on your face nightly. And your skin will look better in 30 days guaranteed because your skin will thicken and a lot of the fine lines and crinkles will actually start to disappear because your skin is being more hydrated. That's hydration. That's hydration. Yeah. What if I don't want to grease up my pale. Yeah, I'm not saying that as sort of like tongue and cheek. I've got it. I'm not telling people to do that. Okay. But if you actually did a double line of study, you would see that there are things real in the world. Yeah. But the reason I mentioned that is that good deep hydration can be performed with an inexpensive product that you're using regularly and it'll make a real difference because the moisturization, especially overnight while you're sleeping, is a powerful tool for aesthetics. And you know, I don't, I like I wouldn't give you though, I'm moisturizer. So you can just tell I'm a grease ball to begin with. How long you have young thicker skin? So again, just like a woman aged 20 years faster than guys in terms of the bone remodeling and fat, atrophy the skin as well. So you say my routine would be done after the retinoic acid. From my standpoint, yes. At this point. And then we might revisit that in a few years. Yes. And I tend to give moisturizers as women become more mature. I don't want you to work older because they do start to make less of their natural moisturizing factor. That's even started to diminish even when we're 18. So most people, I think, into their mid 40s and 50s even might not always need a moisturizer with everything that they put on at night. But one caveat to sorry is that your morning sunscreen and your serums have some moisturism quality to them all. Exactly. And I always have them put a super antilex in a serum or vitamin C serum on it night before their retinoid. Because my feeling on this is that you spend the whole day outside or in your car or being hit by LED lights and ultraviolet lights. Those are also damaging the skin. And so I think you should have an antilex that are on first thing in the morning, but it's going to get depleted by the end of the day. And so by the end of the day. We're going to answer our MS that are we putting the serum on in the morning. Yes. And at night. And I always have them repeated at night because it's depleted all day long. Oh, God. And we know that the cells undergo mightophagey and auto-fagy at night. We want to help the repair factor. We want to put on an antilex at night again just to replenish the skin. And the red nooc acid. It also goes on top of that. And the red nooc acid. No, no, no, no, no, no, and the red nooc acid has anti-inflammatory properties to it. In addition to all the good things that doesn't terms of building up collagen in the last minute. Okay. So just to go through this because I'm you can tell not the sharpest tool in the shed. My AM routine is going to be wash. Okay. Let's assume I just came out of the shower. All right. Okay. So you're serum. And then by the way, the shower don't use your body soap on your face because it's going to strip the oil out of your face. So again, you need a separate facial cleanser. Oh, God. What do I need? The same glycerol-based thing. Well, it depends on your skin type too. Like I tend to be maybe a little bit more picky about. I mean, do you see the saw that crap that I like I'm I've got like a 299 bottle body wash from Target that I scrub head to toe. Like I am the lowest com like put it this way. When my wife met me in the hospital, the first thing she noticed was how disgusting I was in that I used to take alcohol pads and clean my face. Like just like that was my shower in the hospital. That probably wasn't bad. It was a little harsh. But I mean, it's just like, there were things you could do. All right. So we're going to do so. Yeah. We're going to do serum. Yes. And then we're going to do sunscreen. Yes. That's the morning routine. And some people might in there need depending on if they have clogged pores or your skin they might need it. All the alpha hydroxy acid or polyhydroxy acid before their sunscreen. But you've nailed it right there. That's a very simple region when you can follow. Okay. And then the PM is soap serum. We prefer if you call it a cleanser, right? Yes. I so kind of do so. The door to the Target. Yeah. Yeah. I'm sure. No. Glistro. And now the difference is, you know, I do have lots of patients like you Peter who are minimalist. So again, it's trying to get them to use whatever they can to protect their skin. And hopefully, such an improve the aging process. All right. I might. I might just to do the experiment for 90 days. Try to commit to cleanser serum sunscreen in the morning. Cleanser serum retinoc acid in the evening. That we agree that would be. Yes. Okay. By the way, in the show notes, we'll get from you products that you guys like, including your own. I just want to let people kind of look through this and decide. And, you know, obviously you guys disclose your own products. Great. But let people see the full breadth of things. Yeah. You know, I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm sorry. And one of the things to ask about, though, especially when they're very into their nutrition and eating healthy, they say, well, why do I need to apply an anti-oxidant if I'm eating a lot of antioxidants? Sure. And the skin being the largest organ in your body is very unique. It's very good at keeping things out or from the inside coming out as well. So outside things like water pollution, it tries to protect that from getting in and does a good job at keeping kind of homey astasis. So they have shown that the level of vitamin C that you're going to achieve in the skin by topical application far exceeds what you can do by ingesting it. The amount you would have to ingest to get the right amount in the skin. You'd have GI issues. Which that would definitely make you quit. Before we leave this, I guess one thing I just want to chat about is acne. Again, it's mostly something I that adolescent, sir experiencing, but adults get acne as well. Is that something you guys spend much time on? I do. What, give me, give me the sort of playbook you have on on acne. I assume it involves spironalactone. If it looks to be, you know, an endocrine in nature be very curious to hear about, you know, acutane. I hear horror stories about it, but obviously it probably works very well. What do people need to be aware of? What's your playbook for addressing acne? So my number one thing I tell people is for themselves or their children. Try to treat the acne before it scars because I cannot tell you how many times I see patients for consoles for acne scars. They're in their 70s and they're so crying about it as if it was yesterday. They've traumatized all their life with these acne. And what causes acne to scar? So it depends on how inflammatory your acne is. There are different types of acne. There's combidonal acne which are just your run of the mill, small pimples, whiteheads, blackheads. Those don't typically scar unless someone picks at them. Okay. So number one rule for patients. Don't pick at your skin. Second thing, they can have a little bit more inflammatory acne and those tend to be the red ones that come up and there may be pus sure, pus sure there on the skin. And if you don't pick at them, those also might heal without spying and then they're cystic acne. And those are a completely different type of acne where you're getting inflammation that's the patient's pile of sebaceous unit which is a heraphylocal in the oil gland feeding in there and you get swelling deep in the dermis and then you might get enough inflammation and rupture of that cyst that you leave a divot at that point and that causes what we call a valley scar or you might have enough damage in it. Even if not picked. Even if not picked. So cystic acne is a true, in my standpoint, a medical emergency because you want to try to make it possible. Maybe not a level of event ofphyxis but correct. Correct. Correct. Correct. It's a dermatologic medical emergency. Yes. Yes. Because it can cause so much psychological trauma to the child. People with cystic acne, even bad inflammatory acne, they're shy to go out in public. They want to hide their face to hide their face to the face. The percentage of adolescents will develop cystic acne. I don't know that I can quote the exact percentage is about 20%. Oh wow, so pretty high. Yes. And so the most patient is very difficult to fix later. Yes. And those patients, I'm not a big fan of antibiotic use. I don't want to alter their gut microbiome. I do think that we're just touching on a surface of how important that is. Those patients I would quickly move to acutane because nothing topical is going to work. And so what about orthodoxy? What about orthodoxy? What about therapy? Okay, say more about that. So photodynamic therapy is where you take a molecule like alpha, aminolevealonic acid, aLA and you paint it on the skin and you let it incubate for about an hour and then you shine a red light onto the skin to activate it. And that chemical gets into the sebaceous glands and purgulate the sound through the skin. And when you activate it, it causes a heat reaction and basically induces damage in that whole area that's picking up that medication. So you're basically causing the oil glancet shut down. You're taking away the nitous for the inflammatory acne. And for some patients who cannot take acutane or isotrachnoine, that's a great alternative for them. It does feel uncomfortable. And not every doctor offers it, but it's a great adjunct or alternative if they can't take I so try to know it. And would antibiotics work if not for the limitations and side effects of long-term systemic antibiotics? So antibiotics will work just more degree. They might help shut down maybe a good proportion of that cystic acne fur, but they won't get to the root cause, which is the sebaceous unit over a production of oils, the bacteria that are in their feeding off of that and the whole cascade. And there's something genetic, cystic acne tends to run in families. So there's some kind of genetic tendency towards that milieu that causes a cystic acne. And how does acutane work with some mechanism? So acutane is a type of red noise and it's basically going to go in there and dry up the oil production that's in these overactive sebaceous glands that are being driven by your angeregant. But you have to take it orally, it doesn't work top of the effect. Correct. So they have used some topical variations of it for psoriasis and things like that, but the best is to take it orally because then you bypass a lot of the surface dermatitis. What is the main side effect or toxicity that people are trying to avoid with that? You can tell what is it of a bad name? So it has a couple of bad connotations with it. First it dries everyone out. So for the five months you're on it, you're going to have dry lips, dry eyes. Some people complain that your skin is too dry. Some people on very high doses might get shedding of the hair. Well, and then you're not allowed to drink alcohol while you're on it so that's a whole other issue with kids and making sure they're compliant with that because it is metabolized by the liver. And other than that, patients that they're using a correctly tolerated very well, it got some better obesity. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah. Sorry, say you're going to about a genocity because you want to treat, you're not, you're not getting pregnant on it because it will cause defects. So we have to go through this whole FDA required modules with the patients to make sure that there are used in two forms of birth control for the female patients. While they're on it, they're not donating blood while they're on it. But it got a very bad reputation when I think it was a child or son of a senator committed suicide while on that medication. And they said it was a depression induced by the medication when it turns out when people look scientifically at the right direction. Yeah, that sounds like junk science written all over it's based on the issue. Exactly. Would you look at depression scores and acne patients with cystic acne? It's significant. Yeah. And their depression actually improves when they take something like acne and do you have them on a true liver function test while patients are on it the same way you do with limc d'ol or any of the toe fungus type things as if that severe potentially. It could be. We had changes to your lipid profile while you're on it. It can elevate your triglycerides and elevate your cholesterol. And there were very few instances we would adjust so those we just tell people to try to eat healthier or rather on it, especially triglyceride elevation. Liver enzymes, it's a rare patient that gets a real significant bump but you want to watch for that because you want to stop the medication if that's the case. It's a very proxy to make sure they're not drinking. It's sort of a way of finding out if they're falling the rules. Yes, we tell them we can tell. Yeah. And I don't prescribe a decade. This is usually something that the dermatologist should be doing. The specific physicians are hurt. Yes. And you mentioned five months. Does that imply that you do this very lengthy five month treatment and then you're done with this? It eradicates the sebaceous cysts, the sebaceous glands to the level where the child, the teenager is done with this treatment afterwards. For 85% of people that take it for five months are done. You've got this small subset, then you need to take it again. And then I have my adult patients who might not have a lot of acne but they're very oily. I put them on at one month out of the year. Just to dry them up a little bit. And it helps them feel better, it makes their pores look tighter, it makes their skin have a better texture to it because we always said, if you have oily skin, you're going to age better. That's so not true. You're just going to oils and inflammatory on the skin. So from that standpoint, I'd rather have them use it to dry them up for about a month and then allow them to enjoy the beautiful skin for the rest of the year. How does one know? I mean, it sounds like a dumb question. How does one know if they have oily skin? Like I've always thought I have oily skin, do I? Well, your pores would be enlarged and you would literally some people have to blot their face in the day. Okay, that's, I don't know about, but okay. Let's move on now to, by the way, that was super interesting to me. Just kind of, and by the way, I want to make sure we also get good products. We didn't talk about it. But can you tell me, you mentioned for the cleanser, it just needs to be glycerol-based, are these easy over-the-counter things to find? Should I be going to target or Walgreens and literally just going through the skin aisle and looking for cleansers that are glycerol-based that won't lather when I use them? Is that the litmus test? I mean, it's one way to do it. And we can also provide divisobunchal-links to products. You can include your own. I don't care. Yeah. Just just... And if you're a lawyer, I'm going to give you one that's not quite so hydrating when you wash. Okay. All right, let us move now into the really confusing realm of... I show up in your office. I can't tell you what's wrong, but I show you a picture of me 10 years ago. And I say, I want to look like that. And I should have brought a picture in of me so you could actually see it. But like, you've already described it without having seen the picture, right? I don't have bags under my eyes. My skin just looks better. Everything just looks better. Part of it is color. I will admit, 10 years ago, there was no gray anywhere in my beard. We're not going to fix that problem. That's fine. But aside from that, oh, and the wrinkles in my forehead. Like, I noticed in pictures of me in the past, I had some wrinkles. Now it looks like I have a wrinkle farm. Right? So again, go over the changes. Assuming I had that photo, how would you describe them pathologically? Maybe that's too strong a word, but you know what I mean? So I think there are three basic changes that happen to every single person with aging. And we've touched on this a little bit and will dive deeper now. So there's skin changes. There are volume changes. There are gravitational changes. And maybe we should throw on the fourth, which is, you know, bone structural foundational changes. And so those happen to everybody. When we see patients in our clinics who are presenting the way you've just suggested, we will spend extra time analyzing the individual nuances of skin, volume, bone ligament to anatomy, gravitational changes that are specific to your face. And then also we'll just rely on just general knowledge that we have about what types of aging changes we see at this point. And it's a very complex process. I tried to analyze this a little bit before walking into this podcast today. Like, what am I actually thinking about when I'm starting to come and hit with the patient? As soon as I see the patient, while I'm, you know, making some niceties and saying hello and get to know them, I'm already analyzing, I'm already looking at their skin. I'm looking at the bone structure. I'm analyzing the facial proportion. I'm looking at areas where there's volume loss. It's obvious. I'm looking at the dynamic movement of the forehead and the face. I'm analyzing how much heaviness is on the eyes. It might be driving front-tiles muscle tone. It's causing forehead wrinkles. I'll be looking for facial asymmetries. So a lot of the physical exam that we do in our offices happens in the first 15 seconds because we're just, this is what we do and it just happens quickly in our mind. It's a big difference. It's that blink moment. You live in my ear. I know what I'm going to do on them. Yes. Yes. The urologist doesn't have this advantage. He can't, you know, examine the prostate and the scrodyle tissue during that first 15 seconds. Very good boy. Yes. So, so we do that when we walk into the room that analysis already happens. And then, because I've already got that sort of snapshot anatomic analysis already in my mind, then the next step that I'm doing is, and I'd love to hear what your processes is. But the next step is I'm now going into their mind and trying to understand their psychology and what their motivation is. And the problem that we have is that the patient doesn't know what words to say. They're like me for them to communicate what's actually driving them. And so I have to pull that out of them. This was a little bit of detective work, a little bit of background. My parents are both psychiatrists. I actually went to medical school thinking I was going to go into psychiatry. And then I rapidly pivoted into surgery and ended up where I am. But that initial love and appreciation for what's happening inside the neuronal processing and subconscious is something that we actually work with every single day in our offices. And so the next step that happens in the consultation is, I would say hopefully. I mean, to me that's a great thing. But I don't know. I'm not to be a downer. I don't know that that's true of every person who is dealing with aesthetics. I would guess there are a lot of people who are just kind of doing this in a coin-operated way. Cooked kind of. Yeah. I think you're right. Unfortunately, there is a there can be tendency to take a cookie cutter approach where you recognize this and here's a it's a knee jerk reaction. There's wrinkles on the forehead and jack bowtocks. You know, there's gels do a face left. That's not the way that we should be practicing aesthetics. Every single individual has a totally customized situation anatomically physiologically and psychologically. And so our job is to try and figure that out when the patient doesn't have the ability to express. So sometimes it's almost overlaps into pediatrics, which is something that I know you've got some history with in surgery. But you know, you're trying to do a physical exam and get history from someone who's unable to communicate what they're actually able what they want you to figure out. And so we'll all start asking questions. Did you like the way you looked when you were 20? If they say yes, that means that they actually like their natural facial proportions and they're probably looking more for a rejuvenation. But if they say, you know, I always had a heavy eyelid and an ever could make up on my then I know that there may be looking for something that's a more substantial result in that particular area. That's just one example. And then I'll try to get to know them from just what are the what kind of what's their occupation, what's their situation at home. Do they have kids? Tell me a little bit about your life. I'm trying to understand their social history to see if there's any red flags that would stop the process and say, okay, this is not the right time to be considering aesthetics. You got to get your mental health in order before we proceed, which is something that I would very openly tell a patient at the right time in the consultation. But if a woman came in and said, my husband is leaving me, right, which is unfortunately probably not an uncommon thing. And let's make it more extreme, right? A 50 year old woman comes in and says, my husband of 25 years is leaving me for a 20 year old, understandably she's in derress. And she's probably comparing herself to a 25 year old. Would that be a non starter in your mind? So the scenario you described is actually very common. Yeah. I see this kind of situation all the time. And then, and this is why a schedule 45 minutes or an hour for initial consultations, because once we start talking about that, tears may start flowing because the patient is now in a safe zone talking to a medical professional is actually listening to them. We were talking about time in a clinic before. And so then we start to fall into the role of a therapist and we're letting them express because I want to see how deep is this trauma? I'm trying to understand, is this something that is now a non starter or what should we do here? Because there are scenarios where someone is in that kind of scenario situation where we certainly would not want to make any drastic moves or big changes or shifts. But is it appropriate to recognize that this person is, you know, desiring something that is a reasonable goal, but the current emotional state is not appropriate to do the procedure to get there. So maybe we say, look, let's do something irreversible. Or is we do something reversible? Yes, exactly. Because the fear, sorry to interrupt, but I'm guessing that the fear here is if you say no to her, she's going to find some guy down the block who will do anything. And it's better that you do something small and develop a relationship with her that will ultimately serve her interests. But you can't give her everything she wants at the moment. Is that a fair assessment? Very well said. I, that is exactly right. We're trying to build that trust and build that relationship on the front end so that this individual who's trying to get from A to B, we're going to take them there safely. Whether it's, you know, over a couple of months or 10 years, we're going to try to get to that goal and there may be some obstacles along the way and choices that we have to make, we'll navigate it together. And it's all built on building that relationship on the front end. So the trust exists where I can tell the patient, we are not going to do this maneuver right now. And then that patient will listen to me because the trust has been built up enough that this individual knows that I have their best interest in mind and we're going to get to that goal eventually. And so, so yes, this scenario that you're describing, the individual might be best served with. Okay, look, I think we can get there one day with procedures. But right now, I'm going to refer you to a therapist. You have a lot going on your life right now. Let's do some simple things that we're not going to regret like neuromodulators and fillers and some skin treatments or lasers, things that are low-risk, they're not going to create any scars or permanent changes and then we can eventually get to that next step. We're not going to do the face lift next week. Correct. Yes, that's on hold. So, so, you know, the first step is we do this kind of snapshot anatomic dynamic analysis. This is not just a single image, just we're looking at the muscle movement and then the second step is this deep dive into the social situations, psychology. And then, presuming that everything's kind of moving along smoothly and now we're getting ready to talk about what we're, you know, what should we do now? Then I'll spend time educating the patient on their actual anatomy because they've never actually had that information presented to them. Right. So, I will put the mirror in front of the patient and I will say, let's go through what I'm seeing with on your exam today, together and we'll start at the top and I'll go through every little detail and I'll throw in little caveats like, I'm sorry, I'm not trying to make you feel bad about your features but you're here for me to tell you, so I'm going to tell you everything. We're going to talk about your bones, we're going to talk about the wrinkles, we're going to talk about the asymmetry you never noticed, which, by the way, is almost always the case. People don't notice that I asymmetries and so we point out these asymmetries to them. And then after that kind of, relatively lengthy discussion about their individual anatomy, then we'll start to say, okay, now you initially told me that these are some of the areas about are you? Here's what we could do to fix your eye region, your cheek, your mouth, your jaw, whatever it is and I'll present typically options that go from minimally invasive to more substantial and based on how the individual is responding to the conversation, I can usually, at this point, 20 years in my practice, dial in, like, what is the appropriate scope for this patient? They don't really know whether they want to face a turn-out, maybe I need to explain them the complications where the incisions are, so they really understand what that procedure means and then if that seems like it's too much of them, we will dial it back and I'll have to tell them, look, we're not going to be able to get the results of a face of a lot of faces, but I don't think you're ready for a face left, so maybe we should start with something smaller and kind of taking baby steps and then just to conclude, usually we'll end up finally telling the patient what they showed up to here, which is my opinion. And I won't give them my opinion about what we should do until we've gone through this whole process and I've watched their body language as we've talked about procedures, sometimes I'll suggest something that's minimally invasive and they seem uninterested because it's not enough for them and I'll read that body language and kind of dial in the treatment for what I suggest for them. And so that'll happen at the end of the consultation, typically. So I know that was a long answer, but that that does, I would say, describe my typical consultation. How about Jesus? Pretty much everything that Tanish said. And I was so glad to hear that you talked to the patient about their mental state at that time too because we do a lot of almost like psychology and therapy with our patients. If they open up to you, then that's an honor to you and you have to take that and you have to help them through that issue. And my I have a psychology background as well. So I was biology and psychology double major in schools and I find that I use it a lot. It's so important. But I approach patients very similarly, but I try to put things in terms that they can understand. So I tell them there are the five hours of rejuvenation. And it doesn't mean they need all of it at that point in time, but at some point in their life they're going to need one of them. And they'll make it through all all five. And that is we need to relax over active muscles and I'm showing them on their face the movements. I will say we need to refill lost volume, whether it's through fat, grafting, which is still one of my favorite procedures to do, or refilling with fillers. And I tell them we need to resurface the skin because to me, the how the skin looks is absolutely much more important than how tight they are. So patients sometimes come in. They're like, I just want to lift here and they want to lift their lower face. And their skin is terribly wrinkled and they have hyperpigmentation and sun spots. And I'll tell them if I lift you now, no one's going to notice that you look better. But if I make your skin look better, people are going to notice you look better before I even do the surgery. So we have relax, refill, resurface. We need to do rejuvenating. So there are going to be times that you can't lift in, as I fill enough, you have to lift. So they either will lift with devices, such as micro-needrelation, radio frequency devices, or ultrasound devices to tighten the skin, or a facelift, just some sort. So those you need to do. And then what people don't realize my fifth are is that you have to keep renewing because the aging process continues. And the minute they leave their office, everything you just did on them looks great and they start to diminish. And that's what we talked about a month. That's what we were just talking about. Yes. The renewal was the maintenance. Absolutely. So you have to keep renewing because otherwise you're going to lose that benefit. And what do I mean by renewing? You definitely maintain your neuromodulators and your fillers. But they have to be strategically placed. You don't need a lot of fillers. You need to keep the skin priming itself and turning over. And so you can achieve a lot of that at home. And I think people underestimate how much they can do at home with their skincare regiments. And then have to do less in the office. And that's my big emphasis. Do more at home. And then let us do in the office a little boost here and there afterwards. And so those five hours make it very easy for these patients to comprehend. And they might not need all that. Yeah. But at some point in their life, they're going to have all those five hours. So what I want to do then is I want you to go through the five hours looking at me and to New York. I want you to go through your four changes looking at me. So just feel free to brutalize me. You're not going to humiliate me. So let's start. So Susan, you look at me and let's start with relax. What needs to be relaxed in my face? Yeah. So here's the thing. You do move your eyebrows a lot in your forehead. So you've got a lot of forehead wrinkles. I do notice the glabella 11's. Where are the Barbies of those little sharp lines there? Yep. So knit your brows for me. Yeah. And so raise your eyebrows up. Now, part of the reason you're raising your eyebrows maybe now more than you did 10 years ago is you have a little more hooding on your upper eyelids and your eyelids are almost touching your eyelashes. And when that happens, you're sending a signal to the forehead to lift so you can see better. And is that because I've lost elasticity in the eyelid and it's just drooping more? Well, no, more so going back to what we were talking about in the Boney structure. That's right about that. That atrophy, including the brow fat pad. And so now you've got a dissent a little bit of your brow, but a little more of the extra redundant skin there. I got it. So part. So I'm actually using this muscle more to try to keep these guys up. Exactly. Now, if you go to someone who doesn't evaluate you like we do, they might look at your forehead like target practice and say, I'm going to use a new emodulator across that entire forehead and make it so you can't move. And then you're going to walk around very, very, very quickly. I would feel silly. I wouldn't want to look that way. You would feel very,hood and very heavy. And I've done that on purpose to myself just to see what patient's experience. So, and it's not a nice feeling. Secondly, you are very fit. So you have not a lot of fat in your face. And like I said, it doesn't matter what you think your weight is on your body. Now, how much fat percentage you have on your body, you've atrophy some of the facial fat pads. So if you've exposed the entire orbital rim, I can see that. And you may also notice I have a scar here. And it has created an asymmetry in the drooping. So from back in the when my teenage years when I was boxing, I actually I was split to my cheek. Wow. There. So that is a very deep scar that I I suspect the connective tissue there is actually tethered near the bone. And we can free that up with subsision. So that is kind of similar to the micronatal intonuced it on your other scar. But this is under the scar, the whole length of it, and subsizing or freeing up that tethering in that adhesion. Got it. With or without adding fat or filler. But I would. So if you look at what makes the eyes look beautiful, it's definitely having a little more platform show on the upper eyelid. But also it's reducing what we call the length of the lid cheek junction. So the length of from your eyelash line, yeah. Down until where you can actually see the cheek, that's elongating. And me. Yeah. Because you've lost all that volume that was up here. I think that if you were to ask me Peter, what are you most self conscious of aesthetically? I think this is it. I think it is this thinness here, which I believe makes me look constantly tired even when I feel like a million bucks. I think I'm more subconscious of this than I am my wrinkled forehead. Yeah. And that's where I would either use a little bit of your own fat if we could find some. Oh, I've got plenty. I would use that to rebuild the seria and shorten that lid cheek junction so that we create more of a youthful length, rather than this kind of long color. And why we're going to talk about this of course. But but when do you guys make the decision of an an autographed of fat versus restyline you mentioned earlier? I love fat if we can do it. Now with the advent of fillers, the volume of fat grafting we do goes down by just to lay the yesterday. And I'll tell you why. Yeah. On her, she came in and she had never had anything before. And she was hollow everywhere. So yes, we could use seven 69. Okay. So yes, we could use lots of fillers, but she'll spend of small fortune putting a lot of fillers in her face over time. And I personally don't like to inject more than two or three syringes of filler in one visit. So it's going to take a process to build up different areas on her because I just don't want to have a reaction and I also want to see where I'm placing everything. But in her case, we would straight for the fat because she has a thin face, but she has a normal body mass index. So her fat is going to do well. How much filler would I require for just what would you guess? I'd start with a syringe between both under eyelids and then I would do another syringe probably about three or four months if I need to. And that what's the cost of each syringe? Yeah, not the not your cost to patients. Yeah, about 800 to a thousand dollars depending on the filler. Again, what is the cost of the procedure, the fat graph procedure? That's obviously much more, but it's a lifetime because it's about 5,000. Okay. So five years worth of treatment basically. So it's cheaper in the long run to do a fat graph, presumably. Yes. But also, remember that we're just talking about your under eyes. But let's say you're my typical patient. They need their temples filled. They need their cheeks filled. They need their chin filled jawline enhancement. So yesterday I did about 35, 40 ml of fat on my patient. So that if you were to multiply that by it's very expensive. Are my temples too sunk in? Yours are still good. So in your cheekbones are still good. Your jawline is still good. I would put a little near my gelator, a boat hox in your puttism on my sok is I am starting to see some puttism of vending there. Mine's worn off so you don't want to look at mine. But that helps to relax that muscle that does nothing but pull the lower face down. I would possibly add a little volume right in your male eye. In your case, I would love a biosumeletory filler, something like polyelactic acid or sculpturase the other name for it to start building collagen and thicken your dermis thickness in here because I'm starting to see some of your buckle fat fat at the afterfie as well. And that just goes along with how fit you are. So using this to build your own collagen is a great way because in a few or female, very thin, we would have an issue because those patients tend to burn through their fillets very quickly. So if we can get a biosumeletory filler on board where they're building their own collagen, sometimes it works a little better. Now do you ever look at a patient like me and say, your your most fat depleted here and here, but you're not yet fat depleted here and here, I only want to do one fat graft on you. So let's cost aside. Let's use fillers until I have to do this procedure once and for all. And then I'll literally just take a bunch of fat off you and do it. Absolutely. Is that a better approach or do you are you afraid to do multiple fat grafts? Oh no, I have patients that come for fat grafting as they need it. So I've done some patients three, four times. But I have turned down a lot of patients who come in actually asking for fat grafting for lips or for under eyes. And I tell them that since they don't need it elsewhere, that's too much of a procedure to go through for like one end of time at Gary and in the lips, it doesn't hold as long. But under the eyes, it works beautifully, but I would do it when they need it elsewhere. I will probably never need lip fat grafting. When I was little people made fun of the size of my lips. So I'm pretty sure I'm safe on that. Okay, before we go on to resurfacing to news, what would you change or add or how would you approach my face? Well, I think you know, Susan's an analysis was spot on, I agree. You know, I think that what I hear you saying is the biggest issue that bothers you is your under eye area. So because your someone who's never had a procedure before, you know, actually Brett Kotlus did stick restal in in there. Gosh, how many years ago? Probably 2018, 2017. Okay. I'll tell you what I remember of the procedure. I was amazed at how much I bruised. He told me I would. So it's not like this was an unexpected complication. But I looked like I had two black eyes for a couple of days. Otherwise it looked really good. And then it went away after a period of time. But it definitely was not a year that it lasted. So I also suspect I metabolized it very quickly. I also am relaxing filler. So the reason he also mentioned that this scar was problematic. He said that scar is creating and it's very difficult to fill this eye. And you might ask, well, why didn't you just keep doing it? Just the same reason I don't do anything. Just sheer laziness. I was just like the thought of actually doing that again having a couple black eyes for a couple days, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, I just started to give up. But I have that one experience. So your under eye area and by the way, being lit this way is an abomination. But just by the way, bruising from fillers is a lot less these days because we don't just need to let us much anymore. We actually use cannulas which are blunt tipped catheters and they don't typically bruise hardly much at all. So that's one big change that's happened in the last five eight years is switching to cannulas. And people have different philosophies on that. Some people use needles for specific locations. But just wanted to mention that that bruising or under eye would probably be less if you had fillers again. But again, kind of going back to the way that I do a cosmetic exam. Because I just heard you say that they bothers me most is this area. And we could list off another 10 things that are quote unquote. Like I didn't even notice this. So now you give me something to be self-conscious. I was shoot a fastest thing. I'm just going to point out something. I wanted you to. I told you to. I totally teasing. Totally teasing. So I would laser focus on the area that the patient is now presenting to me as their major reason for even calling up my office and making an appointment is probably because they wanted to address this and yes, they're curiously interested in all the other things that I had to say. But because this patient, you know, in this case you is never had surgery on their face. It's probably not looking for massive shifts in their face. I would probably laser focus on this one area not just because it's what you pointed out. But also in the realm of rejuvenation procedures that we perform surgically or non-surgically, the eye region is probably the sweet spot. You know, just again going back to psychology evolution, we focus on people's eyes in conversation. When we talk about beauty, we're looking at the eyes. So when people's eyes are now starting to become further and further away from the way they remembered when they were younger, it creates this discomfort. It's the self-discrepancy theory from psychology where you've got the self image of yourself and then you look at yourself you're like, wait a second, that's not what I mean. And then it creates this discomfort of like, is that what I really look like and then it creates the psychological effect of like maybe a little less confidence or dissatisfaction with your parents? That's the big motivator for why people actually end up coming to see someone like us is because that self-discrepancy theory is kicking in and they're the delta between their self view and their actual appearance is getting greater and greater. It's one of the reasons I get sounds ridiculous that I'm saying this on video and that I have a podcast, I freaking hate being on video. I don't mind the sound of my voice. The seeing me on a video and as you know in this type of a situation you're always overhead lead, it is an unbearable appearance because when you have these bags under your eyes overhead lighting just makes it look 10 times worse. So if I if I pass myself in the mirror, I'm like, I notice it. If someone ever sends me a clip of me on video like on YouTube or on I'm like, how in the hell are we allowing this to be in the public domain? I mean, it's a part of it maybe what we were mentioning earlier that subconscious posing because when you're looking at the mirror you know you're looking at the mirror and your subconscious makes you lift your teeth. Maybe I angle my head differently. Angle your head or you smile a little bit and it pulls the cheek up and minimizes that hollow between your under iron or cheek and everybody does this and that's why people tend to be shocked by photographs that are taken of them when they weren't prepared for it because they're not prepared to pose for the picture and they're flat, undynamic face in a photograph that's taken like that is shocking to them and it is often a big motivator for them to come to see us. I also made the mistake of once reading some comments on social media where people were just ripping me apart for how horrible I look and it's like you can say what you want like I don't care but you do care if you read a bunch of people saying you look horrible you're like, that sucks. I don't like that. But you know when people show you that picture of themselves that someone took because they bring it to the console they bring the picture like, oh my gosh, saw myself last week, look at how I look and you're like, give me your phone. I take their phone, I take a picture of them in the exam room and show them like look how good you look. This was one last second in one way you were moving your mouth or tilting your head or shadow. You don't look like that. So delete that picture, we will not address how you look in a next second compared to how you look at the rest of the day. Totally agree. So and then what about the Rinkle situation? Yeah, so I would cut what I would do is I would kind of go through all of the areas the four areas that we're talking about and then I would laser focus on the eyes. So to go to the four areas, we're talking about skin. Yes. We've done a lot of discussion already on skin care. I think that you should start a skin care regiment. I think you'll appreciate it as time goes by. I'm going to come into three months for sure. You have you have uneven pigmentation in your face. Yep. You have some fine lines that are more concentrated in the I region because that's the eyelid skin is that's been used on the entire body. And there's it's the one area of the body and you're a surgeon by training. You know that when you cut into the body, there's always a fat layer. Yep. Not in the eyelids. So the eyelid does not have a subcutaneous fat layer. It's the only place in the body. And so to what's underneath the skin, the muscle directly. And so there are four causes of dark circles on the eyes. There's visibility of your big layer of muscle. There's shadowing, which is why you probably don't like your appearance in this kind of situation because the shadowing is visible down here. There's hemacidarin deposition and then there's hyper pigmentation. So those are the four reasons why people get dark circles on the eyes and you actually have all four of them wonderful. And then so we would definitely want you to get onto a good quality skin care regiment because it's one of the four areas that needs to be addressed. Not only to reverse some changes but for prevention purposes. Yep. And when it comes to volume loss, I think Susan sort of already picked you apart there. You've got you know volume loss in the mid-face. I think your temporal volume loss is enough where if you are going to have some kind of volume treatment putting a little bit in it would be nice. Your left temples sink in a little more than the right. I can only see his, oh, okay. Yeah, I'm mostly looking at this side of his face. Yeah, the right temples less, less hollow is not common. Yes. Extremely common. So when I put that mirror up in front of patients to start pointing out their asymmetries, I'm not kidding, 95 to 99 percent of the time. People are unaware of their own asymmetries until I point them out to them. And the reason why it's important to point it out to them because if I'm going to be employed to manipulate their face, they need to know where the starting point was. And that's do we want to fix asymmetries all the time, like doesn't matter? Sometimes we don't want to make it worse for certainly, you know, that's probably a big, big factor. And then if there's a way to make it better when we're doing the neighbors will dial that in because again going back to the three, you know, biological reasons of why people perceive beauty, it'll make that person look more, more handsome or beautiful. Okay. And some people do have significant asymmetries that do. Yeah, ladies for some reason we're one jawline heel is aging beautifully and very well defined. And the other one's like a centimeter shorter. Yes. And Peter has some of the asymmetries too. I mean his right side of the face, even though you had that injury on your right cheek, your right side of your face is the smaller side of your face. So imagine in euro, I had more literally no idea. Yes. And the other funny thing is that when people, another reason why people feel uncomfortable in the sea photographs of themselves is because you're used to looking at your mirror image of yourself. Think about this. That's right. You're nobody on the planet has actually ever seen themselves. You've only seen yourself in the mirror, or you've seen a photograph yourself. You actually don't really know what you look like in in the flesh. And so because there's that discrepancy between the mirror and a photograph, because the mirror is a flipped image of yourself and the photograph is not, that's why people don't like photographs of themselves, especially when they're more asymmetric. So so if we measure the distance between the outside corner of your eye to your mouth, yeah, it's about 10% longer on your left side because the bone structure is white or so. So get imagine you're laying in euro, right? You're in the womb. And you're probably spending more time on one side of your face. There's so many factors we can imagine as to why, why do we get facially symmetry? It's because of maybe the growth rates were different. Maybe there's a slightly different side of kind difference between the left and the right at six weeks. And then maybe you're laying on one side of your face for two months. These are all the reasons why we end up with a little asymmetry. And these things are present at birth and they become more exaggerated as we age because when you have that de-volumeization of the fat pockets, it shows them. It shows up. The underlying bone structure starts to become more visible. And then finally, if we saw some pictures of you when you're 20 and we put them side by side with you right now, even though you have a great job bone, it's probably lost about 10 to 15% of the volume that you had when you were 20. And so comprehensive treatment would be to volume eyes either with some fillers or some fat grafting to the areas of volume we talked about. The skin care regimen we talked about, I would probably put some volume along the jaw and your cheekbone because you've lost that projection with aging. We just know that some of your age is going to have a certain degree of detection volume along the job. How do you keep it in the area you want it to be without it looking sort of odd and protruding? So the art of fillers and fat grafting is really truly an art. It's there's depth of placement. We're placing it in the pre-periostial layer to emulate as if it were a larger bone structure. If you're trying to hide jowling, then you might put it into the muscle layer because you're trying to plump up the valley next to the hill so that it becomes smoother or looking. So those are some of the art of the right choosing the right filler? Choosing the right filler is fat always a superior filler. Not necessarily. I do like fat because it's your onlyving tissue and of course it has those stem cells in it that can become multiple different types of tissues. So if you place it at the periostial level, it can build bone. If you put it in fat, it becomes fat and if you put it along muscle, it can turn into muscle and if you put it under the skin, it enhances how the skin ages. So something anecdotally that there are many of us that do a lot of fat grafting were on a panel one day talking about it before when you about this stem cells being in the fat we're talking 15, 20 years ago. We're talking about the fat grafting patients and how they all uniform the look like they just age better and their skin ages better and now you realize it's all of that. Where do you harvest from? The most numerous areas of preadipicides, I should say the tissue that has the most preadipicides is the abdomen. So subcutaneous abdomen. But I really like the flanks because it turns out you don't just want the fat and the fat stem cells, you need all the connective tissue stem cells as well. And when you go to the flanks the reason the flanks feel so firm even though they may have fat in them is they have a large septate and germal tissue there. And when you aspirate the fat you're also aspirating along with it's some of that germal tissue. So you're getting the matrix and the scaffolding cells that will help that fat also repopulate. And just give me a sense of volume. So if you if you decided to go full bore on somebody and do temporal and eye and you know outside of the lip and jaw you you're how much fat are you putting in and how much fat and tissue do you need to harvest to acquire the necessary volume. So we may differ in our technique so let Tanish speak to his I will typically harvest about 120 cc's of fat. So we're talking about an area about the size of a small canto. And just to put that in perspective if a person undergoes liposuction how much is being harvested. Probably so usually we're filling canisters of fat leaders. So this is not 234 leaders of fat. Okay so this is not going to make a material difference in your subcutaneous fat depo in your body. Correct and if we are just sickly do it we can take it from both sides so that you don't have any defects or asymmetry. But people always have an asymmetry even on their body. So I tell them you know the benefit of this is I'm taking also the fat and evening you out would do other happen there like I never even knew I was asymmetric. So I typically harvest about 120 cc's and then we centrifuge it and it condenses it down so it takes off all the anaesthetic fluid you put in we have albumin in there to restore some of the on-cardic pressure as well. And we are taking people's on PRP spending that spending their blood down to get the PRP the platelet rich plasma and adding that in along with something that we call mental fat. So turns out if you take fat and you graft it into tissue a certain percentage will take. But if you take fat and then you add in extra stem cells more of that tissue will take. So what we do is we harvest extra fat and extract the mental fat from that meaning all the preadipicides by running it through some meshes and adding that back into supplement the fat. But it's a patient cell. It's a tallus. Everything the PRP all of that. Okay, how does your protocol differ from that? Very similar remarkably and full disclosure when I was coming through training in 2005 to 2007 finishing my fellowships. I spent a lot of time listening to Dr. Abaji's talks at conferences so my fat transfer technique has basically mirrored hers for quite some time. I probably do a little less harvesting a little less injecting because most of my fat grafting is being done in conjunction with a facelift or an upper and lower eyelid surgery called blood for plastic. So when I'm surgically manipulating the tissues, I'm lifting and moving tissues and so I'm not in need of as much volume to make the change that we're looking for, but very similar overall. Okay, that gets to the eyelid problem. You alluded to a procedure that lifts the eyelids and doing so presumably makes you require less these frontalis muscles. Yeah. So do I need, are my eyelids a problem? So the short answer is at this point you would probably qualify for your insurance company to cover your upper eyelid surgery because that's how droopy they are. Holy. Yeah. They're sitting on your eyelashes. Yes. No, it's so I mean this is whole air. I had no idea how bad I was. No. I was. No, I was. No, no, but but yeah, if you're telling me insurance would cover a cosmetic procedure in me. If we did a visual feel test on you where you relaxed your forehead muscles and you were required to look straight ahead and kind of hit a button every time you saw a light flash in your peripheral field and we did the same test with your eyelids taped up. You'd probably have a 30% difference in your peripheral field. So this could be affecting my driving. Probably you're probably finding yourself having to look a little harder at your blind spot because of that. Now it becomes a very complicated issue. One of the most comments things that we'll see in our practice here in Austin is that patients come in and say, I think I need to have my eyelids done and then we say yes but and the thing is people don't realize that the face is not isolated into individual pieces of anatomy. Your eyelid is connected to your eyebrow which is connected to your forehead. So if we're going to do an upper eyelid surgery because you're constantly lifting your forehead muscle to be able to see better your brain's compensating for this pathology, if we do an upper blood for plastic, whether it's insurance, or cosmetic, or whatever, all of a sudden that visual field will improve and your front-tell muscle automatically relax and your brow will come down and it'll create a new problem that you didn't know you had. And so these are some of the conversations we have to have with patients that maybe we leave you alone unless you're also ready to have your forehead lifted or at least have what we call a medical brow left with Botox. So muscles pull the eyebrows up, muscles pull the eyebrow down. If you preferentially inject Botox into the depressed remusals which are here and here, naturally the tone of the front-tell so we'll lift the forehead a little bit, even without wrinkled showing. And so it's all tell patients look if we do an upper blood surgery that'll be fine but we either have to commit to regular use of Botox to keep your eyebrows in check or we have to do a brow left at the same time. And if you're not ready for that, where's the incision for the brow left? You do it through the same incision? I would say they want to come to designing surgeries what I train my fellows and residents is that there is no single surgery. Every single surgery is totally custom designed for the individual patients anatomy. There's general patterns we use but we should always infinitely manipulate the procedure to achieve the goal we're trying to do artistically. In your case it's complex because someone here doesn't have hair. We usually would hide its cisions behind the hairline. It is possible for you to have an endoscopic forehead reset kind of procedure and we would make the incisions further back and smaller and it'll be a more technically challenging procedure but there's a way to lift the forehead with incisions that would not be socially visible and then those incisions can be closed in such a way that as time goes by especially with post surgical treatments like microneedling with fibrillary or so on topical treatments that you can get those scars to become what I call socially invisible. Which I mean it just to me seems like I could never commit to that much work. You know what I mean? So does that mean I'm just stuck with no reason? So then in the conversation with the patient what we would come to probably in your case is okay we can do a blood for plastic which is an upper lip surgery but we're going to undertreat you. We're going to do less than what you think you need. It's not going to make a huge shift but on the other hand we also don't want to change the entire relationship neurologically that your front house muscle has with your eyelid. So we by taking a patient through all the potential pathways they sometimes recognize they can't get what they thought they were coming for and we're going to undertreat them so we avoid a potential problem. And similar things happen with the under eye area so you know your under eye area is pretty complex too because you do have bulging fat visible in the under eye area which by the way is exactly the same contour that you had when you're 20 it's just become unveiled because you've lost volume and the cheek has descended and now we're looking at the orbital retaining ligament and the male are ligament. So this line right here corresponds to when you're looking at a skeleton and there's a big circles where the eyes are supposed to be. This is that bottom half of the circle where the ligament is stuck down. So if you put your finger on the skin right below an eye bag you'll be touching the edge of your orbital rim bone right there. And so from my standpoint if we're going to do something that is definitive to treat that it's going to also have to treat the volume issue in your cheek. It's also going to have to address some of the skin textual issues in the region and then sometimes some people have an issue where there's a triangle that catches between the orbital rim which is that at how low we were talking about in the under eye area and another line that exists in the cheek a little bit lower and it creates a triangle where fluid can collect. So I don't know if you've noticed that but you've got that little triangle right here on both sides and that area is called a malear mound. It's kind of like a sponge under the skin. It collects fluid. It's worse in the mornings because we're laying flat and we have a little more demonar face. If you've had salty food the night before it'll kind of puff up a little more. People will use preparation H. This is a time-tested kind of home remedy to try to shrink down that swelling that's present there. So but this would have to be part of what's addressed. If we were going to address your under eyes and if we were going to do something to address your under eyes it would be something that would reduce the bulk of the bag fill volume in the cheek, smooth the skin out and address that malear mound. And so this is a common maneuver of what we would do in our practice, which is we would under anesthesia make a hidden incision behind the eyelid and take those eyelid fat pads that are making that bag and create a pocket down in front of the cheekbone where the volume loss is occurring and where the ligaments are showing their hollowing and then move that fat down. That's called a transposition or a blood for plastic. So one of the big changes that's happened in aesthetic surgery from 1995 to now is back in the old days of cosmetic surgery. There was a lot of cutting fat out, cutting skin out to make eyelids look tighter, cutting skin in front of the ears to tighten the face, doing surgeries at mostly removed tissue. And now we're becoming much more sophisticated where we're actually manipulating the ligament as attachments to the bone. And so because we're recognizing the ligament, you don't have to remove the skin. We don't really have as much. Yes. And so so if you do, you can tighten it with lasers and peel. Yes. So so you're just to kind of conclude what the suggestion would be for some of with your kind of anatomy, we would transpose the fat, which would two birds one stone reduce bulk here, add volume here, three birds actually, because they would basically eliminate the visibility of the ligament because there's fat under it now, which is pushing it forward. And then we would do something to improve the skin. S is inset either a laser resurfacing or a chemical peel. And then there's a new technique that we're using where we're injecting tetricycleing into areas of swelling of the face. So this is pretty cutting edge. You know, it's been around for several years now and we've got pretty good experiences with this technique. But tetricycleing is an old drug that was repurposed by the pulmonologists to address pulmonary issues where they want the plurra to stick to the lining better. And because it has that property of basically creating fiberous attachments, it can be used to shrink that sponge down by injecting delicately into the male armail and to kind of flatten it. And so that would be the constellation of procedures. And then we can go wrong here, because, you know, I think for many people that would be contemplating something like this, you know, it's one thing if you are having a procedure where, you know, well, first of all, this is a cosmetic procedure. So out of the gate, A, it's not essential, B, if you don't look better when it's done, it's, it's the worst possible outcome. And then, C, it's the most visible part of your body. You know, I've heard stories of women who have breast augmentations where they have complications. And, you know, at least the breasts aren't always visible, meaning the actual skin itself. So even if you have to re-operate and it creates another scar, you know, it's only visible to her partner, right? But here, it's just the highest stakes game. So how do you navigate complications, risks, and mitigation strategies? And that's what we were talking about before you have to make sure that whoever's doing your treatments, A is well trained, qualified to do the injections, and can manage the complications, because everyone's going to have complications. We've had complications, since speaking for me, I'm sure you've seen, of course, you can't treat patients and then not do enough cases, not have a complication. But there are some really notable complications that are vision threatening or tissue threatening. So when you're treating around the eyes, for example, or even into the temples, there are reported instances of stroke and death and vision loss, and including treating around the nose, because all of these vessels interconnect with the internal corroded system. So anywhere you inject filler and again into a vessel on the outside of the same. You can create an embolism and it's going to go follow the path of least resistance. Once you pull this into the tissue, it's going to backflow, but then it's going to be pushed forward again. It's going to go to the opt-out migratory and may go into your central nervous system. I'm sorry, into your brain, I should say, and the vascular trigger that I create a stroke. Now, some of the more serious strokes were caused by people injecting fat with needles, but all of these other complications really come from injecting fillers in this kind of central face area. So there's a technique, there's knowledge of the anatomy, there's knowledge of how to do, to do very little pressure, aspirate where you need to aspirate depending on the filler you're using and watching the tissue looking for a sign of any kind of embolists that's formal. Now, what about the, obviously less consequential, but still troubling side effects where hey, the person doesn't have a good cosmetic outcome. So they didn't have a stroke, they're alive, their vision is fine, but they don't look better. Something went wrong. What would go wrong? What are the things that go wrong here? I would say the most common types of complications that will see either, you know, I will any surgeon will have complications, I've had complications, but in our practices and in my practice, I will see a lot of patients refer to and with complications where we have to try to identify how to improve a bad outcome. So the most common reasons why bad outcomes occur in the world of cosmetic surgery and you're right, the stakes are high is because either the wrong procedure was done, which is much more common than one might expect, or there was a technical issue where the surgery was done correctly. So those are the most common causes. Now, you know, I will certainly have patients where I will do my very best and one site will be a little asymmetric and six months after surgery, you might have to go to the procedure room to do a minor touch up to kind of enhance things. That's one level of a problem, but when it comes to the more substantial disfiguring situations where people had been quote unquote boxed is the word people had to use for that. It's usually the wrong procedure was done or it wasn't done well. And I think that that is a very scary topic for listeners to be thinking about if they're even considering going down the pathway of rejuvenation or some sort of plastic surgery procedure on their face. And it can be very confusing because you're getting so much information from marketing and social media and physicians who perform cosmetic procedures are advertising and showing their best before and afters. And so how do someone figure out how how to navigate this? And I would say probably the best advice that we could give someone who's thinking about going down this pathway is you got to take the narrative into your own hands. You have to understand your own anatomy. You have to do a deep dive in understanding some of the techniques, not some all the techniques that are available to address the issues that are your particular concern. And that might require multiple consultations. It might require choosing good resources online which are usually society websites. So the American Academy of Dermatology, the American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery, ASPS which is a plastic surgery society. These society websites will have accurate information on procedures and you should avoid getting secondhand information from people you know or from social media. But you got to do your homework. You have to learn the anatomy. You have to understand your own situation and your choices that are available to you. And then it's kind of like analogous to dating and marriage. How do you know when it's the right person you just know? I mean let's go deeper into that. So if you were walking into, if I said hey I'm going to introduce you to my friend and she's going to go and sit down with a surgeon. You're not going to do the procedure on her even though you'd be fully qualified to do it. And she's not going to, you're not going to do the procedure. But I want you to be her advocate while she sits in the consultation room and you can tell her what questions to ask and you can help her interpret the results. But your job is to help her find the best doctor. What are the questions you're asking and what are the red flags you're looking for and what are the green flags that are making you say I like and trust this person? I think it starts with the your rapport with the patient too. You can quickly get a sense with the doctor you're working with if you and here she can see I to I in terms of what you're seeing, what they're seeing, how knowledgeable they are describing the procedures that they're suggesting for you just it makes sense. You know, do you really, for example, if they're trying you need a brow lift? Is that in your scenes, several other people and no one mentioned a brow lift? Maybe you need to think about why did this person mentioned a brow lift in the other one? Sitting or if everyone says you need a brow lift and one person says you don't, you have to figure out and go back and look in the mirror and try to understand what they're trying to point out to you as to what makes sense from that standpoint. Is it a comprehensive approach or are they just attacking basically the issue that you have that you are bothered by? I think people should take a comprehensive approach and just at least get that information, even if they don't act on all of that, the person in value waiting you should give you an overall look at everything just like we tend to just like I did addressing all the different areas that may be you didn't even know to ask about. And on top of that, understanding there are strong suit. I don't do rhinoplasty, if I start telling a patient I'm going to do a rhinoplasty and then they should run. They should ask me what how often are you doing this? What are your complication rates? What is the retreatment rate? How happy are your patients with this procedure? So to everything I do, I can show them my before and after as I can tell them, this is, and I show them multiple, for example a facelift. I'll show them different faces because everyone has a different shape face. You can't do the same, you get the same result depending on their anatomy. So I'll show them different things. I'll say now this one looks more like you're a neck and you're a jawline. This is kind of the result you can hope to get. And I tell them the complication is in my hands. I tell them the overall complication is by my hands. This is what I see. And it's one of the challenges. By the way, that's exactly what I tell people in general when they're interacting with with surgeons is it's one thing to know the complication rate when you're getting a colonoscopy. It's another thing to know their complication rate and their patient population. Because it's not always the case. For example, if you're having cardiac surgery, a low complication rate rate isn't always a great thing. It might mean low complexity. So anyway, it gets more complicated. Anything you would add to that, tenures as far as questions that they should be asking or red flags or green flags? Sure. Yeah, I think I agree completely there with what Susan said. And maybe some additional things to add, which some of these things matter more than others. But I think having had the right training and board certification is one level that should be met. Whoever is doing your procedure should have board certification in the thing that they're addressed. Yes. Yes. And then so sorry, just in a room for eyes. What percentage of people doing eye procedures like a lift a blood to pass? Would be ocular plastics trained? Is that a rare thing? Is that uncommon or common? It's the most common procedure that an eye-coupoc surgery would do. Right. How many nonocular plasticians would do that procedure? A lot. A lot. Yeah. So in 2025, there's so much more overlap that's happening than what used to exist. Because each field that has an aesthetic aspect to it, we're talking about dermatology, plastic surgery, E&T, off-the-mology, or maxillofacial surgery. These are the most common specialties that have an aesthetic overlap. The aesthetic focus in these training programs has dramatically ramped up in the last 20 years where the pardon parcel of these training programs include aesthetic surgery. But in addition to those board certifications, I think that experience matters. What's the minimum number of procedures you want to see done by the practitioner in a year to say, yep, you've got enough reps? You know, it really depends on the procedure. Okay. For a rhinoplasty, something like that. For a rhinoplasty, you're going to want to have someone, is it least doing 25 a year? Okay. For a facelift? For a facelift, do you want someone who's doing at least 25 a year? I think it also is going to matter how many other procedures they do, too. Because someone who's doing face and body might be doing a lot of body life perception. So they're doing faces, but they're doing also body life, maybe they're doing eyes, all of that. Do you want generalists or do you want specialists? Do you want people who are like, if you're going to get something done to your face, my intuition, which could be entirely incorrect is, I don't care. I don't want them doing breasts and butts and life, but like I want them to be maniacally focused on the thing that I want them to do to me. Is that a fair explanation? So I practice, I do five things. For example, by doing those five things a lot. But I don't do only one. So you don't do only one, even though you're aqua plastic and your facial plastic as well, though. Yes. Yeah. So I generally agree with what you're saying is that, I don't do any body surgery. So I'll refer that all out to people who specialize in that. And most people who do body cosmetic surgery will focus on body cosmetic surgery, because facial cosmetic surgery is a different animal altogether. And so I think that that kind of specialization matters. And look, I was a young surgeon once and certainly going to a surgeon who's right out of training can be fine for a limited isolated procedure, but I'm sorry to the young physicians in the audience. But a few years of training is usually helpful in building your repertoire and experience to be able to handle complications. And sophisticated listeners would probably naturally end up choosing more experienced surgeons for that reason. And you know, I think another important thing is that this is a creative specialty we're talking about. And so you want to choose someone who is evolving and moving with the times. And preferably is helping to advance that edge of medicine. That means that they're constantly thinking and questioning and improving the results and not resting on laurels and not stagnating in one particular way of performing a procedure. I think that's a very, very important aspect of trying to identify. So in that sense, do academics, because you would normally not associate cosmetic surgery with an academic affiliation. You would normally say, well, I get it if I have an oncologic issue. There's an advantage to being in an academic setting because of the research and because of the affiliation with the other branches of oncology. It's not where you can come up with some. But you know, you don't always think that way about people doing cosmetic surgery. But what you're saying would probably fit more neatly into the box of someone with an academic affiliation, right? I agree. And the interesting thing about aesthetic surgery is that it's a little bit of the black sheep in the world of medicine. So academic, cosmetic surgery, academic, plastic surgery is different from the traditional sense of what academic might mean. So in the world of facial aesthetics, you can have a single surgeon in private practice, no university affiliation, who's 100% academic because they are publishing, they're going to meetings, they're lecturing. They are helping to move the dial in the artistic world of what we're doing in facelifts or eyelid surgeries or brow lifting. And it might be someone who's at university at full time, but it doesn't have to be. And that's very unique to aesthetic surgery. I also think that the universities don't support their aesthetic doctors. So a lot of times universities cannot figure out a model that works for them to profit share or to find a compensation model for an aesthetic doctor that's appealing to them to make them not going to private practice. So they end up changing themselves and then the doctors leave and they're going to private practice. Whereas I think if you can get the universities to wrap their head around how to build out a really strong academic practice, like we did in our with our university at University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, we were rare. We were one of the first in the nation to purposely build an academically based cosmetic surgery practice with the intention of training plastic surgery residents if they want to rotate ocular plastic, facial plastics, dermatology residents and people from... I mean, it makes it a lot of sense because of the amazing overlap between surgery and general, especially oncologic surgery and reconstruction. Like if you think about it every time a woman undergoes a mastectomy, she should be immediately plugged into a plastic surgeon to, if nothing else, make sure that that reconstruction is as cosmeticly pleasing as possible and then you think about all the head and neck cancers and things like that. There's a clear incentive, maybe incentives are wrong word. Just if nothing else a business case to be made for better patient care with the integration of that type of service. The universities can't see that though. The problem is they think it's a one size fits all and they don't understand the differences. Like for example, your cosmetic practice has to have a more aesthetic look. It's going to cost them more to build it out and the device is, they need investments and it's really hard to get some of these universities to see that. You have to work with them and become your own business manager for example, and propose to them a business plan to return on investment, all of that. But practically speaking for the listeners, if you're trying to find someone to help you on a path in the category of aesthetic surgery, finding someone who is speaking at conferences, teaching, involved in the cutting edge of medicine, I think that's definitely a qualification. I think another thing that you mentioned earlier is maybe asking them how often they are receiving complications and managing them. That's probably a sign of skill and seniority in the field. If you're kind of the person who's, and again, it's not about calling out who those complications belong to, but it's hey, you know, I'm sure. Okay, so last and we talked for a lot longer than I thought we would, but I'm sorry if we can get you to hold on for a minute longer. We can't get out of this podcast without me understanding the difference between lasers, micro abrogens, micro needleing, chemical peels, I can't understand any of these things, but you mentioned resurfacing, you mentioned my skin sucks. So clearly before I go on the path of my rejuvenating anti-aging protocol, I might as well do something to fix the situation we have going on here. And so tell me about sure, I think we can do a crash course. I know this podcast is running long, but it's just a massive subject to cover. The start with lasers. I mean, could we take one step back, maybe? Please. And talk about the difference between a blade of a non-ablative and maybe talk about peels. So maybe the way to go is there are various technologies that will in a controlled manner injure the skin to harness the body's natural healing cascade, which then will produce the aesthetic benefits we're looking for, which is more college in production, smoother skin, you know, less pigment issues. And that's the goal, right? And so the bottom line is there's a relationship with how aggressive the treatment is and how much of an aesthetic improvement we're going to get. But the more aggressive it is, the more downtime there is. So that's all, that's always the kind of balancing act. And that's why there's such a confusing array of options that exist, because there's a huge spectrum going from the least invasive, which has the least result to the most aggressive with the best result. And so I guess to generalize, there are treatments that are not truly a blade of meaning they're going to penetrate through the skin. And then there are treatments that are shall I, I think hopefully I set that up for uses and to maybe go from there. So that's the definition. A blade of means it penetrates the skin? No, oh yes, a blade of yes, and a non-ablative, not doesn't penetrate the skin. So what are the non-ablative, which are presumably the less severe, which means shorter recovery time, less overall response? So non-ablative things, you can start with even your topical skin care region, because that is going to be model the skin and set the stage for you to even prime it. So you make more collagen. And then you can do things such as light chemical peels, which are only going to affect the epidermis of the skin. You can do things like non-ablative fractional lasers. And those are going to again send tiny, fractionated beams of light onto the very surface of the skin and just damage the upper layers of the epidermis. And that's going to stimulate a cascade of cytokines to build on the collagen and texture, but it's going to be minor. And they might help with some minor pigmentation issues. Those are non-ablative devices for resurfacing. What was the last one? Not a fractional, non-ablative fractional lasers. We also have non-ablative vascular lasers. Those are lasers that are going to penetrate with a beam of light to hit the dilated blood vessels and people who have rosacea and some brand name on one of a non-ablative fractional. Faxle or a clear embrilliant. And other different ones, yeah, there are different ones. So Faxle has multiple different ones. Clear embrilliant is just superficial. And then you have non-ablative things like vascular laser that will help treat broken blood vessels, scars, texture change. And that one, even though it's shadowing some of the dilated blood vessels deep in the skin, it's not leaving an open wound on the surface. So when we say non-ablative, there might be things happening deep down, but the surface of the skin is intact. So there's no one. We might want to pause on that category for one second, just because that is probably the one of the most high-yield areas for someone to try out as an initial kind of intervention at a, you know, with a physician or provider. Because the downtime's easy, we're talking about non-ablative, you know, like for example, intense pulse light or broadband light, which is IPL or BBL for short, those are in the category that Susan just mentioned of non-ablative light treatments. And it's a huge, huge category. There are so many devices in this category that it would be kind of silly to even list them. But they're very effective in that they don't have a lot of downtime and produce improvements that are real for patients. Starting to run, I just thought I thought we should pause there for one second. Absolutely. And actually the last one. So the box boxie is another non-ablative. So I'd have to look and see what the technology on boxie is. Okay. If it's, if I'm not mistaken, I think that one might be a video frequency micro-needling. I think that's right. Yes. So that one depends. It depends. It is semi-ablative because you're literally piercing the skin with a bunch of needles. Got it. And delivering radio frequency energy through those needles. And those will seem like college, college and so anything that generates heat in the skin to a certain level will to a certain temperature. I should say, well, then cause the formation and something called heat shock protein. And that causes a whole cascade of other activity within the dermis of the cells. The dermis of the skin to make you produce collagen, elastin, shrink the overactive sebaceous glands and reduce some of the dilated blood vessel. So there is a lot of benefit beyond just treating the vasculature that you see. So I tell patients, like for example, we treat the arosatia and they get improvement after two or three sessions. They should come every year and repeat it, even if the arosatia is quite because it really does help with anti-aging. And so from that standpoint, those are your non-ablative. And then if we go to a blade, we've got deeper chemical pills. We've got the modified TCA pills. We've got modified phenol pills. And then we have our a blade of and so we don't need to worry about brand names at this point. We're really talking to the practitioner and saying, do we want to move into an ablative pill? I'm going to get a better result, but I'm going to have a greater downtime. And presumably I need to do it less frequently. Yes, and that's exactly what you said is key. I think the big mistake is to come in and say, oh, all my friends are having moxie. I want moxie. Let's talk about what it is. We might have something that does similar results or maybe even something that just better results. And maybe it's not the right choice for you, even though your friend thinks you should get it. And so the field is so confusing to consumers and honestly even practitioners because it's a gold rush, right? There's so much money to be made in this area. Every company is getting private equity money and getting an FDA approval for some kind of device because they want a piece of the action. And they're purposefully confusing everybody because it's like snake oil. You know, it really wants to sell their product. And some of the products work well. Some don't. Any products you think people should just absolutely avoid just based on lack of efficacy? No, but I do caution my younger patients. The ones who are under the age of 40, even up to 45 in some cases, to really avoid doing things such as ultrasound tissue tightening, radio frequency tissue tightening at that younger village because there is some fat activity that happens. And I would caution against prematurely aging their face. Yeah, I agree. I mean those are the categories that are probably have the most hoop law with the least effect. Yeah. Is ultrasound based energy? And look, I mean, there once was a time where that was the only non-surgical option for tightening the neck, but it didn't do a great job and most people have left it by the wayside. I like it though, in addition to a biostimulatory filler. So you inject a little sculpture under the skin and then you come over it with a... Autistic properties can exist for the devices. And that's what I was going to say is, if you know your physics with all these devices, you can achieve so much with your lasers beyond what the company tries to sell you. How do you then decide? I understand why I understand that fork in the road between a blade of a non-ablative, but let's say once you commit to an ablative therapy, how are you deciding between a chemical peel, a laser, a micronetal? And I vaguely remember my wife telling me something or overhearing her and her friends saying that if, um, if you had malasma, you couldn't do this one, but you could do this one. What are some of the do's and don'ts as you navigate that? So I think there are a lot of nuances this conversation, but to generalize a little bit, chemical peels are generally safe for all skin tones, generally. Laser resurfacing, a blade of laser resurfacing can be riskier for higher-fifth Patrick skin types that have more pigmentation because the melanin cells are sitting deeper in the skin and the deeper the laser goes, the more it can create permanent injury to pigment cells and create permanent pigment problems. Whereas the chemical peels you can control that depth a little differently. And so that's one I would say generalization that that's probably worth mentioning. I would not, I should not do a laser peel because I'm a, you can have a laser, but you're the kind of person who needs a lot of preparation and caution heading into it. You would need to probably get onto a regiment to control your pigment cells with hydrochlorine. Why would I bother? Like why would take their risk? Why not just do a chemical peeler? I see. So I guess just to complete the conversation about the different categories, the most effective, uh, non-surgical skin interventions are in the category of a blade of lasers and phenol peels because they go the deepest. And to see, I'm going to have to throw that in the lab. TCA, sure. TCA. TCA peels are something that should be done by someone who's really not so they're doing. Yeah and I, so going to your point, how do I choose? Sometimes on the same patient I'll do all three. So on most of their face I may do a medium depth TCA peel, especially because I can get the ears, I can get into the brows, I can feather onto the neck, into the hair line so I don't leave any area unresurface. And the medium depth peels are going to go just to the level what's called the peeler dermis, which is the sweet spot for tissue tightening. And peels of that sort. And this is TCA or phenol. TCA. And these peels penetrate in the prickly into pores. So I love peels for large pores. And you'll see the solution sitting in the pores and they'll just go a little bit deeper just in those pores and as the tissue heals will contract. Then I may take a patient who has very deep, perioral lines and use my fractionated oblative CO2 laser on those. And then someone with redundant skin on the lower eyelids, I may take my phenol peel and apply it there. So in one sitting, the patient might have all three. Great shot. I'm going to pick and choose where I do it. In some patients I may depending if they don't want an eye lift or I didn't eye lift on them a number of years ago and they're just trying to get redundant skin. I may just oblate that tissue with either my laser or the phenol peel and get a mini eye lift again that might buy them two or three more yes. And what is the downtime from an ablative intervention? You know again every treatment is customized to the patients who can vary but in general a patient who's going to have an ablative CO2 laser which I would say is sort of the relative gold standard for an ablative laser is going to have seven to 10 days of requiring an occlusive dressing with some kind of ointment. So that's a real downtime there. And then in weeks from weeks one to three their skin will be transitioning and epithelializing. The start to return in normal activities but they'll still scare children at a grocery store for three weeks. There'll be red. A lot of redness and swelling still. And then beyond three weeks they can use concealer which we actually encourage them to do because it's a built in UV protection also and they can kind of get back to life but without makeup on some people can have redness for months. And again I'm going to expect this person to do this procedure how often. This might be one every five or ten years to have a full ablative CO2 laser. Is it uncomfortable? If they're awake it can be these can be done under some sedation. It's also quite common these days to have these done with nitrous delivery device. So they're now FDA approved devices that mix oxygen and nitrous so that it can be done in the office without an anesthesiologist because they're getting 50% oxygen but yet they're getting the benefit of the nitrous as well. The graph and guess. Yes. For nox. Exactly. Yes. I mean that sounds absolutely unappealing. So I was able to paint the picture of the most aggressive skin laser that we do and of course it can be dialed down like if a patient has a certain timeframe in mind I'll tell them. All right. So what would I do? So I can't go a week off. I mean a week offline would be tough. Doable but tough. Yeah. Certainly three weeks for a week's offline not an option. So one thing that is useful information is that some of the lasers that are still a blade of but are dialed down in their intensity. So now we're talking about fractionated lasers at lower intensity. They can have a downtime that's a weaker less, more or less. And then it's not going to produce the same results but the effects stack over time. So if you committed to doing a light-erbium laser and the reason why I'm talking about urban laser instead of a CO2 laser is because the urban laser is tend to burn with a little less heat, thermal injury and so the recovery is a little bit faster. If you committed to doing this once a quarter, like as time goes by you would get a similar effect to the full blade of CO2 laser that you do in one sitting. So I would also say that you can manipulate other things. So we'll take a clear and brilliant laser and apply a light chemical peel solution on top of that the same day. So do you not a blade of therapies? Correct. And then you get like three or four days of peeling and then you're done. And someone like you because you're a male, you have thicker skin, you need us to push it a little more than just what the clear brilliant will do or the light peel by itself. But synergistically, they can have a nice effect. And over time, there'll be cumulative improvement in your skin, especially if you follow your home regimen. But what I would tell people like you Peter is that really think about it a hard and embrace this investment in yourself because you do everything else right. You eat, you exercise, you watch the sun. It's much, much better to do this now at your age than to wait five or ten more years and say I wish I had done it because at that point what you need might be a lot more drastic. And to maybe bring this full circle, Susan, I know we're concluding the podcast here now. You know, beauty and aesthetics is an integral part of being human. And that's why we're even having this conversation because people really want to know how to navigate this world of aesthetics and choosing to make changes that are appropriate for your situation will has a potential of increasing quality of life. Humans as we age and we live longer and longer and longer, you may have someone who's 60 or 70 years old who's following Peter at T. as regimen and you know, they're out there playing golf, living their marginal decade, the way they want to. But they also care about their parents. You've seen this right, Susan, that I've patients who are 94 years old who are coming in for skin cancer reconstruction after most surgery and you're not thinking at all about putting your aesthetic head on. I'm now a reconstructive surgeon. This 94 year old woman is terribly concerned about what is going to look like afterwards. So that desire for our to limit the delta of the self-discrepancy at the area for ourselves continues until we're no longer on this planet. Well guys, thank you very much. This was fantastic and honestly a accomplished goal number one, which is I feel like I have a greater understanding of the solution space. Again, I think I'm going to probably have you guys send me a few links on some of the serums and cleansers. And I guess I need to get a prescription for some retinae or steal my wife's. I'll double check my sunscreen. I know that my sunscreen that I use like when I'm going outside for prolonged periods of time. My altar MD is a good one. I don't think I have a good daily throw it on like just because I'm indoors even and I'm going outside for five minutes here and there. So I need to double check on that. So I think that's a win. I guess if I do nothing but commit to a daily skin routine, that's great. I will admit this whole blade of non-ablative skin thing has me a little shaken up and now reeling in the idea that I just don't know if I have the intestinal fortitude to go through with an ablative therapy. But maybe I start with some baby steps like two non-ablative therapies. And then I think we're going to have to, you know, think about, do I want to fix my face? How far down the rabbit hole do I want to go with the under eyes, over eyes and all that stuff? But the point here is I think I've I have a better understanding and I hope that more importantly the people listening are able to see bits of themselves in me because I think I'm not that uncommon in my problems. So hopefully they've been able to pick up on these things as well. So thank you very much guys. This was a different podcast nonetheless but it was super interesting for me. Thank you. Thank you for having us. It was fun. And we didn't mean to pick you up right. I asked you too. So I know it was a portfolio period. Thanks Peter. We appreciate the opportunity to be here and have this conversation.

What do we think is actually causing aging? Can we stop aging? Can we reverse aging? Maybe the most important question in biology. All of the interventions that extend lifespan reduce chronic inflammation. But if we fundamentally want to get to a point where maximal human lifespan is changed and health span is fundamentally altered, we have to bend the slope of that line. Yeah. What is the probability in your mind that Rapa Mison is doing that? We're doing a study like this in Singapore on humans. Okay. Six months intervention with Rapa Mison. I'd like to just quit my job and do nothing other than these experiments. Did you guys do a study on your relief in A as well? We haven't published it yet, but I am happy to talk a little bit about it. We don't have human data, but the mouth state is really good on your relief in A. I think a lot of these supplements are impacting exercise. And so it's kind of a win-win. There's so many ways to just help a person find another five years of life and dramatically improve health span. Do you think that immortality is impossible? Hey everyone, welcome to the drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Brian, thank you so much for being here. You might actually hold the record for longest journey taken to come to this podcast. In fact, I don't know if anybody could travel a greater distance than from Singapore to come out here. So thank you very much. It's my pleasure to be here. And I don't think you can get further from here from Singapore. So let's tell folks a little bit about how you wound up in Singapore. I guess just I'll speed things through a bit, but by way of background, obviously, you used to run an institute called the Buck Institute. Tell folks a little bit about what the buck is and what you did there. Yeah, it's a fascinating institute because it was really the first institute solely devoted to understanding aging and longevity. And it started in around 2000 with some money that was donated by a woman who died in Marin County, North of San Francisco. And I was the second CEO there in 2010. There about 20 faculty at the time all devoted to either aging or aspects of aging, very basic science. And as you can imagine, in the 2000s and around 2010, that was a significant component of the aging research field. It was still a very small field. And so the goal was really to help that institute grow. And it was tough times in the 2010s because the funding levels were low. And it was right before the real interest in aging in longevity happened around 2017, 2018. So we were really struggling to keep the doors open. And I think the buck's doing a lot better now. And as well as the rest of the aging field. At the time that you were there, how much of the funding came from NIH and how much came from either donations or industry? Yeah, it was very heavily oriented to NIH. And our goal was to get more industry funding. We started seven companies when I was there. Some of which are still hanging around. And also really tried to wrap up the philanthropy. But in a philanthropy for aging, wasn't really happening until around 2017, 2018 when people started really getting the idea that you could slow aging and prevent all these diseases and stay healthy and functional. And so that revolution happened around that time. The faculty there are, it's quite the star-studded cast, right? I mean, Eric burdens there. Judith MPs, he was there until she passed away. Yeah, that's an opportunity. So I mean, you really had a collection of people doing great work, right? Yeah, well Eric came after I left. He took over as an ex-ceo. But yeah, Judy was there, Henry Jasper. He's gone on the gin and tech. But Gordon, let's go on a bunch of other people working on aging. So it was a good group of people for sure. What do you think led to this interest that you've alluded to in 2017, 2018, in this idea of, you know, well, you describe it as you see fit. But something happened in 2017, 2018 that's brought a lot more interest into the field. However, one describes it. I think you just reach an inflection point. It's really hard to know what triggers it. Calico started a few years before that. We're Google's alphabet companies that was focused on longevity. They've not been very open about what they're doing. But it triggered a lot of publicity for the longevity field. It got Silicon Valley interested. And I think that I've been mattening. I use this slide that you have aging, pointing to all these different diseases. We started using that slide around 2005. And we were making the point around healthspend shortly afterwards. And really this idea of preventing disease and keeping people healthy interacting earlier. And I don't know. I'm so sick of that slide. I can't look at it anymore. But it's finally, and we weren't the only ones doing it. But I think there were a few of us doing it. And it really, finally, I think helped trigger a movement hopefully. Do you think the field would have, and these are dumb questions, as I realize as I'm asking it, but do you think the field would have accelerated sooner had it not been for some notable setbacks? For example, I don't remember exactly when GSK bought RISMera Troll. But I believe it was around 2006, 2007. It was clear to me, I think, by about 2010, that was not going to work. And I think it was probably clear to GSK around that time as well. I think. Yeah, it may be sooner. So do you think that that type of hype with nothing to show for it was a kind of a negative force in that equation? And maybe this, you know, in flexion point, could have happened sooner. I e-juring your earlier tenure there, could have been easier to have raised funds if there had been less of those examples. I think it's hard to know. I mean, it's unfortunate. I'm what happened. I mean, in one way, the investors made money off of that deal. And so, you know, in that sense, it was a success, but what was developed was not going to go anywhere, and that's unfortunate. I think that it probably slowed things down a little bit. Yeah. And I think because there's always this doubt about whether you can slow the aging process. And so when you have a major, you know, effort that's triggered around trying to do that, even though they ended up focusing on disease. And we can talk about the struggles of longevity biotic companies in that way. But when something like that, you know, fails, it probably does slow down other investor interest. Today, you're, um, insting a poor, tell me what you're doing there. So, you know, I kind of have one foot in academics and one foot in the private sector of these days. And the academic side were really focused on targeting aging. And, you know, and that comes back to what I alluded to at the biotech companies a minute ago. A lot of them are targeting aging pathways. But to raise money and get their drugs tested, they have to turn to some disease indication, which is understandable. And companies I'm involved with do that too. But, um, that's not what we really want to do. What we really want to do is slow the aging process and keep you from getting sick. And so, in an academic setting, we can test that clinically. So we basically have a whole range of animal models, a pipeline from yeast worms, flies, killyfish mice and humans. And we, you know, billion years of evolution there. Yeah. We bring interventions in and at the right place, validate them, really believing the idea that if it works across different model organisms, it's more likely to work in humans. And then we design human clinical intervention studies to validate that they're targeting the aging process. I don't think anybody knows exactly how to do that yet, including us, but we're doing our best and learning as we go. How is it funded the Institute, you're at? Yeah, mostly through the University and the government and Singapore, but we also have some philanthropy and we do contract sponsored research to test interventions from companies as well sometimes. How many PIs are there? So I run a program that has about 35 PIs in it. But a lot of them are doing other things. They're not all focused on that one concept. I just told you they have their projects around Alzheimer's disease or we just have this guy. Michael Cheese working on sleep and aging, which is so understudied, you know. And so it's kind of like an academic department, you know, people have their own projects. They're focusing on. Is there any department in the at a US university that brings together as many people that are focused on specifics of aging this way? Yeah, I don't think so. I'll, although I would say it depends on how you define aging. Yeah, if you branch it out to cancer. Yeah, yeah, then definitely, but I'm not sure if it's this focused on actual aging process. So let's kind of start with a question that I think will end up coming back to because it's so fundamental. I enjoy, you know, I enjoy going down the rabbit hole of fundamental questions in physics. Sounds good. And we're not going to do that. But I think the fundamental questions in biology, I think some of them center around aging. And so what do we think is actually causing aging? Okay, so I'm going to foreshare the physics since you asked that. Because we just had the first ever international conference on gyrophysics and Singapore. And it, I was one of the organizers and the reason I got behind it is the very question you just asked, you know, we've been debating what aging is for the longest time. And I think we would argue for two hours in some conference room somewhere in the world. And at the end of it, we would come up with the definition. Shit happens in the new talk. You know, it's really just, it's frustrating. I don't even want to talk about it now. And you know, Vadim Glattishov has been on like an evangelical rant about how do we define aging? We know how to define it. He asked that question in every conference. And I think it's a fair question. And we all throw our hands up in the air. And so the idea was we have a lot of data now. We're a lot of human data. And aging researchers are beginning to try to model that data. But they're not modelers. You know, I think most aging myologists are at least myself. If I have a skill, it's intuition. It's not writing equations and code, you know. And but the physics people, the theoretical physicists, and especially, they know how to model things. And they model things based on physical principles that are proven. Right. And so we've been trying to bring these groups together. And because I believe maybe the only answer to your question is that we have to write in an equation. And so early days on that, but I'm excited about where that's going. And do you think that these will be explainable through equations or do you think that this exceeds our level of intelligence to understand? And it's really going to be up to a black box that contains a neural network to understand this. And maybe we take a step back, actually. So for the listeners, they've heard us on this podcast talk about quote unquote hallmarks of aging. Maybe explain to people what the hallmarks of aging are, which I don't mean like list them all. But the content set up them. Yeah, I don't want to put you on the spot for that. But the idea that has been proposed is that there are hallmarks of aging. And why is stating those not the same as answering the question that you mean to me and everybody else struggling with? Well, this is kind of an existential crisis with me because the hallmarks of aging came on in 2014 or 2013. And then I wrote another paper right after that, called the Pillars of aging, which is kind of the poor stepchild of the hallmarks of aging. And that was because there was an NIH conference. And there were seven topics discussed in the ASPENA writer review on calling them the Pillars of Aging. So I did. But even in that review, I had the seven Pillars of Aging. But I connected them all with lines because I don't really think that these hallmarks and Pillars, which are like the pathways in the cell that are thought to be driving the aging process, inflammation, you know, epigenetic changes, these kinds of things. They're all interesting to aging and you can modify them or they get modified if you slow the aging process. But what strikes me is how entrained everything is. So if you take an intervention like Rapa Mai said that slows aging, it can impact all of the hallmarks. And so I don't really, I think those are like outputs or ways you can look at aging, but nobody is really just targeted. The idea that you can target each hallmark and then you'll live to live forever is not going to work because it's really the network that connects the hallmarks together. And to me, aging is a healthy aging is about maintaining homeostasis. It's about, you know, maintaining a responsive network and your body that sort of keep you an equilibrium responds to the events that are happening during aging, the stochastic events, the damage that's happening and it keeps you functional. And that network is highly malleable. You can influence that network by drugs or behavior. And if you do, you can drive benefit from it and you can read it out as an improvement of all the hallmarks. It's not like one thing of exercise effects only this hallmark. So I think it's, the hallmarks was good because it drove interest in the field as part of the reason a lot of investment came in the biotech sector. But it also is misleading because I think the idea that aging is 12 different things and you just need to fix all 12 of them is completely wrong. It's really about, you're body knows how to function in a healthy way. It's about trying to maintain that and maybe improve upon it. Do you look at the hallmarks, which I believe have been modified since the original paper and a few others have been added? Do you see an a rank order or a seniority of them in terms of causality? So for example, one of the hallmarks is mitochondrial dysfunction. Yeah. Now one could say that mitochondrial dysfunction occurs independent of another hallmark of aging, which you've listed epigenetic change. Alternatively, you could say actually it's the epigenetic change that occurs stochastically and that that is driving mitochondrial dysfunction. And if you reverse the epigenetic change to the previous epigenetic layout, you will correct the mitochondrial dysfunction. How do you think about the interconnectedness through the lens of causality? Yeah, I think the primacy issues of major one. I like the idea that mitochondrial might have been one of the primary drivers. Also, every time we do an experiment, we keep coming back to inflammation, all of the interventions that extend lifespan reduce chronic inflammation, or almost all of them. And then every time we create a new biologic aging clock, which we're doing a lot of now in my lab, you know, and we do principal components and figure out what the main driver is, it's always related to inflammation. And so I think there's something, it may not be inflammation, maybe a response, but it's so central that a lot of the interventions, I think, are working by dampening inflammation. But to your point, inflammation could easily be a readout state. Yeah, yeah, but it's certainly when you modify, I think when you modify, you get an outcome. You know, so it's not just an endpoint that you look at. How are you measuring inflammation and maybe walk me through how you're doing it in different model systems? So are you studying inflammation in yeast? Not so much in yeast, but you can study innate inflammation in worms and flies, because those pathways, the root of entry elements of those pathways are there. And then in mice, you have both a native and adoptive immunity that you can study. And so we look at inflammatory cytokine panels and a range of other things, and various tissues to see how that's changing over time and how interventions impact that. And we do that in humans to an our clinical stuff. And so what do you believe is the hallmark of maladaptive inflammation? Would you think that the hallmark of that is based on immune function? IE deteriorated immune function and or over aggressive immune function? Or do you think, no, the hallmark of that could simply be found in a cytokine profile that is not typical? I mean, this is maybe more of a technical question, but it's going to become interesting as we move our way into humans. Yeah, well, I think it's central to M2R. One of the things we were one of the earliest people to publish was that what's happening during aging is that baseline levels of M2R are creeping up. You can't turn the pathway off. And I think most of the interventions, certain toens M2R inflammation, it's not about doing anything super-physiologic with the interventions. It's about restoring the dynamic range that you had when you were youthful. And M2R is a great example of that. I'll bring it back to inflammation. You need M2R on when you wound your skin or you get an infection or you have a big meal in your liver, but you need it off the rest of the time. And when you're young, you're very good at maintaining that dynamic range. But what's happening with aging, at least in stem cells is that the baseline levels of M2R creeping up. People in this podcast are pretty familiar with M2R. We've had David Sabotini on any times Matt Cabernet as well. But I just want to make sure that for anybody who's here, who's either new or forgot, let's take a step back. M2R is so important to this discussion. Let's go back as far as we need to and explain M2R. Okay. Then talk about complex one, talk about complex two, talk about how one impacts the other. We're obviously going to talk about rap and mice in in that context. But take as much time as you need to make sure listeners really understand why M2R is so central across all of life that we've never known. Well, so our entry into the M2R pathway was in yeast. This is Matt Cabernet in I. And so we were screening the yeast deletion set. It's a set of strains which each gene is deleted. And looking for how many genes, by the way, in your youth? They're about 5,000. And then some of those are essential. So you can't screen those if you knock them out the yeast or dead. But about 70% of them, the yeast are still viable. And so we were trying to find ones where when you knock out a gene that the yeast lived longer. Surprisingly, there were like 300 genes that met that description. And that one thing I learned from that is that extending lifespan, at least in a simple organism like yeast, and there's also data in worms, is much easier. And anybody would have ever expected. And we can talk about that. But that's still a pretty cool tour to force in the 90s, right? You guys were doing this in the early 90s. We did the serto and stuff in the 90s. We did the full genomes screen in the 2000s. And that was in Seattle with Matt and so. But yeah, it was a lot of work. And we did it brute force. We had people sitting at microscopes dissecting yeast all the time. And I think there are 80 some authors on that paper, you know, for a yeast paper that might have been a record. But anyway, one of the main things we hit was the amtor pathway. And downstream of it is protein translation. We hit a lot of things in protein translation. And amtor is a nutrient responsive kinase. So it responds to the levels of carbohydrates and also amino acids that the cell encounters. And so that fit into the calorie restriction data, which I'm sure you've talked about that reducing calories can extend lifespan. So it seemed like it was going to be very central from the beginning in modifying aging. And I think that's proven true. Turning down amtor signaling across a wide range of species extends lifespan. I think the data in humans is also pretty. It's not fully validated, but I think that if you alter amtor signaling in the right way, you can probably slow age in humans too. Now, why is it then that the first human brush with amtor modulation shows up in the form of immune suppression? Yeah. So I think that's a bit unfortunate in a way, you know. So this wrap up my son is discovered on Easter Island and you've probably gone through the whole story of this. I feel like I'm overdue for a retell of it. But yes, yeah. It's one of my favorite. It's I'm a top five stories in science. That's pretty amazing actually. And I think I read you. Yeah, I read it. I read it. Yeah, I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I read it. I didn't even. I haven't even been there. I've been pressed. I think we're going to go back. I'm 2016. I'm 2016. So yeah. Yeah. But you know, this drug was, you know, had the ability to kill bacterial cells that was bacterial cytole, you know, they start with and then they discovered had impacts on human cells. And but the almost got thrown away and then gets restored and it makes a new life as an immune suppressor. And certainly if you use it at high enough doses and you really dampen the ability to activate tour, you can, you can impair the immune system. And especially if you combine it with cyclospor or some other anti-inflammatory or immune suppressor, then it's used for, you know, after Oregon transplant in those contexts. And do you think that it's that necessary combination with one to two other immune suppressants that allows it to shine? And I'm actually not aware of literature that looked at a rap immune or rap amicin in isolation as a as a as a potential treatment for Oregon transplant patients. I'm not either at high enough doses that may have that impact but I think the side effect profile would be too extreme by combining it with other drugs at lower doses. I think you're going to bigger effect. But I think the main thing for aging is that it's not immune suppressant. I think at the levels that people are taking it for longevity, which is once a week let the trough levels come down. And I don't think we're seeing immune suppression in that context at least not above background. So yeah and do you, what do you think of the the the window we got into this idea of immune modulation and maybe immune enhancement with that type of a dosing regimen vis-a-vis the the paper that John Manicon Lloyd Clikstein published about 12 years ago? Yeah I like those papers. I think there's definitely a nugget of truth in there and I think it can protect from respiratory infections if used correctly. So I still think rap amicin is the gold standard for a small molecule impact enaging. At the end of the day it may not be the best but right now I think the evidence is still the best. And I think coming back to the earlier thought when you have him to our creepy not when it shouldn't be that's driving chronic inflammation and then chronic inflammation is continuing to drive him to our so it's this feed forward circle of disruption that that that connects this nutrient pathway to inflammatory signaling. So I think that's one of the earliest events that's happening. So let's go back to something you said a second ago which is absent the equations biologists have to rely on their intuition. Yeah and so if we believe in the primacy of that deterioration that homeostatic deterioration that you just described what is driving it? Is this entropy? What is it that is changing? Well you know, entropy has been used often on ever since I started in the aging field. You know it's just a lazy term we use because we don't have something better to say. No but I think it's I think there's a nugget of truth in that and and I think ultimately and and I think that you know I work with Peter Fedach of it, Gerald and I think he's probably the deepest thinker in the aging field in terms of understanding this process of aging at a mathematical level. My only role in working with him is I had a I was a math major. Fortunately I didn't try to pursue that but I survived enough to get a math degree in college and so I'm kind of his whisper translator. I take what he says and try to help him reframe it in a way that the rest of the world can understand. He really thinks about things deeply and I think his view on it is that really what we're talking about is resilience. You know you can imagine you know if I'm an image you could imagine that you know when you're young you're living in this deep valley you know and you do all kinds of crazy things you get to much fast food you get sick you know and you diverge off the the bottom of the valley that lowest activation energy and you're biologically you look older but you're in a deep valley you keep getting pulled back to health and so almost no matter what you do at least in the short term you're coming back into health but if there are hills you can go over into what you would call failure states which could be chronic diseases or could be some major functional decline and that doesn't happen when you're young because it's a very steep hill but these hills are coming down as you get older and so when you diverge off the healthy state it's harder to get you back and occasionally you go over the side and then you're you know in a kind of a frailty mode once you have the later stage disease so the question is how to mathematically model that and it's you know it's more of a dynamic systems type of modeling and and when you look at the large data and I'm getting to the point where you're going to understand why why I need the physicist but when you look at the large data it it almost looks like there's a linear accumulation of damage and and so what we're doing now is we're trying to measure biologic gauge from large data sets like UK biobank and then we're breaking it down into principal components and when you do that a lot of the principal components don't track with aging they track with sex or smoking or something else the ones that track with aging usually there are a couple of them one of them is the primary driver and it's kind of going up linearly and that looks like damage and that that's probably the main driver of aging I don't it doesn't have to be damaged it could be stochastic events it could be subtle changes but when you say damage do you mean like what damage happens why I'm a guy trying to back off a bit because we don't it it may be a cluster of different types of damage it may be still casticity and not really defined as damage subtle changes here and there that each on their own have tiny little impacts but when they start to add up they they put stress on this network and eventually it starts to break down and so that looks linear and the problem is that mortality looks exponential and so if you model it into a mathematical equation that talks about these values going down that's a linear change but the chance the ball's going to go over the hill is an exponential change and so what I like about it is you can fit human data into an equation that this compatible with gumperts equations and exponential increase in mortality so I think it's on the right track I mean there's probably a lot of changes there's also another component usually in these biologic aging clocks that's age related and it's kind of oscillating and it sort of oscillates around that first component going up and I think that's why you see these methylation clocks are going up and down and changing and everything and I think of that component is how well you're functioning at the damage state you're at so you have all these events that are going bad and that's defining sort of your age maybe it says you're 50 but then you can be somewhere between 40 and 60 depending on you know how well your behavioral patterns what supplements or drugs you might be taking and those things are going up and down so that's why when you get sick you look older and then you get better you come back down you had that first driver's not changing it's the second one that's oscillating and most of the interventions seem to affect the second one which suggests that what we're doing right now is I'm going to say this and then I'm going to qualify it it suggests that what we're doing right now is sort of working around the edges you know we're we're doing things that may have five or ten years impact on health span which by the way is a revolution if that's successful I'm not I think that's a major breakthrough in medicine if we can give everybody five or ten years of extra health span but that these things may not impact maximum life spending humans and they may not get us to 150 or 200 in the kinds of ways to get there maybe a totally different kinds of intervention so we're thinking about that a lot with Peter right now and you know I translated my research and that translated as a matter my switch by research into translation about 10 years ago because I was like I don't want to be retired in 80 on a porch somewhere and not have any impact on humans but now I'm starting to think back a little bit to basic science because I'm starting to think that the interventions that we need to develop if we really want to have the big changes are not being done yet and we have to go back to some discovery science to do that so Brian there's a lot you said there that's really interesting and I'd like to unpack it both for myself and for the listener the first thing you said I want that I actually am not sure I understand is we have a linear process of we're going to use the word damage loosely and that over time that is increasing monotonically and linearly and not alterably no exactly superimposed on that so so we have you know damage occurring this way superimposed on that we have sort of cyclic episodic volatile change that probably explains a lot of the difference between 250 year olds that you might see you might see a 50 year old they look great you see a 50 year old they look like they're 75 right why and you or you might see it even within an individual you know boy at 50 I looked horrible but I got my act together and by 55 I've actually looked like I did you know 10 years center okay so that's this superimposed curve yeah and you're saying look everything we're doing from a translational perspective all the stuff Peter talks about by the way like wrote a whole book on this topic is how do you impact the oscillation yeah right well if you sleep this way if you exercise this way if you eat this way if you take this supplement this drug manage all of these factors you are absolutely going to put yourself on the better wave here right but you are not impacting this guy that's what I'm afraid is happening yeah but then you said something a moment ago that I just want to make sure I understand is your explanation for why aging follows a gump hurts curve as opposed to a linear curve is that all due to the the superimposed wave that goes on top of the linear curve or was there another reason that aging follows exponential gump hurts long now I think I had conflated too I'd hiss it once okay so let me let me associate that you've decide you've described the wave better than I do so we'll leave that but I think that you're right we're trying to get it's it's almost like we're trying to get to the best state we can be at for the damage state we're in that's right by the way I have never thought of it that way Brian I love that description and it's actually what I say to my patients because I get people that come to me and they say Peter you know I really want to live to 150 I'm told you're the guy and I say actually I'm not the guy yeah I don't believe it's possible what I believe is possible is seven to ten more years of infinitely higher quality life and if that's not what you want if you want something that is far in excess of that you're going to have to go to somebody who's got proof that they can do different yeah and I don't think there is any proof right I obviously don't think there is either but I do leave the idea open that it could be possible I think it may be feasible to do that but I don't think anything it's just I don't see any evidence that anything is coming in yeah yeah I'm a translationly I give you know I think the linear to exponential is the idea of the hills right so you've got a ball if you do it a two to mention you've got a curve that looks like this and you've got a ball here right and the damage is causing the the thing to come down and so the chance is the ball going over is actually now a good initial yep yep yep yep so even if you have a linear reduction in a height of the hills yeah the activation energy will increase the possibility of exponentially over the curve and by the way just trying to think through why that's the case is that the case because of is it a v squared problem and getting over the hill if we were to model it out as actual balls yeah I have a graph I I have a model of a movie that really helps people that are not mathematicians I think both of us have some understanding the math but a lot of people don't and I think that yeah it's something like that I think also it explains very well why you know treating disease doesn't work because you have 50 failure states you can go into it and each person based on their genetics and their life's value the hill to go over that failure state maybe a little bit different sometimes persons not going to go over this one but there's a chance you're going to go over a lot of different failures right and if you block one of them say you treat diabetes or something it you're still going to go over the other ones right yeah so you have the only way to really slow aging is to keep the hill higher yeah so no that's that's again that's that's both a beautiful model a mental model for how to think about it and yet still equally infuriating because I don't know why the walls are coming down yeah right why are the hills coming down what is the fundamental reason what's the particle reason I think the wall height coming down I think the hills are resilience right but even but even still why is it why is it really nobody understands yeah exactly I think that all right I'll give you a sort of half baked answer because it's all I can give you I think that the what's happening is this damage is impacting this network that's keeping you healthy this home aesthetic network and it's in little ways here and there and here and there and the network compensates for that and it does okay but it in enough damage happens you just can't compensate any more for events that are happening so when you get sick you get some you know viral infection or you fall down when you're 80 and break your hip you just don't have that homeless basis pathways in place to allow you to recover and compensate for that I mean that's sort of the best answer I can give you right now so if you had to guess and I'm hopeful that that the listeners are with us because this idea of the the linear and monotonic increasing in damage is is the thing that has to be addressed if we're going to make a step function change in human longevity right so we're we're I like how you describe it we're really tinkering around the edges right everything we do is tinkering around the edges but if we fund to mentally want to get to a point where maximal human lifespan is changed and health span is fundamentally altered we have to bend the slope of that lot so my first question for you is what is the probability in your mind that rap a mice and is doing that based on what you've seen in animal models well okay so first of all if you look at something like a worm I think that the the modeling's very different the worms are just kind of already in a failure state there are they're like designed to last for two weeks and you don't have that homeless basis that humans have and so you can get huge and fooled by interventions yeah in worms or or other organisms that don't the pathway may translate the humans but the effect sizing humans is going to be much smaller I suspect that's where raffle mice in is that it's it's going to give you a healthier period if you take it the right way or I don't think any intervention is going to affect everybody okay but the majority of people may benefit from that but I think it's in the modest effect size not in the change the change the okay I want to come back and talk more about raffle and m4 because you're again one of the few people along with Matt David people who can really talk and depth about it but let's now stay in the world of speculation if you if you had to even imagine something that can change the slope of the line i.e. can take I guess we define maximal lifespan as the 90th percentile of life span so let's just make a number up and say maximal human lifespan today is I don't know 105 yeah something like that okay 120 is the 90th percentile of life span up by 25 years if I told you Brian you might not be alive to see it nor will I but I have a crystal ball and in the year 2100 90 percent of humans will live to be 130 and now I say give me your best guess as to what did this is your guess going to be small molecules genetic engineering epigenetic engineering like just go down the pathway or multimodal it's going to have to be 10 different things like just this is just kind of like the fun stuff I game well I think the scary thing is that that linear accumulation it does look like entropy which in reversing the second law of that dynamics is we have to reverse it we just have to slow it it's been slowing it is a challenge right so um and if you think about it from a physics standpoint which I'm getting further and further and deeper and a pool I shouldn't be in I'm just telling you that right now but if you think even your life you're just just keep trying water if you it my motto by the way with the consulting I do is that I know what I don't know it's not a good model for consulting and I've learned but anyway um as you get into the you know the physics of it it's really about temperature and I know I don't mean temperature in terms of the temperature in the room I mean the energy in the system that's driving the changes or damage and the question is how do you lower that and so maybe what you need to do when you're looking for longevity interventions is not looking for how long a worm lives because the worm is dying for different reasons it's already in the failure mode it's about how to lower the noise in the system and lowering the noise in the system might be a way of of changing that slope so that could be transcriptional noise it could be anything you can measure as noise that happens over time you might want to try to lower that noise that's an interesting concept now that that may also come with with secondary effects that people don't want I mean it's so right there might be a retardation of growth and development early in life and it might be one of those things where you don't want to touch the slope for the first 30 years of life yeah and and you know we're getting where is the point at which which you want to intervene yeah and I think that temporal component is really important it's taking us into a different concept and take anistic play atropey but people and it is true that if you look at all the yeast mutants at extend lifespan most of them would not make happy yeast in the wild they slow growth or they do something else affects some property like mating that that doesn't is not going to make for a yeast that survives through natural selection but if you put them in a lab they can divide more times and so a lot along the mutants have fitness cost and so the question would be that if you if you target this noise in the system which is a completely different way of thinking about interventions what will the fitness cost be with that and you're right maybe you can get around it by temporal things like the mtor path where you probably don't want to impact as a child but as an adult you know it's more important early in life than it is later in life it's only important at certain times so if you impact it the right way you can get the benefits without the cost and maybe that's possible in these these interventions but we're so early I can't even with any confidence tell you what kinds of interventions would have that impact I will say one of the thing is that I think reprogramming is potentially a way to mitigate some of the this inter intropic change because if you can replace the cells you're with new cells those new cells may have some of the damage because they come from the old cells but they they would probably get rid of a lot of the damage too and so that may be a way of changing the slope so like reprogramming which I think is still very early stage that may be so as a thought experiment if you took um if I could clone you right now or you had a twin let's just say you got a twin one of me is enough in the world you but you're in Singapore so we're gonna have an American version we're gonna have this thing of pouring version so so we have two of you and in one of you we're just gonna act as the control we're gonna give you some vehicle in the second one let's just assume I can use the fidelity of CRISPR to revert your entire epigenome in every cell of your body to what it looked like when you were 20 and anytime it gets out of whack I smack it right back to 20 year old Brian epigenome only not genome yeah not proteome not metat enough I don't change anything but epigenome well those things are good exactly they're gonna affect everything else but what is your what is your guess is to the difference in lifespan and health span of those two versions of you that's a that's an interesting question I think but I think there would be a difference for sure I'm not sure it would be a huge difference and you don't think it would be huge I'm not as sold on the primacy of the epigenetics certainly you can not so what would go wrong right so so if you look at and by the way I'm I don't know the answer of course I'm just kind of thinking through data that I've seen right so if you look at epigenetic code for two different hepatocytes liver cells one from a 20 year old one from a 50 year old and then and I tell you which one's 20 which one's 50 and then I show you a bunch of others you can always tell which one's the old one which sounds the younger one it's there's it's you can probably tell that from mitochondria a lot of other things too yes so the question is if do you just say is your belief system that just because you revert the epigenome back to what it looked like when it's 20 it's not going to change gene expression enough to move the needle I think it'll definitely influence gene expression but there's also DNA damage that's happened there are mitochondrial changes there the question we're asking is if you revert that how many of these other things can we fix and restore yes and that's the unknown answer I suspect you would have significant impact on those things but not fully restore them I I think the question of the primacy of the epigenome is an open question there nobody knows the answer yes how testable is the hypothesis how would you design the experiment to test that yeah I think that's difficult because if you want to do it in a very direct way you really need to modify the factors that are controlling epigenetic regulation but there are a lot of factors doing that it's not just DNA methylation it's histone modification there's there's nuclear packaging and nuclear lamins which are linked to aging as well and and there's it's not just one pathway to change so I think from a real real life standpoint it's hard to think about how you would do that effectively you know it certainly I think people have really jumped on it maybe when talking about aging clocks at some point people have really jumped on this idea of epigenome being a dry the driver of aging because you can get a biological gauge by measuring the DNA methylation changes across the genome well I mean I think they're asserting that that's the case I don't see any evidence that that's the case that's yeah we can come to that yeah we we we we definitely want to do like and you can get to that same point by measuring the proteomic changes by measuring the microbiome changes by looking at facial structural changes that Jackie Hans got great data on that in China so anything in a human where you have a deep enough data set that's enriched enough and you have samples across a wide enough aina age range you can make a clock that predicts their age and and the the facial clock is about as accurate as the methylation clock so I think that a lot of people have jumped on this methylation or our epigenic bandwagon but they're they're taking the association and causality and they're making a big leap there now we know that you can modify epigenetic factors and extend the lifespan of yeast and worms and flies and maybe even mice so it does have a role but you can do that with synolytic factors or nutritional regulators or you know caleristiction or a lot of other things it's not clear to me that that's a bigger effect than you're going to get from targeting these other interventions so so but to be fair none of them are completely reversing things either so they're not addressing your question yeah right go do you believe that it and this is just again we're in the philosophical we'll I'll bring it back to reality at some point today um do you think that immortality is impossible unless we define it through kind of like AI copying your brain let's put the I mean physical immortality do you believe that that is that is impossible well I like to tell people that I'm immortal because I think the mindset that gives me is a very healthy mindset for me we can come to you know you talk a lot about the emotional aspects of aging your book I love that chapter we come to that later but that's I don't really believe it's true I think the odds that you could achieve that level of change in aging is non-zero but close so I'm skeptical that that can be done I think it's fair to say but I wouldn't rule out the possibility of course nobody's ultimately going to be immortal because you're going to get hit by a boss sooner later but what you're really talking about is being immortal in terms of dying from aging yeah what I guess what I really say can one ever get to the point where resilience is high enough that you cannot die from disease I have seen nothing so far that suggests that's possible okay but but that doesn't mean it isn't possible yeah no and then that gets even to physical frailty and so our community and things like that where even when we see centenarians and super centenarians their frailty is still pretty remarkable meaning like they still look pretty feeble in frail like I mean the age adjusted they're great but at the end of the day like when they're 110 they still look like someone who's in the final years of their life just as someone would if they were 84 85 I mean I had two grandmothers that lived to almost 100 one died at 99 and the other 101 and the one at 101 I would say that at 90 she was driving at 95 I think she quit driving she bought the 238 game at 93 she was looked like a 93 yeah yeah but so that's like a 70 something girl exactly my point is she just had a phase shift of 20 years but it didn't undo the inevitability of that behind yeah yeah yeah I agree with that I think that you know but and right I getting us to 100 so a good goal I think so I agree completely do you think that again we're spending too much time worrying about finding immortality escape velocity understanding the core of aging when maybe we should be spending more time on how do we preserve health span in the last decade of life why is it that most people in the final decade of their life are physically too frail to enjoy life are cognitively just you know even absent Alzheimer's disease they're just not cognitively sharp enough they're in pain they're fracturing their hips they're not doing what you know what gave them joy through most of your life yeah I think that we should fund aging somewhere closer to the level we're funding cancer and answer both of those questions at the same time I think one of them is a translational question about how do we slow aging as much as we can right now and improve the health of the population as much as possible and the other one is a basic science question can we stop aging can we reverse aging no one can if anybody has the antelgy they have the answers to that they're lying to you or they're lying to themselves okay we don't know and I think that but it's maybe the most important question in biology and we should be throwing money at it so we've seen all this money going to like the private sector side by a tech company's supplement companies, longevity clinics and on and on and I think that's great by the way and I've spent a lot of my time working with those groups because I think it's important but we're not seeing the academic funding that's going into the basic science of aging and longevity and the big question still that you just raised they're still not answered and so I'm not I'm changing your your question to a plea for more funding and unfortunately the the kind of funding that supports that is usually government funding foundation funding and and that's under major threat right now so it's I'm really worried that we're not going to answer those questions well it's funny we this was a discussion that came up on a longevity round table I think most people myself included were really surprised to hear how disparate the funding differences are and how if you could put I don't know if you could reallocate 10% of funding from the disease specific pools to the age pools it could have an enormous difference based on how it's a little bit of a statement yeah so when you think about the big chronic diseases yeah cardiovascular disease cancer uh demanding diseases and metabolic diseases right those will be the big four I've often maintained that the the the least inevitable of them is ironically the one that is the most deadly today which is cardiovascular disease yeah the athletic diseases so cerebral and and cardiovascular ironically the most preventable I think because we have the best understanding of what causes them and we couple that with the most tools to prevent them whether be tools to combat hypertension, disability, me, et cetera and they're responsible to a responsive to the that lifestyle okay which of those major diseases of the other three demanding cancer metabolic do you believe is the most inevitable to our species I wouldn't put uh metabolic I agree I had a gore yeah sure because I see that more like cardiovascular high degree so if the other two cancer and demanding or neurodegenerative diseases which one is just seemingly inevitable we don't know enough about dementia to answer but I will say that cancer is a little bit different than these other diseases I think and it's not and it may be less modifiable by longevity interventions dementia we we just don't know my guess is it's highly modifiable too but there's not enough data to be sure of that like there is for metabolic and cardiovascular disease but cancer is is is an accumulation of mutation so it's a more defined event that's happening it's also an impact on the immune system that's different a little bit than normal aging so it may be less approachable from a longevity viewpoint. Yeah it's funny that's exactly my view that cancer is the most inevitable of these diseases do you think that the inevitability or the age related component stems more from the accumulation of mutations or the weakening of the immune system. It's probably both I mean you don't get to cancer without the right mutations happening but I think we're learning more and more that the immune system is playing a major role in it and that we can see that very clearly from the interventions that improve immune function and they're having a big role in certain types of tumors but I think that's going to be true for Alzheimer's and the dementia as well we've completely underestimated the role of inflammation and the immune system and those diseases as well and they may be the primary drivers you know I kind of I'm very frustrated by some of these fields one of them is Alzheimer's you know the I kind of feel like you know one of these Alzheimer's researchers they're going to die at some point of 90 and on their on their tombstone it's going to be like you know major accomplishment was the completely remove plaques from the brain died of Alzheimer's at 94 you know it's it's it's there's been so much focus on one or two mechanisms of disease that we spent 30 years not studying the others which may be more important why do you think that I mean I write about it in the book but I'm really curious is to why you think that's happened and because that's not it unfortunately that's not an isolated incident in science so why do you think it's happening in a field where the results are otherwise so dismal what's the what's the same that scientific progress happens one funeral time yeah I think that's part of it you know you get people that that have successful research programs and their postdocs get hired and all the jobs and and so when you take a field and it grows from a small field to a bigger field you everybody can draw their lineage back to four or five different p.i.s and and so whatever models and those p.i.s get really focused on those models and they see that as their ticket to prizes and things like that and so then you you focus on a subset of the disease mechanisms that the exclusion of all others and I don't want to single Alzheimer's on I think a lot of diseases meet that category but it's unfortunate because what we're realizing is that you know there's a lot of factors that contribute to any disease and I think longevity maybe an interesting way of looking at it like I think it's better like I'll take it take a mouse okay we've tried to make Alzheimer's models in mice and they they don't prove that informative why you're making your creating the disease a mouse doesn't get genetically in a young mouse and comparing that to a natural disease in an old human I think you learn more about Alzheimer's if you look at the brain nerd agenda changes that happen in the mouse normally with aging the downstream things are different but the drivers maybe the very similar to the ones that are driving Alzheimer's Alzheimer's and that may be a better model of Alzheimer's than trying to artificially create something that a mouse doesn't get so that's what I think aging is helping change that perspective that you know the drivers of aging I think are very similar between a mouse and a human the downstream events can be different but the drivers are what we care about right so let's go back to rap a mice and for a moment do you believe that the primary effect of rap a mice and is tamping down maladaptive inflammation through obviously the intermittent blunting of M.T.R. I think that's one of the major things certainly you know that there's good evidence for enhancement of autophagy there's good evidence for changes in protein translation and those things are not mutually exclusive to inflammatory changes anyway but I think those are the three things that we have pretty good evidence for and so but I really think that all of these interventions that we're looking at are restoring dynamic range they're not it may take super physiologic changes to change that linear line right but I don't think that's what we're looking at right now we're restoring things that happen when you were young so given that we're not likely to have a human clinical trials a rap a mice in that study aging for the simple fact that we don't even know what an aging biomarker is we're going to largely be extrapolating from animal data if we have to make decisions about humans using rap a mice and for geroprotection. I'll push back a little bit then I know where we're going with this but we're doing a study like this in Singapore on humans. Okay six month intervention with rap a mice and and we're looking as many different parameters of it we're not doing disease in fact we're taking into the six months we're taking people that are 40 to 60 they may have a precondition for a disease but they don't have anything that would be defined as a disease okay so it could be you know high glucose but not dive you know and so the and then we're looking at changes in a wide range of different biomarkers clocks which so tell me a little bit more about the study so how many subjects we're doing these I don't remember the exact numbers somewhere around 150 to 200 so it's not huge and how you're dosing it intermittently once a week yeah how much I think it's five milligrams is what's in the protocol I'd it's being run by Andrea Meyer which is one of my collaborators in Singapore so five milligrams of rap immune once a week for six months and then let's go through all the different measurements yeah so a range of clocks inflammatory cytokine panels functional measures pulsoid velocity dexa strength measurements cognitive measurements and I'm still missing a couple of them but did you expect to see changes in strength or cognition or things like that I mean do you do you worry that those are kind of the wrong outcomes to look for in a six-month study of people that are young yeah well I think that you know this comes back to what do you measure and yeah this is where I knew we were calling with this um I don't think we know I mean certainly you can change those parameters I think if you exercise you're gonna change change your steps to move especially if this was a six-month exercise trial field boots I think six-month exercise trial might also change the cognitive parameters it's possible yep so I think it's a six-month sleep correction trial would undoubtedly change the cognitive parameters yeah so I don't think it's unreasonable that a drug could do these things as well I think rap a mice and it's complicated when it comes to muscle and I know that partly because I kind of feel like I'm gonna be non-scientific for a minute I I become my own best model organism so I try all kinds of different things on myself now I know it's any equals one I'm not sure rap a mice and then skeletal muscle without exercise I'm not sure what it's gonna do I one of the things I notice is when I take rap a mice and if I do like hard run I'm a runner I've gone to more lifting the last three or four years but I've I've always been a runner I don't have good runs within 24 hours of taking rap a mice and and it may be because you have to activate him to her in a context or something sorry if you take rap a 24 hours prior to a run 24 hours of running yeah now what about if you take rap a after a run do you is your is your recovery better do you feel less sense of that what I do know is if I three or four days after I take rap I am really good training so I think what's happening is that maybe in that short window after you take it you can't activate the pathway enough but in the long term what you're doing is dampening the basal signaling and you're getting the better dynamic range so if the trough levels are low I think but that's me but you know that's just something I'm going to experiment with that Brian because I always take rap a the same day of the week and my workouts are always the same like I do the same workouts on the same days of the week I'm gonna do it adjustment on that and see and I don't what it does I didn't try it with resistance either so I don't know what it's gonna do there so what tools do we have to measure a topology in humans well you can pull out blood cells we're talking about the limit I mean we're we're talking about the limitations of what you can get from a human right yeah blood saliva that that's what we're going to think and so you can pull out blood cells and you can look at you know white cells and see you know whether a topology pathways are induced or not you can take muscle biopsies we don't really like doing that in our clinical studies because it makes it harder to get volunteers I think if you do muscle biopsies the right way they're probably not that painful to people but people have that perception and we need healthy volunteers for our studies um I would love to look at muscle I think that you know autopidges another one of these dual ad sorts though right you've got you don't want autopidges all the time you want to know and hit the appropriate levels at the right time and if it's on all the time you're gonna get muscle atrophy probably so it's again it's about dynamic range what would you need to see in this study to feel that rap amycin is geo protective because my concern I suppose would be you're not gonna see a difference in dexa you're not gonna see a difference in physical performance you're not gonna see a difference in cognitive function you might see a reduction in certain cytokines but not all cytokines I forget what the other markers that you said were but my my I guess my concern is we're not able since we can't measure aging we're not going to see enough of a signal the other oh you mentioned epigenetic clocks um in an ideal world that would be the perfect tool to measure them except for the caber Linux experiment which I'm sure you're familiar with but yeah I agree with I use I bring Matt to all my conferences now because I use that slide where he did like eight of them at once yeah I mean their multiple issues here that one issue is are the consumer testing companies do they have a standardized enough protocol that it's reliable and I think I'm skeptical that that's the case I I think there and this is you're doing in house measurement we're not using anything between control everything so we get around a lot of those problems just for the listener so they understand what we're talking about Matt Cabro and bought four of the top commercial tests did them in duplicate simultaneously so it took eight tests at the same moment in time and he has a funny graph that shows how pathetic they are not only do none of the tests agree with each other the identical tests rarely agree with each other yeah so just if you're listening to this and you want to go out and get a commercial test that details you how old you are biologically yeah reconsider it okay I want to tell you we have the potential for a better clock in a minute so I put a pin on talk about that yeah but yeah so consumer wise I think there's concerns I think what are you using as a control when you talk about again given how inflammation and epigenetic change might be the only two signals that you find here and again this is just me being pessimistic nanny but this is just my prediction I do not think there will be a finding in any of those other measurements but you might have a chance with inflammation and epigenome if you're not your slave to I just think here's my problem with Paul's way of Brian it is so user dependent in terms of the technician who is doing like we don't use it clinically at all because we think it's a useless test because like I think the corroded into malfikening is a useless test and that's an easier test to do because unless you have a tech who basically has a PhD and how to do vascular imaging and they're the only one that does it every minute of every day if my patients come in with a CIMT I open a bird cage I take out the poopy bottom paper I put their CIMT in there I close yeah I just I use this it is so so I just worry that all of those tests are not going to they're just going to be noise no signal but these other two might have signal so then how do you what's your control for accelerated aging or something else? There's going to be really interesting if you did a six month parallel fasting trial where if you took people and you rendered them hypocoloric you know you put them on at some draconian 60% calorie diet for six months where you really think you would tamp down inflammation and a top of G and you probe if anything's going to reprogram the epigenome in six months you think that would be a that would be a very interesting control even if you had a fraction of the number of subjects yeah I mean we're doing multiple we just the first study was with the timer release version of AKG that with PDR help help a computer right yeah okay I'd like to have more about that's finished and we're just analyzing data so I can't tell you much data but we finished the trial we did six month intervention and three month follow up so we want to see if their changes do they maintain if you stop taking the compound okay because in mice oddly they do for aging but I'm skeptical that's going to happen in humans so we're doing multiple studies so this is sort of like you're on the same time but there we will be doing the same study over and over and over again with different interventions yes yeah it's like I was just saying your ITP equivalent in yes yeah and by the way I don't know six months is long enough I don't know for doing the right test I don't think anybody knows the exam what is the cost of doing that experiment you just described it's about a million and a half sinks so that's a million and a half US dollars yeah this is really interesting and not that I'm here to do this but it's just I get asked so much by people where can I put money where can I put money so I'd like to make sure that people who are listening to this who are thinking about hey how do I fund insanely high-leverage research yeah this to me strikes a great way to get on that right would love to have that because it's really hard to raise money for this stuff yeah but if you think about if you're if you're sitting there and you're listening to this and you're saying look I'd like to put a million dollars to work on something that would dramatically change you know adding a decade to life your way better off putting in my opinion you really are better off putting money into this type of translational research than you are into basic science or into you know farmy research that is tends to be a little bit more you know you're just you're not gonna find me still not doing the aging yeah yeah it's I you know they're thinking about it they're starting to but they've been saying that for a long yeah no this is this is great um because you can tell I have strong opinions on ideas for how to do some of these experiments so let's talk a little bit about Alpha Keta Glutorate and why we walk us through the rationale for how that came to be something that you would put through this type of rigorous program yeah so uh company full disclosure that I'm involved with a pdl health they have a product for juman now they came to us many years ago at the back and working with Gordon let's go and I and they were like this green natural products that would have an impact on aging because you know they're the mindset of the CEO of the what became the CEO of this company was that I I can't get drugs but proof for aging at any time in the near future this work with natural products and also things that the FDA just calls grass yeah out of the gap okay and let's let's look for combinations of things that work together um because we can get IP around combinations we can't get IP around single natural products um so we screened a lot of things in worms and AKG came out as one of the best things in worms and then we started testing interventions in mice and that's led now to we're testing like we do four or five different interventions studies in mice every six months now um not just with natural products and not just for this company but we built that into our own kind of ITP and mice too although we do it differently but anyway AKG came out as one of the biggest effects and then in the mouse studies we found that for male mice there was a combined effect with vitamin A and vitamins are an interesting discussion too and there was also a combined effect with both sexes with vitamin D and so that led to this product regimen which is AKG time release AKG very important because otherwise it's like any it goes away in five minutes if you don't have a time release version tell folks what Alphacita Glutorate is and shows it's a part of the is part of the crème cycle it's yeah it is it's a TCA cycle crème cycle central metabolite involved in hundreds of reactions it's a lot like an AD yep they're doing different things but they're both central metabolites they're both going down with aging and organisms and the ideas supplementing them back up would be beneficial um and so when we did that with AKG in mice we see about a five to ten percent increase in lifespan but a dramatic increase in frailty so when we meet increased the idea I know it's going to be yeah so that mice I would argue that you're still clearing along jumping in pervers we talk about it yep yeah so you know if we could if that translated to humans it would be a big impact and so that's what led to the human product by the way I think that if you did not extend lifespan by a day but you just improved health span yeah that's a home run yeah I agree for most people that is all they actually want yeah I agree I think if they get that they'll want the other two but that's yeah but yeah I never the reverse no nobody wants more life span without we're doing now I know I know I can't that's not a strategic point no yeah but yeah I completely agree with that so you know we're still excited about this product there's been with about AKG and especially the time release version and there's been you know some some studies that have been published one of which we helped analyze the data for using rudimentary methylation clocks showing that they reverse it that they reverse is aging by a few years again it's that oscillation thing we were talking about earlier I think and that's why we wanted to do a controlled placebo double-blighted clinical trial at the university and that case we're just testing the time release AKG we didn't include the vitamins because we're trying to get some mechanistic information we know what confounders in there but I'm I think as the data is still pretty good on AKG that it's going to have an impact in people so that human trial has been completed you're evaluating the data yeah you're going to have the CS signal but are you in each of these trials do you do the same measurements the the same outcomes generally yes but we we sometimes modify the primary endpoint because we want to choose a primary endpoint that's most likely impacted by the intervention in a way it doesn't matter that much because we're measuring as many things as possible anyway and of course we learn over time as we do things so we add things and we take things out they're not working well that sort of things so did you guys do a study on your relief in A as well we haven't published it yet but I am happy to talk a little bit about it we don't have human data but the mouth state is really good on your illiterate I I'm a believer it work in our hands the first what this why we haven't published yet because when we did it dramatically reduce frailty and male mice but not females and so we're repeating that because I there may be sex specific differences but we're the first ones to see that so we want to go back and see what's going on now I feel like I feel like I've written a newsletter on this where I came down on the side of this isn't doing anything is am I mistaking this for a different molecule is this the one that in theory enhances mitochondrial function is that the thought it the I just didn't enhance his mitophages so turn over of damage by the country I'm not sure I completely agree with that we do see that in cell culture but we also see mitochondrial biogenesis and so these two things are connected right if you induce mitochondrial biogenesis you'll also induce mitophagey and so it's kind of I'm not sure who's which words the chicken and where's the egg in this but it does seem to induce mitochondrial turnover but we also find other pathways we've done we when we look at a molecule if we don't know enough about it we like wrap up mice and we know it binds to amtor you're a myth and we don't know what it does an AKG also we know a lot of things it can do we don't know which ones are relevant for aging for a year of lithium we went back and did this screening assay to proteomics thermal shift assay that to look for binding partners for the compound and we have some so how tell me about the history that led to using it well for us I mean yohan oh where I published this data that it was slowing aging in mice and that's led to a lot of research so we weren't the first ones to study your a little bit and a lot of what we do is testing interventions that come from other labs because if I'm going to do a human study I want to at least see it repeated my hands in an animal first absolutely if it doesn't repeat in my hands it doesn't mean it doesn't work it may mean the conditions are different but I think it does if it does repeat it makes an argument for robustness and so that's why we started your lithium we've we also see positive effects of spermidine and glycine and other things but yeah so we we didn't make the initial discovery on your lithium but so we don't know the mechanism of action well they would argue it's increased by the condo turnover but we have a target we have targets we haven't published yet oh you didn't yeah yeah did you guys discover the target yeah we we've got a couple new targets that we haven't published yet so that could explain some of the effects and have you studied this in humans yet? No no yet that's planned but hasn't been done yet. This might be actually one of the ones where I would say unlike in the rapid trial you actually want to come up with primary outcomes that are quite different here this is where for example I'd want to see fat oxidation yeah I'd want to see you know what we talk about a zone two efficiency I mean if this is indeed improving my condo real function I'm not aware of a better test of my condo real function. Yeah I agree with you and and that raises the point of whether we should couple these interventions to exercise those ones for that one for sure that's a complication but it may be worth doing in this context not to get in your business you must muscle by obss these people. You're gonna have to get on way you're gonna have to get people to get to get to get a little punch by obss the other quads because it's just it's too important to understand what's happening. I think a lot of these supplements I'm gonna go back to an equals one story here. Yeah I think a lot of these supplements are impacting exercise and so it's kind of a a win-win you you you you take something you exercise better you drive benefits from that exercise so it's kind of you win twice with some of these so I'll tell you what happened recently I've been very skeptical of in eighty not that going down and restoring it won't be good but I'm skeptical it's going through sertones I think it could be doing a lot of other things but I'm also skeptical that in our in a minute or really changing in eighty levels that much and our mice don't really respond in our studies within our in a minute I've never noticed anything taking in our again that's just one person but that's me. When I last looked at this and I know I'm going to get a lot of hate mail because I always get hate mail when I talk about this the only study I've seen in humans that shows a real benefit of NR was in patience with ALS that had the patience in the NR group had a longer time before requiring ventilation than the patience on the placebo. Is there another study I'm missing? Well there've been health spent studies are getting improved health spent but by what metric? I don't I can tell you we've done them as well and we do see very subtle changes within our that are aspects of the frailty measurements in in mice or in human mice but it's not enough to really convince us it's statistically significant so I wouldn't be shocked if there's a tiny effect is what I'm saying but okay. And why do you think that is? Do you think it's that NR and NMN are not efficient vehicles to generate a NR? I think that's one thing for sure but let me tell you the rest of the story because I pretty much given up on the pathway and a company that came to me and wanted to test one of their products and this company is called I expire for them anyway. They have a new product that's sublingual in AD so they don't they specialize in technology for sublingual delivery and they make other things to. So just explain to folks why that matters you can't take NAD orally because it just gets destroyed. So typically people take NAD intravenously but if you take something under the tongue you get this magical property where it dissolves and it enters the circulation without passing through the digestion and obviously the liver where these things get chewed up. And you can do this every day right? I mean lots of drugs are given in this. Yeah, yeah. I vee just not practical on a competitive basis. How many milligrams of NAD are they? 100 milligrams and the one I'm taking also has Appagin and it which is a CD38 inhibitor. So CD38 is a consumer of NAD. So if you block that enzyme, this is another natural product. If you block that enzyme then you also effectively increase in and so I was taking that along with the regio of it which is the AKG plus vitamin A and also it would be complex but mainly AKG effect. And when I take them together, I notice this acute effect on my exercise performance. So I'm running my heart rate goes up. My respiratory rate doesn't go up as much. It goes up a little bit but normally if my heart rates at 150 or 155, I'm breathing hard, I'm breathing closer to normal when I take these two things together. I've gone off, I've gone back on. And if one is your rate of perceived exertion, tracking more with your respiratory rate or your heart rate. It's tracking more than my respiratory rate. I don't perceive that I'm exerting, I run faster when I do it. You know it would be so cool to see Brian is measuring your lactate levels at a fixed heart rate under those two different respiratory rates but under the same loads. So same do it on a treadmill just to make it ambiguous. I'd be super curious to see a lactate performance curve. I should do that. I don't think you can imagine this. I've got things telling me these two parameters. So it's really good. I like to just quit my job and do nothing other than these experiments. Yeah and like I said this may happen for no one else. I don't know. But for me it I can go off it sort of goes away. It's starting to not go away now because I've been ex- it's improving my exercise performance and now I'm getting more fit. So it's getting harder to see the effect but it still comes and goes when I go on and off either the AKG or the AKG or the energy. The other thing I'd be interested to see is let's pretend off drug heart rate 150 RPE7 velocity x. On drug I want you to go back to the same RPE. Let heart rate go higher and let velocity go higher and I'm curious as to how long you can sustain that relative to what you were doing before. And other words like does some other system get in the way that ultimately reduces your capacity? I can't answer but the first the reason I noticed is that I've taken it three days. I didn't even think about it. It's like every morning I do it. I was on the treadmill and running and I'm I keep pushing the speed up and I'm not getting out of breath and I was going to run 5k and ran 12k and I still didn't feel that tired at the end of it. And then I started thinking how did this happen because I know how my body performs and how many of them. So this is this molecule in trials yet with humans? It's not even have to be in trials it's a natural product so it's no but I mean it's on the market. Yes yes yes but if those of us who want to actually know if it works. Oh come on. Those of us who believe in this pesky thing got evidence. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I'm getting past that now I'm joking. There've been a lot of animal studies and they can show that when they I'm not even sure this is published I think I can say this. When they add sublingualy in a rat model you have to anesthetize the rats to get it the sublingual delivery. Yeah that you see it incorporated very highly in red blood cells the NAD. This was just with the NAD not epigenetic and so they're argument there is literature to support this and it's not my field but I'll just say what it is is that their channels that can take up NAD directly in certain cell types. There is yes. Yeah I had Josh Rubino it's on the podcast and he talked at length about this and yeah I mean what I took away from that discussion was intravenous NAD will work. Yeah The question is what's it working for and so would you or belief be that the effect you experience here should be mirrored by what somebody experiences with intravenous NAD not with sanding the limitations of the frequency that they could do it? Yes I think so but the dose there's so much higher on IVN ADN it could be a too high I don't know but the interior yes and but this is so simple you just every morning gone in 30 seconds and so I think that I you know and for me again it's enhanced by the AKG too so it's you're adding two metabolites that are both going down with aging that are both involved in hundreds of different they're giving you cellular metabolic flexibility I think that's what they're doing I don't think it's one pathway they're activating and is the alfakita glutinrate with vitamin E or A that it's for a male it's vitamin A and the new product has some B complex and it is well and these are commercially available products and you're about to publish on them in humans. The regimen is already been published on the AKG by itself. Yeah uncontrolled not placebo controlled methylation study that of users okay so take what you want out of that we're not much. You can you can talk to me off my my my I don't want to try to I will say that I think community days valuable and I think if if you go back and look at the paper we didn't do the any analysis we just analyzed the data but if you go back and look at the paper I think we were very clear in that paper even in the abstract of the limitations of the finding. So I think that for community-based data it's better to have it out there and published but you have you want authors that are willing to be honest about what the data says and what the data doesn't say but yeah the study that's been completed is just AKG time release on none of the vitamins and it's placebo controlled and as many parameters as we can measure so hopefully it'll show something okay and then you're doing the one with vitamin A and E. No exactly we don't we're not doing that right now we'd love to do that but we we finance this study ourselves are the only thing the company did was supply the time release AKG and and so it would be good to go back and look at the actual product and in combined with this in AD now but I just sort of figured that out myself five months ago I don't even have any animal data that that's true it would be interesting to go back and add these things in animals but you can you know you can anesthetize a rat and do some legal delivery one time and measure the PKPD yeah but you can't do it for a moment time it's going to be a nightmare you mentioned spermity in a moment ago let's talk about that it's getting quite a bit of buzz tell us tell us everything about spermity well so we studied that a while ago and I was at the buck and we wanted to look at we were confused because at that time the data was spermity could extend lifespan but it didn't impact metabolism and I'm like almost everything in amounts of extends lifespan is some impact on metabolism so we did a high fat study with spermity and we we showed that in old animals spermity could suppress the metabolic dysfunction that came from a high fat diet in mice but we had some control mice too and actually not many but the country because the study wasn't designed to do lifespan but we left them alive and looked at survival and the spermity and extended the lifespan of the mice too. The spermity and been studied in the ITP I don't think it doesn't think it has don't call me but I don't think it has and so we we were able to repeat the lifespan effect in mice even though that wasn't the goal of our study and we showed that it restores metabolism and a calorie challenge context and so that's what made me believe that you know it's a robust molecule that we can see that effect as well so I would say I'm optimistic about spermity and as well that we have it done on spermity and occur in nature. You're um actually don't remember. It's actually occurring. It does naturally occur yes yes yes. So there's no I think it's in certain certain foods or have it but I'm worried I'm complaining that with the year of lithium so. Okay have you guys looked at alpha estradial 17? No we haven't looked at that. I would be an interesting one. Yeah I agree and I'm also run the director of an Asian Center for reproductive longevity and equality and in US and Singapore we're looking at ovarian aging and there's two things I've it's it's made me this is like you know it's like PhD biologists you know all of a sudden I'm getting asked a million questions about HRT so I decided I better learn something but there's two things that I've learned from this one is that geroprotectors tend to extend fertility in mice and it's not just one thing it's spermity and it's AKG it's been shown for met farmland and rapomice and and what is there a rapatrial going on I think it could be a ear for now and so yeah and so that's one really potentially useful avenue of translation for these geroprotectors I'm really excited about that. The other thing I think and maybe you have more expertise than I do so you're pleased disagree is that the question should not be should a woman do HRT the question should be is there any reason a woman should not do HRT because I just see the the value of hormone replacement to far outweigh the risk and the majority of women I don't know if you feel that way but there's some here and so 17 office interesting right because it worked in males yeah it's also non-feminizing I don't know what that really means but I mean I not sure how much I believe that but you know and so it could be triggering some of these same pathways and and I know you know the you know testosterone is another one that you know and I did the study on it and show it's a little bit of an increased risk and prostate cancer and then everybody said don't do testosterone replacement and I think that although that's been fully fully I agree now yeah and then so most men are not doing that are if they're doing it they're doing in an uncontrolled ways that in taking levels maybe to too high that could be dangerous and so I feel like that there's a lot of like men are in a better position today because one more trials have been done to undo the bad ones so traverse trial which is published probably been a year now but that sort of undid a lot of the even though the traverse had many problems with it but it undid a lot of the damage of some of the fear mongering from really bad studies that suggested testosterone and prostate cancer turns out it's the exact opposite but women unfortunately are still struggling under the dark cloud of the women's health initiative which was you know apocryphal and I mean it just you know they no one's undone it and I traveled at 25 countries again a lot of countries in Southeast Asia and so now everywhere I go if I see a doctor I'm like how many women are doing HRT and what are you finding extremely low like extreme because they're deferential to US recommendations or I think that changes and the what doctors tell people is slower in in these countries but maybe there's less risk it's also cost money right so if you have somebody that doesn't have a lot of access to finances they may be less able to do it in these countries I don't know all the reasons but I'm just I'm just looking into it now but it's stunning how how low the HRT is around the world still and and we're just missing an easy opportunity I think to help people I agree I mean I think there's a part of me that is just so interested in the front here and like how do you push the boundaries of this stuff how you know I truly could be infinitely happy working nowhere but at the front here is if thinking about the molecules but at the same time I feel just as excited about trying to figure out how to make sure people aren't scoring own goals all day yeah right like there's so many ways to just help a person without anything magical find another five years of life and dramatically improve health span well through judicious use of everything from HRT to correct exercise reasonable nutrition like there's just so many great ways to do it but obviously the idea of doing both of these is so appealing I come back every three months the you know I lived here 50 years and then I left and I come back every three months and the same two things you know you leave someplace you come back you notice things you didn't notice right and and the same two things every time I come back or I get it in the airport I don't even have to like leave the airport one is so many people are not in health they're not in shape there's so much obesity you know it's it's striking compared to almost anywhere else in the world the second one is people just seem so stressed here I don't get that I Singapore is a pretty stressed country and I still feel that people are more stressed here when I come back where are the obesity rates in Singapore relatively low but in Asia you've got this challenge with skinny diabetes right and so you have a lot of people that can't build the out of positive that they need right but they're storing all the difference between the wrong places and this is maybe even worse than so the diet is moving more Western in Asia and it's creating problems it's just not as obesity associated so and now that you're coming back do you notice a difference at all based on SGLT2 inhibitors pardon me GLP1 Agamis I think they're making a difference but I guess you know I'm not passing the airport test yet yeah I don't know how widespread they're being used either this you probably know that you know I don't think I'm familiar with the latest stats on how why they're being used let's let's go back to the kind of the epigenetic lock situation so do you think that there could be value in this as a tool right and and let me hold the bar as high as I think it would need to be to justify their use so right now we have this thing called chronologic age I can look at your birth certificate I can know how old you are and based on that I can make an estimate of how much longer you will live so if I look at a person who's 40 years old and I know nothing else about them and then I see another person who is 65 years old and I know nothing else about them I can say with a high degree of confidence that the 65 year old person will live you know I'm making this up because I'm not an actuary but somewhere between 20 and 30 more years and the 40 year old person I can say with a pretty high degree of confidence will live you know whatever somewhere between call it you know 30 to 50 more years or something like that now to me that's a pretty good test right I know I know I know I know I know a knowable measurable thing about them it's measurable I know in their birth date right and it predicts future life so do you think biological clocks will ever serve a purpose like that where I could take 250 year olds and one of them has a biological age of 40 and one of them has a biological age of 60 according to the clock and that those numbers will actually be better at predicting future life than their chronological age of 50 or do you put yourself in the camp that says no Peter that's a ridiculous standard that no biological clock could ever come to but it might tell me about their health it might be yet another biomarker that says hey the guy at 40 is just healthier than the guy at 60 and somehow by the way it's picking that signal out of a data field that I can't pick out anywhere else because they otherwise look identical we measured this recently because we collaborators of mine at in U.S. and beyond grubber and function and I had this small role in this project they decided the functions of a geriatrician he sees people all the time frustrated you know what can the geriatricians have limited things they can do they're seeing people that are already have multi morbidity and you know the clocks are not that useful and so he's wanted to like how do we create a reliable clock that a doctor can understand and so we for what purpose for um biological age I'll tell you what I think the purpose is for a minute okay um and this build so their first generation and second generation clocks the first generation clocks try to predict your chronological age and the second one's predict some outcome so the question is we want to predict mortality we know and predict your chronological age so intrinsically if it works it's going to do better than the chronological age for the second generation clocks um so we took in hands you know data collected around 1999 2000 mortality data for 200 months and we just and and these parameters are nice and because you can actually do a consumer test of HBA one-see you know there are many labs that do that it's reproducible to a large extent much better than DNA methylation and doctors use all these parameters so the things that are in hands like LDL you know all the things in your book and I'm a Tory markers you know medical tests you know some some cognitive self-reported stuff so he's like everything is a feature and use AI linear model to try to predict mortality um and they're on the second generation of this clock now and it predicts mortality better than any other parameter in in hands it's way better than S.C.V.D. the cardiovascular disease measurement um and so recently the methylation data came out on in hands and so we could go back and compare the mortality prediction for methylation clocks some of the first generation clocks are worse than chronological age your passport is better than are predicting mortality which to me means that they're not useful because you know even if they're not designed to predict mortality if they don't capture some element of that what are they measuring you know the second generation clocks like Grim age and pheno age they do better jobs and chronological age for sure at predicting mortality yeah and it's just to be clear we've captured that out of the end-hanes database that's from in hands that's the only thing we've looked at right now okay let me make sure I understand that by death you had 200 months yeah a forward-looking data so anyway you've got 18 years of data and um you're saying we if we know the methylation of somebody at that time in the cohort 1999 to 2000 we could predict their date of death better than the actuarial data of the rage yeah okay I wasn't aware of that well it's just I'm not I don't think it's even it's been accepted for public history okay I'm not sure it's online yet okay it's not you're that's very interesting okay yeah that's because that so that basically answers a question that I've never seen answer yeah but our clinical chemistry clock does better than that those okay and and what is included in that clinical clock and what they're about 50 parameters that we measure now but see complete blood count gives you about 30 of those parameters so it's not as elaborate as you think it would yeah yeah I know I'm well and then you know it's a lot of standard markers that you are so you're probably measure also that I guess that was going to be my question yeah is it's about 300 dollars in Singapore if you did it all to know of it but anybody going to a doctor's office has most of those parameters measured anyway and if they're going to you know a wellness longevity centered all of them are probably of course yeah and so the the question I suppose is this if you're met life you already like you are better at predicting mortality than anybody on the planet I I don't know if it's met life by the way but like pick the best life insurance company yeah like this is their business yeah they're so good at predicting mortality it's frightening yeah so yeah I don't know how they're doing that so I can't come in and nobody does right yeah my point is they're looking at age yeah they're looking at a whole bunch of things in your medical history yeah they're looking at a whole bunch of blood tests your blood pressure your weight your waist your circumference all those things and they're coming up with an exceptional prediction of remaining years on life the real question is do you believe that they will incorporate a second generation uh and you know to clock or do you believe that they've already got that captured in their data set they may I don't know that's an unanswerable question I bet again I were focusing on the clinical chemistry anyway we're not doing any methylation yep so and what we're finding is hospitals want to use this now big clinical chemistry or methylation clinical chemistry and I think it's because it resonates you know when you when you show them the list of parameters yep a doctor doesn't have to be an expert in epigenetics to figure out what's going on and the other thing is it all actionable so we have principal components that we can break it down and we can see smoking in one component and we can see metabolic disease in another one and obesity and another one and we find cases we find it's up you conclusions from this are really interesting one is we find cases where nothing's out of the reference range okay so a doctor that's looking at things especially if they have a few minutes to look at they're not going to prescribe anything for this person yeah but these four parameters in this principal component are increasing you know they're they're biologic age by four years which means it's increasing there it's 50% increase in mortality risk so that these are actionable things you know you can treat LDL you can treat high blood pressure you can treat these markers right and so clinicians are actually willing to then be a little bit more aggressive and try to prescribe something or lifestyle modification there's something to treat these markers so yeah exactly that makes sense the reason that you prefer this is it doesn't just give you an answer it gives you a solution yeah that's what we're working toward and and so we're the other thing we did is we broke and hands down really interesting so you can in hands also has all the medications people are taking but the the weakness of it is a snapshot it's a cross-sectional measurement of all these things but they measured a lot of stuff and so we could look at what our people's clinical parameters out of the reference ranges should they be being prescribed some drug and they're not being given it and that goes up to about 20% and when you're 65 years old and then year 2000 in the US meaning 25% of people should be giving treated for something but they're not being treated those people have a higher biological age and pastoral mortality not surprising there's also the group that has everything every at 65 every clinical parameter looks good and they have a lower biological age they live longer but you can break that group down and you can say one group is not taking any medication and the other group is taking medication it's just their clinical parameters are managed well the people taking the medication have a lower biological education live longer and it doesn't really matter what the medication is you know it's true for the major medications you would give for metabolic and cardiovascular disease in the year 2000 so I think that's suggests that being more aggressive and getting people optimized earlier is better than just being on pretty healthy and my blood pressure is a little bit high but I don't need to take you know and so it's suggesting we need to be more aggressive I think the other thing is that it's suggesting that these drugs that were around in 2000 for these treating preconditions are actually aging drugs they're actually it's one of the last classes that we see the most common lipid and hypertension hypertension metabolic metmettmett form and it's a standard things and so do you think metformin will have zero protective properties in people who are metabolically healthy skeptical but I think what it is saying is that if you catch preconditions early enough you keep protect against the other failure states a little bit too so it's so you're more optimistic that wrap a mice and would be zero protective in humans than metformin yeah that would be my do you think there is a drug out there that you think is more likely to be zero protective in humans than rapamison at this time well the the GLP drugs and STLT2 I think are interesting I don't think how good day I'm right now but it's definitely again I don't know in people that are yeah if you're a beast I need yeah let me rest a question if we if we just took a population a middle aged healthy individuals yeah and we we could design an experiment where you had the placebo arm the metformin arm the rapamison arm the STLT2 inhibitor arm and the GLP one agonist arm what is your prediction in length of life or additional years of life given in that the six arm study or whatever it is I think the last three would be comparable metformin arm skeptical of so rapa STLT2 GLP one yeah I just I and we don't have data and healthy people that much with STLT2 and GLP one I mean so mechanism of action is what if these if the if the GLP one group and the STLT2 group are metabolically healthy they don't have glucose excursions that are high they're you know they're yeah I'm so what do you believe is the mechanism of action I guess you know if it I think I guess I'm going by a different statement which is most people were calling healthy or not totally metabolically healthy and so in those cases I think there would be a benefit but then I guess I know in the perfectly optimized person whether there'd be a benefit and I every time I talk to a doctor I ask them are you losing more lean muscle mass with these drugs then you are just by fasting or or lifestyle and I get if I ask 10 doctors I get 10 answers so I don't know what they I don't know what the answer to that question is but I think the reason that at least is a thought experiment it's an interesting question is because if the GLP one agonist and STLT2 inhibitors only work if you have some degree yeah of glucose yeah irregularity yeah then it begs the question well it says look glucose homeostasis is one of the most important features of living great yeah but if you could correct that with diet sleep and exercise which you can yeah I agree it's hard but you it could be done yeah then those things aren't going after fundamental pillars of aging because people who eat well who exercise well and sleep well still age yeah it's going it's answering you know matinee debate this all the time about you know and we did it we published a study in mice recently where we analyzed all the data that's out there in mice and and we tried to determine you know where's reality on interventions that extend lifespan in mice because if the short live if the control mice are really short lived which happens a lot why is that it's just really hard to control I mean if you look at the ITP data the control mice are all over the board and they're very well controlled best scientist doing the experiment we see a lot of variation too I just think it's there are some cases they're bad by variums and that make causes of problem but even in good by variums I don't know that's true in every organism in yeast in worms one cohort of worms will all live a little bit shorter one cohort of worms will live a little bit longer it's cohort dependent but I don't know why but anyway if the if the mice are short lived if your extension is there all you can say is it's longevity normalizing you don't know that it's slowing aging it's only when the controls are really long lived and you're getting extension that you can really make the argument it's longevity extending and so that gets to your question the real answer though is dependent on how many people you believe that are optimized right now because it's very this study yeah I don't know of course it it it it is a normalizing works in this population trust me with least for help for for keeping people healthy but whether it's really slowing aging is it as an open question I think I think the best case would be wrap a mice in there yeah and and then of course it begs the question which is could these effects be additive right so so would there be a benefit to a person who is on balance quite healthy but let's say they're they're having a one-see if it is indeed an accurate representation of their average glucose is 5.4 percent so I don't know exactly what that translates to it probably translates to an average blood glucose of 110 or so milligrams per decelerator but the data the data that show based on hemoglobin A1 see that lower is always better so 5.0 is better than 5.4 even though 5.4 is deemed completely healthy and that's that's all cause mortality data so we're saying we take a person who's at 5.4 they're not even pre-diabetic they can't even they can barely see where pre-diabetic starts let alone diabetic but we give them an sglt2 inhibitor they come from at 5.4 can I can I can volunteer for this there you go so you go from 5.4 down to 5.1 just on the basis of that we throw a glp one agonist on top of that now you're at 4.9 then we give you rap a mice and which really doesn't impact your glucose but we think it's going to do something a little bit different you would say in that situation you might believe that there's some actual general protection that not adding that formula I don't want to lose muscle mass though and which of those drugs would you be most afraid of the glp one agonist or rap a glp one agonist okay I I think lean muscle mass is like super important it's probably better to have high lean muscle mass and be a little bit more fat than it is to be low on both as my best guess now what do you make of the data that I talk about all the time which look at the hazard ratios for mortality based on high VO2 max and high muscle mass and high strength and how those three things stand out so far above anything else meaning like when you look at hazard ratios associated with smoking type 2 diabetes even cancer they are not as lethal as being incredibly weak incredibly low in muscle mass and incredibly low in fitness and do you how much causality do you think is there versus how much of that is just those are just such good markers of health I think there's causality there I think it's super important but it may only be important for squaring the curve I don't think there's much evidence that maximum lifespan is extended by these things and we don't have the human data of course the animal data can't do the experiment the animal data is pretty much with exercise is just square the curve again that's I agree with you it's a revolution if we can do that I'm not I'm not being negative about it but I don't know about maximum lifespan whether there be an effect or not but I believe it's so much that I put a lot of effort in increasing my lean mass you know and so that's why I started resistance training because I wasn't getting as much from running I get I get more mindfulness from running yeah you know I get but I did a lot more resistance training too so yeah I typically will tell patients that you should really think of exercise yeah I do actually think it's it's reducing your risk of chronic disease but then you still get into the whack-a-mole game if it lowers your risk of Alzheimer's disease it might not have much of an impact on cancer risk it's unclear but if it didn't if it lowered your life expectancy by six months it would still be worth it based on the health span benefits that you get and the quality of life that you would enjoy especially in that final decade of life probably let me come back to one point because I'm a bit of a rant about this combining interventions you know first of all I will say two things before I say what I'm going to say one is that I believe we need to empower people to make decisions on their own health and so I support hackers if they want to you know educate themselves and try different things and they know what the benefits and risk might be and what we know and we don't know more power to I feel like part of the reasons we get such low compliance and medications is that we don't empower people we don't give them choices they don't know why they're doing things we just tell them what to do and people don't respond well to that so having said that I can't pick three interventions that work well together I know in a mouse you know and we do these studies all the time the thing they're more likely to cancel each other out than to have additive effects and so if you're mixing 20 colors of our taking 20 pills it's like mixing 20 colors of paint together you're going to get some ugly gray outcome or it best you're going to get an unknown outcome that we can't predict so I'm really cautious and want to tell people that you know there are a lot of people out there promoting doing a million different things at the same time I try one or two things at the same time and I try to see how my body responds I measure things measure even simple measures are useful and I think that if you're doing 10 things you don't have any idea what's working and what's not working and whether things might be impairing each other and I really think that's a scary path to go down. Now what about for example how are you deciding to use the Alfakita Glutorate and the NAD if I mean because you've seen at least some evidence that each of those individually wants I've been using the the regimen with the AKG for a long time because I was involved in the research you know I'm actually in the board of the company I it's something I've done and I've just taken for years and I add one thing to it and take it away so I've tried as to Santa and I've tried Fokoid and I've tried rap a mice and I've tried a bunch of other things too so and I try to measure before and after I'm getting better at that when I first started doing it wasn't measuring that much but and so that that's the approach I take but I never take like six things at one time and it's kind of intuitive it's something's interesting to me you see an effect on the mice that I want to try it so like I want to do your a little bit and an astasat the next and if you had significantly more resources right so let's say you had a budget that is what what is your current budget this year for both animal and human research? It's complicating as the multiple streams I would say we probably spend about 4 million a year okay so if that number were multiplied by 10 or 20 yeah like if you had a 125 you had a hundred million dollar annual budget to do world changing translational zero science what would you be doing different I think the scale would be one we just can't when you do a combination in mice you've got four groups yeah and I think we if we had more money we could design sort of multifactural clinical studies and pre-clinical studies where we're testing many compounds at the same time we're sort of doing nested groups you know and and we could get a indication for things that actually could be additive together not just things that are working on their own right now we struggle to get to that next step for finances and we could apply those to human studies and combine it with lifestyle interventions too the other thing we really believe is that when you have a compound like you're a lithium you're never going to really know what to combine it with unless you know what the compound's doing so we do a lot of discovery stuff now trying to figure out not what pathway if you take a drug like rapomites and it affects every homework that doesn't tell you the primary thing the drug is doing in this case we know it binds to our your lithium we don't know so we need to know what that molecule's binding to in the cell and if we understand the mechanism at that level we can combine it better with other interventions and start to understand how to put the puzzle together of what we need to combine to get the biggest effect do you have enough human resources to deploy that kind of capital if it were available it would take a center to do it but yeah we could build it and in Singapore is very motivated by the way I have to give the government credit they've understood the aging problem before almost anybody it's taken them a long time to really figure out what to do about it and you know so they went through kind of early stages of putting roofs on sidewalk so people walk in extra hundred steps in the hot sun you know it sort of helps but you know but now I think they're really motivated to commit to targeting hellspan which you know if they do it's the right place to be because it's a small island it's a compliant population they believe in the population it's 5 million and then one extra one million workers and 5 million people that live there permanently I think that it's a good place to really take studies not just in the clinic but move them into the community and actually get validation and large populations and that's why I like being in Singapore I think the opportunities there to make it an example for how to do hellspan it's already very long live by the way so you know it's among the top three in the world depending on what statistics you want but the hellspan that people still have morbidity there they still have 10 12 years of sickness and decline if you there's a lot of frailty there you can see that just walking around so there's room for improvement for sure how will AI help in this field do you do you think it will allow for more intelligent experiments will it allow for better signal detection in messy data like I mean how do we unleash AI or is it not already for the clocks and signal detection we're using it to pick drugs now where we just publish the paper with Garrett full-end in Germany where we're trying to improve how to ask large language models question the medical questions related to longevity you know I talked a lot of doctors and they said they shouldn't be asking perplexity these questions and I'm like I'm a realist you know people are asking so this figure out how to get them the questions asked you know right way to get the right thing more in terms of the research yeah just giving you yeah I think that I think what's going to happen next is AI is going to start telling us what questions to ask right now it's telling me how to analyze our data yeah it's still not very good at telling us what the next question is and I think that that's the that's the sort of the thought we get it there how do we how what yeah I mean this is a very difficult question it's not one that I'm qualified to answer but I think that the question is the trajectory that it's on now is amazing is there a barrier to go to that next step or is it just a matter of getting computational power and slightly modifying neural network algorithms or something I don't know the answer to that but I do think there's a reasonable chance of that that I'm not going to be needed in 10 years I think about this question a lot when it comes to experimental topics because I still don't have a good enough sense of what the how many training cases and AI needs to learn this like we know for language what it took yeah we understand how many tokens were needed to to to to allow the neural networks to do what they do today and it was enormous yeah so there are some problems that might require far less input yep you might be able to do it with 10,000 hours of data yeah as opposed to billions of hours of data yeah so to me I think it's that's the question more than anything else yeah I have I was wondering if you had a point of view on the answer yeah I don't really know I all I know is half my lab is doing it now so it's a I never would have guessed that five years I mean they're trying to use AI to help them ask experimental questions yeah or interpret data you know just okay the latter I can other day yeah it we've become half dry lab which I never would have guessed in my lab so it's a meaning that half the people just sit at computers and you know aren't doing experiments animals yeah so what are you most excited about trying to uncover truth or high probability of truth in the next five years I think experimentally at least pre-clinically we want to find interventions that really combine together to have synergistic impacts I don't think there's much out there there's a mice and a metpharmand and a couple other things from the ITP but they're small effects can we break through a barrier and get 50 60% effects in mice by combining things together I think that's what pre-clinically we're excited about and the other thing I'm excited about is going back to this entropy question are there new classes of interventions that change that primary linear accumulation of quote unquote damage I'm also really excited now I'm working with longevity clinics in various countries and so we're applying the clock we bill we're also helping them try to decide which interventions to do and how hopefully collect data so it can be analyzed because I think there's so much going on I tell this joke all the time at getting scared to tell it more but you know it used to be that yeast in worms and flies were the model organisms for aging research and now billionaires are the model organisms because they're doing all kinds of stuff I can't even and I'm really curious to see what's happening some of it I guess might work some of it I guess might not work but we can't find out in the other way and I don't want to see these clinics working and in isolation and nobody's ever at least learning what's coming out of the data even if it's not perfect so I'm excited to work with these clinics and go see what they're doing right now that's maybe not the answer to your question but there's a lot of cutting edge stuff going on and I will pretty much work with people if they're doing something I consider safe and if they're honest about the data on efficacy those are the two things I ask transparency and safety and then I'm happy to like try to interact what are you seeing that you're worried about what trends do you see that people are doing from a biohacking longevity standpoint that that have you concerned either and I'll put this in two buckets the higher bucket would be safety the second bucket would be predatory behavior around basically people getting you know having having their money wasted even if the agents that are being sold are not necessarily harmful yeah I think the first one I'm excited about gene therapy don't get me wrong I think it's interesting and it may really change the field going forward I even kind of like follow-statt but I'm follow-statt and as a protein yeah yeah but I think that those treatments are not very well proven yet and I would not do I ask the question what I you have sold 100 thousand dollars for follow-statt and gene therapy I probably don't have to spend the money and I still have a dud at so I've done MSC's though yeah I've the to try that and I think you know stem cells it's a it's a different question there I think if you're repairing soft tissue damage or something like that and injecting them directly probably works um for aging I have no idea but I think it's probably safe if you have somebody that's a good practitioner that knows what they're doing but I think there's a lot of this a problem with stem cells you go places and you really don't know who you're working with and you know if they're really treating the cells correctly if you're putting the right things in your system and so there's a safety concern they're based on the practitioner I think and so those are things that concern me I I haven't gotten totally on board with growth hormone yet I mean I think probably use correctly might be okay the data is interesting are you aware of human data that and I'm in your camp by the way which is actually had a bunch of friends over for dinner last night and this came up and yeah I was sort of uh I said look I I can't point to a study that tells you this is this is a bad idea and I've never spoken to a person who takes a modest judicious dose of growth hormone who doesn't tell me they feel that right so it's hard to believe it's not making people feel better um I also have never seen data to suggest it initiates yeah but it seems very biologically plausible that if you have cancer small amounts of cancer yeah your probability that this becomes clinically significant is higher in that case yeah again I say that with no data yeah me and so yeah my view has just been despite my own interest in trying things I I've I've left the growth hormone one off the list um is that an answerable question do you think yeah I think we could do clinical studies you know and some are being done with the rest of the safety of the concern right because you you really need to be able to try to track people for quite a long period of time so problem with the cancer is inevitable and all of these things right we we don't know what the long term yeah and and I guess you know it's a great area that you know this is a weird thing with these clinics right because you know you there's I think from what I read in your book you're you're doing sort of validated stuff you're you're you're not really out there in the stratosphere doing crazy stuff that we don't know about some of that I would like to think I'm not but I'll tell you there are people who are very critical of my use of rap a myson in in patients for for georeprotective reasons there are people who might think I'm crazy for giving people SGLT to inhibitors who don't have diabetes so yeah so I think there's things that we do not not for all of our patients and I again I fewer than 10% of our patients take rap a myson because my view is unless you're willing to have a very lengthy discussion about the pros the cons the risks the uncertainties and I don't give people an answer that says oh this is the stuff's amazing my answer is I don't know yeah here's how I think about it probabilistically here are the trade-offs and again after after you can tell I'm not a good salesman if only 10% of the patients are taking it look I think that's perfectly reasonable but there's they're cutting stewing some really out there stuff yeah and how do we know the long-term safety on it we just yeah I think I think if you're gonna go do that stuff you need to go in with your eyes open you're you're taking a risk I've just seen so many horror stories of people that have come back from parts of the because you can't do this a lot of the stuff you can't even do in the United States so they're coming back from South America Mexico places in Asia having done fallest at therapy or other sort of very questionable stem cell therapies and I mean people that have had horrible infections like literally just artifacts of the treatment never lots of practitioner problem with this yeah exactly yeah yeah but you know some great stuff happening to I work with Brumran grad hospital in Thailand and they've got a longevity clinic now and they're very grounded in good science and so yeah but the problem is if you're a consumer for these products it's really hard to know you know so how someone listening to us who's saying guys can you give me give me some rules of thumb some heristics for navigating the never never ending landscape of of longevity hacks that keep you know showing up on my Instagram feed my TikTok feed and at cocktail parties yeah I mean that could be that could be diet books and not just going to clinics in the around the world I think it's really difficult to sort that out and because it's the but there's what I was gonna say is it's it's clinical practice and research at the same time it's a very unique situation right and and there aren't many examples of that that I know of that are really maybe some functional medicine is a little bit like that too but it's uh it's interesting and and I feel like it's better for scientists to engage with you know where it's possible to engage with these clinics and try to help them then it is to just let people do things and you know and without if you can provide oversight that's helpful you should be doing it then so that's kind of how I feel about it but it's a a lot of a lot of academics don't even want to work with these clinics at all too so and and so I get criticized for working with them sometimes so it's it's it's an interesting world right now well there are a lot of things we talked about today Brian that I can't wait to follow up on myself so I'm really looking forward to the Enghane's second gen lock paper that'll be interesting again my personal curiosity there will be is that clock providing value overall the other day we have my intuition is it won't but the fact that we now at least have a clock that can outperform biological age are part of me chronologic age is a step in the right direction I'm gonna be very interesting to see some of the data that you've talked about as far as Alfaqidic ludorate you've also peaked my curiosity with the sublingual LADM sorry and so that's that's really interesting have you been able to measure NAD levels in your RBCs I have that myself there have been some studies done on that exact supplement yes I I don't think you think anything is published is done by the company but okay and I do like this idea of taking ITP winners and combining them and seeing if we can get I mean if you could get a creative value I mean that would be remarkable but even if you could just get additive benefit would be pretty amazing yeah yeah I think so too right now I think that's still a hang up for the field well this was super interesting Brian I um I I really appreciate making the time to come out here I know that being on a plane for that long is not always fun but that's where I live anyway so it's Thanks a lot

I talk about these things called the fore-oursemen. The four things that are basically coming for us all. I really should have added a fifth-horseman, and that is immune health. Thank you for bringing this up. There are two organs that are rate-limiting in terms of your aging, and it's a central nervous system, and the immune system. What is our strategy for mitigating immune decline? The proof is in a putt-it-putting, in a way that we know exercising, and a combination of exercise is the best anti-aging intervention we have turned over to where you wanted to around metabolism. What is it about metabolism that is really so important? I'm convinced that it is fuel utilization. I think ketones are probably the cleanest fuel to burn, in terms of, again, byproducts oxidative stress. You're going to put more GLP1 in the system. You're going to overcome the resistance at the beta cell. You make more insulin, you now have better glucose control. Everybody wins. I just wanted to really experiment for myself to try to see, okay, what is this job really doing? It's been nothing short of remarkable, I think. How could it be that supplementing NAD does not lead to a longer, better life or some health benefit? Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Eric, thank you so much for coming to Austin. I know it wasn't just to talk to me. I know that the half of it was getting you to drive on the track at Kota, tomorrow with me, so we're going to have some fun there. My pleasure. But as much as I think the two of us could sit here and talk about race cars for the next three hours, I don't think the audience would appreciate it or care for it as much as they will care for what we will talk about, which is your work in neuroscience. So maybe give folks a little bit of a sense of what attracted you to this field and how you're journeying background to brought you where you are. It's a bit of a serendipitous type of story in a way that I'm an MD by training from Belgium. Did my last year of medical school at Harvard and this just sort of opened my eyes to a whole world. I was the first person and my family to go to college, so this was ending up at Harvard with some of the best teachers. Some of the best students was just mind-blowing. I went to medical school wanting to do research. There was never had that sort of a doctor fiber, I call it, so I really wanted to actually do research. So after this finished medical school and came back for the regular postdoc at the Charleston Clinic working on diabetes and metabolism. This is where the story gets so critical. Ended up becoming interested in the reason for the etiology of type 1 diabetes and worked on viruses and autoimmunity. This eventually led me to mostly a career in neurology which confuses people. So I spent many years working on a variety of viruses including HIV and herpes viruses and so on. And through that work we ended up cloning a family of protein called the some of the first epigenetic regulators, the H-dax. And the H-dax at the time that there was 1996 we were responsible for the cloning of a whole family of these epigenetic regulators ended up being important in aging and starting in around 1995, 1996 my lab slowly shifted towards the study of aging. And to this point today actually I only have one last postdoc in the lab who's working on HIV. The whole lab is actually focused on epigenetics, immunology and metabolism so that the interface between these variables. So in some way it's the beauty of an academic career which I've just followed my interest and sometimes followed the money a little bit in terms of funding. Yeah. And now I mean I had another additional responsibility which is to lead the back Institute for research on aging so I split my time between the lab and some more leadership type of activities. You mentioned two things there, metabolism and immunology. Talk a little bit more about how each of those individually contributes to aging. I think most people will intuitively understand it but but talk maybe a little deeper about it. Well first immunology is central to aging in many respects. One of the, and I hope we can talk, you get to talk about this later. There is data showing that there are two organs that are rate limiting in terms of your aging and its essential nervous system and the immune system. And the reason for this is actually one could have predicted this based on the fact that both organs are distributed organs. If you think of the immune system it's located in pretty much throughout the whole organism. And so its activity can influence the well-being or the functioning of every single organ. The same goes for the central nervous system and there's recent study coming out actually from the lab of Tony Whiskeray showing that those biomarkers that measure aging in those organs appears to be the most predictive of your lifespan. There's also incredible data showing that if you induce a specific lesion in the immune system. For example, in my small role, if you you knock out ERCC1, the inadamage, repair only in the bone marrow so that the whole immune system is affected. You actually induce, etc. in aging in the whole organism and synescence in every single organ. So there's the immune system in what model? It's been done in two different models in mice. So there's been done with the ERCC1 mutation. It's also been done by knocking down the major trans-team-fam, the major transcription factor from mitochondria. So if you induce mitochondrial dysfunction only in the immune system, you induce secondary synescence in the whole organism. You think that would be true in mammals or in humans? That's always a million dollar question. In some way, it's been shown in two different models in mice. B6 which I don't remember the exact strain of the mouse, but there's no reason why it should be different, frankly. And it speaks to the importance of the immune system. The second way for the immune system is through chronic inflammation, which is tied, caused and effect in the whole aging process. Now, and we can talk about this later as well. I find it fascinating, you know, the whole idea of chronic inflammation, which is induced by the aging process, but which itself actually further accelerates aging. So there's really a lot of work that's being conducted in this area. The other one that you were asking is metabolism. I think is... Can I ask you a question before we go? Yeah. That's a very interesting idea that two organ systems that are going to be rate limiting in age are the central nervous system and the immune system, both at which are distributed. Where would you put the endothelium in that list as well? Right? The endothelium is also quite distributed across the organism. And do you think that there's an inevitability to basically endothelial damage as a process of aging, which of course results in the leading cause of death, the theathristalorotic diseases? Would you think of it the same way or do you think of it as different? It's not sort of defined as an organ by itself. It's a cell type, but I agree with you has incredible importance. And especially as it affects the, you know, the heart and cardiovascular system and the brain. And the brain. But I think of it as not so much as an organ but more as a sort of a principle that maintenance of barrier function. Yeah. And not only in the endothelium, but also in the skin, in the blood-brand barrier, our emerging as key areas to focus on if you want to maximize your longevity. Yeah. I want to come back to this in great detail Eric, but let's for the sake of summary and synthesis, turn over to where you wanted to around metabolism. So metabolism is essential to life expectancy if you look at and for a number of reasons. And one of them I'm convinced even though that theory has been somewhat discredited the whole oxidative stress theory of aging, I still think oxygen is one of the major problems associated with the aging process. You know, we have not been able to target the oxidative stress using antioxidant that has failed. It doesn't mean that the whole oxidative stress theory of aging is not valuable. I think living in an oxidative environment is really, you know, is one of the mechanisms that leads to aging. Not the only one aging is playomorphic. But just to make sure folks understand what you're saying Eric, you're saying that the generation of free radicals through oxygen. So I don't know how technical we want to get for people, but I think unfortunately we might need to get a little more technical and apologies to those who don't want to go this deep. But we have to talk about kind of what the role of the electrons are in oxygen and why free radicals form and what they do. So maybe we do go a little deeper here and explain what you're saying because it's a very important concept and I think we should probe it. Well, I don't know how how much I mean, maybe you do a better job at explaining this in the in for the late late person. I mean, oxidative stress is a fact that pretty much the main metabolic reaction are dependent on oxygen, which gives its electron. It's in the so-called respiratory chain. There is leakage in of these electrons that are traveling down in respiratory chain. Leakage at a specific place is, you know, if the process was 100% efficient, the whole energy would be transferred from metabolites such as glucose and so on. But it turns out the mechanism is actually leaky. These electrons reacting with oxygen can generate these by products called radical oxygen species, which are highly reactive. Right. So they're not chemically stable the way we think of a normal atom of oxygen. No. And so they tend to react with proteins, with fatty acid and the induced lesions. And we have a whole, I mean, the importance of this system in terms of our protection against it is highlighted by the number of molecular system that we have that are actually protecting against this. And we know that as we age, that leakage increases. Exactly. Something about the integrity of the mitochondria and the respiratory electron transport chain degrades as we age. And therefore we see more and more of this leakage. Yeah. Yes. Absolutely. And so out of this game, the whole idea, well, let's just suppress oxidative stress. And, you know, there are chemicals, even some as simple as vitamin E, vitamin C that you could imagine that by chemical knowledge would be predictive to be able to quench these radical oxygen species. And so the number of the idea, sorry, to just keep interrupting you, but we'll play off to each other to do this. Yes. So you eat, for example, an antioxidant. And as you said, it neutralizes that reactive oxygen species with its unstable electrons kind of like you would throw a blanket on a fire that's simmering. Exactly. And that was the hope. So one of the theory was proposed. A whole industry actually grew up out of this, the whole antioxidant. And the antioxidant diet and the, you know, the vitamin ends and so on. You can still, by the way, that that whole industry is still existing to get us. Now, what happened is that when clinical trials were conducted in this area, they failed. And so, you know, people who think relatively simply decided, well, the antioxidant failed, therefore, the theory has no validity. And I would say not so fast because it turns out that these radical oxygen species also have important roles. They actually are inducing an inflammatory response, which can be protective. And a good example is during exercise. There is some evidence of activation of oxidative stress during exercise. And if you, you know, neutered this, for example, with anti-inflammatory, you probably remember the data showing that anti-inflammatory drug tend to sort of suppress some of the beneficial effects of exercise. It's the same, same whole idea. And so this is one case in which these radical oxygen species can have a protective role. And actually a signaling role. So when you suppress it completely with these sort of global, non-specific antioxidant, essentially you're not only killing the bad guys, but you also suppressing an important signaling mechanism. There's another hypothesis that I would offer, which is, is it possible that there's still a net negative to the free radicals. So there might be some benefits but more negatives. But it could be that the trials were using agents that were simply ineffective because the problem is we don't have a great biomarker for the state of free radicals. So it's sort of like saying, I have a hypothesis that this biological process is bad. I can't measure it really, but I think it's bad. I have a drug that I think will tamp it down. Let's give the drug the trial failed. Well, do you actually know if it tamped the thing down? Like, so we don't even know if we tested the hypothesis correctly. And so those would be kind of too distinct plausibilities. I completely agree. And it's quite often the case. I mean, the whole story of vitamin D is a good example. Absolutely. Where people will tell you, you know, vitamin D doesn't work because they conduct clinical trials, but they didn't, you know, fix it in just the dose, they didn't measure the levels. So it's a bit the same story. They are markers that you can actually do use in research environment like five hydroxinoneinol or protein carbonulation, which are indirect markers of lipids or protein oxidation. And how efficacious or beneficial, or, I guess the word is maybe, how complete are they in the scope of understanding and have we demonstrated that mega doses of vitamin E or vitamin C will indeed suppress those markers in humans? They're not great. They're not great. I had a colleague at the Buckingham Institute, Martin Brand, who is one of the leaders of a whole mitochondrial bio, a philical bio energetics, which is the study of how the respiratory chain and energy metabolism happens in mitochondria. And he came up with the idea that he identified many of the sites where these unique radical oxygen species are generated. And he was able to generate specific inhibitors for each of the sites. And was able to show that actually, inhibition at some sites was beneficial while inhibition at other sites was not beneficial. And so this project was actually supported by a farmer company, which eventually decided to drop the program. And he's retired, which I think is a great loss because of it, it is a whole program that needs that still needs to be pursued. So if I'm understanding what you said correctly, Eric, sounds like there's a much more nuanced view. It's not that free radicals are bad, and it's not that free radicals are good. It's like everything in biology. It's the Goldilocks rule. You might need more of it during this circumstance in this part of the body. You might need less of it in this circumstance at this totally different part of the body. And as a result, any strategy that would try to globally suppress it could even if successful in doing it, which we haven't been able to measure, might actually not yield to a favorable outcome. Totally correct. Totally correct. I had frustrated by these types of the way that people sort of love to oversimplify or sort of erase whole fields. I suspect we will get to talk about certitudes, because the same thing has happened in the certitudes. There's a lot of amazing work done, and then a few negative results or things not working out. Any de-metabolism, same thing. And I always tell people, once you get into any field of study and you go deep and you start testing in humans, put on your seed belt, because it's not easy. And there are no magic bullets, but I think stopping the study and saying to whole field is as pretty for me, not the way to go. We got to keep dig deeper. And eventually, we'll get to that. So tell me what else within Metabolism you think is kind of a hallmark of aging. So we obviously talked about the central part of Metabolism, which is respiration and ATP generation and the leakage that occurs there. And basically, unfortunately, that just appears to be inevitable. Yes. But we will never stop the oxygen in our environment. So yeah. I do like to tell my patients that this is why I kind of harp on them to do a lot of zone to cardiovascular training. So zone two very specifically by definition, is the canonical exercise you would do to maximize fat oxidation, which of course implies the most efficient use of the mitochondria. And the hypothesis, because I don't think we know, we don't have proof of this, but the hypothesis is training at that level for specific periods of time throughout the week is a way to improve the health and function of your mitochondria, which would hopefully imply that you're reducing that degradation of function. Do you think there's validity to that, at least, you know, first order logic? Yeah. I mean, the proof is an a pudding in a way that we know exercising and a combination of exercise is the best anti-aging intervention we have. Do you think part of it is through that exact mechanism? Yeah. I mean, that's been my hypothesis, but again, we can't fully glean that in any human clinical trial. No, hard to study. And I think, you know, your point allows me to sort of address your question. What is it about metabolism that really is so important? I think I'm convinced that it is fuel utilization. And you mentioned, you know, fatty oxidation versus glycolysis and I'll add ketosis to this. I think if you think about your metabolism is able to oxidize a number of different substrates. amino acids, fatty acids, glucose and ketones. And lactate. And lactate. Yeah. And every one of those actually burns with different efficiency. Both being car efficient at, I think your audience probably knows also that, you know, there's different to burn diesel to burn 100 octane gas. And, you know, if you look at that hierarchy, I think ketones are probably the cleanest fuel to burn in terms of, again, byproducts oxidative stress. They seem to be really unique. Yeah. How would you rank order from cleanest to dirtiest inclusive of lactate? Lactate, I would not be able to put it. I think it's part of clean. Yeah. I think my intuition is it is of all. Yeah. But it would be the top would be beta hydroxybutary. beta hydroxybutary acetylacetate is present such low abundance. It's probably not relevant as a few fuel source. Then fatty acid next is versus actually glucose. And when you think about metabolism and managing for me, it goes to a lot of data that has emerged from the ITP, for example, intervention testing program. This rich Miller has been on cell phone. Yes. I watch your recent podcasts with a rich and others. One of the remarkable thing when you look at the drugs that have a seven or whatever ten drugs that have emerged out of 80, they are really targeting glucose metabolism. And very via completely different mechanism. Think about a carbo's, which is blocking absorption of glucose. Think about the can I take a closer. And which is targeting a protein as nothing to do links to protein glucose reabsorption in the kidney. Think about metformin, which is a metformin failed. Yeah. It failed, but it seems to be having very powerful effect in terms of, it failed unless it was paired with rap a mice. Yes. And in monkeys, there's a study coming out that showed that actually had an effect on lifespan. So, do you think rap a mice and has any impact on glucose metabolism favorably? Generally, actually, this is, the rope on mice in the Zyops, the exception to this because it seems to have some, it's not indifferent. It has been claimed to be having an effect on insulin sensitivity. Although I'm not clear if that's true at the doses, but anyway, yeah, we can go back to that. I've taken rap a mice in. I have not seen any effect on my blood sugar. Now, so think about, you know, a carbo's kind of glyphosin metformin and now the GLP one-eyed genist, which I predict will emerge as geroprotectors in the future. So, I think that's really speaks to an important aspect which is fuel utilization and how, you know, whether you're burning a clean fuel, whether you're burning a dirty fuel. No, we've put, for example, mice on a pure fat diet. These mice never saw a carbohydrate during their life and they lived longer, which I thought was actually quite interesting. It is interesting, Eric, because a lot of the mouse literature, I think people don't read the fine print very closely and they don't notice that the typical thing you'll see is these mice were fat a high fat diet to induce obesity so that we could test, you know, drug ABC against obesity. But in those studies, it's not just a high fat diet, it's a high fat, high sugar diet, right? So, they're making some insanely hyper palatable, you know, the closest I can come up with is they're making a donut. It's a fried dough, sugar food and you know, so they're making basically donuts for these monkeys and that's different than saying it's a high fat thing. So, yeah, I think it's important to point out because you know, a high fat minus the sugar might not be the same issue, right? I agree. At least in that model. Yeah. So, what do you think it is about glucose metabolism that leads to this? Because for all intents and purposes, let's just go through the metabolic pathways, right? So, glucose six carbons, it gets broken down into pyruvate, you get your two pyruvates for one glucose, right? And then pyruvate can, it let's just assume we're doing this under aerobic conditions, so we're not in a rush. We're going to take those pyruvates, do they turn into a seedle coase? I can't even remember to then enter the... It's actually one pyruvate and that leads to enters the mitochondria and becomes acetal coase. So, what is it about that process that is not as efficient as when you are cleaving off carbons from a free fatty acid and those carbons are turning directly into, I think, just a straight acetyl co-a and then entering the crebs cycle. What is, it's a very subtle difference. Why is one so much more inefficient? You mean, why is there more calories per fatty acid? No, no, no, no, no, that can be explained by the every geometry. Why is one quote unquote dirtier? Oh, okay, yes, yes, yes. I think, obviously, this is a really complicated question. So, I don't know that I would be able to really tell you purely as fuels whether there is a difference. I think the biggest difference is in terms of the whole mechanism they list it. And when we think about glucose, I don't think necessarily of it if you were to study it in a tissue culture dish that one would be toxic than the other. I don't think there's any evidence for this, but glucose and particularly the form of glucose that we have not evolved to actually be exposed to, which is all the weed products, you know, this fast form of glucose um, elicits insulin secretion. And I think insulin and IGF1, but particularly insulin is the culprit and this will process. So you're not saying that one mole of glucose, one mole of free fatty acid, we know there's a difference in ATP generation, but you're not saying that there's a different assuming they're both going through the mitochondria. You're not saying there's a difference in free radical formation mole per mole. Or are you saying that's this way? There's another way to explain it, which is per mole of ATP, you need to run so much more glucose through that of course you're going to get more leakage. Well, the key difference is that the glucose is generating ATP, not only viacetylcoe and pyrophate, but is also generating ATP in the intracellular, an intracellular plasma components. The fatty acid do not generate that's only, so I suspect that there might be a difference in terms of the amount of free radical that are generated. There's evidence, but I would not be able to set you the paper that's one cleans, one burns clean, more cleanly than the other. And I suspect it's part of the cytoplasmic component of glucose. It's also less efficient in terms of the amount, of energy that's being generated, program of fatty acid, or pemole of fatty acid, but moal of glucose. And then going back to the insulin IGF component here, what role do you think they're playing? Critical. Because epidemiologically and through studies, we know that the insulin response to your glucose, so if you do a lot of sports, I tell, I'm not a proponent of the low carbohydrate or no carbohydrate diet because there's very little evidence that those diets are actually beneficial. You know, I give you the example of a ketogenic diet, which we did experimentally, but these are not practical diet for anyone. Just because of the challenge in avoiding carbohydrates in the standard world we live in? Yes. I would say, but socially, palatable, I mean, there's so many reasons. I went on a ketogenic diet. From what I remember, I think you went to... I did for three years. That was on a ketogenic diet, so we should compare notes. Because I wanted, I want to hear your experience and then I want to ask you a couple questions about it. It was very hard. How long did you do it? For a couple of years, and I did not feel super healthy, which is really kind of interesting. I found it sort of socially isolating. We've worked actually to remedy this on we can talk about this later on on a novel ketocut. I think ketone ester, right? Exactly. A bit of hydroxybuterate. So going back to the overall of insulin, there is a lot happening in terms of, you know, that's been documented that the intensity. First, your average glucose plays a role. This is measured by himoglobin A1C in a whole series of complication cardiovascular as you know. Perhaps more important is the intensity of your peaks. And I think, you know, the intensity of the peaks of insulin is a reflection of your glucose intake. The fast, fast absorbing glucose. And that has been from... That's the reason why we advocate advocate people to, you know, go on a CGM, continue to glucose monitor, and to really learn to understand what spikes them. The whole idea is to mitigate these peaks of insulin secretion. I'm just going to play this for all of our patients because we have this discussion with everyone of our patients. So it'll be nice to just play this video and let you do the talking. The whole idea there is to again, to mitigate these peaks. And either dietary, or, you know, for example, the GFP1 Igonists are playing a role in this part. Let's talk about this because there is at least for me a great deal of confusion around this point. Now, we understand today the role that the gut plays in metabolism. And we understand that a lot of it is transduced through GLP1. So endogenous production of GLP1 according to Ralph DeFranzo, the world's authority on this is what's driving 80% of beta-selectivity with respect to insulin. And therefore, when we have GLP, when we have insulin resistance, we can't, the GLP1 we're making is insufficient to generate the insulin that's required to manage the glucose. Make sense if that's the case that giving exogenous GLP1, you take a shot of trisepotide or semi-glutide, you're going to put more GLP1 in the system, you're going to overcome the resistance at the beta-select. You make more insulin, you now have better glucose control, everybody wins. Now, it's not clear that that has anything to do with the weight side of it and that that's a separate issue and I want to actually talk about that because there are two very interesting theories as to why these things cause weight loss. But point here is, wouldn't you expect to see higher levels of insulin in someone taking a GLP1 Agonist to achieve that better glycemic control? Yes, and that's not what you see. And I don't have an answer for this, but I've seen the same thing. I've seen the same thing, including personally, I've been experimenting with Tussetepotide. My insulin is five now, which is, you know, lowest that you can possibly get it. And I was expecting, there was a part of me that was worried that I was going to go against my whole theory about, you know, have you checked post-prandially? Have you done an oral glucose tolerance test where you look at, because that might be something to do to see what is happening to post-prandial insulin, along with post-prandial glucose, which of course will be better. No, I haven't. That would be an interesting test to do. Yeah. And I've wanted to see GM, my A1C has gone from five point four, five point five to five point O, and my insulin is down to five point O as well. So, and did you lose any weight? I lost a little bit of weight, not a huge amount, six to seven pounds, which was never the goal to start with. The whole idea was, and no loss of muscle mass, which actually is the big, the big boogaboo that, you know, people will have you fear, no loss of muscle mass if you are exercising if you are. So, for me, it's an experiment. I haven't decided this is something I'm going to continue, but I just wanted to really experiment it for myself to try to see, okay, what is this job really doing? And it's been nothing short of remarkable, I think, in some way, one of the most surprising has been for me the feeling of satiety. You know, you hear about satiety. I was never in my whole life, the type of person that felt full. I could always eat more. And all of a sudden, after about two weeks on this, I just looked at my plate, I said, I'm full. And I heard myself saying this, and it just felt like, well, this is really completely different. And for me, not the reason why I'm excited about these drugs is, and by the way, this is not an endorsement, this is something to disobey. Yeah, yeah, this is self-experimentation for the ass. It's experimentation, which is a long part of the tradition of our field, which I love. And the whole idea is really to, for me, the thinking was, one of the biggest advance in longevity medicine is this idea that a range is meaningless. And as a practice and physician, you know this, I went to medical school and we were told that, your blood pressure has to be 130 over 90. There was a no, a single normal range. So you could be 128 over 88, then you were still considered normal. The same thing I went to see my personal physician and told in, you know, my blood sugar is creeping up every year that I'm doing it. And now it's 96, fastening blood sugar, and I'm worried, because soon I'm going to be pleased. And you said it's below 100. It's okay. It's only your normal delivery. And I told him, I said, what is normal? And I think this is, this really is where I think longevity medicine is going to make an important impact. So, I can't tell you how many times I've had this argument with people about glucose. And here's the funny thing. We have the literature. In other words, we have literature in non-diabetics. You want to see that says the lower the A1C, the lower the all-caused mortality. It's a monotonic reduction that knows no lower limit. So we say that up to 5.6 is normal. And if you're at 5.6, and 5.5 is better than 5.6 and 5.4 is better than 5.5 and 5 is better than 5.4. And 4.8 is better than 5.5. Yeah, but my point is I also find it. I don't know what the word is. Maybe sad. I find it sad that we've simplified this problem in an effort to communicate, but have lost the essence of where is lower better. Because it's not always true in biology. It's not, when you look at TSH for example, when you look at thyroid hormone, much more narrow band in which we would say there's optimal. And lower is not, if it's too low or too high, it's problematic. But it turns out that when it comes to average blood glucose in a non-type one diabetic, or someone who's taking insulin, under natural physiologic circumstances, it's just better to be lower. And as you age, it just keeps creeping up. Same thing for blood pressure. Yes. You know, they're revisiting the number every five years in terms of making it lower. I think if your blood pressure is a 105 over 65, you're better off than if you're 115 over 75. That's right. Provided you're not symptomatic, lower is always better. And so I think it's, you know, I'm frustrated, but I'm also excited by the fact that this is now becoming a norm in a whole new field of physicians who are more aware of what actually what is health. And the same for your weight. You know, we know that it's a J, I mean, that's the thing that is really interesting in the whole age aging field is this idea that everything is a J curve. So there's there's a sweet spot where you want to be. And quite often it's broad enough that you can maneuver this in a way to optimize people's health. What do you think is the relationship between I mean, body weight is so crude, but maybe we can even talk about it through adiposity, body fat, and and longevity, once correcting for metabolic health. So it's obvious that so much of the relationship we see between body fat and poor health is really just a proxy for something that's harder to measure, which is metabolic health. It's very easy to measure body fat. And we estimate body fat from BMI. And so that's why we have all these population data from BMI. But as if you have the luxury of working with actual patients, I couldn't tell you the BMI of one person. I take care of but I know everybody's body fat, everybody's visceral fat, and everybody's oral glucose tolerance test. So we know what we know and we know what matters. Are you convinced that adiposity per se is problematic or do you believe that a person can have excess body fat, but be metabolic healthy and confer the same longevity benefit as a metabolic healthy lean person? I mean, we know there are people who are of considered overweight, who are metabolically healthy. Yes. I mean, easily 20% in my experience. Yes. And I'm not where I think that's these are facts. No one can dispute them. You can be overweight and metabolically healthy. What I worry about is that is the long-term effect. Do you mean from an orthopedic perspective with the other complications that come from excess weight? Or are you saying that they're basically increasing their probability of eventually going off the metabolic slide? Both. I honestly, I don't know what the data says, but my worry would be that you might be metabolically looking healthy when you're 40, but if you sustain this for 20 years, and are clearly visceral fat. Yeah, different categories. It's a highly predictive of everything. The other thing I'll say also, the BMI itself is a MIBMI is at the border of being overweight. I am overweight by BMI. I'm four pounds. If I lost four pounds, I would get down to a BMI of 25. And I have 11% body fat. So I don't worry about it because I know all in all, I'm metabolically healthy. My numbers are good and all this. And some way. Yes, it's not a particularly helpful. I mean, it serves its purpose at the population level, but it can't be used to make a decision about an individual at all. Exactly. But it can also sometimes, you know, become a confounding variable, and when people do studies and they use these numbers, and they make predictions or they draw conclusions that are really not based on the fact that that I BMI fraction of the population is heterogeneous in terms of metabolically healthy. I think this is really where. So my colleagues at the back Nathan Price and Lee Hood, I've actually published a paper. I didn't realize they were at the buck. Yeah, both of them. They were up in Seattle before weren't they? Yes, we recruited both of them actually in the last two years. Congratulations. Yeah, thank you. I think this is transformative for fantastic good. Fantastic. Exciting. Lee still partially in Seattle, so it's partially at the buck, but he's brought, you know, we've established a collaboration with Fino Melf, and Nathan was at Thorn, and there's still a CSO at Thorn, but faculty member at the buck. So I think it, and they're really helping us to do something really exciting along these lines. For example, they had a paper describing this BMI, but biochemical BMI based on biological markers that essentially assess, you know, a humetabolic status. So I think that's, you know, those tools are available, and it's a question of educating the physicians. Do you know what makes up that biological BMI? No, but I'll give you the paper. So okay, we spent a little more time on metabolism than we did immune health and the immune system overall. I'd actually like to go back and talk about it a little bit more. I think again, the listeners of this podcast are very familiar with the metabolic stuff. We haven't had as many discussions on the immune system. Talked about it, length with respect to cancer. Had Steve Rosenberg on a few years ago, that was a fantastic discussion, explaining the role of the immune system in cancer, which I think we're going to have to talk about here, because I mean, I certainly feel convinced that a big part of why cancer incidents goes up exponentially with age is the declining immune system, not just the accumulation of mutations, although I imagine they both play a role. But I will tell you something else, Eric, which is, you know, I wrote a book a couple of years ago about this space, and in the book, I talk about these things called the forehorsesman. And I describe them as the four things that are basically coming for us all. If you manage to outlive youth, right? So if you're, you know, this is not to diminish the role of trauma and other things that are deadly, but for many people living in OECD nations, it's going to come down to ASCVD cancer, demanding a neurodegenerative diseases and metabolic diseases. And people often say Peter, is there anything you wish you'd written in the book that you would, if you go back in time, you would do. And I say, yeah, there are probably many things that I thought about it, but the first thing that jumps out is I really should have added a fifth horsesman, and that is immune health. And the types of infections that ravage people in old age, that a young person wouldn't even laugh at. Thank you for laughing, right? So thank you for bringing this up, because we, you know, the immunology field somewhat, immunology and aging have been not really mixing very well. One problem is that immunology is an extremely complex and advanced field, probably one of the, along with neuroscience, one of the most complex. So when you go to an aging meeting, there is no one talking about immunology. You go to immunology meeting, there are very few people talking about aging. And we're trying to navigate even the nomenclature is being used differently. People are increasing. And immunology talk about immunosinessence, meaning aging of the immune system, they don't mean senessence the way we talk about aging. So that yields all kinds of crazy communication problems. Yeah, because if you're in the aging field, then you hear immunosinessence, you think of sasps and things that are being succeeded by T-cells. It just means aging of the immune system. Now, the reason why I think this is a tragic failing for both field is what happened during COVID. It was became obvious that, you know, being infected was not, you know, the risk of infection was not linked to your age. The virus infected everyone across, but the outcome could be completely different with 84 excess, 84 fold excess mortality if you were above 75, 84 fold. Now, you know, when this happens, and we can go in terms of trying to understand why why did this happen, what are the reasons for this? I went and started to look at the literature. Influenza, it's exactly the same thing. RSV, same thing. So all of these viruses that are, you know, that you can contract in later years will kill you. You know, with really significant rates, you know, influenza, I think 30,000 people die every year from influenza. The mortality in terms of COVID was really highly segregated into the older part of the population or in that part of the population that showed, like said, a riddaging obesity and so on. So I think there's a, there's a lot there. Do you think that that most of the mortality, any anytime we saw a gap in mortality, whether it was young versus old, whether it was obese versus non-obes, diabetic versus non-diabetic, because where any anytime you looked at that, you saw a difference in mortality. Do you believe that it was always a difference in immune function? I mean, with the young versus old, it's very obvious, but do you think that was also true in the other comorbidities? Yes, yeah, I would say so. And it comes from two reasons. One is, you know, there are two broad immune system, the, where we call the innate and the adaptive immune system. I don't know if you're one, the childhood. I would. I actually was going to say, I think it is worth going full boron this. I think it is time for people to roll up their sleeves and understand arguably the most interesting system in the human body. I am biased. I spent two years at the NCI doing immunology, but I think this is such an interesting field. Yeah, so our immune system is built to recognize foreign elements. That's really is why it evolved. It has two lines of defense against microbes. Bacteria, viruses, fungi, all of those. We are constantly bombarded by those. It is actually amazing because I mean, the evidence of this is a few immune system doesn't function. The bubble is incompatible with life. It's a lot of good life. So we are, you know, we're colonized with bacteria in and out and our skins everywhere. So we are constantly respond to them in an appropriate manner. And we survive everything, including disruptions to the barriers. Absolutely. Absolutely. And so we have two lines of defense in the immune system. First, so called in-80 immune system, which is your microfages, your dendritic cells, but also pretty much every cell has a whole series of mechanism that are not pathogen specific. That is, they will recognize an intruder, be it virus, be it fungi, be bacteria, and it will activate the first line of defense. Those lines of defenses are non-specific and therefore they're less effective. And they give time to the so-called adaptive immune system, which is the second part, which is made up of T cells and B cells. And both of those cells have highly selective defense mechanism. The B cells make antibodies, which will go recognize a bacteria or a fungus or a virus. And the T cells, which are able to actually kill the infected cells itself. So a real recognize when the cell is colonized by a foreign pathogen and will kill it. So the, you know, the time course of these is that, you know, once you get your encounter pathogen, you will be activated your in-80 immune response. Typically, you know, it can be fever, it can be all kinds of symptoms, but activation of this defense. And this gives the whole organism a couple of weeks to actually build the defense for the specific, that there will specifically recognize this organism. That's a good one. Let's talk a little bit about memory within that system. The beauty of the adaptive, so the DNA immune system does not really have a memory, true memory. It will always react in the same way, no matter how many times you encountered the same. You get the same, so if you get the same virus, so if your, if your kids are ping-ponging the same respiratory virus at you from school, yes, your innate immune system has the same playbook. Yes, fever. You're going to get red. You're going to like, wh-whatever, yeah, and you're going to get sore. All of those things are going to happen regardless. Exactly. Yeah. And that's in contrast to the adaptive immune system, because once the initial response has been generated, either via an infection or evaxination, this is what evaxination is. It presents you with a given fraction or the whole virus or a part of it. Your body will mount a response. And this will yield, this will lead to the amplification of a subset of cells that are selective. So I think about you either your t-cells or your b-cells, none of them are the same. We have a process by which we generate so-called diversity, which is billions of different forms of antibodies or t-cell receptors that are recognizing in principle every chemical structure, every protein from a microorganism. Now, what happens during the initial encounter in the vaccine or an infection is those b-cells or those t-cells that have a receptor that is able to recognize the pathogen will become amplified. And they will turn out larger amount of the antibody or the t-cell clones. Once the job has been done, they will contract, but it will not contract back down to the same level. They will become what we call memory t-cells or memory b-cells. So that if you encounter the same entidion in the future, the reactivation process is shortened. The maturation happens faster. So eventually, that's the whole idea of the vaccination. It's to sort of get yourself ready with a subset of memory t-cell clones or b-cell clones that once the true virus will come, you will be able to mount the response within a few days or up to a week. And so that's how vaccination works. Now what's interesting during ageing is people are not aware of this. If you're above 70, most vaccinations do not work. And so people then will ask, they actually do immune system as aged and your vaccination rates really decreases very strongly. For what I remember, this might be different in different populations, but the vaccination rates success is close to 30%. If you're above 70. Now what would you're in COVID? What was the risk reduction for a person over 75 who was vaccinated versus not vaccinated? It was almost complete reversal of the effect in terms of the protection. Meaning it was highly protective. Yeah, it was protective. So how are we reconciled those two facts? Yes true. And I don't know, to be honest, I don't know how this has been studied. I don't know. I would be happy to read about this. Okay. How? Because the COVID vaccine seems to have had a remarkable risk reduction in very old people. Didn't seem to have an impressive risk reduction in younger people? Because the absolute risk was so low. It didn't seem to matter that much, but boy, did it matter in older people? But did it matter by at the population level or the individual level? This is what I'm not sure about? I certainly don't want to go on record saying something that I don't know. Yeah, it's the same thing that I mean. But my question. Yeah, I mean, we, you know, I think we can find the answer and put it in the show notes. My recollection could be wrong is that the older a person got the greater the benefit they got from COVID vaccines with respect to mortality. So I guess the question is, let's maybe talk about other vaccines. Is that not the case with influenza? Is that not the case with pneumococcus or any of the other vaccines that are used primarily in older adults? In general, at least, and I'm not a vaccine specialist, but the thinking is that there's a dramatic decrease in the efficiency of vaccination against influenza, against RSV, against all of those as UH. The thinking then is how how does it work at the population level? And this is where the whole concept of herd immunity works is that if you limit the spread of the infection in a family, for example, you're left much less likely to effect grandpa who is, you know, who will. I see. So that's been my understanding of how most of these viruses, this is, I'm asking a different question. That's an important question. I guess I was asking the, obviously they didn't probably do a randomized control trial. So you've got all these confounders in it, but I wonder if they just looked at all comeers to the hospital vaccinated versus non. Let's try to control for all the confounders. If the hazard ratio is 1.2, it means nothing or 0.8. But if the hazard ratio was, you know, 0.2 or 8. Well, you'd say even with the confounders, there must be some high degree of protection that came from that. So anyway, I'm sure someone listening to this knows the answer to that. We'll try to find the answer and put in the show notes. But so let's go back to the why. Why is it that as a person ages, they're less likely to respond to a vaccination. Is it because A, the immune system, the adaptive immune system is less able to recognize the foreign pathogen and build up a high enough reserve of T cells and B cells that will respond or is it B that they can do that, but the ability for those cells to stay in a memory state and B reactivated is somehow impaired. I think it's both. Isn't everything engaging? Aging is, but there's one aspect which is really unique at least in terms of T cell, which are really instrumental in terms of most of vaccine response, is the fact that these T cells are the diversity of the T cells is generated by the thymus. And the thymus small organ behind the sternum. How big is your thymus and my thymus right now? I'm 68. So it's probably very, very embryonic and it's probably not much left after age 50. And most people you find it very small. Now the, where as it, when you're young, it's actually you can see it on an imaging sketch that I would imagine if you and I had a CT scan of the chest, you'd barely be able to pick it up. Exactly. And it's replaced by fat actually in most people as you age. Although there is somewhat controversial evidence that there might still be some clones that can be reactivated even in all the people. And a human growth hormone, as you know, as one of the, the, the intervention that has been shown to actually re-induced thymogenesis. So let's, let's talk about that a little bit. Are you referring to that Fei paper from about seven or eight years ago that looked at growth hormone with metformin and DHA or something like that? That's one. But that Fei paper was actually inspired by work of a colleague of mine when I was at the Glutton Institute who did this actually mic, micute and colleagues did this in patients with HIV. And we're chronically infected with HIV where they lose a lot of their CD4 T-cells. And there was an interest in trying to see if you could actually, and so there's a big lesion initially in infection and there was an attempt to actually try to see if you could regenerate these populations to bring them back to a normal. Because even though we had great drugs against HIV, they could not bring those patients back to normal. There was a remaining sort of original insult. So they did a trial with a human growth hormone that were able to show some degree of thymogenesis and increase in naeft cells in these patients. And I believe the Fei trial actually tried to reproduce this. I think there's a second Fei trial that is ongoing or, but I haven't seen the results. Yeah, I mean the first one was, I don't remember the results, but the cocktail was a little suspect. So the GH made sense if that's your hypothesis. I believe, I've never spoken with Greg, but I believe reading the trial, the metformin, which was really given at a homeopathic useless dose. I think it was only given at 500, so apologies if it wasn't. I think it was only given at 500 was meant to offset the glucose metabolism disturbances of GH. Do you remember why the DHA was given? No. There was some reason for it that made sense on paper, but didn't make sense sort of physiologically. Now the more important question is, if my take on that trial was it was a single active agent, which was growth hormone. Like I don't think DHA does anything. I don't think 500 metformin does anything. So the question is, and it was a very small trial and I think it was open label. And I have a significant problem with the readout of that trial. So that's what I'm asking about. Remind me of the readout. The readout was one of the clocks. That's right. This was Steve Horvath was the other author of that. Exactly. And actually this whole story sort of pushed us into a whole project that we published down what we call ancient clock. Because they was indeed in the experiment, they are in the patience. They indeed observed some increase in the fraction of naive T cells, which tells you and me that something worked. The fraction of naive T cells increased with respect to the memory T cells. So naive T cells are the ones that are generated in the time. They are naive because they have never met their cognate antigen and they sit there waiting for something to happen. So the whole idea of treating with human growth hormone was to induce time and genesis and to restore the pool of these naive T cells. So I think it's some degree it works at low level. Then they used the clock on the whole blood. And my worry when I saw the paper, which is a worry that actually existed predated this, and was also a worry when people were using T-Lomerate, T-Lomerate, or Length. As the idea, when you sample the blood, as an immunologist, I know this is a highly dynamic organ. I think about the blood as an organ. We enumerated this point today with the best technology more than 500 different populations of cells in the blood. Suppose that these cells vary in response to any intervention and that these cells individually have a different epigenetic age, you would have the impression that you are rejuvenating, which is what's the claim of that phahypip or that they had rejuvenated people. But in effect, what you would do is simply change. Yeah, it's like you're on a sine wave that goes like this and you take two sample points. They could be here, they could be here, they could be here, you don't. And by the way, as you probably know, Matt Caberlin has famously purchased, I think, four or five of the commercially available aging clocks. He bought them in Duplicate and did all of them all simultaneously. Two of this, two of this, two of this, two of this, simultaneously, take 10 samples. Not only do all the clocks disagree with each other, but even within the same clock, there was disagreement, significant disagreement. So, yeah, I mean, I want to actually come back and talk about clocks in some detail, but given that that study was done years ago with an older clock, I think the clock part of it is not even remotely interesting. I think the more interesting question is, was there was there genuine thymic regeneration? If so, how do we reconcile a very pressing and vexing question within neuroscience, which is the role of growth hormone? Right? So, I've never taken growth hormone. I shouldn't say I've never prescribed it, I've prescribed it in very rare circumstances for injury healing, but I've never prescribed it for quote unquote longevity benefits. But a lot of people are out there doing so. And as such, I've had lots of patients who come to my practice who have been taking or are on growth hormone. And I will say this, to a person every single one of them has said, I feel so much better when I take growth hormone than when I do not. I mean, across the board, 100%. And I can't actually point to evidence that tells them it's bad to take. I can just sort of say it doesn't make sense to take. If our goal is to reduce the risk of cancer and if our goal is to slow the aging process. So, what is your take on that? Just your intuition, or is there any data you're aware of that would lead one to think that, well, maybe we could pulse a little bit of growth hormone here and there, if we get some thymic regeneration, we don't have to be on it all the time. I mean, how would you think about that? I do worry about it for, I'm not a specialist on growth hormone itself. In induces diabetes, it induces glucose intolerance. So, from that angle, I'm do worry about what it would do chronically, especially in someone young. For me, I really, it's a bit like increasing your protein intake. If you are, you know, there's that clear evidence that increasing your protein intake, especially as you age, becomes beneficial and the people who have higher protein intake actually do better in terms of muscle mass and so on. So, in someone who is 65 to 70, who is starting to feel, you know, the effect of or manifest some form of sarcopina, there might be a benefit for that person to actually increase muscular mass and all the benefits with this, especially if it's not done continuously. But I mean, I would argue, there's no doubt that there's benefits, but you're going to get far more efficacy from testosterone or antibiotics steroids when it comes to mitigating sarcopina. Growth hormone actually is not remarkable at inducing muscle mass. It's nowhere near as effective as testosterone. It's more effective at eliciting fat loss. But I wonder if there's something that goes beyond that, because I think when people tell me they feel better on it, I think they're talking about less aches and pains. Like just joints just feel better. I don't think anybody saying they feel better because their thymus is more plump. But I wonder if that to me would be a reason to potentially consider a schedule, you know, an intermittent schedule of something. If it's, again, going back to my macro thesis here, which is I've been harping on these four horsemen, four horsemen. Well, if we introduce a fifth horsemen, what is the strategy? Because I can give you chapter and verse the strategy for how you will mitigate heart disease cancer, all of these other conditions. What is our strategy for mitigating immune decline? I would say the same as a strategy that would mitigate decline in every other organ. You know, it is clear evidence that people access the effect of exercise on immunology is the same as in every single. So I'm not familiar with it, so tell me a little bit about that. I don't know specifically how exercise impacts the immune system. I don't know that, you know, I cannot speak just specific papers, but I mean, clearly, there's evidence that people who exercise actually respond to infection better, you know, respond to vaccination better, so that that's all been documented. I cannot speak just specific studies, but there is a sense of mechanistically why that's the case. It is so complex. I would say I would not be able to tell you. But that being said, I think the whole line of investigation to induce a thymic regiver nation, I think is an important one area, especially if we're thinking about increasing lifespan, further for what we are doing now. That's in the future, it will become one of these red limiting steps. It's a bit the same situation as the ovary, where you know, these are the ovary and the end of thymic are we call them the canary in the coal mine. I mean, they're really are a specific organs that show, etc. at ageing way earlier than other, than other tissues. Now, the question is, you know, why is the thymic involuting so early? I think it's probably because the evolutionary would never meant to live this old. And so that's really one of the thinking that that goes on. That's going to be in the long term, one of the problems that we have to face. And this is something we actively studying. And the lab is trying to just completely study where we are looking for novel biomarkers that are predictive of whether you will respond to a vaccination or not. And this is something done in collaboration with Mark Davis at Stanford, using the 1000 liminoam project, which is one of the largest studies studying aging in the immune system, only in humans. And so we've been able to studying people to identify some metabolites that are associated with poor response vaccine. And so those are not only markers, but they could also become tools that we include as adjuven, or as a pre-chidmaterial. I'm sure you're familiar with the work of Joan Manick. Of course, I was going to ask you about Manick and McSine in a moment. But before we do, I want to go back to this point here, which is, you know, biomarkers are so important. And when I think about cardiovascular disease, and even though it's the leading cause of death, why I tell my patients, it's the one you need to be least afraid of if you're willing to be proactive in management. And it comes down to the fact that we just have such a clear understanding of how the disease works. And we have exceptional biomarkers. So we can measure the things that are causing the disease. We can measure inflammation. We can measure ApoB. We can measure VLDL cholesterol, LP LLA. We also, we can measure blood pressure. We can measure metabolic health. And we know how to address those things. And we know that when we address those things, we can measure whether what we're doing is working. Okay. So problem solved, basically. When it comes to the immune system, let's, we're going to talk about Manick and McSine in a moment. But as we saw from their paper 10 years ago, they gave a rap a mice and analog to people, people who were in their 60s, vaccinated them and demonstrated that, oh boy, you got a much better immune response. Okay. They were able to demonstrate that using laboratory techniques. I'm sure they used flow cytometry or something like that to measure it. How close are we to being able to do that sort of thing commercially? By commercially, I mean, over the counter, like, not close. I think in that study, they actually measured antibody titers. So even more complicated the flow cytometry. Yes. Okay. And so um, in that case, they definitely showed an enhancing effect with a known, you know, geroprotector. This was a suspected geroprotector at least in humans. Exactly. Rapa log and they showed not only increased titers, but also protection, increased protection. Eventually the clinical child failed for a whole series of other reasons, which were in parts, due to the way that the FDA imposed the child to be generated. I think it's just complicated the whole picture. Yeah. By the way, for folks listening to us who were confused by that, Matt Cable and I had a specific discussion because it wasn't the 2014 trial. It was a later trial where they, it wasn't the RAD001 trial. It was the, it was the other trial that failed. And I actually don't remember the reason, but Matt explained it. It was very clear that it was a tragedy of bureaucracy. It is. And it shouldn't be viewed as a black eye on that molecule. Yeah. And I think, you know, Matt is more of a specialist in the whole Rapa mice and so it will differ to what he said, but well, the link in the show notes to where Matt and I had that discussion. Yeah. My, my, what I've heard from anyone that I've talked to, including Joan is that this was in some way, bungled, which is sad because sometimes things like this can put a field back for, you know, a number of years and then discourage investors. We have a startup that originated at the Bakoleo of Yen, which has raised $50 million, again, coming up with Rapa logs, novel Rapa logs that are going to be, I think, revisiting that whole, that whole picture. So quite excited. The field is far from being dead. What we ever be able to measure this in people the way we measure, hemoglobin A1C or things like that, or is it going to be one of those things where it's a bit of a leap of faith? And you're going to have to look at the clinical trial where the outcome was there. And then you're just going to have to say, well, even though there was probably massive hat heterogeneity amongst the participants in the trial, we're going to dose this thing individually. I mean, it's a little bit like, you know, you brought up Vitamin D earlier. I mean, one of the problems with the Vitamin D trials is that they're all garbage, right? Because they all just give people a given dose. They don't measure their response. They don't measure compliance. Vitamin D trial should be done based on target level, not target dose. And so we run the risk here of the same thing in a much more complicated system. agree. That being said, measuring pathogen specific tiders is done routinely in the clinic. I don't know if you did this, but I just had my measles tider measured. Because I'm born 1957, which is right the age at which before 1957, everyone was exposed to measles, so you're typically safe. And but you should measure your tider to determine whether you need to be revaccinated. And I find out that, yeah, you can do this very easily. You get a tider. With the tiders by themselves tell you, so what would you predict? So if I measured every tider right now, if I measured polio, shingles that a pan tider on you, and then started you on rap a micein for eight weeks and then stopped it and then re-measured your tiders without vaccinating you. What would you expect to see? I would not expect them to change. Yeah, exactly. So how do we know we're improving your immune system? If indeed we have. As you know, I see what you're saying. So in terms of if we were to start you on rap a micein, what would happen? So how could we measure the improvement in immune function? By the way, the the manic trial showed that when you vaccinate first they did a one month treatment with the rap a law before vaccination. So this was demonstrated not an effect on existing. Yes, yes, yes, but it totally demonstrated on denover vaccine. That's right. And I think, you know, what would be the effect on existing tiders against all of the other pathogen? I don't know. I mean, I don't think this has ever been done. Yeah, interesting. Let you want to just say a little bit more about that trial. So that was at least for me. I was that was a very pivotal moment in my journey in this space and an understanding this world. So that was December of 2014 that that paper came out and if I recall roughly 300 plus participants divided into four groups. So placebo group, a group that got one milligram every day, a group that got five milligrams once a week and a group that got 20 milligrams once a week. So two people were pulsed one much higher than the other and then one given daily in the placebo. I believe they were all over 65. I think the study was done in Australia. And as you said, they were put on their whatever treatment was for four weeks immunized. I think it was another four weeks and then a six week washout and then the tiders were checked. And the best response, I think was in the five milligrams pulse and the 20 milligrams pulse. The one milligram daily still had a better response than the placebo but not as strong as the two pulse doses. But the five and the 20 weekly were nearly identical, but the 20 had much more side effects. So I think that, and again, I don't remember perfectly so correctly. So correctly, I'm sure you will. The take away was basically five milligrams pulse was the sweet spot. You get all the benefit without the side effects. Reason why, no, I think that's how I remember that trial as well. Although I'm always impressed by how you remember all of these technical trials. What was remarkable about that data was the fact that this is from a drug that is supposed to be an immune suppression. And it's been a long road for the longevity field to try to get our colleagues who are actually using a proper medicine as a immunosuppressant to have them believe that this actually has an effect on immunity. And not only not immunosuppressive, but actually a promoting immunity. So how do you reconcile that? Not meaning, not not not their disbelief, which is warranted. But how do you reconcile that one molecule can be, if given, so if you think about the doses, we used to give Rapa my son. It's not actually used that much by the way today in the transplant clinic. So FK506, Sirolumus has largely pardon me. No, no, I'm blanking on what FK506 is real name is, but anyway, whatever, it's largely displaced, Sirolumus, which is Rapa. But that said, when we used to give it out, we were giving two to four milligrams a day. Now, let's just assume that it was indeed contributing to prevention of organ rejection. Do you think it was doing so because that's a high enough dose of constitutively giving a drug that it's oppressive to the immune system? Or do you think it was only suppressing the immune system because it was given being, it was being given in combination with two other drugs, and it was only as part of that sea of other drugs that it has the immunosuppressive effects? No, I think there's clear evidence. It is immunosuppressive by itself. And I can tell you that for the period when I was on Rapa my son, I would take either four, six milligrams a week, every morning, so once a week. So the biggest difference between the two, the immunosuppressive and the sort of geropotective effect is really the amount, the frequency and the amount. The reason why people adopted this sort of once weekly doses to first not have any immunosuppression and second to mitigate the secondary effect, which are thought to be caused by inhibition of and talk to, which is the second of the effects. Yeah, it goes goes effect. And that seems to be working largely. What was in my case remarkable is that every time I took my dose, not two, I only did two for a couple of weeks, but either four, six. The next morning I would have a pimple on my nose. So I was immunosuppressed clearly every single time for a day, for a day or two. And I sort of made peace with it. In the fact that if I had a really heavy workout, I wouldn't have exactly the same thing. Exercise is immunosuppressive. If you go all out, you can get a cold, you can temporarily fragileize after a really heavy exercise. So I think the difference between these two, these two world immunosuppression, which clearly has been documented by clinical trials, it is immunosuppressive by itself versus the beneficial effect on the immune system to me as a question of dosage and frequency. And yet, I cannot reconcile the unambiguous success of the interventions testing program, where those mice were eating rapomison in every single bite of food they took. In fact, they were consuming it more continuously than even the most immune compromised patient. And without exception, every single ITP study of rapomison, whether they started an old mice or young mice, rap a alone, rap a with another drug. It just doesn't matter. It always worked. How do we reconcile that? We do have, well, I don't have the answer, but I can sort of talk about it in a way. I just, there's something that worries me about our reliance on the mouse as a model system for aging, for studying aging and how relevant it is to us as species. Even mice that are of the quality, I mean, because we would all admit that the ITP mice are the best, they're the Ferrari of mice. Exactly. The ITP is the best because is the best way to address this question because they're using mice that are, you know, cross. So it's not. Not in bread. When you're using black six, you're essentially doing the experiment on end of one. And the whole world, I mean, 80% of the work that's being done in mice is done on black six. This is we're all studying the same person. And so obviously, when you go and try to transfer this to a human population, what all of its variations. So the ITP did the right thing. That being said, and this is not an attack on ITP. I think ITP is a great program, and should be funded, and should continue to study this. I just worry about the over reliance on ITP alone, and I think we should have another system that studies primate interventions with drugs. There are a number of primates, non-human primates that are actually much closer to us. The reason I worry about mouse is something that actually Steve Hustard, that you've had on this podcast as well. Steve is a good friend, and he came up with something called the longevity quotient, which I think is something that people do not pay attention enough. So longevity quotient is this idea that if you look across the animal kingdom, the larger you are, the longer you live. Okay, so you can take thousands species, and you can weigh on the x-axis, you have their size, on a y-axis, their life-expectives. Yes, largely rises to the right. And you can see a monotonous curve. Now there are exceptions to this. One of them is making more drugs. Yeah, make it more drugs. Yeah, for example, naked mull rats, you know, are living way above. So they live above. They punch above their weight, dogs tend to punch below their weight. Exactly. Although in dogs, it again varies by size. This is between species. That when you look, interest species, it gets even more complicated, which is the larger dog, live shorter than the smaller dogs. The great dangerous is that she wa wa, and that is done, actually that's driven mostly by growth hormone, which is, again, another, another reason why we should look at, you know, taking growth hormone is an anti-aging drug with some degree of circumspection, because in dogs, the more growth hormone you have, the larger you are, and the shorter you live. We know also in humans, the larger you are, the taller you are, the shorter you live. So are these effective growth hormone? Yes, are they only important while during the growth phase? That's a possibility, but it's something that really gives me pause to go back to our discussion about growth hormone. Now, wa wa zai, I sort of lost my chance. We're still trying to make the argument for why ITP mice live in rap and mice and with everybody to food somehow live longer. So again, going back to respiratory, the longevity quotient mice are also an exception. They punch below their weight. So they live shorter than they should based on their size. And humans is the biggest exception. We live about six, five, to six times longer than we should face on a size, which tells me that we are in an naked mole rat of primates. We do incredibly well, which means that we already have optimized a lot of these pathways that are promoting aging. I suspect the mice is exactly the opposite. I don't know that someone has really compared sort of intrinsic to our activity in mice. Are they, for example, living in mice are especially laboratory mice are engineered to reproduce and grow as quickly as possible. They have large, later sized, they do everything very quickly. Now, we know all of these activities are requiring a lot of anabolic strength, which is driven by tour. So the question is, are the mice sort of examples of animals that are maximizing tour activity to do everything they do very quickly? And we are maybe at the other end of the spectrum, where we have low sort of basal tour activity. So that's where I worry when people just transfer everything we know from tour for mice and to humans is saying it's going to show and work in humans. I don't know if you are such an interesting point. Yeah. So I think this is, and this is frankly why I stopped taking Rapa mice and I thought, you know, I did not really see anything in terms of anything. Metabolically, physically, muscle strength. I couldn't, you know, in contrast to GLP1, I go in this, where I saw all of my numbers get better and functionally strength. All of this, I saw everything getting better on GLP1. I go in this, with Rapa mice and I never could tell whether I was taking it or not. Yeah. Although, look, well, it's not just that. I would say, where Rapa mice and Axe, I don't know that we would see anything getting significantly better, right? Because if we think that the main places that Rapa mice and is going to act would be on a top of G. Well, there's no way you're going to measure a top of G. You're not going to feel a top of G. You're not going to see it or measure it. Does it tamp down on certain subsets of senescent cells? That's certainly plausible. Again, I don't know how we're going to see or measure or necessarily even feel that. Does it reduce some of the tonic, low grade, unhelpful inflammation? Probably, but again, if a person doesn't have much to begin with, it's going to be tough to measure. Conversely, G. L. P. One Agnes act directly on a thing that is so easy to measure, which is glucose metabolism and body weight for those who are losing weight as well. So it might not be a fair comparison. I guess the other thing I would add to this interesting observation is that, of course, the mice and the ITP are still in a relatively sterile environment. And it might be that even if they incur some immunosuppression, it's not going to be as maladaptive as it would be if they were wild animals as we are. Living sterile environment, they live, grouped in a cage with no ability to move to exercise. They are, they eat a diet, which makes the American diets look like the most healthy thing ever. I mean, if you've seen the pellets that these mice are eating, do the ITP mice eat the crappy pellets as well? I suspect the eating. Okay, I don't actually know what their diet is. Yeah, I don't know what their diet is, but I mean, there are not that many, I can guarantee you they're not eating salad and fruits and vegetables. In some way, there are an incredibly artificially bad environment. These mice actually doing everything that is conducive to a poor health. And so the fact that we see something that works in that system might have some value for the fraction of the population that has a very poor lifestyle. But I do worry about transferring this to someone like UNI who are exercising or trying to eat well, trying to sleep and all of this. So I take these observations with some degree of caution and frankly, I want people to ask me, should I go and wrap my mice in? I do worry. Now, this is a very different story. If someone, a patient, comes and sees you at 40 years old and tells you, I think, I want to go and wrap my mice and I would strongly argue that this should not do this. Because even in the studies, I have been conducting this, they still signed effect in mice at where the equivalent of 65 to 70 years old. Now, if you're 75 years old and you have the feeling you're chronically in flame and you have the feeling that things are not doing well, there are a number of anecdotal cases where people have described really feeling a lot better and a lot stronger, very quickly. One wrap of mice. I would predict it would be the same thing with a growth hormone or some of these interventions. So I've already put those in different categories. And my argument to people is today we have one intervention that is very profoundly anti-aging and it is a physical activity exercise in all of its forms. And once you have optimized this, I think let's talk about doing something else on top of that. So earlier you brought up the Sirtouan story and NAD. I'd love to spend a little bit of time there. I was at a talk recently and as always I get asked questions about stuff like that and I got asked the question about NAD. And I said, look, this is one of those things where if I tell you the following facts, I'm going to tell you three facts. NAD is completely ubiquitous throughout the body and it is absolutely essential for the most important chemical reactions that happen in the body. You cannot undergo readox reactions, metabolic reactions without NAD. That is point one. Point two is class of proteins called Sirtouans rely heavily on NAD as the substrate in the process of repairing DNA. That is fact two. Fact three is as you age, NAD levels decline precipitously. Those are three facts and I don't believe is there any dispute to any of those facts? No controversy. Armed with those three facts, how could it be that supplementing NAD does not lead to a longer, better life or some health benefit? That is a logical conclusion. Not completely because you are assuming it depends also what is the reason why NAD levels decrease and it depends also what supplements, how you remedy this decision. And this is something I would love to talk about CD38 and NAD. It could be that NAD levels go down because their consumption goes up. There is as we age, there is more DNA damage, there is more consumption, there are two needs more of it and it goes up. Then of course the question would become, is the current level of NAD that we have rate limiting to that reaction? If not, then all the extra NAD in the world should have no benefit because you are just adding more substrate to a reaction where it is not needed. Conversely, if NAD levels are going down because there is a production issue and if you provided more of it, you could actually do more good. Well then it could be the exact opposite story. So let me pause there for a moment and have you fill in the edges of everything I just said so that we can go deeper into this discussion. So maybe explain a little bit what NAD is. Explain what it means in redox and obviously let's talk about sertuins in the role that NAD plays there. Let's do unpacking. I could be a two-hour podcast. But one area that we've worked on for the last 25 years. So we were responsible for cloning the human sertuins. After Lenny Garante published his paper on Sir II in Yis, but the graduate student was the first to publish this, was it? Matt Kadenlin. Yeah, sir. Matt and Brian, I mean, David, I mean, that whole gang was the original gang along with Lenny Garante, where paved the way for a lot of what we know. I eventually, you know, like one thing that I would just start by saying is that it pains me in some way in a field that is so rich and has generated so much data that there's a whole cloud sort of lying on top of Sir II in ZNAD. That, you know, there's nothing there. I just tell people, it is an incredibly study system. We are still juggling the complexity. And I would argue that any field where the same degree of investigation will be conducted will have the same controversy. This is the nature of science. The beauty of science is that it's incredibly messy on the way up, but eventually things are getting clarified. And I think in terms of the Sir II, we're still writing middle of it. So there's some complete garbage and completely agree. And by the way, I'm not completely dismissive. What I will say has made has made this field complicated is that the leading proponents of it have all opted for a commercial pathway. And therefore, they have opted not to study this in a rigorous way, but to study it in a commercial way. And unfortunately, I mean, I understand why you would do that. Like that's the nature of it. And this is not a molecule that you can put. You're not going to generate intellectual property in the same way that you would around an awful drug. And so it poses a limitation to how these things can be studied. But unfortunately, that coupled with the risk-veritrol fiasco, and I really, unless you think otherwise, Eric, we don't need to talk about risk-veritrol, but I remain completely convinced that risk-veritrol had zero benefit whatsoever. I think it is an absolutely useless molecule. So I think that risk-veritrol debacle, the over-hype, complete debacle of that, coupled with the fact that all of the participants in the NAD landscape are doing it through their own commercial enterprise with their own proprietary blend has resulted in this inability to drive forward in this field. I agree. I agree. I think it's, I mean, identified the problems to hype and the commercialization. I mean, commercialization can be helpful if the companies are actually willing to invest in clinical trials. And so on, you know, always use the example of timeline, you're a little in A. I mean, that we've worked with them. They do clinical trials, rigorous. They, you know, we publish them in the best journals in the end. You know what you're measuring. And so that being said for the so-to-ins, so let's try to be sort of step back and given the controversy, I would say I would encourage you, you're listening not to just discarded all, we're still in the middle of it. And I think there's something interesting, really merge out of it. So NAD is a critical intermediary metabolites. It has two big roles. First is it plays a key role in redox reactions. Again, we've talked about these reaction, reduction, reduction, reduction in the internal electrons met move around. Exactly. So it's it exists in two form, NAD and NADH. And it's critical to intermediary metabolism. There are more than 600 of these enzymes that use NAD in the whole metabolism. So it's sense to reason that if you losing NAD levels, it's going to be, you go below a certain critical level. These enzymes are going to suffer. Your whole metabolism is going to go down. And we know, by the way, that decreasing metabolically efficiency at all level is one of the whole marks of aging. So in addition to these enzymes that utilize the NAD and NADH couple, there's a whole series of other enzymes that actually are digesting, cleaving, NAD. And these would be the parts, polyadepirriborate polyamorous, so these are enzymes mostly involved in DNA repair. So it plays a critical role. So two ends, seven sort two ends, all doing different things within the cell. And we can go back and dig into this a little bit in terms of what are the sort of two ends doing. There's also another two ends, called CD38 and CD157. And so these are also NAD hydrolysis and we are studying them a lot. Now, so that's, I guess, the background of what these enzymes are doing. One thing that you're listening to should know about about NAD levels and why the decrease in NAD levels are relevant to aging is with respect to the sort of two ends. The sort of two ends have a relatively narrow range of KD for NAD. So if the NAD levels change, as we know they do during aging, it will lead to a change in the activity of the of the sort of ends. And I think this is something that was proposed by Lenny Garante back in the days, showed, for example, even during fasting, UNAD levels will increase and it will activate sort of two ends. So I think there's, there's something that's really unique to the sort of two in this there. And we know this in a really acute way because there are sort of two ends that are present in the cytoplasm versus in mitochondria versus in the nucleus. And the NAD levels in each of these organs are very different, for example, much higher in mitochondria. It turns out that 33 is a KD for NAD, which is much higher than 31. And so variation, that really is the indication that they are sensors of NAD levels, which goes back to the initial model that you mentioned, NAD levels change, reengaging, therefore we can expect the activity of the sort of two ends to change. Now, what else have I not adjust in your initial batch of questions? I think we're now ready to then move on to if we believe with some conviction that restoring NAD levels in an aging individual is beneficial. We now have to deal with the same problem you deal with any small molecule or large molecule for that matter. How do you get it in the body? So, how what are the ways in which you could get NAD into the body directly or indirectly? So that brings me to maybe another element of the biochemistry. So one thing that is emerged is this idea that the question is to why do NAD level decrease? And there's been lots of theories, activation of the parps. That seems to be happening in C elegans, but in mammals, this is the work of Edward or Chini, who was the first one to show that CD38 appears to be the major driver of the decrease of NAD during aging. And the way he's demonstrated this and we've actually repeated some of his results and published on this as well. If you study a mouse that's knocked out for CD38, you find that any of the levels actually do not decrease during aging. And that's pretty much across all organs. And I think that what this does is really brings the whole question is in terms of what should we be targeting. Now think about, did we talk about what CD38 is doing specifically? Yeah, so CD38 is a, as a membrane anchored protein. Some of it is facing outward on the outside of the cell. Some of it is facing Edward. For example, in T cells, it's mostly facing inward. Now outward, in microfagids, mostly facing inward. And it isn't an idealized. Now, what is it doing in the immune system? Why do we have it not entirely clear? One idea is that because it is present in T cells. Is it on non-immune cells? In the state of cells. Okay. As well. One idea, at least for the immune system, is that it might come up and eat up all the NAD that's local in the extracellular fluid, although there's not much of it. And limit the abilities as part of the innate immune response and limit the ability of bacteria and other organism to actually access these micronutrients for their own growth. That's one thinking. And I think it's a lot more complicated. And this and we're very in the middle of it. I have a good part of my lab actually studying the rule of CD38 in the immune system and the theoretical cells and in the brain as well. Now, you mentioned a moment ago that the CD38 knockouts do not see a decline in NAD with aging. Zero. And they live longer. I was just about to say, what is the phenotype of a CD38 knockout? What deficiency do they have? Nothing that we can tell. And they live longer. How much longer? 15%. That's comparable to Rapa-Mison. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty significant. This has been published by Eduardo Chini. Why do you think that is? In other words, do you think that that is true, true and unrelated to the increased pool of NAD? No. CD38. So that's a key question. And that's one that's not been answered. And I would say, if I had to go on the limb, I would say it's not linked to the NAD decrease. Because it turns out that- Sorry, just to make sure everybody understands what you're saying. You're saying your belief is that the CD38 mouse does not live longer because he has more NAD. That's just another bit issue we're seeing and that there's something else about that mouse. Yes. Or it might be partially, partially NAD and partially the other mechanism. I'm about to discuss. One thing that's remarkable is that as we age us and mice, we see an increase in CD38 level across the organism, especially in immune system. We've published a paper showing that the Sasp from senescent cells is a very powerful inducer of CD38 expression and microfages. So that's one mechanism by which we're linking senescent and the Sasp to increase CD38 leading to a depletion of NAD and other effect. And yet we have no idea what it's doing other than hydrolyzing NAD. It has a cognate receptor on other cells. It's part of, you know, it's- they don't seem to be immune deficient. They know it's really one of these players that people are there are hundreds of papers. I mean, do you think it plays a role in inflammation? A negative role in inflammation? One idea about it is that it plays a suppressive role in the immune response. So because we see it being induced kind of ladish, it's even response and the idea it comes up to tamp and down. So it's actually the exact opposite. It's it's it's so pro-antian flammatory that it can be harmful in that way as opposed to contributing to sterile inflammation, which is the more typical problem we see in aging. Yeah, we did not discuss this, but you know, the other side of the immune system is that it has to be incredibly balanced between reacting appropriately towards exogenous pathogen but not reacting against the cells. And as you know as a physician, there are so many conditions that are a manifestation of an excess of immune response against the individual, all of the autoimmune response, autoimmune disease is switched by the way increased during aging. So the thinking is that, um, except for type one diabetes. Yes, that's the one young. Why do you- I know that you used to study that. Why do you think that is? It's really an interesting question, although, you know, there's something called ladda that I'm sure you've heard about that is emerging that we might have been diagnosing some type two that were actually laid type one. The thing that is really unique about type one is the fact that- I remember a number of papers that highlight the fact that there might be something happening during development that exposes the immune system to the developing beta cells and that might trigger more to immunity at that time. It could also be linked to the fact that there's been for many years of discussion of the rule of viruses infection and maybe more like you know, mimicry between some of these viruses and beta cells. So it could be that a subset of infections that happen during childhood actually put you at risk of activating your immune system inappropriately. So that that's the whole idea, but there's clearly an increase of the immunity through our life. By the way, CD-157, do we see the same effects? Do we have a CD-157 knockout? No, a much less study. There's some interesting effect also, but, you know, CD-38 is guaranteed. CD-30 is the most of the attention. So, you know, if you think about our go back about CD-38 and in terms of what it's doing, it's taking an AD and cleaving it into ADP ribos, which is, you know, sugar and nucleotide and nicotinomide. nicotinomide is a precursor to an AD. And so this nicotinomide, which is generated by CD-38, but by the sirtuens, by the parps, normally gets recycled in a two-step reaction all the way back to an AD. Now, what's really interesting is if you block this, it's called the salvage pathway for nicotinomide. If you block it within a few hours, your anad levels go down to zero. So the system, wow, heavily dependent on recycling. Incredible, actually, and it is a specific inhibitor of the enzyme, colene mpt, you can add it to cells with done the experiment within 46 hours, any of the levels down to zero the cell dies. So there's an incredible turning through that whole pathway. Now, which is a reflection of the activity of sirtuens, CD-38, CD-157, the parps and so on. So you have a situation during aging where CD-38 increases, you increase the degradation and so you decrease the pool of anad. But you're increasing in theory, the metabolites. You're increasing the metabolites, nicotinomide. Now, one important thing is nicotinomide, metabolism is either salvage, back to anad, or methylation by an enzyme. And this is important for supplementation, because it turns out CD-38, not only cleaves anad, but it also cleaves anomen, which is one of the two. One of the two cultures and anananar. So when you actually are having crazy CD-38 activity and you take anomen, you're sure and through this pathway and you increase your nicotinomide and you increase its methylation. So anomen is also cleaved by CD-38 into what? Into nicotinomide plus something that's not ADP-riose. And so when you do this, you're increasing your level of nicotinomide to the point that it's shunting to methylene nicotinomide starts depleting your one carbon cycle. So what you see in the number of people, actually anomen is their homocysteine level going up, including me. I stopped taking it when I saw this. I thought this is not I was taking about a gram of anomen for a while. And then I saw my homocysteine level going up. I think it's a reflection of this pathway and basically stopped it. Now why is it Eric that the increase pool of nicotinomide preferentially goes down a methylation pathway as opposed to the salvage pathway to give you more NADD? Yeah. I don't think it goes preferentially. It just depends how much you're. It's just the more you put in. Even if it splits stoichiometrically or stochastically even, it's you're just going to sell, you're going to take away one carbon. Yeah and I do not know what the relative proportion is, but clearly the more you drive the system with anomen the more you're going to yield these and we can measure not only how much did you're homocysteine go up by the way? Up to 15 from from typical seven. Wow, that's yeah big job. And then how long did it take to resolve once you stopped the anomen? Well, I only measured typically every three months. Okay. After after three to six months, it had come back to normal seven to eight. What about NR? Nicotinomide riboside? How is that treated by CD38? It's not it's not metabolized by itself and our eventually in the cell has to make it back to anomen, which is one is on the salvage pathway that we talked about. So NR is less bulky, less big than anomen, so it is able to get into the cell, but eventually it makes it into nicotinomide anomen and then goes back into the same pathway. So eventually I'll come back to the same. So do you think that there's no difference between the same amount of NR and anomen? No, they clearly are some differences. Especially in all the really complex biochemistry that happens in terms of getting them into cells. You know, the problem with NR and anomen is that you are, if you think about what the approach is, you essentially you have a pool of anade, which is a sink, think about a sink full of water, and you keep, you know, it's leaking. That's your CD38. That's that's the leak at the bottom of the sink. And you keep pouring more anomen, more anomen, inside of it. You're just going to just going to accelerate, you know, the leak. Are you going to make it not going to solve the problem? Basically, maybe you'll reestablish the level at a normal, some are normal, but the turning through is problematic. Now, why is the turning through problematic? Because some of the bi-products of CD38, for example, are cyclic ADP rivals. So there's two forms of ADP rivals, not cyclized and cyclized. Cyclized activates calcium signaling. And so there's a whole aspect of the biology of CD38 that's linked to calcium signaling. So I think I do worry about the supplementation with the NR and anomen. I do worry about it. I'm not discounting them. I think clinical trials are ongoing. There's dozens of clinical trials. So we will soon identify something that in which it has a benefit. And again, if you think about the metabolism of these metabolites, it's incredibly complicated. There are effects on a microbiome. There are effects on, you know, different absorption by different cells. Just literature, hundreds and hundreds of papers, I think, way beyond what your audience probably wants to hear. But, and I would say, you know, at this point, most of what you can buy a supplement, have doses that are so low. This is where there's an important discord and so also. When we do experiment, we've seen amazing things in laboratory animals in terms of supplementing whether or not an anomen. This is where the excitement comes from. But typically, these animals are getting 10 times more than what you're buying as a supplement. And the reason is, I think, you know, grass sort of status is given to these companies to give us more amounts. Yeah, grass meaning generally we're going to just say the FDA's criteria for giving something that is naturally occurring. Yes. Yeah, but doesn't require it to go down the IND pharmacologic pathway. Eric, if you were taking one gram a day of NMM and your homocysteine went from 7 to 15, I guess two questions would be, has that been reported elsewhere? Is there, do we, is that a known phenomenon in the trials that are testing NMM or are they measuring homocysteine to see if that's, I must have read it somewhere because I was, I was looking for it. And then the second question is, how would you then tolerate 10 grams of NMM? I mean, if one gram is doing that, what, I mean, now you're, you would deplete all one carbon, what does that mean you wouldn't even be able to alter your epigenome in ways that might be favorable? You run all kinds of risk and a number of people that I've seen the same thing and start taking trimethylglyceine or, you know, so to try to supplement is I do worry about this. I think for me, and again, I want to reiterate the fact that I think the data and NMM models of what some of the things that we've seen with some of these precursors is really interesting and, and really, you know, this is why there's so much interest. Did you ever try using TMG to see if it would offset the, no, I didn't. Okay, there would be an interesting self-expertion. Okay, what about intravenous NAD? So that, that is sort of one of my pet peeves. And again, you know, I try and everything to be, to remain open-minded to things that I don't know and don't understand. My prediction is that first NAD is not a, an extremely, really molecule. NAD does not exist, well, almost does not exist at all in the plasma. It is an intra-sadutor. And as I mentioned, you know, high concentration in mitochondria, somewhat much lower in the cytoplasm and in nucleus. So the whole idea of injecting intravenous NADs, first it's too big to be absorbed by cells. So what is the body doing with it? There is a famous paper by Josh Strabeneritz. Robin of it, that showed that if you inject it actually intravenously, you actually get it, mostly, cannibalized by the liver and to nicotine amide. Nicotine amide is one of the fraction of nicotine. You can buy this at the pharmacy for very cheap. You can go into an IV clinic and get a $700 injection of NAD. Very few studies, one or two. I've read both of them. They're interesting. So my opinion is that NAD intravenously is not something that should be done. The same thing for subtotaneously. I've seen another company that sells it subtotaneously. Really no evidence for doing this. Now that being said, I've heard, and this is where I tried to remain open-minded because they obviously we don't know everything. I have heard anecdotal evidence of dramatic effect in some patients with Parkinson's. People really describing sort of not a miraculous, but a near miraculous effect right after the infusion having increased in motor performance and you can really assess, in someone who's a severe Parkinson's. So again, NAD studies systematically. There's a lot of... Is there mechanistically is there a reason you could explain that through dopamine or something else? There's a whole literature on the effect of NAD precursors and so on on Parkinson's, most of the animal models. And I think there are lots of clinical trials going on in Parkinson's as well. But more using to stand at NAR and NAMN. The thing that I've described is more a couple of friends who've told me, I've seen this. Not enough to make a product, but enough maybe to question, maybe this is there's something more to it than what we truly know. But the proliferation of these intravenous clinics, frankly, how complicated is it to produce a bag of intravenous NAD? I don't think it's very complicated. I've never made it. I know making an MN at purity is really not, you know, took some effort to scale it up and some of the companies that have been doing this right now is like one major supplier out of China, pretty much everybody uses. But in terms of NAD, I don't think this is an industrial process and I can tell you it's not $700. Yeah, I'm sure it's not. So do you think... If a person was going to supplement with one orally, do you think there's a case for NAR being superior to NAMN? I would say no. I would say take them both. If you're going to do something and you want to a bit of an insurance, let's say, and I did this for a while. I'm not doing it right now. Take 250 milligrams of each and you'll have a half a gram. You are in a relatively safe dose, follow your homocysteine. If you are 60 or above, you could make the case. This could be part of a stack. Although this is the same thing that we see with so many of these supplements right now, you know, which one do you take, which ones are beneficial. There's one a little bit of a dark cloud, a link to NAD supplementation is the demonstration that the SASP is actually dependent on NAD levels. And so when you actually increase NAD levels, you might be increasing these program flammatory markers. So because let me make sure I understand why, because the SASPS, which for folks listening, these are the soluble products made by the Sinescent cells that effectively are doing all the bad things that we don't want to see Sinescent cells doing. So now, they are dependent on CD38 to some extent. So as CD38 goes up, they go up and are you saying as you give more NAR and more NMM? You might be turning up the SASPS. Yeah. The other thing also is there's been some, by the way, all of this, let me finish, you finish your point and then I want to make a broader point. No, there's also some worry about the fact that supplementing with some of these precursors might also accelerate tumor growth. So this would not have an effect in UNI, we don't have a cancer, but if it's someone out there who has an early form of cancer, this could lead to an acceleration. This is something that's been shown in NAD MOMOTALs that it giving some some powers to some people in terms of recommending this to be taken over by everyone. Now, the folks who make this have strenuously denied that there is any validity to those animal models that have suggested that or the, and some of this has been done in VETRO as well, correct? So how, I'm not very familiar with that literature. I saw, I remember seeing one study, it was very small. You know, my take on it was, I guess if you had cancer, this might be a bad idea to take, but but I didn't find it that convincing. So I agree with you. And it's, it is a general consideration for a whole field of longevity research is, you know, better as the enemy of good is something that was sort of drilled into me as I went through medical school. You know, we have a term in French, which is sort of like therapeutic overdoing it, you know, just doing too much. There is such a thing as overdoing it for your patients. And in this case, the whole longevity field, you know, is embracing a whole series of these intervention. I mean, it is not a week that doesn't go by that I don't see a new supplement being touted online. And so on, and I read about all of them, the question is, which ones should you be taking? Which ones are actually risky, which ones are not? And to me, this is part of the whole balance of the equilibrium. I'm trying to reach. If there's something that really has a beneficial effect, you want to be on it as soon as possible. If not, you know, why take the chance? Yeah, I think that's, I mean, you said it, that's the point I was going to make at the outset, but you've said it so much better. Let's pivot a little bit to a couple of the things I want to chat about quickly. Let's talk about inner loop in 11. So big trial last fall that looked at blocking inner loop in 11, which is a molecule that's made by immune cells, plays an important role in inflammation. And this was done in mice and those mice lived longer. What do you make of the study? Read the paper like you. I don't have sort of an inside knowledge about, and of course, when the paper came out, it was like a turlook in 11. I mean, I don't even know what it is. You talk about one in turlook in one, two, four, seven, six, seven, you know, but 11 never heard about it. So I went to, and there's actually, you know, it goes up to like 30. So I went and read the paper. It's, it's an inflammatory marker. So again, it could be a, on par with one in six? No, I would say probably not. So it came out a little bit in the left, out of the left field. But it sort of makes sense in the context of what we know about the inflammatory response linked to aging. So and maybe this is where I can, I can add one point is when we think about the chronic inflammation of aging, sort of inflammation, it is both cause and effect. We talked about how the immune response helps you to protect yourself against the in any immune response against pathogen as a first line of defense. The in any immune response also has another important role is that it recognizes damage, any kind of damage. If you cut yourself, if you have a wound, you know, inside of your, or your artery, a coronary artery, the coronary artery, the, this will act, any kind of damage unfolded proteins. There's all kinds of things. So the in any immune response will be triggered and will activate itself. So as we age and as damage slowly accumulates, because aging is a slow, irreversible accumulation of damage. Eventually, your immune system responds to this by becoming chronically activated. And so the problem is that you might think, well, this is great because you actually repairing all of this damage. The problem is the activation of the immune response by itself becomes problematic because these cells of microfages, for example, a powerful tissue remodler. And so the immune system in this case is sort of Dr. Jackie Lennon, Mr. Khaide, it's helping, but it's facing an unsurmarnable amount of damage. And eventually, it's activation leads to an AD depression. That's one of the things that it does, but many other things stem cell dysfunction and mitochondrial dysfunction. So the whole idea here is that 11, my simply B, I mean, is one of the key markers of this chronically activated immune system. So this is not something I imagine you're going to give to a 20 year old. But in someone who's getting really in the part where chronic immune, immune activation is present, could really play an important role in the future. And what the paper showed was again in mice, but for what I understand is already an existing molecule. Yes. And there actually, recently was contacted by a company that has another novel inhibitors of I.L. 11. You can imagine this to become part of the whole armamentarium that we have against aging. And then how do you see playing that off something in the other sense back in? Because because we're really trying to deal with two sides of this system, we want to tamp down the part that's over active and we want to ramp up the part that's underactive. So we've got basically the only example we have over here is Rapa Mison. This one does this. And then we now have I.L. 11 inhibition or I mean, I use knockout mice, but block this that did good thing. So is this one of those things where you need to do both to get, by the way, maybe you have growth hormone over here as well. Right. One there also. Yes. I.L. 11. That's right. So as well, we've just got shot. Block I.L. 11. Block I.L. 11. Give growth hormone, give Rapa Mison. I mean, but here's the problem. You get into this reductionist state, which is like the whole NAD, world of NR and NMM, and it sounds great. But what if there's unintended consequences we can't see? Like even as much as I love thinking about this and want to do all of these things, I start to think, man, what is the probability we're going to get this right? I agree. And the immune system is an incredibly tenuous system, which is in really delicate balance. So the balance is too much immunity. You might say, well, this is good. Protection against cancer, protection against microbes, you know, but then you get autoimmunity. But then you get autoimmunity. Not enough immunity, while you run the risk of being, you know, killed by an pneumonia or some kind of infection. But at least you don't have too much inflammation. Yes. Yeah. So it is a very fine balance. Well, this gets to this is why I wish we had a dashboard. What are the biomarkers we can use for these things? Because we don't have this problem with blood pressure. We don't have this problem with thyroid hormone. We don't have this problem with so many things that we treat because we can measure what we care about. That's a good point. And the question is, you know, what is first, I mean, the immune system is so complex. There's not going to be one single marker. You know, my colleague David Throwman is this this thing called I age, which is a immune aging set of tests that you can actually conduct. That was the first attempt trying to measure immune aging. You know, they have a whole bunch of things. What do they actually measure? Is it all serum biomarkers? Yes, serum biomarkers and mostly cytokines, CxC. Validated how? Benvalidated in clinical studies. So they they they they I am you know aging. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I age. Oh, I age. Yes. I don't know I don't know if it's so this was developed and pioneered by David Throwman and Mark Davis. So David Throwman is with us at the back Mark Davis's still at Stanford. I guess this brings us to to clocks. Yes. I don't even know if I have the energy to talk about this. Okay, where do you want to begin? There's so many of these things out there. Yes. Some of them are commercially available. Some of them are just tools of research at the moment. Some of them aim to tell you an actual age, an actual number that represents your biological age as opposed to your chronological age. Some of them don't aim to tell you that at all they just want to tell you a rate of aging. Some of them look only at the epigenetic signature and others they look directly at the methylation sequence. Others look at a host of markers, including some very simple serum biomarkers like glucose levels and vitamin D levels and things like that. So how do you make sense of all of those tools? Right now we don't. I think so first statement is there are not ready for prime time in terms of patient management. There are research tools. And I think I Which is interesting because they're far outside of research labs at this point. Yes, they are available commercially. I've done the same thing. I don't remember who you told me. Someone actually it was it mad. Matt Kaden. I measured his clocks. I do the same thing. Actually I measured them every three months and I used it. It's just a scatter plot. It's a scatter plot in a way, I'm between 25 and 68 which is of course I like the clock that show me to be young. So that being said, so we know that we're learning. So we know that for example you alluded to the fact that they can vary the same clock. There's circ... So Kaden variation for example, five years. So your age can vary by five years using some of the clocks depending on when you measure when you you say. What time of day? Yeah, what time of day? Which is that biology that just tells you, the epigenome is something that's highly dynamic. And so that's something as we learn. Obviously the companies will encourage you to measure it to draw the blood always at the same time. Now the whole field by now is pretty much focused. Pretty almost completely focused on DNA methylation. And see if Horvath don't beautiful work. I mean it's really piranity or work identifying all this and Morgan Living and others have gone on. Dan Belsky, I think with Denodine pace, which is another epigenetic clock that measures the pace of aging. By the way, I think this probably my favorite because it really seems to be responding to interventions. You know, if you change your diet or if you do something, you will see your pace of aging are changing. So I think that one to me seems more promising. But it's a whole small, you know, we don't know how to use these tools clinically. That's the problem. They're nice gadgets to buy. You know, the company is selling new supplements and then they're selling you the tests with it. I don't know what to make of it. Personally, I think this is not ready for prime time. It's something that should be done in the future. It might become in the future. Would you agree with my stern words on this because I've made a lot of enemies by saying that if as a consumer you encounter a company that is selling you a test, especially a test that is not validated in any clinic, clinically meaningful way. And then in the same breath, selling you a supplement to fix the result of that test, you need to run. I agree. I mean, I just, I don't have the patience for that kind of behavior. So I'm going to tell me actually, recently, that one of these tests, actually, that you can measure almost everyone who gets their result is low. And of course, low being good or bad in this test. No, whatever. No, it's bad. Bad. Yeah. It's insufficient. And the next step is the recommendation you have to buy this supplement to solve the problem. So, yes, I think, you know, again, it's the same thing with the sort of twins and the NAD. Let's not throw out the baby with the bath water. There's a whole series of these players. I'm not disputing their honesty or their good intention from what I've seen. I think it's too early. And what do you think is the biggest problem? Is the biggest problem? The biologic noise in the system, which means even if you had the absolute perfect tool to measure and you knew exactly what to measure. The movement of that thing is so great that the probability that you're capturing a meaningful value is irrelevant. In other words, imagine that there's a variable that moves like this. But on the small level, it's moving like this. And I'll give you an example. Imagine you were measuring heart rate, but you could only sample it milliseconds at a time. And what you were actually measuring was heart rate variability instead of heart rate. It would be useless. It's too noisy. Great. I agree. So, I agree. Do you think that's the problem? No, I don't think that's a problem. And I'll speak personal experience. I work with true diagnostic. When you get, they use the epic array and you get not one clock. You get dozens. So, I get all of them. And they tend to be reproducible every three months unless I make some interventions. But in general, there's some consistency consistency. And I'm not the only one to see in this. So, my advice if you really are determined to use them, use all of them. They all are sort of a different mirrors of your reality. You know, the problem of the methylation clocks is that there's a very tenuous link between the change of methylation that any given site and the biology. So, when, you know, typically the clock will measure about 500, will relax each clock would rely on about 500 different methylation sites. But they're not attached to a specific gene. So, you don't really know what it means. But how are they even doing that? They're not measuring with point arrays. How are they? They do this with arrays. They're doing this with array. They've had about 20 million methylation sites that they're assessed. But each clock uses a subset for 500. Now, the biggest problem with the clocks, for my perspective. So, it just to be clear, you're saying they're actually measuring point of methylation. Yes. Yes. Yes. The quantifying the level of methylation at each of these sites, the problem with the clocks is also where do you obtain them from? Typically blood. As I mentioned, it's a heterogeneous compartment. As you age, for example, you know that your fraction of naïve decels decreases down to cross to zero. If you 80 years old, your memory decels increase. So, we did a very simple experiment. We sorted all of these different t-cell subsets, memory naïve, central memory, temporarily differentiated and measured their epigenetic age, using several of the clocks, 20 to 25 years difference between naïve and the central memory. In the right direction. The direction you would put naïve a much longer. So, which is, you know, that's someone interesting? There was really interesting for me because it means also any conditions where you see a shift in the relative proportion of decels. For example, you get an acute COVID infection. What happens? You have a massive expansion of your memory decels. So, it looks like you're going to, and then you sample and given the decels look much older than the other ones, you're going to look like you're aging. And so, so, and there's a whole literature that talks about Accelerated Aging and Rometharic Thritis in COVID and HIV. All of these conditions that are all associated with chronic immune activation. So, that's another confounding variable. So, what we did to do this with a student and a lab, we made a new clock in which we eliminated all of these methylation sites that are linked to differentiation. So, now this clock that we've done does not vary actually as a function of the types of cells that are in the blood. So, as a T cell goes from being a naïve T cell, to being a memory T cell, to being a temra, the methylation patterns changed as part of the epigenetic regulation. So, we eliminated all of those sites and made a new clock called Intrgent Clock, which actually is impervious to your level of immune activation. And what's interesting is that that clock doesn't change anymore during COVID. It doesn't change very little during HIV. It doesn't change during a whole series of conditions where people have talked about aging, et cetera, etc. Including the story that we talked about earlier on growth hormone. What does change it then? What does change it? Cancer? Cinecens, which is really interesting. What about short-term interventions that might be beneficial? So, if you took an individual who is insulin resistant and you put them on a GOP1 agonist and three months later, they're 20 pounds lighter and their insulin resistance has resolved. How does that change on the clock? I would not be able to tell you specifically for individual clocks, but then Bellski's Dennidin pace clock is the one that repeatedly people have shown seems to be responding to interventions, which is the two qualities that you want in a clock is one to be predictive and the other one to be predictive of ultimatum comes life expectancy or occurrence of disease, but also you want it to be modulatable, responsive, and many of them actually about the end reproducible. I'm reproducible. Yeah. reproducible I think is more a question of the laboratory that's doing it, so there are not- But also potentially the biologic noise still. Exactly. So, biologic noise and laboratory conditions speak to reproducibility. I agree with what you said. I mean, I've often made this case when people ask me about clocks is my gripe with with the age clock. So again, the pace clock is different because it's just trying to give you a rate of ageing and I agree with you. I think there might be more there, but these clocks that spit out, hey, Eric, congratulations, you're 25. I say to someone who says, isn't that wonderful? I say, maybe, but do you actually believe that a 60 year, 68, your 68 and your clock said you're 25? Should I expect you to live another 55 year? Yes. In other words, is it predictive? Is it a better predictor of future life than chronologic age? And the answer is to my knowledge, no, there is no clock that has a better ability to predict lifespan than chronologic age does. And until that's the case, I worry that the biologic clocks are creating a bit of a distraction, at least this subset of clocks and that we may be ought to focus better on clocks where the readout state is more about is this intervention good or bad? Yeah. Or is this a net positive intervention or a net negative intervention? I agree. And as we mentioned earlier, the field initially focused on the epigenetic clocks because this is Steve's Horvats and Pyronerian works, got everybody to start thinking we can generate these tools, but the field is not moving into proteomics clock. Is that what makes up Dan's clock? Dan is a methylation. It's also methylation. Why do you think it's doing a better job than maybe Horvats clock at the moment? I think typically it really depends on how what the co-horror is, what the question was. I don't know. I think Dan's is the only one that's doing it in this way. Why is it working better? They're just looking at it in a completely different way. How much is AI facilitating this at this point? But she's learning as a key instrument. Essentially what these clocks are is a regression analysis on to you know you start with a variable which is your age and you regress each methylation site onto the age. You do this on enough people of different ages. You find an average. And eventually what the clocks... I wonder if that's the wrong way to do it. Wouldn't it be better to buy a bank these to get buy a banked data and instead of mapping it onto age? Appet on to a number of years remaining in life because if you'll know that in a buy a bank. Chronological. And Steve used to go around saying my correlation coefficient is 99. And I was like well that's because that's what you built it on. Yeah, he's like yeah. I can look at a calendar. I don't need a nippy-genetic clock to tell me how well I am but the next generation clocks actually had a bigger spread when you look at off course you have an average. Right because they started to build it on a different variable. Exactly. So what really excites me right now is the whole idea that the field is moving on to the next stage which is non-appetionated clocks. Because I'm still frustrated. It is a biologist trying to understand what are these clocks. It should be everything. I mean why would we do... I mean it doesn't make any sense to me whether we wouldn't look at the metabolome, the proteome and the epigenome. I mean we should look at every... I mean there's no excuse today with the compute power not to do that right? We have clocks based on fundus. We have clocks based on skin. We have clocks based on facial recognition. So the clocks are going to be measured using dozens of different biological variables. Any biome, a small company in the barrier is using it the tongue. A tongue picture, the old doctor looking at your tongue so you can actually use machine learning to recognize patterns of discoloration and another exciting story was I don't know if you're familiar with a Tony Whiskore's paper using proteomics. He has shown for example the proteome in plasma changes throughout life. Pretty dramatic manner which is really completely mind-boggling for me just to see that you can be so different as you age in terms of your whole blood proteome. Why? I mean if the epigenome is changing then gene expression is changing if gene expression is changing. No, no, bro. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's okay. But we have, you know, so they've used this to that it would change to such a degree. Yeah, Tony has a beautiful slide which shows you know all of the proteome in the blood and how the colors changed across the... And the using that most of those changes are post-translational? No, most of them are a protexpression level. It's expression. Yeah, it's expression. People are building transcriptomics clock and so Tony now has a study that is I believe in press or coming out soon where they've gone back using this proteomics clock and they've done this on a UK bio bank more than 40,000 different people and this is the study I we started this discussion on identifying which organs are so what Tony did was actually remarkable. He looked at each of these proteins that are in the blood and selected some that were predictive to be coming from unique organs. Imagine what you know about how you measure a tropomycin for for heart attack. So they did this they went and looked in every single organ and say okay what proteins are specific of this organ and which ones actually can be measured into the plasma and using this they were able to generate what they call an organ specific clock. So what they simply from a blood draw they're able to to really determine do you have a frailty point and when I look at you is there like suffering happening in this is Tony's work through the proteomics. Tony was correct it's a new start-up called Viro which is I'm in full disclosure I've joined the board of this company but I only joined the board because I was really excited about what they're trying to do and I think it really brings a whole new dimension to these predictive biomarker which is more aligned to what you and I have seen as physicians you know it's a simple mind it's a protein is released into the blood it shouldn't be there it might be indicating some suffering and I have discussed with some colleagues who have used this clock and have identified some abnormal aging in a unique organ only to go back and find that there was indeed one problem without going into you know what the issues were but you can yeah I mean the challenge the thing that the reason I tend to be a slow adopter of these things is even if that's the case the question is how much noise is in the system so I go and do that test on a patient and it comes back and says oh my god there's something wrong with your liver your kidneys a bit too old you're this you're that you're this you're that so I have two fundamental questions the first is could I have figured that out another way so if it's telling me your liver is angry or something's wrong with your liver how do your transamination is look right if it's telling me something's wrong with your kidney could I've picked that up on a urinary analysis looking at you know 20 you know creatinine clearance or you know system c or something else in other it's is it giving me information that I can get elsewhere in a more reproducible more validated fashion the second thing is let's say it tells me seven things are not perfect and I ultimate and by the way everything looks perfect so I have my standard essays everything looks awesome this test says oh my god these six or seven things are problematic and I go poking around poking around poking around and I find out one of them is indeed not working but the other six were perfectly fine so now we have this huge false positive situation it's it's the same problem we have a cancer screening which is you know buyer needs to be wear of the Pandora's box you open and at least with MRI you're dealing with imaging but this sounds like exciting and yet it's a bit of a black box agree where it's gonna spit out oh my god there's something wrong with your left testicle oh my what do I need to do you know and that that being said I think you know the essays are generated in a way that there are multiple it's not like one single protein like a triple of triple mice and we know that that's a clear indicator there's something sell death in in terms of your heart in this case the clocks are generated in a way that there are multiple centenels for each organ you know many now the story I was talking about so early days okay we totally agree with this it's a startup I think they will you know they will deploy it and obviously it's gonna take again a group of physicians who are able to look at these tests and this is this is what research is this is what startup you know can't blame them for trying because I think it has a potential for example to highlight a frilty point which is in in aging research to me is really critical you could have the best mind and the best hearts in the world if something else is going to fail that you are completely unaware of you want to know as soon as as you can and so my prediction is I'll share the paper with you if you're interested in looking it's quite exciting in terms of where this is leading but I agree with you early days yeah I will probably maintain a shockingly high degree of skepticism and and probably enjoy some experimentation with it but again my my experience in the real world is that that's just not how it works right there aren't people walking around that are insanely remarkably healthy where everything looks amazing but they have some time bomb they don't know about with the exception of a few things that I'm not sure it would pick up for example cancer is always that thing and of course there's an entire field of me noticing this going around with liquid biopsies that's exactly trying to solve that problem it could be reconereward the liquid biopsie industry through the lens you said which is it's looking for that weakest link which in this case is the earlier signs of cancer and it could be that a cancer will manifest itself also in local organ suffering and and again leaching it might actually points along with the liquid biopsies tell you you have some cancer cell it might tell you my point you to one place where actually this is actually happening yeah again it's it's interesting you know the the case that I've made about MRI is the same because I have a whole bunch of physician friends who tell me I get a yearly MRI and they tell me why do you do this I say well because I would rather know and as a well you're gonna find all kinds of things I said we did find something I had a tumor and in behind my jaw and it turns out I'm a mass it was not a tumor but it took me six months of worrying about what it was and decided not to biopsie and anything my sense of all of this is that these are novel ways to practice medicine then yeah yeah and and I'm I'm criticized heavily for being too much on the forefront of doing that but probably not nearly as far as some right I still at the end of the day I think about every time you do a test one you never do a test unless you're willing to act on an outcome or you have a sense of how an outcome will change your your behavior like it we don't order tests for the sake of information we order tests to make decisions and therefore you must at a minimum understand the full suite of outcomes that can come from the test and how many of them will pose huge trouble for you I think honestly a 20% of my patients opt not to do whole body MRI and I fully endorse that decision and I tried to talk patients out of it I really tried to highlight how many times we find thyroid nodules that we have to put needles into that ultimately end up being nothing and all we do is subject them to that risk and the anxiety that comes along with it so anyway that's I'm eager to look at this because I do think that the proteum offers a lot but I'm always worried about going a little too far on the clinical implication of a test I agree I'm with you in terms of being careful I viewed this as another attempt and for example you know we talked about the data showing that the two organs that appear to be limiting in terms of aging the immune system and the brain that came out of that that story this were that's actually the title of the paper essentially that identifies the brain and the immune system so they they have a whole series of immune immune markers that are predictive of some degree of immune activation and so on well Eric there's a lot of other things I wanted to chat about but I think what we'll do is we'll have you come back out to Austin for another day of driving at Kota and then we'll we'll we'll we'll justify it by doing another podcast where we dive deeper into some of these topics we we really take advantage of the fact that we have the best race course in the country here in our backyard so absolutely I think you're gonna have fun tomorrow and good you'll be like let's come right back and do it again every month I'm looking for it to this thank you Eric thank you

Sure, what I'm saying is, it's a staggering difference. We can think of willpower as a muscle. And like all muscles, it gets stronger, the more we practice using it. But it also gets fatigued in the short term. How do we form better habits? Or reformat maladaptive habits around that? Every habit in our life has three components. There is a cue, then there's a routine, and then there's a reward. What do those of us who are going to be doing? What do those of us who are doing with young kids? Need to do teaching children a sense of agency. When you bring home an air in your pork cart, and say, oh, you're so smart. Which is something you don't have control over. To say, oh, you must have worked really hard. Because that's something you do have control over. When adding new habits with people, we tend to start very small. And the win is basically defined by showing up, not any performance. The science of small habits is not a good idea. But the way you do have control over is the way you do have control over. When adding new habits with people, we tend to start very small. Any performance. The science of small wins. Regardless of how long it takes to build that habit or change a habit, every day you do it, it will get a little bit easier. Making the right choice is so much more powerful than executing really well on the wrong choice. Hey, everyone. Welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Charles, thank you so much for making the trip out to Austin. Thank you for having me. This is such a treat. You know, in many ways, you're kind of the OG guy when it comes to talking about habit formation. It's hard to believe we were just talking a moment ago that it's been 13 years since your amazing book on the subject matter. I probably read it eight years ago. But it's a topic that is relevant regardless of what you do. That said, for what I do and how I, you know, what my job is and how I try to sort of help people. It really comes down to knowing what to do and then putting it into practice. So give folks a bit of a sense of your background and maybe even how that factored into you taking an interest in this topic. Yeah, absolutely. So before I wrote the power of habit, I had been a reporter for quite a while. And a business reporter in a science reporter in particular. And I decided to become a journalist after I went to Harvard Business School and I got my MBA and about halfway through business school. I realized it's a lot more fun to write about business than to do it. So I decided to become a journalist and one of the things that I noticed as I was writing was I was working at the New York Times at that point. One of the things I noticed because I had spent time overseas in Iraq during the war. I had reported on a bunch of different things and two, I had two experiences that really got me interested in habits. The first is that when I was in Iraq, I got embedded with a unit that was right outside of Baghdad. And I was talking to a captain there actually was a major. And I was asking him how do you, how do you train soldiers to become soldiers? Because one of the things that you see in a war zone in particular, anyone who's spent time around the military, is that the behaviors are so deeply ingrained. Right? The goal is to ingrain a set of behaviors that if a bomb goes off which happened underneath my car, everyone around you, the 15, 18 year olds around you who probably don't know how to do anything with their lives. They know exactly what to do in that moment and they react automatically. And so I was talking to this major and he's this like little short guy and he kind of like, you know, really muscular, he chaws all the time. And I said, how do you do this? And he said, well, give the thing you have to understand, son, because he called me son, the thing you have to understand is the military is a giant habit change machine. This is what we do. We teach young recruits who maybe don't have any self-discipline, maybe you know, are prone to emotional operas. We teach them the right habits and we've made a science of it. And when I came back to the US, I kind of had this experience where I was thinking about that and I was thinking to myself, if I'm so smart and so talented, right, if I have this great job and when these words, why can't I get myself to lose weight? Like, why can't I get myself to go running in the morning every day? Why is this such a struggle for me when I'm so good at other things? And I realized it was because I had not learned and studied how habits function in my own habits. And that once I learned that, I had the tools to change how I behave automatically, which is of course the most important component of our behavior because it's what we do every day. So you get back to the US, what year from Iraq? Yeah. Let's see, I was there, 0304. So I get back at the end of 04, beginning of 05. And I started the New York Times, I was at the LA Times then, I started the New York Times in 06. And then, what did you start writing about? When did you pick that thread up again? Yeah, so I did this piece that was really fascinating to me. It was for, I was writing for the business section of the Times and I wrote a piece about the science of handwashing. There's been really, really interesting research, particularly out of the United Kingdom, about how do we incentivize people in developing nations to wash their hands? Because something that would happen, and a lot of this was sponsored by Unilever, the soap company. They found that people in poor communities, particularly in Indian Pakistan and in other parts of Asia, would buy soap. And then they would save the soap for special occasions. It was like something you gave to a guest when they came over. It was something that you used before, you went to mosque or for prayer. And so as a result, they weren't washing their hands every day. And of course, we know that using soap actually correlates with preventing a lot of diseases. And so a number of researchers in the UK took this on to try and figure out how do we create a soap habit. Handwashing habit using soap. And what they discovered was, you need to be focused on the reward. Unilever and all the advertisements would talk about the benefits you got from using soap. That if you used soap disease would go down. That was not influential, right? It's just like talking because it was too abstract. A couple of reasons. First of all, it was too abstract. Second of all, you're trying to educate people who don't think that they're at an education deficit. Right? We see the same thing in the United States around vaccine resistance and other things. Telling people, oh, you don't know enough. I'm going to tell you the truth. That almost never works. What you have to do is you have to create incentives where you had to get an immediate reward for that behavior. And so what they did is they actually changed the scent of the soap. They actually made the scent of the soap's less powerful because it seemed to less like a perfume, less like a fancy thing. And then what they would do is they ran these ads where they equated washing your hands with taking care of your children. Not necessarily your own health, not your own cleanliness. But when I wash my hands with soap, I can feed my children. And so I'm creating that sense that identity reward that says, by doing this your good parent. And that changed everything. How long did it take them to figure out that that was the unlock? Was this iterative, what types of research did they have to do? I'm always intrigued by this type of problem. Yeah, absolutely. And there's really interesting papers if anyone wants to read them. It took them years. And it took a really sustained exposure. And what's interesting is, at part of this research and where it came out of, was trying to understand the neural roots of disgust. Disgust is a really, really powerful instinct that all humans have. And they really wanted to understand how do we capitalize on disgust as a negative reward? So they spent years on this. But like everything that ends up having widespread change, it really paid off enormous dividend. By the way, when you say they who are the types of people are these behavioral economists or they psychologist sociologist sociologist. I'm I'm very intrigued by who the natural owners of this type of. So there's a woman named Val Curtis who in particular led a lot of this research. And I hope I'm getting Val's. It's been a little while since I read the research. So I hope I'm getting Val's name right. But so Val led a lot of this research. And I believe her background is in sociology. But they brought in this was during the heyday of behavioral economics when the any condom in and others. Amistroversky's work was really getting noticed for the first time and was making its way into other fields. And so they brought in a lot of of the behavioral economists. They brought in a lot of psychologists because obviously that's what they're looking at. And I think it points to something kind of interesting, which is some of the most exciting research that's happening right now is this interdisciplinary research. And and you know because you spent time in the academy. They're they're tend to become these silos within universities. But when you look at what's really interesting that's happening tends to be the people who are stepping outside of those silos. Now the way you described it a moment ago it was more avoidance of negative that got the job done. Can we talk a little bit about and I'm thinking we're going to come back to this over and over again, but the more examples we have the better. You can almost think of like a two by two positive and negative. Giving and taking. Yeah right. So give a carrot. Give a stick. Take away a carrot. Take away a stick. This is like in my very simple framework. Take away a stick. Disgust is bad. We're going to remove disgust. How do you think about or what does the science tell us about that force square? I'll tell you what the research says and and just to give a little bit of context. The reason why this is important is because every habit that we have in our life. And about 40 to 45% of what we do every day is habits. And this comes from research by Wendy Wood at USC. Every habit in our life has three components. There is a queue which is like a trigger for that behavior to start. Then there's a reward or then there's a routine which is the behavior itself what we think of as the habit. And then there's a reward. Every habit in your life delivers a reward whether you're aware of it or not. And so you're right. There are negative rewards and there are positive rewards. But negative rewards and positive rewards act very differently. And to be most powerful often we have to put them in combination with each other. So let's start by talking about negative rewards. You would think that the threat of something unpleasant happening would be the most powerful negative reward. Peter, if you don't run today, I'm going to hit you with a cane. Right? That's actually not what the science tells us. What the science tells us is that the best way to use negative rewards is to establish the pain and punishment. Prior to the behavior and then remove the tension of it afterwards. So I'm going to give you an example. When I was in Iraq, one of the things I learned about was the extraordinary interrogation techniques that were used by the military. And stories came out that they would take people and terrorists and if they weren't, they weren't giving them information. They would put them in little box and sort of lock them up in this physically uncomfortable position. That's not actually what happened. What happened is you capture the person, you put them in the box. And then you tell them, I will let you out of the box if you give me the information I want. Right? The presence of a negative reward or a punishment is much more powerful when we feel it than when we anticipate it. When we put it that way in make sense. The problem is, negative reinforcement is about one 20th as effective as positive reinforcement. So I have to hit you with a cane 20 times to equal the motivation that you'll feel if I let you have a really nice smoothie after you go for that run. Sorry, say that again. Charles, did you say negative reinforcement is 120th as as effective as positive reinforcement? And we define effective as likely to produce the desired outcome. Yes. Yes, the final is 20. 20. I would have guessed one half. Well, and I'm not saying that. Yeah, you're wrong. I'm just saying that's a staggering difference. It's a staggering difference. And it's sometimes complicated by scale, right? Because you might really hate getting hit by a cane a lot more than you enjoy drinking a smoothie. But we know that if those two things are comparable in your head, I'm going to have to hit you 20 times to equal the joy to equal the motivation you'll find from drinking that smoothie. And that's a normal distribution, right? There's different behaviors and different tolerances among individuals. But the reason why this is important is because when there are negative rewards or punishments available to us in the environment, then we should take advantage of those, right? If I know that you feel a sense of disgust, and I can take advantage of that to help you build a habit of washing your hands, I should go ahead and do so. But that's not enough on its own. I have to pair it with a positive reward, where I'm creating a scent in that soap that makes you feel like you're clean, that makes you feel like you're doing something merges. I have to reemphasize to you. You're doing this for your kids. Every time you wash your hands with soap, you are a good parent. So that's the ice cream, and taking the scent away, taking the flowery scent away is not hitting. Well, it's actually, we're replacing it with a different scent. The problem with the flowery scent is that it's too associated with luxury. So I need a scent that smells a little bit more medicinal to believe that it's doing its job. Interesting. Yeah. Let's shift gears just briefly before we come back to this and think about it through the lens of parenting, right? Because it's the first thing that probably comes to many of our listeners, minds as we think about the words, re-enforcement, positive and negative reinforcement. So your child is misbehaving. Bedtime routine is a disaster. They don't want to brush their teeth or whatever it is. There's a punishment that you could allocate for that behavior. You can say, look, Johnny, if you don't go to bed now, you do not get to play Xbox tomorrow. Right? That's a punishment. There's a reward, which is if you do this thing, I'm going to give you an extra 15 minutes of playing Xbox tomorrow. Yeah. Based on what you just said, is it safe to say that offering 15 minutes of extra Xbox is significantly more likely to produce a desired outcome? Absolutely. And I think as parents, we know this, any parent listening knows this, right? Your children, they're, we're talking here about permanent behavior change, right? We don't want them just to brush their teeth tonight. We want them to brush their teeth every night. A positive reward, the positive reinforcement is going to be much more powerful and ingraining that habit in their life. Negative reward, it might work tonight. Do you have a sense of why this is from an evolutionary perspective, because this seems awfully hard-wired? Yeah. So I think it has something to do. The answer is, I don't know exactly the answer to that, and I'm not sure anyone does. I'll tell you what the hypotheses that I've heard are. One of the things we know, as you know, is that our brain tends to overnotice negative outcomes, right? Yep. And that's good, because that means that if something can kill us, we're going to avoid it. But as a result, we actually are very good at discounting that reward very quickly. We have a very accurate mental representation of how painful a reward is going to be, and whether we should avoid it or not. Our sense of a negative reward, negative reinforcement, is very finely tuned. Our sense of positive reinforcement is not. And as a result, there's an opportunity there to take advantage to kind of arbitrage that difference within our brain, where when I give you a positive reward, you actually enjoy it more than you ought to. Right? Here's a great example. We know this from slot machines. That the way that a slot machine gets you hooked is they give you a consistent stream of rewards every 10, 15 minutes, every 10, 15 pulls, and then they mix into that intermittent unexpected rewards, because that unexpected reward gives me that dopamineic reaction, that rewards sensation much, much bigger than the actual prize that I'm getting. And so what we can do, slot machines take advantage of it in a negative way, but we can take advantage of it in a positive way and say, if I give you a reward, you're going to, you're going to love it even more than you'll hate that punishment. And that gives me an opportunity. So now going back to the military example, how did you, how did you come to understand the ways in which a myriad set of behaviors, because as you said, right, like a soldier is able to do so many things that basically become autonomic, that might be very counterintuitive. In fact, might be counter to the value of your own life. Absolutely. Right. Moving this direction is opposed to that direction under threat. Absolutely. Or are training people to kill? Yes. The many people have a natural reaction to not kill. So how does the military do it? How do they employ this reward punishment? Yeah. Leverage. So one of the things that they do is they pay very, very close attention to teaching cadets to respond to cues. So one would think about saying, okay, if a bomb goes off, what are you supposed to do? Right. Let's talk about the behavior that you do when a bomb goes off. The thing about a bomb going off is that a bomb going off is a little bundle of cues. And we need to talk about which cues you should pay attention to, in which ones you shouldn't, which ones should trigger non-anotic behavior. So in Iraq, the issue with bombs going off, IEDs was dust. When there was an explosion of dust, that is when you should react. And we're going to practice that. So we're going to take you out into the field. And we're going to use ordinance that does not actually produce sounds. That does not produce fire. What we're going to do is we're going to put stuff in the ground. It creates a huge cloud of dust. And we're going to train you to react to that. Because we have found that dust is a more predictable and reliable indicator of when you should behave than the noise of an explosion or being able to see the fire. And to be clear, the noise could be coming from anywhere you don't know where it's coming from. It's often, it's also a alarm. It could be something that's a town away from the ground. That's exactly right. And oftentimes overwhelming, the thing about like a visual stimuli in this context is that it's very, very recognizable, whereas an audio stimuli. It's hard to tell. It's hard to localize, but it's also, and it also sort of so overwhelms you that it can kick in that fighter flight instinct that we're trying to avoid. Okay. So that's the first thing that they do is they pay a lot of attention to cues. And they think really, really hard about that training. In one of my other books, Smarter Faster Better, there's a chapter about boot camp for Marines. And it's probably the most scientifically well-fined tuned training you will find on earth. Because it takes in hundreds of thousands of people every year, and we have to train them to be Marines. The other thing that they pay a lot of attention to is how do we reward that behavior in a way that will make it automatic? Right. We mentioned that a habit is a cue, a routine, and a reward that's known as the habit loop. But what happens in our brain to form that habit loop is that the part of the basal ganglia, which every animal on earth has a basal ganglia, the basal ganglia is job is essentially to make habits. Because without those habits, we essentially can't evolve, right? We just spend too much time in cognition. And what the basal ganglia helps encourage, and this is oversimplifying dramatically, but is it takes that cue that routine in that reward? And it puts them in a kind of circuit where the neural synapses connecting the behavior centers of those three items becomes thicker and thicker, which means that as a result, the electrical impulse can travel down that synaps faster. So if I'm the general, my goal is to take these soldiers and to change their brain so that when they see smoke, they react immediately, which is they pull out their gun, they look for the thread, they go through the mental checklist of look for these five things. And then I want to have a reward for them that's predictable and consistent. Now, in that situation, there's not a natural reward. I have to create that reward. So one of the things that I do is I have them trained as a unit, and as soon as they all take position, they all say to each other, good job, good job, good job, good job, good job, good job, good job, good job, they're all positively reinforcing each other. That becomes a reward that can build this behavior, which is why looking at the unit or the platoon is so important in how we train soldiers is because oftentimes the rewards that are reinforcing our habits are social rewards that we're getting from other individuals. And during training, let's say it's the first day they're going through this drill and two of the guys follow out a formation, they fail to get in position. The absence of being able to say good job is that sufficient, or is there also a punishment of, hey, you two guys, you were in the wrong spot, let's go do it again. Well, it's the Marines, right? So there's certainly the drill sergeants. They have a certain reputation to uphold about about yelling at people. But no, it's actually not doing that much. It's not really doing that much. It's helping people correct it's creating sort of that instead of a wicked feedback system, a positive feedback system where I'm learning very quickly. But it's actually me seeking out that reward. One of the things you'll find if you look at surveys of why people fight, inevitably they will say, I joined because of patriotism and I stayed in the military because of my moderate. Because it comes out because of the guys next to me, I couldn't go home. I couldn't I had to take care of them. That'd be and that's really encouraged by the military and that becomes the dominant overwhelming positive reinforcement is that you act for your fellow soldiers. And when one of them turns to you and says, good job, good job. What he's really saying is, you helped protect me and I'm going to help protect you and that feels amazing. When you think about the number of people that make it through the various forms of training and whether it be Marines, special forces, elsewhere, etc. Are they screening for the capacity to be able to form these habits or is there a point of view that we can basically instill this in anyone provided some basic set of criteria of aptitude or psychological well-being as president. And that's a lot of the way that we're going to do that. And I'm kind of curious in your work how that plays out. That's exactly why I'm asking about it. Because what they believe in and the science tells us is true, humans are habit machines. We literally have evolved to brain that is fantastic at making habits. And so we can take almost anyone, assuming a baseline physical readiness and mental capacity, we can take anyone and we can teach them to be a good soldier. And so we can take them to the elite soldiers, right? So we're going to become special forces. They might have an aptitude where they're more comfortable with willpower, they're more comfortable with grit, they're more comfortable experiencing discomfort. And so they might be able to create habits faster. They might understand it's sort of just intuitively or through learning how to affect their habits. But we can do this with anyone. Which actually I'm curious when someone comes to you. And they are, they are showing a habitual behavior that you think is negatively. They want to race and you want to race. Are there some people who you believe like, it's just not going to happen. Like I can't help this person. Well, the truth of the matter is I just don't think this is an area where I personally have enough expertise. And therefore I'd be hesitant to judge the success or lack there of for a patient. Yeah. Because I don't think I'm a good enough coach. I'll tell you, I have a very, very basic framework on habit, which is one of the reasons I'm excited about this discussion is I'm looking to bring many more insights into what we do. But the way I talked to patients about it is it look, there's broadly speaking additive and subtractive habits. Right. So there are, if you're smoking, if you're drinking too much, I want to take away something. Right. I want the habit to be habit of removal. Conversely, let's say you don't exercise at all or you barely exercise and we want to increase the amount of exercise you do. We want to add that thing in. Yeah. And so I sort of have two different strategies for how to do that. For the, for the former, it really comes down to default environment manipulation. So if a person wants to eat less junk food, my view is you have to actually take some pretty significant steps to reduce the amount of junk food that is a lot of money. You see a lot of junk food that is around you. Absolutely. It sounds obvious. And sometimes it's very difficult to do because if you don't control your environment, it's hard. If you do control your environment, it's easier. And if you're in an intermediate state, you know, you have kids and the kids eat a lot of junk food and you're, you know, but you don't want to be eating like the, the mini weeds all the time. Then it gets a little tougher. But you can exert sort of willpower for brief or stints. For example, when you're at the grocery store and you have to make the decision of what to buy. But taking an easy example, if you live alone, if you're a single person, you control the food environment in your house. And that might mean one hour a week, you have to control your willpower when you're in the grocery store. Yeah, but if you do that, it gives you the luxury of being surrounded by healthy choices for the other 167 hours of absolutely. So that willpower muscle. You can either use it for other things or you can leave a lot. You just have to flex it briefly. Yeah. On the other end of the spectrum. And again, this has always been my way of doing things and I don't think it's unique because I've read other people talk about the exact same idea. So clearly others have thought of this as well. When adding new habits with people, we tend to start very small and the win is basically defined by showing up not by any performance. The science of small wins. Yeah. So so when a person hasn't, if a person says, you know, Peter, I hate, I've had this discussion two weeks ago, right, or last week actually. I hate doing cardio, Peter. I love strength training. I love being in the gym, but this whole zone two thing you want me to do it's so. By the way, this speaks to my heart. Yeah. And a patient said, but, but Peter, you've convinced me, like, I know I need to do this. I just don't want to. And I said, no problem. I'll, I want you to do this week is three 15 minute sessions on a stationary bike. I don't actually care how many watts you're pushing. I don't want you to wear a heart rate monitor. I don't want to, I don't want to track anything other than time. Can you get on for 15 minutes? I want you to pick your favorite podcast and I've got some great recommendations for you. And I want you to just get on a stationary bike for 15 minutes. Listen to this great podcast. And even if at the end of 15 minutes, you want to ride more don't just get off. I want you to do that three times. And then let's discuss that in a month. And, and this tends to be a quite productive way to do it. Yeah. Because then you can start to increase the duration and then you can start to add other parameters around performance. Okay. Now we're going to actually start paying attention to the level of exertion and are getting you in the right spot. But if I just try to say, all right, we're going to go from nothing to four hours of zone to a week and somebody who doesn't like it. Yeah, the likelihood of success is pretty low. So there's a researcher, Katie Milkman at the at Wharton University of Pennsylvania, who studied exactly what you're talking about quite extensively. How do we reward? How do we link a reward to the behavior so that you're experiencing the reward during the behavior? And she actually uses audio books, like you use podcasts. And when she was doing this research, it was right when Harry Potter had come out. She loves Harry Potter. And so she made a rule. She can only listen to the Harry Potter audio book when she's on the stationary bike. And she found that it just completely transformed her attitude towards doing this this behavior that she previously really did not like. Yeah, I mean, even for me, that is kind of the case. And again, I'm far enough along in my journey in my life that I, those things have become so ingrained in me that I will do them. But there are days when I really don't feel like getting on a stationary bike because I do most of my zone to indoors. Because it's easier, frankly than trying to hold a constant level about put outdoors. And frankly, some days it's just really boring, but there are two or three podcasts that I am addicted to. And that's when I listen to them. So it's, yeah, I'm actually I'm looking forward to listening to the podcast. And what my guess is, and tell me if I'm getting, if you think I'm wrong in this, my guess is that in addition to giving yourself a reward during that behavior, you're also rewarding yourself afterwards. Well, for me, the reward after is the feeling. Yeah, so, so, and again, I'd love to talk about this as it pertains to exercise. You know, Anna Lemka, who I'm sure you're familiar with her work. You know, she talks about how for many people the discomfort of exercises creates that imbalance in dopamine, homeostasis. Yeah, such that post exercise, many of us experience that subtle shift where we actually have, if not a euphoria, certainly a better feeling. Yeah. And so for me, I always know that no matter how lousy I feel or how uninterested I am, and it's usually that I'm just too busy. Usually it's, I just want to do work for another hour. I don't really want to get on my bike. But I know that I'm getting this reward after of how I feel. Yeah. And what's interesting is what the research tells us, so that's very real, right? The runners high and real thing. What's interesting is, and anyone who who once didn't exercise and now does exercise is listening kind of knows this intuitively. The first couple of times that we tell someone to exercise, they do not anticipate the runners high and so as a result, it can't be a motor, it's a difficult motivating factor, right? Right, my mom hates exercise. And I always say, you're going to feel so good afterwards and she says, you know, and I just don't feel good afterwards. Now, she actually does feel good afterwards, but she tends to forget it. Right. She engages in hyperbolic discounting very actively around this positive reward. But one of the things that happens when we start exercising is that we convince ourselves that we're going to feel better afterwards. And so in extrinsic reward, like giving myself a nice smoothie, you know, congratulating me, calling Peter and he tells me you did such a good job for getting on the bike three times this week, that external reward moves to an internal reward, where it's the, it's the feeling of accomplishment and it's the runners high, the euphoria that I'm getting, the push that motorways might be heavier. But I have to learn the value of that intrinsic reward because you usually can't convince me of it without me having experienced it. And so if you were to consider a group of 10 individuals who are similar and most observable ways externally, right? And you, you want all of them to create a new habit in a domain that is entirely foreign to them. Are there attributes of these people that would allow you to predict who is more likely to be successful? For example, does willpower, which might form the basis of the initial, you know, for lack of a better word activation energy getting over that hump the first few times. Does that factor into it? I mean, truth certainly I think I understand the science of willpower, so maybe we can, yeah, spend some time on that if it's helpful. The answer is absolutely, but I'm going to caveat the answer by saying, there are certainly behavioral characteristics that make it easier for some people to understand how to change their habits and adopt new habits. There does not seem to be a great deal of evidence that there's genetic reasons to predict that. Now, some researchers will say there is slight genetic variations. We think that some people are more prone to willpower than others are, but it's so small and insignificant in comparison with the behavioral training that you have, right? The environment that you've grown up in, if you have parents who teach you willpower habits. If you're someone who is an athlete and so you have a team that's taught you how to push yourself a little bit harder when pushing yourself as hard, you already have an intuitive sense of how to adjust your own habits. And so as a result, if you're in a room with someone who has none of that background, they've never played on a team sport, their parents let them do whatever they wanted. It's going to take me longer to change that second person's habits because I'm going to have to train them more and the training just takes time. That makes sense. Okay. So it's not that one real irritability. Yes. But high environmental and behavioral exposure is absolutely absolutely. Absolutely. And the research is pretty consistent on that. So not to digress, but again, I think a lot of people in our audience are parents. And so I mean, this sounds like just good parenting 101, but let's double click on it a little bit. What do those of us with young kids need to do to enable our kids to become the type of adults who can make behavior changes and create better habits. So the single most powerful thing we can do is we can teach them how willpower works and to build willpower habits because a willpower habit actually doesn't tax the the metaphor of the muscle of the willpower muscle that it's going to be able to do so we'll power muscle that exists inside our head. And so Angelad Duckworth who probably many of you are familiar with because of grit, she's done a lot of research on this. One of the things that's really powerful is to explain and demonstrate to kids how to diagnose the cue routine and reward so that they can begin editing their own habits. And one of the things that I do is I'm very ostentatious in how I reward myself for hard behavior. Right, and this is actually kind of counterintuitive because we're dads, we're supposed to be stoic, right? We go out and we run a half marathon and like it's no big deal. We don't we don't rule. So what I do is exactly the opposite. I go out and I run not even half marathon and just go and I run four or five miles I come home and it's a man that was a hard run, but I push through it. Now you know what I'm going to do. I'm going to have this really yummy smoothie I've been looking forward to for the next 15 or 20 minutes. I'm just going to lay on the couch and enjoy myself because I feel so good right now. What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to model for them giving yourself a reward focusing on that reward is a powerful way to reinforce or change your own behavior. And I'll do the same thing with cues. Oftentimes some of the cues that I use for exercise or for other things aren't visible to my children because I'm, you know, putting my running shoes next to my bed. So I see them when I wake up in the morning and they don't understand the significance of that or I'm, I'm doing engaged in a sort of ritual before I start writing that they don't see. So what I'll do is I'll be very explicit with them and say, you know what, I need to start writing 15 minutes. Here's what I'm going to do for the next 15 minutes to get ready for that. I'm teaching them, think about the cues in your life, think about the rewards in your life. If you focus on those two things, you can create almost any routine, any behavior that you want or change any behavior that you want. So the cues in that sense are just as important for the positive behaviors as the negatives. I think many of us probably associate cues with the negative, meaning be aware of the cue, right? I'm going to quit smoking, what's my cue to smoke? How do I need to spot it in advance? But you're paying just as much attention to, it's funny. I don't know that I really think of cues on my positive behaviors. But I'm sure I know they're there. I guess if I was a lawyer, I can't your life. I bet you, okay, so let me ask you before you work out. What do you do before you work out? Make my electrolyte drink. Okay. So that's a preceding behavior. It's a preceding ritualized behavior that's become a cue for you. And it's not a negative cue, right? Do you look forward to making that look? Does it feel like a little sense of anticipation as you're making it? Like, I'm going to go work out. I'm going to... No, because interestingly, and people will be so surprised to know this about me, but at least, in the past year or two, I feel I'm so busy that I don't have the desire to work out until I'm in the gym. That's interesting. So in other words, it used to be that I couldn't wait to work out. But something has happened in the last two years where I really have to kick myself into the gym. Now, when I'm 15 minutes in, I feel great and delighted to be there, and there's nowhere I'd rather be. But the 15 minutes before I go into the gym, which includes making that drink, extracting myself away from my computer, and doing my warm-up, I'm like, that is actually... That's the most part... That's the most part... That's the most part... But also, I benefit from an off-muscle memory of just... I've done this my whole life. Yeah. But I'm trying to... I guess I have to think about that. Let me pause at a hypothesis, and you can tell me if you think this is right. My guess is that that preceding behavior of making the electrolyte, Drank and doing the stretches. That was a very ineffective cue at one point in your life. And the effectiveness of that cue has diminished over time. But you found other cues, which is that essence of antis... One of it might just be a sense of anticipation that you're going to feel good after 15 minutes. I think that's a lot of it. Yeah. It might also be that you know that you're going to put on your podcast. And so like the cue of hitting start on the podcast is what gets your head in that place, where you can start exercising and then experiencing... What's interesting is that it's only due to the podcast for Zone 2. Okay. It's the only thing. It's in the gym for some reason I can't lift weights and concentrate on something else. That's fascinating. So I listen to music in the gym, which doesn't get me excited. And that would actually suggest that you are using more willpower in the gym. Yeah. Because that muscle will... This is an exact metaphor, but we can think of willpower as a muscle. And like all muscles it gets stronger, the more we practice using it. But it also gets fatigued in the short term. Mm-hmm. So this is why if you look at... If you look at data on when accidents happen in surgery, they most often happen when a surgeon has been either in his second or third surgery or her second or third surgery or when it's a very long surgery. Right? They've been using their willpower for so long. They get fatigued. If you look at the number of affairs that happen among lawyers and doctors, they most often happen when someone has been at the office after 9 or 9 or 9 or 30. And for years people thought, oh, you get to the evening and it's like kind of romantic. No. It's that after 9 or 10 hours of exerting your willpower in your office, your guard is down, your muscles weaker. And so when someone comes up and they kiss you and set a push in them away, you kiss them back. Thinking about our willpower muscle, both strengthening it, but also protecting it when we need it, is critical to being able to be the people that we want to be. And so part of that then is recognizing when you're vulnerable. Yes. So you're, and I mean, you used an extreme example of having an affair, but also vulnerable to fall. So let's use a less extreme example of, I really want to eat less dessert. Yeah. I really just want to eat less dessert. So it was just smoking. Okay. So smoking is a great one. It could be because James Prochaska at the University of Rhode Island has spent his whole career. And like the data that we have on smoking cessation is enormous. That's the outpaces almost everything else. Okay. So let's talk about what happens. Nicotine, as you know, is an addictive substance, but we're only addicted to nicotine for about 100 hours after our last cigarette. By that point, nicotine is out of our bloodstream. Like, we don't have a physical dependency on nicotine. And yet we all know people who create, who smoked for years quit, and they crave a cigarette a decade later after they have breakfast in the morning. Let's, so I didn't, I didn't actually know that Charles. So four days after you smoked your last cigarette or had your last exposure to nicotine. You've come to know that you have a physiologic need for nicotine. Yeah. It's out of your, you have, you have completed withdrawal. That is, that is, I mean, I had no idea of that. But what you still have. You still have the cue. You still have, you still have the, you remember the reward. Right. Exactly. The habit, the habit, you still exist in your brain. If you have a, if you have a cigarette with every morning cup of coffee, as soon as you pick up by that coffee, your brain is craving that nicotine. And that feels just like an addiction, a physical addiction. In fact, it's, in some ways, more powerful than a physical addiction. And so, so what, so what Prochosca did is he looked at how people quit smoking, and this gets to the point you were raising before about learning. He found that on average, a smoker needs to quit seven times in order to actually quit. So, so committed smoker. Somebody who's been smoking for years, they will give up cigarettes seven times before it actually works. Which raises this kind of interesting question. What is happening in those seven times? Like why seven instead of four? What's happening? What the research tells us is that the first time I give up cigarettes, I focus on willpower. Right. I say like, I'm going to resist, I'm going to resist these cigarettes. I'm throwing them out. I'm going to change my environment a little bit. But all those cues are still there, the craving for the reward is still there. And when my willpower gets taxed, my mother-in-law comes to town, I've had a really tough day at work. My willpower is really, my muscle, that muscle has been exercised all day. That's the moment that I give in, and I pick up a cigarette, and I say to hell with it, I'm going to start smoking. And just to be clear is, what happens when you have that first cigarette? Why can you not, on that first cigarette, go, hey, it was just a lapse, I'm exhausted tomorrow's a new day. Well, it's because you don't have a plan. Right. So you're caught off guard by this relapse. And as a result, it tends to shake our faith in ourselves, even if it's almost subconscious. It tends to shake our faith in ourselves that we can't quit. Now that's the first time. That's super, so I just want to interject here. This is something that we try to talk a lot to our patients about, which is, except because again, we're not dealing with something that's as binary as smoking. Just say it's exercise, and you're, like, we've set a plan that you're going to do something for 30 minutes every day. And then you're going to have that day when you don't. What we tend to spend a lot of time coaching on is absolutely positively under no circumstance to you judge yourself for that day. And the next day, just get back on the horse, and don't let one bad day be too. And then it's fine because I think what we see is a lot of times a personal goes six days of an exercise of the routine. They miss a day, they beat themselves up, and then they're done. They're like, well, forget it. I screwed up. Or, you know, it can happen in the reverse. Yeah. Well, and it makes sense, right? Because we're talking about rewards and positive rewards and negative rewards. I miss a day, and I start beating up on myself. I'm flooding my brain with negative rewards, with recommendations, with feelings of shame. My brain pays attention to what gives me positive rewards and negative rewards. And it's saying, this exercise thing, it's a soccer game because if you do if I feel good for a couple of days, you're going to miss it. You're going to be a terrible laugh of what I miss it. So you're exactly right. We cannot engage in that self-laim. Well, this poor smoker, this poor smoker, his mother-in-law who nags him comes into town. He's his willpower is exhausted. He's been dealing with her all day long. He grabs his. He lights up. Sneaks outside and shame. Yes. So here's what happens. You do that once. You do that twice. You do it three times. Here's what's hard to happen around the third or fourth time. And this is what gets to your exercise as well. Suddenly, people stop looking at it as a moral lapse, and they start looking at it as a scientific experiment. Okay. Here's the data that I've observed. I do a pretty good job of avoiding cigarettes until something really stressful happens. So I need to ahead of time, figure out when that stressful thing occurs. I'm going to do instead of smoking because if I don't have a plan in place, what's known as an implementation intention. If I don't have a plan in place, I'm going to pick up the cigarettes. So here's my plan. Instead of beating up on myself, I'm going to write down that the next time my mother-in-law comes to town, I'm going to have some sweet candy in the house. Because I know that I'm going to have an urge to put something in my mouth. I'm going to want some type of quick boost reward and sugar can provide that to me, the novelty of taste. I'm going to have that candy in my house. And when she's driving me crazy, I'm going to walk over pick up a piece of candy and go outside and eat it. So what happens is that over time, the reason why I take seven times to quit smoking, or the reason why you're clients and your patients, to have these moments of willpower failure, is because instead of looking at that as a failure, we have to look at ourselves as scientists who are conducting experiments and paying attention to the data. And my wife is a scientist and you're a scientist. So you know, if every experiment that a scientist does succeeds, they're a terrible scientist. Right? The goal is to figure out where it succeeds and where it fails and learn from the failures, we have to look at our own lives that same way and say, I meant to go run today and I didn't. Let me try and figure out why. And then I'll come up with a plan for the next time. Next time this obstacle emerges, I know what to do. Without having to worry about. And is it the case you think that that people are able to kind of do that on their own? Or is this the enormous opportunity to coach a person through that and say, you know, to create an accountability partner for example and say, look, I want to hear about it when you fail just as much as I want to hear about it when you succeed. And when you fail, I'm going to direct all of the inquiry towards learning. What did you learn? What can you, you know? That's, it's incredibly powerful because it's going to speed up that feed back loop, right? Now, there are some people. There are people who quit smoking on their own without ever talking to another person about quitting smoking, right? But those, so these guys are the outliers. They're, they're absolutely the outliers and it's taking them longer to actually quit than someone who takes advantage of the social, the social aspect of habit formation, where I know that I can get rewards and I can get learnings from other people in my life more effectively than I can, than I can find it in myself. The, the truth of the matter is, let's take alcohol as an example because AA is such a well-studied and interesting model. There are lots of people who engage in what's known as spontaneous recovery, where they will try and quit drinking and they'll relapse and the quandra drinking and eventually they stop drinking. But people who engage in AA because it's basically habit replacement, those people end up quitting drinking much faster. So we all have the capacity to do this on our own. But when we do it in an environment where we know that we're taking advantage of the cues and rewards that make behavior change easier, it goes faster and it feels better. What is the overall success of AA for alcohol abstinence or, I mean, I guess AA does not support harm reduction. It's really about abstinence, right? That's absolutely right. So, so we don't know that AA is very extensively studied, but because it's anonymous, we don't have double blind studies, we don't have a lot of longitudinal data. That being said, the estimate seemed to be that for about 40% of people who come into AA, they can achieve lifelong abstinence if they, if that's their goal. And 40% isn't great, right? That's still me and 60% of people, but it's pretty good for behavior change. And so, what's interesting about AA is AA much like the military is built around, asking people to identify the cues and rewards in their life, and then changing the behavior that corresponds that old cue and finding a new behavior that delivers something similar to that old for award. The 10 principles of AA, the reason why there's 10 of them is because there's 10 commandments in the Bible. The bill, the bill, the bill, the guy who came up with AA, he had no training. It's like college, your science whatsoever. The thing that makes AA successful is that when you walk in, you stand up and you say, my name is Charles, and I'm an alcoholic, and then at some point you tell your story. And when you're telling your story, you're reminding yourself of all the cues, the prompt you to drink. One of the steps is I make a men's, I go to all the people that I've wronged. That teaches me what those cues are. I'm learning. I'm looking at my life as a scientist. And then oftentimes the reward for drinking is a relaxed, socialized experience. So when you go to an AA meeting, you have a relaxed, socialized experience. Absent alcohol, but you're talking to other people, you're commuting with other people, the same thing you get at a bar. AA is a habit, change machine. It doesn't have to express itself that way. And I don't know much about AA, but the little bit I know suggest that people will go for life. They might not go as frequently, but they're going to, I know people that have been sober for 20 years. They're still going to a meeting twice a week. You're exactly right. You're exactly right. So oftentimes people will develop a habitualized behavior around AA, and they keep up with that habit for life. Just as frequent and actually more frequent is that people will commit to AA. They say like 90 meetings in 90 days. So the commit to AA at the beginning. And then it will taper down over time. They'll start going to one meeting a week and then one meeting a month and then they move to a new place. And they don't know where the menu meeting is, but what they have learned is when I'm in that moment, where I think I'm going to relapse, where my willpower muscle seems tired, where the cues around me are prompting me to drink, I'm going to go to a meeting instead of go to a bar. And so the AA, even if I'm not going consistently, if it's ingrained in my psychology, it's a way to avoid drinking, it's very, very powerful. And I can activate that anytime in life. So let's go back to childhood. Sure. Because I think this is such an interesting place, right? Where I mean, maybe I'm in correct, but I'm assuming that again, a lot of these seeds are sewn in how we're raised. And in the case of your kids, they're getting actually kind of like a masterclass because they've got, you know, a parent who's one of the world's experts in it. But they would also, they would not say it was a masterclass. I was saying I'm a little heavy handed, but thank you for that. But you're being deliberate in how you're coaching. So again, for those of us who want to kind of take a bit of that, because I, you know, I really think like people always ask me like, what do you want for your kids? And that's an interesting question, right? Like I certainly don't, I don't have any aspiration for what I want them to be professionally. Like it's not like, oh, I want this kid to be that and this kid to be that. I mean, you want your kids to be well adjusted and happy. Yeah. But it's hard to imagine them doing that if they don't have some command and control over themselves. So that you could argue that this is one of the most important things that we want our kids to have. Yeah. And yet I don't feel like we have any adequacy in the training for it. I think you're right. I think that this is something, if this was more of a curriculum in schools, if it was something we taught parents, and that's one of the reason that I wrote the power of habit, is I wanted to empower parents to teach their own kids, the stuff recognized things in their own life. I think that a number of us understand intuitively some aspect of this, right? So a lot has been written about the growth mindset, Carol Dewex work, I have Stanford. You know, one of the things that she emphasizes is teaching children a sense of agency, that instead of saying, when you bring home an A and your report card instead of saying, oh, you're so smart, which is something you don't have control over, to say, oh, you must have worked really, really hard because that's something you do have control over. I'm reinforcing your sense of agency. When we do that intuitively or deliberately, one of the things that we're doing is we're teaching our children that they have control over their habits, right? You went and you worked really hard to get that A. You developed a habit of studying, you used your willpower. I'm going to positively reinforce that by recognizing it. Whereas if I say, you must be really smart, you got that A. I'm not positively reinforcing your belief that you can change your behavior. So in addition to explaining to kids and being ostentatious, showing off the cues and rewards in our own life and how we change our own habits, the way that we give rewards to our children, also reinforces for them, whether they believe that they are in control of their willpower or not. And I suppose the other side of that is, how do we handle our own failures in front of them? Absolutely. Do we even admit our own failures? Right? There's a model of fatherhood from the 1950s that you don't burden your family with your ups and downs. Dad's a steady rock. But all the research tells us one of the best things you can do is if you screwed up and I tried to do this all the time. I come home and I'm like, oh man, I called this guy today and I just completely screwed up this interview. Because I want them to know and then I say, but the thing I realized from it is that next time I call I need to have something to eat before I call because that's going to help me. I'm modeling for them. A failure is not a failure. A failure is a data point and I'm a scientist about my own life. What do we know about the length of time or the amount of friction it takes to create a habit and the difficulty in breaking it? Yeah. Maybe that doesn't make sense. I'll try to come up with an example. If it takes a long time to really create a habit around exercise or meditation, let's pick something new. Okay. Not an easy thing to do. Right. But let's say over years and years and years you take a lot of time to build that memory that muscle memory up. I assume that's creating some sort of physiologic headroom that makes it much harder for you to erode that down. Yes. Absolutely. So what's happening when you're meditating is that as we mentioned there's these neural synapses, neural pathways that connect the synapses associated with the cue and the routine in the reward. They're becoming thicker and thicker and thicker over time. What's interesting is they almost never become significantly thinner. So if you develop a meditation habit and then you stop meditating, your life changes the cues. When you come back to meditation, you will fall back into it much more quickly than the average person. So we know that creating habits about good and bad creates this neural pathway that we need to be conscious of. But your question of how long does it take? The answer is we actually don't know. There's this like old, there's this myth, this old wives tale that you know takes 21 days to build a habit and it takes 30 days to break a habit. What the research tells us is that there is no number because different people have different thresholds and different kinds of habits have different timelines associated with them. You want to create a habit of eating chocolate, you can probably do it in a couple of days. It's an immediate, it's an immediate positive response. If you like chocolate, it's something you enjoy, the cues are plenty of a range. You just put chocolate bars in your house. But if you want to build an exercise habit, it's going to take a little bit longer. But here's the important thing. Is that regardless of how long it takes to build that habit or change a habit. Every day you do it, it will get a little bit easier. And you might not feel that increase in ease the first couple of days. But what's going to happen is I'm going to push myself to exercise day one, day two, day three. I'm going to relapse on day four. I'm not doing it. I'm going to beat up myself. I'm going to look for the science to what what wouldn't wrong here. What's my plan for next time. And then I get to day 12 or I get to do it day 20 or I get to day 365. And it occurs to me actually exercising is really easy for me now. I hardly even think about it. It just happens almost all kind of automatically. Now what about the negatives? Right. So if you take two individuals, one who has been smoking for a year, a pack a day for a year, and one who has been smoking a pack a day for 20 years, is it necessarily the case that the latter is going to have a much more difficult time quitting? Probably because it's a much more ingrained behavior. But this is where individual differences come into play significantly. Because if that first person, if they're an athlete, if they've worked on other habits in their life, if they've strengthened that muscle around habit change, they might be able to rely on that to give up smoking. Whereas the 20 20 year smokeer doesn't. But yes, in general, the longer and more consistent behavior becomes, the more reinforced it becomes in our brain. And does that mean that let's just assume both of these individuals are able to quit smoking? Yeah, it's five years later. Both of them are at a bar and they both light up a cigarette. Are they both equally susceptible to relapse or is the 20 year person more susceptible? Because his neural connections are more hardwired. Well, there's a lot of compounding factors there, right? So when the 20 year of smokeer lights up his cigarette, we're focusing on the habit loop associated with nicotine use. But there's probably other habit loops that he has developed over time, which is he might feel much more intense sense of shame over smoking than the one year smokeer. He might have empathy, my developing health problems. And those are creating mental habits for him that are countervailing the positive reinforcement of the nicotine. So the answer to your question is, it's really hard to say universally. What we do know is that the more consistent or reward, whether it's a reward that rewards a positive behavior or a negative behavior. The more consistent that reward and the more consistent that cue, the faster the habit will take hold in the stronger the grip it'll have on us. But when we're trying to change it or create a new habit, there's so many other variables that we don't, we can't predict how long it's going to take. But we do know that any habit can be changed. Is there a rule of thumb that says on average it is more or less difficult to break habits than to create habits? So the science doesn't sort of address that question. What we do know is that it takes a different technique to build a new habit than to change an old habit. Right? So if I want to build a new habit, if I want to start running, what I need to do is I need to sit down, just come up with a cue. Come up with a reward. Okay, my cue is, and by the way, I'll cue you fall into one of five categories. It's a time of day, a particular place or environment. It's a certain emotion you feel. It's the presence of certain other people, or it's a preceding behavior that's become ritualized. So tomorrow I want to start running. I've never run before. I'm going to take advantage of as many of those as I can, right? So my plan is set my alarm for seven o'clock. I want to be at the door by seven thirty running. And I'm going to put my running shoes, I'm going to run and close on my floor next to my bed. So I see them when I wake up. It's super easy to put them on. I know what I'm going to wear. I'm going to ask my friend Jim to meet me on the corner. We're going to run together. I'm creating as many queues as I can. If you can tap into all five of your your in the morning, some of them are going to stick. Yep. And then when I get home, I've already decided what reward I'm going to give myself. I'm going to have a nice long shower. I'm going to drink a smoothie. I'm going to take 15 minutes to check social media or whatever else sort of delights me. So that's how we build a new habit. Is we choose a queue and we choose a reward and we link it to a behavior we want to encourage. But for a bad habit, habit that we want to extinguish, our nomenclature is incorrect. We often talk about breaking a bad habit. But because that neural pathway exists in our brain, I've smoked for 20 years, I can't just extinguish that those neural connections. What I need to do is instead of thinking about breaking bad habit or extinguishing it, I have to think about changing bad habit. And in that case, what I do is I identify the queue that prompts this behavior I want to change. I identify the reward that that behavior is giving me. And I'm going to simply insert a new behavior that corresponds to that old queue, that deliver something similar to that old reward. And I'm going to let my brain eventually shift. Keep the habit loop inside my head, but change the behavior the routine. Yeah, this is, I mean, I just like, I love this framework so much, right? So let's, let's go back to the first one. Okay, because it has so much applicability, right? So new habit. You have to do something new. You've identified what the behavior is. That's the thing. Yep. The playbook is pretty straightforward. I got to come up with as many cues as possible. So if I'm going to do single queue, not that likely, I'll succeed out of the gate, but boy, get five of them four out of five of them. It's great. And obviously, some of them are more than others. So I know for our patients, the cues that tend to be very powerful are other people. Yeah. People never want to let people down. Right. So we always think that one of the most powerful cues is an accountability partner. Sometimes we have people that literally hire trainers for these sole purpose, that they, they don't want to be embarrassed that they've not shown up. That the own, you're kind of just writing me right now. Yeah. But you're right. Yeah. The more cues that we can come up with, the better, and some of them will have more salience than others. Yeah. But we sort of, we'll play with that and figure out which, which one's worked for us. And then how do you help a person think about how to gauge the magnitude of the reward? Yeah. You know, here's an area where you could get a little extreme. Yes. Um, yeah. I'm not going to embarrass myself with examples of things I've done in this department. But my wife could tell you some really embarrassing stories of how Peter can reward himself. Yes. Exactly. So the first thing to do is to say, I have to give myself a reward, which is actually harder than it sounds. So if you think about how most people start exercising, instead of having this like, I'm going to take a nice shower. I'm going to get it, drink smoothie. They go for a run and they get home and they're late right now. Now I'm rushing. I'm taking as quick a shower as I can because I got a throat breakfast on the table for the kids. And I'm going to, I'm running late to take them to school. I'm actually punishing myself for exercising and my brain pays attention to that punishment. It says, I don't want to exercise anymore. This is, this is a suckers game. So the first and most important step is to actually recognize, I have to reward myself. And I have to create the time or the space or the resources to let myself have that reward and enjoy that reward. Now the next question that you asked, how big should it be? Yeah. One of the things that we know is that one of the most powerful impacts on this is how immediate that reward is. That in general, if I give myself a reward right away, if I eat sugar and it tastes good, it gives me that boost as soon as it hits my tongue, that's going to be a more powerful reinforcement than if it's something where I'm working out every day and three weeks from now, my muscles are going to be stronger. So the more immediate we can make the reward at first, the better. And we can oftentimes have a smaller reward if it happens quickly, then having to have a bigger reward that comes later in time. Now I mentioned though that this is at first and this is really important because, as I mentioned before, what happens with rewards is they almost always, if a behavior becomes a habit, they almost always move from extrinsic to intrinsic. Right. So at first, the reward I'm giving myself is I'm letting myself have a smoothie. And that smoothie might not be the way. By the way, you have got me very curious about your smoothie. You bring it up a lot. I do. There's something going on in the center of the rub. I'll say to create Santa Cruz. Santa Cruz. So I'll tell you, I love smoothies. I put peanut butter in my smoothie, which you're not supposed to write. Let's like, I'm taking all this healthiness and I'm erasing it by putting the peanut, because I've already got protein powder in there. I don't need any more protein. But for to your point, I'm increasing the magnitude of the reward that I get from this particular road. But over time, as you mentioned, what's going to happen is you're craving for that smoothie is going to go down as your brain begins to realize, oh, actually when I run, I feel great afterwards. I feel in door fins, I feel dopamine, I feel these end of cannabois, right? There's this kind of like, there's this, this, this, this soup of good feeling in my head. Your brain starts saying, I don't actually need the smoothie. I don't crave for the smoothie quite as much. I don't need that smoothie, because I just, I feel good afterwards. That's the reward. So the reward is moved from extrinsic to intrinsic. And that's a really important transition, because that means the behavior becomes self-reunit forcing without external rewards. So let's think of a behavior where there is absolutely positively no obvious link to a short-term reward. Okay, we're going to have to fabricate one. Yep. Does it need to make sense? Here's, so, so the smoothie kind of makes sense after the run, because you are glycogen depleted. Absolutely. That's the perfect time to have a smoothie. You're most insulin sensitive. You actually can dispose of glucose the most. Do you see, if you're going to have a smoothie any time a day, that's the time to have it. Okay. Now, I come to you and I say Charles, three years out of college, I technically make enough money that I could start putting money into my 401k. Okay. I just don't want to, man. Yeah. Because, honestly, like, I know my employer matches, and I know that it's leverage dollars, and I know all the intellectual reasons why. But the truth of the matter is, if I start putting money into this 401k, I have less money to buy things now. Absolutely. So, and it's going to pay off in 40 years. Yes. Right. It's hard for me to get excited about 40 years from now. Yeah. So, how would you coach me into making that decision, especially around the cues and the rewards? Yeah. I love this question. Because there's actually been a bunch of research on this. Particularly out of researchers at Universal Penciling, New Warden. So, what they did is they went into a series of communities in South America. And they asked this exact question, how do we get people, particularly people in the reason why they were in South America is because they wanted people who were in a cash-based account. Where there was not a lot of credit cards. How do we get people to save more increased their savings rates? When we know that the reward for savings is oftentimes far off in the distance, particularly if you're low income. So, they had two groups. The control group, they set up a box for them that they could put savings into. And they said, we'd like you once a week to come in and save some money. And by the way, we're going to tell you all the good reasons to save. You should save because eventually you want to send your kids to college. Or you want to buy that new truck. And we're going to help you. We're going to have a saving device for you. That's the control group. With the experimental group, they do the exact same thing except there is a secretary who works in that bank. Who every single time someone comes in and they put money into that box, they say, man, this is the fourth week in a row you've come in. I'm so impressed to see you. You know, your kids are going to go to college. They're going to be amazing kids. Like, I just think about like, someday in the future, like they're going to buy you a new home. This is going to be, you are a great parent. The second group, the experimental group, savings rent, rate went up over 40%. They were saving 40% more money than the first group. Not a bigger payoff, simply someone positively reinforcing. So what happened there? It's a long-term behavior. But we need short-term rewards. And so the researchers were manufacturing a short-term reward in the form of social reinforcement. As the following experiment been done as an extension of that, where you have a third arm that gets the same reinforcement for a period of time, and then the secretary goes away after X number of months to see if the shift from extrinsic to intrinsic maintains the same savings rate. So I haven't seen that experiment in this particular setting, but in other settings, absolutely. And what is the period of time that you need to remove the extrinsic reward? And make it intrinsic? Yeah. I think it would probably depend on the type of habit we're talking about in the type of individual. Right. That's what it's not one answer. Yeah, I don't think there's one answer, but we do know that at some point it will move from extrinsic to intrinsic. And one of the things we do know is that social rewards actually become intrinsic much faster. That if I start working out and I know that Peter's going to tell me I'm doing a great job, and I look forward to that. Eventually, that sense of pride that I feel, I'm just going to get it without you having to tell me I'm doing a great job. Right. Social reinforcement, social rewards, sense of pride, particularly mental habits become intrinsic much much faster. And so that's something we can leverage. We can use those social rewards to go move for extrinsic to intrinsic. What other ways are there besides social reinforcement to reward very long-term behaviors like savings? So I'll tell you what I do. So I have a spreadsheet. I've had it for seven or eight years now. And I use simplify. I used to use mince. I use vanguard. I have different, all the websites that sort of consolidate all of my financial information. Once a week, it takes me about 15 minutes. I update my spreadsheet. I create a brand new set for this week. I input all the numbers. Here's my bank balance. Here's my vanguard balance. Here's my private equity balance. And then I look at whether it's gone up or down. And you know what? I love it. But I look forward to it. But many times it's going down. You're based on the stock market. Absolutely. And when it's going down is when I tend to not do it. Because part of my brain knows like the markets down. I just don't want to even be reminded of it. I'm going to wait another one. What is the frequency at which you save money? Do you have an automatic every one week or every month? I am automatically mindlessly without thinking about it, putting extolors into you. The answer is yes. It's because my income is more stochatic because I write and do things that deliver outside reward sometimes and sort of long periods without reward. But yes, absolutely. But it's based on a percentage of what comes in and again. Anything that comes in, any new money that comes in, goes immediately into my vanguard account. And I've never taken money out of my vanguard account. So what is it specifically Charles that you are getting rewarded by if the number isn't monotonically going up? So what is giving you the joy? What's giving me the joy is I feel a real sense of responsibility and I feel a relief from tension. We mentioned before that one of the most powerful rewards is relieving tension. I put you in the box and I tell you, if you give me information, you can come out of the box. I'll remove the tension. And for me, particularly someone who, you know, when I went to HPS and I became a journalist, I was the lowest paid member of my class for the next seven years. I mean, there's been, I started the company before I became journalists. I used to sell blood in order to make payroll. Right? Like money insecurity for me is a real thing. And to look at that spreadsheet and say, like, oh, you went down by, you know, 2% this month, but it's okay because that number, that number in the bottom is still big enough that I don't have to worry. That that relief of tension is enough of a positive reinforcement to make saving a really positive experience for me. And here's the other thing that I do in that spreadsheet. I say, here's how much money I've made in the last year. Here's how much money I've made in the last two years. Here's how much money I've made in the last three years. And I have those right next to what my total net worth is because even if my net worth goes down this week, because the market took a tumble, those numbers, 1, 2, 3 years, those are still positive. And I just like that was, and I think I made that much in three years. Now, do you play other scenarios forward like, and this is how much money I'm saving for being able to help my kids go to college or, you know, what are these other activities? Or, do you start to reverse engineer? And at this rate, I will be able to work for free. Yes. You know, I'll be able to do whatever I want, work wise and not be dependent on a paycheck by age X. That's exactly right. I'm creating anticipation for future rewards, which is very intrinsic at this point. It's very intrinsic and it's actually surprisingly powerful. So what was your, do you remember the first X-Trenzyk thing you had to do? Was the spreadsheet exercise sufficient initially as the sole X-Trenzyk motivator? It's a really good question. I have to think back because it's been so long now. I think this was for me. It was for me. Yeah, I think this was the biggest thing. I'm a spreadsheet, junkie, and I remember in medical school just as I'm getting ready to finish and start residency. It's my first real paycheck. Yeah. And again, I think we made $32,000 a year. It's not like you were rolling in money. But I remember doing the math and being like, okay, you know, Hopkins is going to match my, It was called a 403B. I think because we were in, I think a university is the same as the 401k. Right. And I just remember thinking like, you know, I'd read all these books and it's like, you were, It's free money. Like you got to take it. But it became a game to me. So I gamified how little I could spend. Right. So it was, well, I mean, I would sort of embarrassing that I would be like, look, I technically don't need to spend money on food because I could just eat all the crap in the hospital for free. There's always a free meal in the hospital. I don't actually have to buy clothes. Like it'd be in scrubs 247. And so I had this huge budget that I would line item. And I really had, you know, I had repayment of student loan. My truck loan, my rent. Like it was relatively finite. And so discretionary money, most of it could go into savings. Yeah. And, but yes, I made that spreadsheet and I obsessed over it. So it's interesting to say that you were the same. Oh, absolutely. I thought I was very unique in doing that. Well, what I love about what you just said is you said I gamified it. Right. So the way games work is that it delivers rewards to us. Right. That's why we play a game. It has a reward schedule. And the way that you gamified it is you came up with a spreadsheet. Because you can't play a game without a game board. Right. You need some way of keeping track of whether you're winning a losing. You created for yourself a game board where you could gamify. This is interesting. I never really thought of it that way. I assume people have already figured out a way to do this for young people. I'm sure there must be someone out there who has cracked the code on gamifying savings. If so, I have not found them. There's a company's problem. Are you and I independently have done the same thing? But I think that there's a powerful aspect to that, which is I think the reason why it was so powerful for us is because we felt a sense of agency and choice over it. We came up with this model. We thought about what works for us. And even though we were both using spreadsheets, I'll bet you our spreadsheets were pretty different. Sure. Yeah. Like I think that we were measuring different things. We were investing in different things. We were looking. We were getting rewards from the way they were. Because your spreadsheet is more sophisticated. We were focusing on your returns. I was return agnostic. I was focusing on contribution. So my spreadsheet focused on the spend. Yeah. And how big could I make the contribution number? Right. But what went to Vanguard was like out of my hands. I was like they're going to do their thing. They're going to do their thing. I'm going to do their thing. Yeah. And there's probably something about your psychology and my psychology. Where that contribution, that sense of of willpower and of sacrifice, feels very, very rewarding to you. That it might feel less rewarding to me. But a sense of over time returning. I could have been a drill-ated. I'm sure it's probably going to be a little less. Because you're probably as returns sensitive as I am now. Right. Yeah. Let's go back to the creation of other habits that are not immediately rewarding. Because unfortunately, that again is in many ways the main stay of health habits. Yeah. Now, some things that we want people to do for health provide both short-term and long-term value and it's easier for people to anchor to the long-term value. So easy example of that would be, you know, hey, Sally, look, you're 30 pounds overweight. And I have to be honest with you. I don't particularly care that your 30 pounds overweight from the standpoint of your weight. But you're also very insulin resistant as a result of it. And I know that if you can lose 30 pounds, it's actually going to improve your health. You're going to become more insulin sensitive. Your risk of diabetes cancer heart disease is going to go down. This is what I care about. And Sally might say, yeah, I mean, in the abstract I agree with all of that Peter, but look, I'm only 30 years old. Like why? You know, what I really care about is being 30 pounds lighter. So I look great in a bathing suit. Right. And so here you have a situation where both I can and the patient can care about the same outcome. But for different reasons. Yeah. And there's a great overlap, which is great. The way we're going to address this is we're going to make these changes in your diet, these changes in your exercise. And there's a win for both of us. Absolutely. Because in six months, you're going to have the body that you want to have. And I'm going to have the numbers I want to have to feel confident that your risk of chronic disease is down. Right. Okay. But for some things, there's it's very difficult to find the short term win. And you have to grind away at doing something for a long period of time. Yeah. Now I'll take a very simple example, which is taking medication. Mm-hmm. It's not a huge ask, but you'd be amazed if you're not familiar with this. You might already be familiar with the literature on compliance with medication use. It's shockingly low, shockingly. So let's take something that you don't even feel. So the medicine truly has no bearing on how you feel, which is blood pressure medication. So even though the mainstay of therapy for blood pressure is weight loss and exercise, the elimination of sleep apnea and things like that, there's still a sizeable portion of the population that has what's called essential hypertension. And no matter how much they fix their weight and the exercise, they just have hypertension. And if you don't fix it, you're really setting them up for the risk of heart attack stroke and even Alzheimer's disease. So I say Charles, I really need you to take this medication. Yeah. And I need you to take it twice a day. And by the way, I'd also like it if you could check your blood pressure three times a week at home so that I know it's working. And do I need to adjust it up or down? Now for whatever reason, I might be able to get 50% of people to do that. So I can't, well, how can I create a reward around that? Yeah. What type of reward would you envision? So, okay, so let's talk about what's been done because I think this is the key question and it's a really interesting one. And I, after I was, I want to ask you what you have done that you found is worked. So one of the interesting things has happened in the last five years is that vitamin use has gone up significantly. More people are taking vitamins now than before. And researchers have looked at why and what they discovered was the big thing that changed vitamin use is making them gummies. Because you can put a little bit of sugar on the exterior of a gummies. Right. So what they're doing is they're creating an immediate reward for eating that vitamin. They're incentivating them, but you have your, let's take teeth brushing. Where there's all chapter and power of habit about the history of tooth brushing because if you went back a hundred years, a little bit over a hundred years, turn to the, the, the last century. What you saw is that there were tons of toothpaste companies and almost nobody had a tooth brushing habits. And then this one guy comes up with a formula for how to get people to brush your teeth. What he does is he adds a little bit of mint to the toothpaste. So it makes your gum's tingle when you use it. Now that's actually a pain response, right. That's not this is fairly, but what he's saying is when you brush your teeth, you're actually doing something good. You can feel it working. You can feel it on your gums doing its job. You're protecting your teeth. He's creating a positive reward even out of a pain response. So the number one thing we can do is we can try and manufacture a short term positive reinforcement, some type of positive reward that's going to incentivize that behavior. That's not possible with everything, right. So the next thing that we could do is we can work on people building a mental habit associated with that behavior that does deliver a reward. So savings is a great example. Taking my heart medication. So if I, if I'm taking heart medication and it's kind of a pain, the pills dry, it's like taking with fish oils. It's like this, it's exactly a great example. I'm going to get that like weird fish burp all day long. There's all these negative reinforcements, right. So what do I do in order to incentivize that behavior? Every time I take that pill, I think to myself, you know what? I'm going to be around for my grandkids. I'm creating a link inside my head by exploring the why that gives me a positive reinforcement. I feel a sense of responsibility. I'm a responsible person. Now that strikes me as an exceptional intrinsic reward. It is in the long run. Would you lead with that? Absolutely strong enough as an extrinsic out of the gate first 90 day version? It's going to take willpower. And like the thing about rewards is that we usually have to experiment with them because we're often very bad at anticipating how rewarding a reward is going to be. Right. There's some people to say, I'm going to go for run and then I'm going to have a kale smoothie. And that's not a realized how disgusting. It's disgusting. It's disgusting. Nobody wants to. That's why I put the peanut butter in. So we have to experiment with rewards to try and figure out which reward is salient for me. And for me, thinking about my kids, thinking like, I'm responsible to add, I'm taking this pill. I'm doing it for my sons. I'm going to be there for them. That is a very salient reward for someone else that might not be. I see. And they have to find that thing. And the way that we find it is we experiment with different rewards. And we just see which one sticks. We're in this era of AI and AI chat bots and AI agents. You've already talked a lot about how social reinforcement is huge. I go back to the experiment you described in South America. 40% increasing savings by simply having that woman there to just tell you what a good job you were doing when you were savings. Yeah. Is there a belief has it been demonstrated that an AI agent can be as rewarding as a human being? So the research is so nascent on this. So my latest book is actually about the science of communication. And so this question of AI has come up a lot because then I also cover AI for the New Yorker now. This question of whether an AI system can be as good a conversationalist as another human. We don't really know, right? We're only two years into the generative AI experiment. What we do know is that I can create a reward for myself that's built around this ritualized behavior within AI. Right? So if I create that spreadsheet and I feel a sense of accomplishment from filling it out. I can get the same sense of accomplishment by getting into a ritualized behavior with AI. Hey, AI, you told me that I should run two miles today and I ran two miles. We know that it's going to respond by saying, good job. You're doing a great job, right? You're thinking about your health for the long term. Now is the power there the AI system? Well, the AI system can automate it, right? But the real question is, do I invest in the pride I feel from being told that by an AI? And for some people, the answer is yes, for other people, the answer is going to be no. So the answer to your question is, yeah, AI is great because AI can help automate certain rewards, it can automate certain behaviors. But whether that reward is salient to me, whether that behavior is salient to me, really depends on me. And I have the power to choose. Yeah, I'm just trying to think that's really interesting because I know that, I mean, I've already figured out ways to use AI as a reward for me and for my kids. My voice and I love to just do Q and A sessions with chat GPT, like just go down the rabbit hole, right? Okay. What is the most valuable baseball card ever sold? Okay, it's this one. Why? What was the PSA on it? What? Okay. And then why was Mickey Mantles worth less than Bay Ruth? So when I ask you a question about that, so all of those questions, you could have just asked Google, right? Like before, before our chat GPT, you could have just done a Google search. What is it about doing with chat GPT that feels more pleasurable to you? Great question. Now, of course, today you're absolutely correct in that Google today is mostly powered off Gemini. If you're using the right version of Google, you're actually getting Gemini to do the work and it's using a great version of Gemini. So I'll give you the favorite thing I like to do with chat GPT or with Grock or whichever one. They're all the agents are really good. Is I like to talk about, I like to ask history questions because, you know, I was an engineer in college. And I was one of those guys who, even though I think in engineering school you had the option to take electives, I didn't take any. I just took more math. Interesting. Right. So I kind of feel like I didn't learn anything. I mean, I learned my craft, but I didn't learn about history. Yeah. And furthermore, because I grew up in Canada, I really know nothing about US history. Oh, that's interesting. I don't even have the equivalent of high school history. So my US history knowledge is not what I wish it was. And so when I'm talking to an AI, it's like having a private tutor. Now, that's assuming that the hallucinations aren't so bad, right? But it's still, it's really exciting to say, like, can we talk about this part of the Civil War? Like, what was it about Gettysburg that was the turning point? And then ask really complex questions, like, what would have happened if this had happened instead of that? And how pivotal was this battle? And so yes, that for me is like a drug. Yeah. Like sitting down, spending an hour talking with a chatbot about that type of a topic. And also, I think part of it is the talking. Yeah. It's the, it's I can talk and I can listen. Yeah. That's absolutely right. And so here's what I hear you saying and tell me if you think this is right. There's sort of two rewards of this providing to you. The first is you have a very personalized search engine. Right. It's answering the question you're asking. Instead of you having to like put a vague term in and try and figure out what, what were the answers are. But number two, it's mimicking perhaps even authentically having a form of communication that we have been habituated to that we enjoy a lot. Right. When when you and I are in conversation right now, and I'm sure you know this, our bodies and our brains are changing to match each other. Our heart rates are matching each other. Our breath patterns are matching each other. The neural activity in our brain and there's a guy named Yuri Hassan, a prince and who's done amazing research on this. Our brains are looking more and more similar. And because our brains have evolved to be good at communication, to be a pro social species, we both feel a dopamineic response to that. We feel better. We feel good after a good conversation. Now, if you're having a conversation with AI, do you have that same matching, maybe maybe not. But we do know that I'm in the habit of feeling good when I have a good conversation. And that even if I'm having a good conversation with a chatbot, I'm going to get some of those glimmers of the same great feeling I get from talking to Peter. And that's going to make that conversation easier for me and more natural and feel more fun. Yeah, I think there has to be something there. And I wonder if it is in how much it triggers the proximity to what is real. And now, give you a silly example of why I think there's something to that. With chat, you get to pick the voice you're talking to. That's interesting. Right. And I've tried them all out, but I don't remember the name of the one I'm using, but it's a British guy. I don't know what it is about discussing history with a British guy, especially when you get into World War II history. Like, if you want to talk about World War II history with an older British man, it's awesome. Yeah. Like, it's fantastic. And I don't think it would be nearly as enjoyable if I was talking about it with someone that didn't, didn't, didn't conjure up whatever image of wisdom that I'm gleaning out of it. Some 16 year old San Diego's reference or surface check. Yeah, totally different experience could be the exact same information. But there's an auditory component to it that is lighting me up in a way that it would. Playing on old habits. So you have right? There's communication habits. I mean, I feel I'm sure I've just feel exactly the same way that like you listen to someone with a British accent and you just think they're smart. Right. And by the way, I know lots of British journalists who like are not that smart. Right. Right. Right. If you all try the right. Like as Americans, we think like it's metaphysically impossible to have a British accent and not be brilliant. Yes. Yes. And it works every time. And they use it to their advantage every time you come over to the United States. But I think what's happening there is it's taking advantage of these mental habits. Yeah. And we've talked a lot about behavioral habits today. But most of the habits that exist in our lives are mental habits. Hmm. There are habits that we don't even recognize as habits because they're happening inside our brain. And they are incredibly powerful. They make you believe that a chatbot is more intelligent if it has a British accent than if it has a San Diego accent. Right. Yeah. These mental habits make me believe that when someone cuts me off in traffic, a perfectly appropriate response is to get angry. Which does not benefit me. Does not change the situation. I know that I should be zen about it. But it compels me to behave a certain way. So let's say more about that. Let's say more about the mental habits. And I read something the other day, which didn't surprise me one bit because anybody who has meditated will know this. We have an average of I believe 47 thoughts per minute. Wow. Yeah. That's it. All of us one per second. Right. And again, if you don't meditate or you haven't spent some time doing mindfulness meditation, you would think that's impossible. But if you've ever done the exercise of sitting there focusing on your breath, watching every single time you are distracted by a thought, you'll be like, yeah, I can believe it's 47 times a minute. So that actually sounds small to me. Yeah. So we've got this crazy thing that is just a thought generating machine that we can't control. Yeah. But thoughts are not thinking. So what translates us from thoughts to thinking, how do we form better habits or reformat maladaptive habits around that? You give a great example, by the way, of the reaction to getting caught off like an anger reaction. That's absolutely right. So the way that we can influence our mental habits is that we have to deliberately choose to figure out what the cue is. And then we have to give ourselves a reward afterwards. They operate by the same principle as behavioral habits or physical habits. But it's a little bit more tricky, right? So oftentimes, let's take um, let's take innovation. Innovation is one of the mental habits that studied. Why do some people manage to innovate on demand much better than others, right? We got to be innovative, but some people they need the most strike, it takes some years. And so in other people you walk in and you say, hey, look, I need 30 great ideas by tonight and they can sit down and they knock them out. So what's happening there? When researchers have looked at the lives of serial innovators, what they found is that the most important part of that is that oftentimes the people who are really good at it have build up what's known as a contemplative routine to spur that innovation. Now these contemplative routines can be something like every week I sit down and I reflect on all the good ideas I had last week, just for 30 minutes. And I try and think of good ideas for next week or the contemplative routine can be whenever anyone asks me to come up with 30 ideas. The first thing I do is I go take a walk. When I just think about it in my head, I'm not writing anything down, I'm not committing myself to anything, I'm just letting it percolate a little bit. I have a routine that I know works for me to spark a contemplation. Because when you think about it, when it comes to mental routines and when it comes mental habits and when it comes to success, the most successful people throughout history are that people who can get themselves to think most deeply. Right, making the right choice is so much more powerful than executing really well on the wrong choice. So the question is particularly in a fast-paced world like today, how do we get ourselves to think more deeply? This is the killer app for our brain. And the way that we get ourselves to think more deeply is to build these contemplative routines that we automatically fall into. Because those contemplative routines push us to think more deeply. I can give you an example of this, if you'd like, which is, and again, we describe this and I describe this in smarter faster better. There was a plane, quantist flight 32 was a plane, an airbus A380 that took off from Singapore to Sydney in the early 2000s. And it perfect take off, the captain was a great captain, about 10 minutes into the flight. One of the fan blades and one of the jet engines, detaches, and it punches this enormous hole in the wing. It also hits another fan blade and that fan blade explodes and it was like the shrapnel from a bomb going off inside the plane wing. So within about 12 seconds, there's 14 major systems that are needed to keep a plane off. Within about 12 seconds, 12 of those systems had gone offline. No hydraulics, no fuel, no measurements on anything. So the captain, the guy named Richard de Crebney, he has to figure out how to land this plane safely. This is the worst mid-air mechanical disaster in modern aviation. So what does he do at that moment? What he does at that moment is, there's all these alarms going off and said the cockpit, there's all these red flashing things on his board. The computer is telling him, you have to do these 10 things and as soon as you do those 10 things, you have to do five more things. You have to do 13 more things. What he does is he takes his hands off the controls for a second. He closes his eyes. And he says to himself, I'm telling myself a story about the plane that I'm flying. And the story in my head is the Airbus A380 and it's really complicated because I have to think about fuel lines, I have to think about hydraulic, I have to think about brakes. You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to change the story inside my head. I'm going to change the mental model that I'm using on where to focus. And I'm going to pretend I'm flying a Sessna. Now a Sessna is the plane that he learned to fly on. It's the plane he feels most comfortable in. And he actually sort of announces this to air traffic control into his other pilots and they freak out. Because it always is this guy talking about flying a Sessna, he's in an Airbus A380. But that moment of contemplation allowed him to access that muscle memory. Those habits of flying. And he lands the plane safely. They touch down all 469 passengers get off about half an hour later. There's not one injury on board. Now they've tried to recreate this landing again and again in simulators. Almost every single time it crashes. So what did Richard decrepney do differently? Why was he able to land that plane? I've asked him and what he'll tell you is he'll tell you he actually doesn't know or remember exactly what he did in the moment. But by changing that mental model in his head, by engaging in this contemplative routine, which felt supernatural to him to say, I need to be in charge here and you stop reacting. I'm going to choose to pretend I'm flying a Sessna. That unlocked all of these learned habits of safe flying that allowed him to land that plane. Tell me more about him outside of the airplane. What kind of a man was he? What were his past times? What like this story is so impossible to imagine that I can't believe he's a normal guy. So he's not a normal guy. So he was trained to fly by the Australian military. They are Australian Air Force. And anyone who's learned to fly in the military, they know that a huge part of it is learning technical skills, but a huge part of it is also learning these mental habits, these mental skills. And in particular, learning how to train your focus based on building mental models. And the way that a mental model works is, as we go through life, everything we do, there's a little story inside our head that we're telling ourselves, and our brain is comparing that story to what's actually happening to help us figure out what to pay attention to. There's so much that I could pay attention to right here, right? There's bright lights, there's your expressions, there's a camera, there's wood paneling. I need to figure out where to actually focus. And so what my brain does is it creates a mental model where it says the story of right now is that I'm having a conversation with Peter. So I'm going to focus on Peter. I'm going to be very, very attuned if something changes unexpectedly in your demeanor, and very unattuned if something changes outside the light, because it doesn't matter to me right now. So when you're learning to fly in the military, they tell you, be really deliberate about how not only you build mental models, but how you challenge your mental models. And so the morning before that flight, before Quentin's flight, 32 took off. Richard or Crabney did this thing that he did before every single flight. He's in the shuttle from the hotel to the airport, and he turns to his co-pilots and he says, could he use the captain? He says, What's the first words out of your mind? What's the first words out of your mouth if we lose engine, too? Where your eyes are going to go first? Where are they going to go second? What are you going to do with your hands? If we lose engine three, how are your words going to change? In other words, what he's doing is he's saying, Tell me a story about how we will react if there is an emergency. And if you listen to the cockpit recordings from when that hole appeared in the wing, what you hear is you hear all these pilots talking to each other in calm, collected voices. There's not an ounce of panic in their voice. It's as if they had practiced this a thousand times, because of course they had. They had practiced it in those rides from airports to or in the simulator. But that's not the only thing the decrem you did. The thing that made decremney special is that when he would ask his co-pilots to tell him those stories, he would argue with them. Oh, that's what you're going to say first after engine, why are you going to say that? Like why shouldn't we say this? What you're going to move your hands left and then right? You're going to move your hands left and then right? Let's talk about why not right and why not left. He was in the habit of challenging his own mental models and other people's mental models. And that challenge is what allowed him in the panic of that moment. Imagine you're flying a plane and all of a sudden all your alarms light up. It's so easy to become reactive. It's so easy to fall into just, I'm going to do what the computer is telling me. I'm not going to think about this. I'm not going to challenge the story inside my head. But he's in the habit because he practices it with other people of challenging not only their stories, but his story. What fraction of pilots are behaving that way? From the particularly military trend, a huge fraction. Now, there's a really interesting study, particularly out of South Korea, that in some cultures, there's too much difference given to the captain. The result they're engaging in less challenging of each other's mental models. And there's been a lot of interventions to try and change that. The tragedy on Canary Island, if I recall, there was a KLM flight. And it was the KLM flight that was at fault. Everybody I think died on that flight. And it was a similar issue. Wasn't there where the captain who was there, if I'm not mistaken, he was the most impressive captain in their entire fleet. But I think a similar situation was not heating the input from less senior. That's exactly right. And sometimes there's an air france flight. I don't know if you remember it was from Brazil. Yeah. So we have the cockpit recording of what happened there. And if you listen to it, there was nothing wrong with the plane the entire time. It was that the pilots became what's known as tunnel focus. All I do is I pay attention to the most obvious inputs. And I stop challenging that story in my head of what's going on. So they actually caused the plane to stall and fell into the ocean. It happens all the time. So have you interviewed Sully, Sully Burger? Yeah, you know what's interesting is I spent a lot of time talking to Richard D'Crabney. And me and Sully share out speaking agent. They're both very similar. These guys are engineers engineers. Like you talked to Gekrebney and it's not like he's not a guy you'd go have a beer with. He is like a guy who like he is really difficult to talk to. Like first of all he believes there's a process for everything and there's a right answer and there's a wrong answer. And when you're I bring something up he'll be like, nope, you got that exactly wrong. Let me tell you where you got it wrong. Right this instinct to to challenge mental models is so ingrained in him that it comes out all the time. And they actually have this expression in the Australian air community and there might be in the US too. That when someone's a really good pilot, they're known as an asshole pilot. Because they're so uptight, they're such an asshole. Like they challenge everything you say. They're always picking a fight with you about whether you're doing the right thing. That guy's an asshole, but he's a great pilot as a result. Then it means you don't want to have a beer with him, but you definitely want him flying your plane. Super interesting. What are some less dramatic examples of how this manifests in the lives of those of us who don't carry in our hands the lives of 400 passengers? Let me ask you a question. So what on what do you do to get ready for each week? Like do you have a process you go through or yeah? So tell me about that. What is what is it that you do? Every Friday afternoon I make a list of everything I'm going to accomplish on Saturday and Sunday and every Sunday I make a list of everything I'm going to accomplish Monday through Friday. So I have two lists, a five day week list and a two day weekend list. And they include the most important things that have to be done. Now not things that are automatic. So I don't write my work out since because those are kind of uncrews control. But it can be anything as mundane as got to go to Dick Sporting Goods and get a set of baseballs. You know we're the old baseballs are getting beat up. Need to finish working on this newsletter, need to prepare for this podcast. Need to take my daughter here. You know it's just basically it's how I kind of organize the blocks of the week. And why does that feel good to you? Because you would end up taking your daughter anyways. You would probably see the baseballs and be like, oh that's right. I got to go to Dick's. There's something about that list. That's a contemplative routine for you. What reward is it providing? Well I am someone who it's weird but I and this has always been the case even in school. Like you know high school. I really enjoy checklists and I enjoy checking things off a list. And I. So there is actually a there there is a dopamine hit that I am getting absolutely. Because I have a box and I write what I'm going to do. And then if it's in progress it gets a single line through the box. And then when it's fully done it gets the X through the box. I love that. So for example if one of the things was speak you know connect with Charles this weekend. That's you know okay. So let's say I call you tomorrow and we talk for five minutes but then you have to run. I would put us half slash through it which is all right we partially connected but we haven't fully connected. So I know that I still have to come back to it. Yeah and connect with you and if I don't then it goes on the next list of the week or something like that. So here's what I love about that. So there's a need for cognitive closure that all of us feel right if you the research on people who make to do lists. Find that 60% of people when they're writing it to do list will write down something they have already completed because it feels so good to check it off. So I used to do that. I stopped doing it about 20 years ago. But I did I used to take great pride in sneaking in a couple of wins. Yeah because you have this so what you've done is you've take that need for cognitive closure. It can push us to like do the laundry when we don't need do laundry right because we just want to feel some sense of accomplishment. You have actually redirected it through a cognitive routine to be a very positive influence in your life. I'm going to create the goals that I actually want to accomplish. I'm going to create a system where I can satisfy that need for cognitive closure and I'm going to have a tracking device in order to do it. Yeah, okay. You're going to say the reason why that's useful is because you have a routine around it. You're going to have this cognitive routine that you're on Friday afternoon. You're doing them weekend list on Sunday. You're doing the week ahead list. For me, my cognitive routine is everyday when I come home from work. I tell my wife about my day and excruciating detail and she is bored to death. She does not care how this interview went or what this what came out of this meeting. But I'm not doing it for her. I'm doing it for me because as I'm describing my day, I'm paying attention to this went well. Why did it go well? This didn't go as well. Like what do I need to do differently next time? I have a cognitive routine of describing my day to my wife that provides me with the divot. Does she understand that? Oh, absolutely. She doesn't. She tunes me out. She doesn't pay any attention. She actually knows that I'm describing the day for my benefit. And she does the same thing to me. And I kind of tune out sometimes what she's saying about her day. Interesting. Yeah. You know, it's funny. I sometimes worry that I'm too rigid in having these lists and that especially the weekend list. Yeah. Maybe would my life be better off without it. And even though I would have to give up some productivity. Would it, would I, you know, would I be less wedged? Because sometimes I get a little dogmatic. Yeah. We get up on Sunday and I'm like, dude, you're not, you're not. You didn't get much done yesterday. You've loaded the deck for today. Yeah. I think that's a really good instinct. And I think it's worth experimenting with. You know, one of the things that we know, so the way that I write articles for the New Yorker is historically. And I do this with books too, is I, I will write an outline that's almost as long as the article itself. Just to make sure I understand. In bullet point? No. Actually in it, near those. Yeah. I write a letter to my editor. I do all the reporting and then I put it aside. I just write my editor a letter saying this is what I think I'm going to say. And it's easier because like the stakes are very low and I don't return to the reporting. If I get something wrong, it's okay. And that's worked really well for me, particularly in writing, you know, books and writing long form pieces. But I do think it's impacted negatively my creativity. Like there's something about having more options and having that sense of risk that sometimes pushes you to figure out how to say something in a new way. Or it pushes you to figure out how to say something in a kind of fun way that didn't occur to you before. And so I play a lot with rigidity and freedom in trying to find that right balance. And my guess is that you do too and many of the things you do. I know that intellectually you do. Like I listen to the show and there's some questions that you ask that you ask everyone. And there's some lines of inquiry you go down that are clear clearly like the right line of inquiry. But then sometimes you ask a question that comes out of nowhere, right? Or you ask something that's kind of unexpected that causes the guests to say something they didn't anticipate they were going to say. I think intellectually you're engaging in that same exploration versus exploitation process that's at the core of all information gathering. I want to go back to this contemplative routine idea because the first thing that came to my mind when you described it. Is going back to something that that Ryan holiday wrote about the stillness is the key. Yeah, I'm a huge fan of Ryan. Yeah, great. And obviously Ryan is written more books than I can count. But I do that is my favorite right that stillness is the key. Yeah, is is my favorite it's the one I've gifted the most. It's it's a book I go back, you know, I'm actually due to reread it right. I've only you know, it's probably been two two years since I last read it, so I'm due to reread it. And it's something that my brother does so well, you know, my brother, it's his superpower is making stillness time. Interesting. He's very disciplined about this. He is very disciplined about time to think. How he does that, like tell me a little bit more like what if I was watching him, what would it look like? Well, you would actually think at the surface it's quite selfish. Right, he'll he'll say for the next two hours, I don't, you know, he'll tell his wife and his kids like I need to be left completely alone. Yeah, and I need to go for a walk with no phone with no anything. And I'm going to, I'm going to walk in the fields, you know, he lives on a farm and he's like, and I'm going to just be with my thoughts and with nothing else. And then I can come back and do my best work. Yeah, but he forces that in. And I think I, I am convinced that all of us could do better work if we did that. And yet I struggle to do it. There's a bit of a trap that I fall into, which is, yeah, but think about how much more I could get done in those two hours. Yeah, I don't have the two hours to be still. Right. So, um, Cal Newport has done a lot of work on this. Yep. And one of the things, one of the mistakes that we make, and this is just a cognitive heuristically we fall into, is that we look at some types of activities as being unproductive, because they don't have yield immediate dividends, right? This actually is part of the whole habit system. Absolutely. It absolutely is. It's about building those habits to recognize deep productivity, deep work, right? Yep. And so one of the things that I'm sure it happens to me, I'm sure it happens to you is that I say, If I could take a walk in the woods for two hours, like, what do I have to show for it, right? There's like, where as if I sit down and I pound through these emails for two hours, suddenly I like my inbox is half the size it used to be. That's what it feels like. It feels like accomplishment. Now, of course, all that does is create more emails for me, and it turns out half of those I could have ignored. But so what I need to do is I need to train my brain, and my brain oftentimes doesn't believe me. Right? I know intellectually taking that walk in the woods, look, is going to yield dividends that I'm going to be able to do better work. But my brain, there's a part of my brain that looks at my stated preferences, what I believe, and want to be true. And another part of my brain that looks at revealed preferences. How do I actually behave? And that revealed part of my brain is saying, you never take walks. Like you always sit down and do your email. You must think that doing email is more valuable than taking a walk. So I have to convince myself, convince that revealed preferences part of my brain. Now the walk is really good. Like if I take this walk, I'm going to get more work done. I'm going to be able to get through those emails faster, because I'm going to hit delete on more of them. This actually is a productivity enhancer. We don't, we have to hack our own brains sometimes. We have to remind ourselves of a reward. Oftentimes the salience of a reward increases simply because we tell ourselves it is a reward. And we have to take advantage of that to try and sometimes play with our own brain, because we'll act in our, sometimes in our best interest. And so what do you think is the relationship then between productivity and habit? How implicit and how explicit is it? So I think it's huge. I think it's huge, but let me be very clear how I mean that because oftentimes the things that we do out of habit are not the productive things. But our habits can set us up to be productive. As I mentioned before, the the most important element of productivity is deep thought, right? Because making the right choice, making the right decision, spending my time on the right task right now, yields many more dividends than simply getting something done. It's a difference between productivity and business. So the question is, how do I set myself up to make better choices? Well, the way that I do that is I build habits that give me not only the time and space to make a choice, but the prompt to make a choice. Because there's a lot of times that I'm going to avoid making a choice if I can. My brain doesn't like making choices. It's energy, it costs energy, it feels like it's depleting me. So my brain is going to say, oh, you walked in the cafeteria, like, don't get the salad, just get the sandwich you get every single time. You know it's going to, you're going to like it, right? So how do I build a habit that allows me the space to make that choice and the prompt to make that choice? That's why habits are so important is not because they make us productive. It's because they allow us to be productive. Say more about the decision fatigue, because I think that's something that many people listening to us right now can relate to. I have become much more aware of it in myself recently, and I don't think it's age-related per se. I think it's just complexity related. So the more things you're juggling, the more I find myself unable to make simple decisions. And it's like, I can't tell you how internally frustrated I get sometimes when I'm asked to make decisions. So there's two things happening there, and you're exactly right that decision fatigue is real, right? We've seen it in done actually at this point, hundreds of studies that the more decisions you have to make in a day, the more fatigue you get. But there's some elements that play into this. The first is structuring decision design. So President Obama, in one interview he said the most important habit that he developed when he was president, is he bought 12 of the same suits and shirts. So every morning when he woke up, he knew exactly what he was going to put on. There's no other options in his closet. He just has to grab one of them. Yeah. And he said the reason why is because the day was so exhausting with decisions and each of the decisions he made was so important, that he had to preserve his ability to make decisions. So it annoyed that fatigue. So the first thing is, how do we design our decisions so that we're only having to make the important ones, and we're making the less important ones automatic, things where we don't have to make a choice, right? The second thing that happens there is that decisions are harder to make in a hot state than they are in a cold state. So if you're hungry and you go into the cafeteria, it's going to be a lot harder for you to choose that really healthy salad over that really tasty sandwich. Because you're in a hot state. Now in a cold state, that morning when you just had breakfast, if you say my implementation intention is I'm going to eat a salad today, when I walk in, I know which salad I'm going to get. It's a lot easier to make that decision. So here's what I think is happening. Number one, you don't have a mental heuristic in place to say, I'm going to, I'm going to curate the decisions I have to make. Because if you had that, and you probably do now, but like the first time it comes up, you don't have the heuristic. And the heuristic is when my wife asked me where to go to dinner, I'm just going to choose one of them. I'm not even going to like think about which one is the best one. I'm just going to choose one, right? So I'm going to create a design structure for myself that allows me to focus on the most important decisions and ignore the smaller ones. Secondly, I'm going to ask her not to ask me to make that decision at the end of the day when I'm exhausted and I've been making choices all day long. I'm going to say look, I'm going to hotstate right now. I can't think about where to go to dinner. I'm thinking about other stuff. But if you ask me two hours from now after I've had a beer and I've started watching TV, I think I'll be ready to answer that question. You're so right that that's the obvious answer. And yet you feel or at least I feel like, how can I not be more gracious? Oh, right. Like I feel embarrassed that I would have to say that and obnoxious. Absolutely. But it's true of everybody in my life. Like sometimes my assistant will email me and say, can you pick lunch? Like we're having an off-site and can you pick your lunch? And I'm like, I can't. Like I literally, and it sounds silly but like if it comes through on text, it's even more debilitating. Yeah. Because then I have to click the menu and see the menu and it's like a restaurant. And I'm like, I wish you could read my mind and you knew what I wanted. It is you don't want to have to do this. It's like an alien of you that you feel a sense of guilt around a road try to tell you someone you can't make the choice right now. So I think part of our brain, particularly for successful people, right? Everyone listening to this podcast, you and I, when we are successful, Our self-definition becomes rooted in success instead of failure. We are the type of people who have been successful because we make good decisions. And so we beat up on ourselves when we, when we can't make a decision. We beat up on ourselves when we have a human frail to hear a human weakness. But you know this from from training athletes. The key is not to not have frailnesses. The key is to recognize your frailnesses, plan for them and strengthen your behavior around the frailness. Every single one of us makes bad decisions. And if our self-definition is, I'm someone who like every time I am in the ass, and I can give them the right answer, then we're setting ourselves up for failure. It's been 12 years since you wrote what is, you know, I think arguably the, the most authoritative text on on habit creation, how much have you stayed up to date on the science of habit? And if so, how much has changed in the last 12 years? If you were to rewrite that book today, what are two or three things that you think might be different? Or that we're just outright missing? So I've tried to keep very current on the literature around it. And the fundamentals haven't changed. Right? The fundamentals have been true for thousands of years. Isn't that a queue or routine in a reward? How our brain works in forms habits? What has changed is our understanding of how much influence we can have over those cues and rewards by influencing our environment. So I'll mention another author David Epstein, who is wonderful. He's a wonderful, he's a wonderful, he's a wonderful, he's a six, seven years ago now. Yeah, he's great, he's great. And he talks a lot about current research, looking at environments where we have a lack of resources, and environments where we have a lot of resources. And environments that we have a lack of resources oftentimes produce better outcomes. But not all resources are created equal, right? If I tell you you have a time limit on coming up with a new idea and your time limit is five minutes, that's not going to be helpful. But if I tell you Peter, you can't spend more than two days on this. That is helpful. So what we're learning a lot about is how to use constraints, how to create what are known as wicked environments where the feedback is ambiguous, is it takes a long time to arrive, and it's not being delivered in a social context, versus helpful context, or good context, where the feedback is immediate, it's very, very clear, and it's being delivered to me oftentimes in a social context, which reinforces it. We're learning a lot about how these different environments influence our ability to act in different ways. And, you know, this is at the core of behavioral economics. We've known for a long time that the decision architecture matters, that environment matters. But what we're learning is we can get much more precise. So if I was writing the power of habit today, one of the things that I would include is a chapter on thinking much more deliberately about your environment. Not just I'm going to put apples on my desk so that when I have craving to eat something, I eat one of those apples instead of a donut in the break room. But also, I'm going to structure my day so that I make my most important decisions in the morning, because I know that that's when my decision making is strongest. I'm going to structure my day so that I go and I take a walk in the afternoon, because I know that if I do that, I'm going to do better work that evening. I think that one of the things that we are learning is our environments matter much more than we thought they did, and it's worth paying attention to that. Do we have a greater sense of appreciation for the social component today than we did then? Obviously it was strong and well understood then, but it almost seems to me that, and I don't know if it's just coincident with social media, but we just understand the power of social influence. And that's actually one of the reasons I wrote super communicators. Is because what I came to realize is that when we focus on habits, we tend to focus on ourselves, but most of our most important work both for ourselves and professionally is work that we do in conjunction with others. The value of my life and your life is largely based on the conversation we have with our spouses and our kids, that's why we feel good or bad. And so what I realize is by focusing on habits exclusively, I'm missing this incredibly important part of what makes people successful and happy, which is how do we interact with other people? And we are living in a golden age of understanding communication like never before, because of advances in neural imaging and data collection. We can see inside people's brains as they're having a conversation, we know what's happening there, and we're learning a tremendous amount about what kinds of social reinforcement are positive and which kinds aren't. And which kinds are powerful, more powerful than other kinds. So I'm not going to ask you if you're working on another book, because I know you might not want to talk about it, but you're always in a state of learning. Is there something that is brewing as the next evolution and you're thinking? Yeah, and in fact I'll tell you what the next book I want to write in and invite listeners to reach out to me, if you think there's something I should know about. So I think AI is really, really interesting and really, really important. Now I'm not one of those guys, and I interview a lot of these guys who says, AI is going to change every single part of life, it's going to revolutionize everything. I think there's a lot of humanness that's really important to us, but I do think that AI has the same potential that the first industrial revolution, the second industrial revolution had, that the wide adoption of the internet had. And what's interesting to me is if you look at the history of nonfiction literature, what you see is that there were these moments of real discovery and someone wrote a book that explained to us how to think about it. One of my very examples is the right stuff. Many people have seen the movie, right? The book is fantastic. It's written by Tom Wolfe, it's an amazing book. And what he's really writing about is he's not writing about the science of the Apollo missions. He's writing about the psychology of the people who are designing those rockets and are getting on those rockets. His basic question is, what kind of a person is willing to strap themselves to a rocket? Before we knew that this was safe and easy, and send those selves into space before we knew we could survive there. Why? Why is someone willing to do that? Why are people competing for that? I'm pretty sure that. And he found a lot of interesting answers. That's what I'm wondering right now about AI. And we might be a little bit too early in the process to really have any conventional wisdom or takeaways. Why do some people see the world differently in a way that allows them to develop these generative AI systems and other AI systems? That are so potentially transformative and, most importantly, how will it change how the rest of us think? How will it change our definition of self? How will it change how we work? Those are really interesting questions. So that's what I'm hoping to write about in the next book. And I think there's probably going to be a lot of lessons in it about how we ought to behave. What do you think about the importance of purpose to our species? I think it's incredibly important. I mean, and here we get like a little mystical, right? Because we don't know why purpose seems to light up so many parts of our brain, but we know that it does. We need a why. Right? That's story that's inside our head. That mental model that tells us what to pay attention to and what to do next. We are a storytelling species. We look for correlative links in life. I, you know, I told this one funny joke and so the girl fell in love with me. I started running every single day and then, you know, I got in better shape and I was able to give up smoking. That might be correlation in our causation, right? We look for those causal links. We look, we want them to exist. We make sense of the world by telling ourselves the story about the world. And at the core of most stories is the why. Why is the night getting on as horse and going to fight the dragon? There's got to be some reason for it. There's got to be some motivation. You want to win the hand of the princess, right? Why do you remain faithful to your spouse? There's temptations all around, right? Our biology tells us that we should probably not be faithful but there's a why there that's at the core of our story. And the reason why that story is so important is because it's our self identity. It is how we make sense of our self as an individual in this world. And if we had to reinvent our self identity every morning, it would be exhausting. That's actually what schizophrenia is. One of the contemporary ways of looking at schizophrenia is that it's someone who has biochemically a more difficult time telling themselves a consistent story from day to day. And it's awful. And so the purpose that why is so important because it grounds us in our story and that tells us who we are. So many of the stories then about AI's power and potential is that many of us will not be necessary from a at least a work perspective. And so let's just assert that there's some truth to this, right? That people, you know, and again, I would put myself in my career near the top of the list of things that could be outdone. So what, what do we make of a of a of a world in which many people no longer have a professional why? Is it something that could be substituted with a personal why? In other words, is there a world in which I'm no longer necessary in any way shape or form for any of things I do. I don't need, you know, AI will do a better job at podcasting, AI will do a better job at doctoring, AI will do a better job at everything I do. My kids will be too old to need me as a parent, but I'll become so obsessed with chess that that will become my why is that it does that work. So what I would, I would suggest this to you things we've always had this concern right there's always been this concern that each technological leap forward will mean that work disappears and it's never come true right it just means it work changes right. Something I would argue is you're already there. I mean, look at this point, you don't need to work for the paycheck. That's my point. Yeah, you've got to have money but I still choose to. You choose, right, and you're not working necessarily you call it work, but it's also stuff that you would probably do in your spare time even if it was uncompensated. I'm just not a bit of a fine. You don't take ads for this podcast right you have made a decision this is a this is a hobby for you very impactful very successful hobby. But it's not work, but you define it as work you feel a sense of obligation to it because it fulfills a purpose for you I am not worried about AI spreading and us losing our ability to create purpose. I think that what we find purpose is that a contrarian view or do you think most people would share that view and I ask that not knowing that. Yeah, I think if you were in Silicon Valley. It would be a contrarian view, but I will say a lot of the people who work on AI they are not very close to normal life. They are not they're not they're not living the lives that you and I live and so I think they're they're possibly rightfully worried about issues that you and I don't worry about quite as much. I would say among the broader population particularly among scholars. I view is more in the mainstream that there's a recognition that these this hand-ringing over losing the need for work has always existed with us. You know elevator operators like basically elevators have been taken over by AI right really dummy I but like it's an AI it used to be that every elevator you got on there had to be someone there who stopped it at the right floor. There are not people walking around right now who say like oh man if I could only be an elevator operator my life would be so much better because they found something else to do they found something that was equally meaningful to them. Our human ability to find purpose and manufacture purpose and create purpose is infinite. And as we move into a new world with different technological challenges and different technological opportunities we will find that purpose because the truth of matter is. Maybe someday AI can raise your kids made your kids get old enough and they don't call you anymore and say hey dad I need your advice on this. But you're they still need you as a dad they're still gonna mourn you when you pass away. There is something elemental in human about being human and that can't be taken from us. Do you think AI needs to internalize the value of human life for us to be able to coexist with it or is there an actual risk an existential risk to our species if AI doesn't understand. Our uniqueness I have no idea I mean there's certainly some people who are smarter than me who could I and who feel like they can answer that question more authoritatively and say yes or no it's a huge risk to us it's going to kill all of humanity. There's other people who say actually AI is such an alien when it eventually does reach this point to the agent or super intelligence or the you know the moment where sky net becomes real. That it's such an alien form of thinking and form of cognition and form of sentience that it won't really care about us the same way we don't really care about ants right. So there's people on both sides of this the answer is I have no idea I actually don't even know. I don't know what AI actually is right defining a g i artificial general intelligence is really really hard. Second of all I don't know how AI is going to be exploited I mean right now we use it to have fun conversations about history with our kids right. But if you think back to the internet when the internet first started nobody thought that the really important. And financially productive and impactful way to use it would be to sell everything through one store and to allow people to basically shout at each other on social media right it wasn't the technology. The gave rise to those either advances or or weaknesses it was people like Jeff Bezos seeing the world in a new way that the technology empowered. We're not at the stage yet where people are seeing the world in a new way because of the AI but they're going to and they're going to use it in ways that surprise us that we can anticipate. And until they start doing that I don't know that I can answer your your question. Yeah, which I think brings me back to. One of the most exciting things that I would love to see AI have a huge impact on is one of the things that. We as humans have the biggest challenge with which is behavior change and help encouraging and helping people to change behaviors which kind of brings it all full circle right. And yeah, which is if if there is an AI agent that can be the most powerful tool for behavior change as powerful as having you stand next to a person 24 seven as their behavior coach. Then you really change lives and do you think that's what we're going to see that like is that is that is that are is that an achievable outcome. Honestly, I think Charles you're in a better position to answer that because I think you have a far better and a deeper knowledge of the science because the real question is. Do we know how to do we have the data for how to do this under perfect perfect circumstances that can serve as training data through this vehicle because. You know, if you take a step back and ask is the LLM platform the right platform I think the answer is yes for this application you can debate whether the LLM is the right platform for all applications of AI it may or may not be. But given the transformer in 2017 that was the I mean that took us down this path. But I have to believe it's the right platform for this problem. I think so now the question becomes do we have enough training data do we do we know do we know what the solution space looks like do we have the data to train it and if so. Then it comes down to how important is an actual human in this element versus the words yeah so I'm going to add one more element to the formula that you just described. The solution space assumes that delivering the knowledge is the bottleneck right I need something to deliver me the right knowledge at the right moment very very. Not necessarily it could be that well, to me it's how you define knowledge right it could I I I was thinking about this more broadly which is. If you were stand let's say I'm I need help changing my habits you standing next to me you will provide me with knowledge you'll provide me with accountability you'll provide me with reassurance so here here's the thing that I'm going to suggest is that there's a step before that which is are you actually motivated to change. I mean because the true the matter is if you say like sure I'd love to lose ten pounds but it doesn't really matter that much to me. It doesn't matter how much I stand next to you how much positive reinforcement I give you if you're not if you don't have fundamental motivation to make that change. It's probably not going to happen or at least not in a profound and lasting way and so now the question becomes. A. I can certainly deliver the information to me it can certainly deliver the positive reinforcement it can certainly deliver all the the subsequent parts of the formula. Can A. I generate motivation in me to change. What fraction of people who. Fail to make change fail because that is missing or because all of the coaching, cueing behavior modification that follows is missing. Let me ask you how many copies of your book have you sold at this point out live. Almost three million three million that's a lot because it's three million people who have gotten fantastic information. Well, maybe some didn't read it. As long as they bought the book, how many of those three million do you think. Made the change that they wanted to make after even the book. You know, I'd like to believe that many people have made a change. Yeah. But probably very few have made every change. Well, and in what I would suggest is that the people who are picking up that book they're motivated to begin with. Right. That's a selection bias out of the gate. Yeah. So here's what I would say. I would say I think this motivation question is the most important one. I think that you can use the inception question. It's the inception question. It's because if you don't, it's a necessary prerequisite. It's not sufficient on its own, but it's a necessary prerequisite. And there's a lot of people who pick up your book and I'm going to include myself in this who say, I really want to do everything Peter tells me like, I want to be super healthy. I want to work out every day. I want to live forever. And I read the book and I say, I'm going to do this. But you know, I have motivation for 15% of it or 20% of it or 50% of it. But then on the other 50% I don't have the motivation yet. And the question is, how do I generate that motivation? It's not your job to generate the motivation for me. You can give me the arguments. You can tell me why this is important. And your persuasive and maybe that will motivate me. But ultimately you're delivering me the information I need once I'm motivated. And so that motivation part is a real question. Now let's look at someone like Tony Robbins. What is Tony Robbins deliver? He delivers the motivation. Right. If you listen to what Tony Robbins says about financial stuff and I think the world of Tony Robbins, I think he's had a huge impact on people's lives. I don't think his advice is the most sophisticated advice on the face of the planet. I think his ability to motivate people is incredibly sophisticated. And as a result he's changed a lot of lives. What do you think does that make sense? Yeah. So what do you think is the element of that? And does it work uniformly or is there a susceptibility as there is subset of people for whom that style of motivation works? I think so we know that there is there are people for whom that style of motivation works and other people for whom it doesn't. Right. And it might just be taste. It might just be habituation. Like there's a really funny meme of him at a, I don't know, at one of his, you know, whatever they do. He's getting this guy to roar like a lion. Like it's the funniest thing I've ever seen. It's just like, it's, again, there's a subset of people for whom that, It's going to change his life and then there's a subset of people that look at that and think, Yeah, that's not for a million dollars. That doesn't change anything. That doesn't. That's not going to change anything. Right. It's actually going to make it, I'm going to be demotivated because that seems so silly. Yeah. That being said, anyone is listening, you should go to a Tony Robbins thing. Even if you don't believe it or enjoy it, it's just the spectacle of it is amazing. What he does on a stage is really astounding. So I think what you're asking is like, what do we know about the science of the dream? There are, there are some people for whom the way he delivers a message is the, Is the turn key to make this happen? And again, I, if I sit there and listen to him give a talk, it's, it makes a ton of sense. It's very inspiring. It seems like that, that I'll make sense. But it's, to me, I always think of that as the easier problem to solve. I think the harder problem is the one that you're trying to solve. Right. Right. Right. Like, Tony might get you to realize you need to quit smoking, but quitting smoking is hard. How do I, how do I come up with a plan for that? How do I, how do I actually, so you can work on it. They're both necessary and neither is sufficient. I think that's right. And ant, one of the things that we do know about motivation is much like rewards. It tends to be very different from person to person. And so the only way to really figure out what motivates you is to experiment. Right. I mean, my guess is if I was to ask you, what, or let me ask you. So what motivates you to work out every day? It's many things. There's the, there's the, there's the cognitive piece of it, which is I really, really believe what I preach daily, which is exercises at tool is the single, most important tool in both magnitude and direction at lengthening life and improving quality of life. So in as much as I want to live longer and live better exercise is as important, if not more important than anything I do. No, I mean, I ask you, those motivations that are getting you to work out every day are those the same motivations that would have worked on you when you were 20 years old. No, not at all. Right. Wasn't even on my mind when I was 20. Right. And as a result, what we need is motivation changing over time, it changes from situation in the situation. The, the environment, the choices we make. So it's, it's not like we can say like this one form of motivation is the right form of motivation. What we can say is motivation is really important. We know that motivation has certain characteristics, but we also know that it is something that is incredibly adaptive in people's lives and that they find motivation from different sources throughout the course of their life. Yeah, that's a really good point is that what worked, you know, what got you here yesterday isn't going to get you there tomorrow necessarily. Yeah. And it might be when you're 70 years old, you're, I just turned 50, you're 52, so we're in the same place, right, where we can, for the first time that road is really realistic and because you've written so eloquently about it, I'm sure you've thought about it a lot. No, I'm long past that. I mean, I might have 30 years left on this. It's real. It's real. That also has an impact. And what motivates you 20 years from now might be different from what motivates you today. But what's important is if you're paying attention and nurturing that motivation, if you're conducting experiments to see what does motivate you, what doesn't motivate you. It's when we stop thinking about it that we start making that we get in trouble. Charles, this has been super interesting and I know it's kind of funny that you're, you know, I've read super communicators last summer, last spring actually when it came out. And, but really what I wanted to talk about today was a book you wrote 12 years ago, which I think is, so I would recommend everybody read everything you've written, but this is, in some ways I think, This is the book that I think can have a greater impact on people's lives. It's an exceptional book. And I hope that we've spurred people to kind of go back and try to apply it because in many ways, what you've written about is the book end of what I'm trying to write about it. I'm trying to write about what you need to do, but at the end of the day, if you can't create habits around these things, it is difficult. Well, thank you for having me on and thank you for those kind words. I'm such a huge fan of you and of the show. And it's just a incredible honor to be here. So thanks. Well, thank you for coming out. And I'll have to think of a good, smoothy place in Austin to send you. I want to reward you for sitting through this. As long as they've got peanut butter, then I'm going to thank the Charles. Thank you.

I want to get a sense of where you think the balance lies between the abundance of information we have today about health and the triggering of more health anxiety. The health anxiety has skyrocketed in the last four years. Is that signal getting louder? Yes. And by the way, going on WebMD or Google or because a social media influencer said if you have this, this is probably what it is, does not diagnose you. I'd like to use worry versus worrying to help people understand when they've crossed that threshold. For the anxiety suffer, worrying looks like to try to solve something. The problem is is when they get their answer, they're not done. What about the individual who they create a story that says this is cancer or this is heart disease or this is whatever. Everything they get checked of or is fine. This is all prescribed by something that they have the magical cure to fix your distress, your pain. And my job is to sit with them and say the pain is real. The sensation is real. The symptom is real. But it may not really be indicative of the thing that you think it could be. Now let's talk about what you're ongoing exposure therapy is to get him to be feeling like his old self. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Josh, thank you for making the trip out to Austin. I would imagine that temperature is not that different from where you're from in Atlanta. Not much. I left some humidity for pretty rigorous heat. So thank you for that. We trade humidity for heat here. I'll take heat over humidity. I will too. So we're going to talk about anxiety broadly and probably get into a specific subset of anxiety, which is around health anxiety. Something that people like me are probably contributing to in some form. We're going to talk about that. I wondered if you're going to bring that up. You started there. Great. So not something I want to be doing. But I think inevitably it becomes a two-edge sword as you probe deeper into health. You end up doing this. But before we get into that, I do think this term anxiety is so broad that I want to kind of maybe just start with a viewer background. What is it that you do in your practice? Who do you work with? Help folks understand a little bit why I'm sitting down with you. Sure. I'm a licensed psychologist. I'm board certified and behavioral oncology, which means in addition to everything I do, I spend a significant amount of time focusing on how people think, how people act, and how we can address those in their deficits and how we can improve them to make their lives better. Very basic. So I'm a therapist at the end of the day I'm a therapist. Though my career has had many stages, I've spent most of the last 15 years of my career doing almost nothing but focusing on anxiety kinds of conditions. For me, anxiety is many layers. As is from most people, it's a very physical experience, very physical, physiological. It's an emotional experience. There are cognitive elements to it, how we think. And ultimately the way we judge each other and how we see each other is the behavioral experience. So we see what people do and don't do. And so an anxiety specialist is someone who really addresses all those domains of functioning, how we physically, emotionally, cognitively and behaviorally act in our own world and in relation to others. Let's start talking about the definition of anxiety. I think everybody kind of loosely understands what it is and I'm sure most people have at some point experienced it. But is there a DSM-5 criteria that you refer to or do you think about something that goes deeper and or broader than what the DSM would have to say about anxiety? So the DSM-5 actually altered anxiety disorders. We're going to be seeing the DSM-6 probably in the years. I'll be interested to see what it does. But in the last iteration of the DSM, it actually pulled too pretty prominent anxiety disorders out of the anxiety disorders. It moved PTSD out of the anxiety disorders and it moved OCD out of the anxiety disorders. I don't believe for one second that there are not anxiety disorders. They're anxiety disorders. Because of some special elements about them, some people much wiser than me and you decided that they should be in their own special categories. And those two disorders specifically have some interesting elements to them that I see why you want to separate them out. For me, when I think about interventions and this is maybe a reverse order for how physicians are trained or how you're in some therapist are trained. For me, the intervention sometimes dictates the disorder. And that may not be the most popular thing to say. But most of the interventions we're going to probably talk about today are going to be some version of cognitive behavioral therapy and some version of exposure based therapy. Those are two of the leading interventions. Gold standard, some people use the phrase or first line treatments of choice for almost any anxiety disorder of the 8 to 9 electric or 4 to. So anxiety is a loose category. Anxiety for me simply means that someone is emotionally physically cognitively behaviorally internally preoccupied with something that's concerning them. And then undeniably they're doing something about it, often doing the wrong thing. And so as an anxiety specialist and someone who runs a large practice and we get thousands of referrals of your Peter, I'm always tickled that our practice thrives because amongst all the anxiety disorders they share one common symptom. They're all different symptoms. They all different criteria. We can talk about some of them. But they'll share one symptom of avoidance. So for me, avoidance is the kind of the thread between all of them that identifies when we have someone who has worries, physiological anxiety, cognitive anxiety, behavioral anxiety. When I start seeing avoidance, we're not going from someone that has a worry state to something that's probably more problematic. And so there's many versions of avoidance. But avoidance is a behavioral coping tool that's highly effective in the moment for the anxiety but in effect of long term for functioning that has shared amongst almost all the anxiety disorders. So anxiety is a loose category and it's how people are thinking mostly about the future, how they're feeling about the future, how they're anticipating the future. So we start talking about anticipatory anxiety. We start talking about these risk calculations. We start talking about worrying about something that's going to happen, catastrophizing, plotting and planning, and then acting in advance of that which you've built an amazing career around in medicine to plan 30, 40 years in advance. But the anxious person's using it in a way, they're weaponizing that sort of fortune telling in a very unhealthy way and it's ruining their lives. So if avoidance, which you're describing is an action, is the the Senecaonon of all forms of anxiety, is the corollary of that that worry or distressed thought about the future, it's a very absent, a behavioral avoidance doesn't cross the threshold of anxiety and therefore is not necessarily, I don't want to use the word, but pathologic. Sure. So the DSM at its core is about dysfunction and every category of disorder in the DSM from kidney disorders to schizophrenia to medically induced disorders, you know, medicine, cancer induced depression to post-chemax stress and OCD. There's no dysfunction in life and that's usually relationships, occupational functioning, social functioning, educational functioning. If we don't see problematic behaviors in someone's life, then they have worries, then they have sadness. So someone who is sad, who's not feeling great, but they're not acting the ways aligned with depression, is hard to diagnose them with some of the depressive disorder. So the short answer is yes, I think if someone is not engaging in behaviors in advance of trying to eliminate the distress, the uncertainty, the concerns about what's up ahead, then I have a hard time diagnosing someone with a disorder. I treat a lot of OCD. I'm a national OCD specialist, I'm a national OCD trader and trainer for the International OCD Foundation. I'm a national health anxiety specialist. I'll call myself an expert. Some people don't like that phrase, but I'm a specialist in those two topics. If someone is not evidencing compulsions or rituals, which is one part of OCD, the other part of the obsessions, it's hard for me to diagnose someone who's doing nothing to mitigate or manage those distressing thoughts if what they're doing in turn is living the fullest life. The DSM4 to 5 change that. The DSM5 said, first of all, moved OCD out of the anxiety disorders and they have it and now to kind of recall the obsessive compulsive and related disorders, folks are mostly rituals and repetitive behaviors. The criteria change, where used to be you have to have obsessions and compulsions. That was DSM4. DSM5 and 5 TR now says, well, you have to have one or the other. I'm talking about sides of my mouth. Current diagnostic criteria says, if you have obsessions or of true subthots and you do nothing about it, we can still diagnose you. I don't know if I believe that. If you're doing nothing aligned with that anxiety, which for me, if it's aligned with it, it's shrinking your life and you're having these horrible thoughts and feelings and you don't really engage with them and no one really knows and you're out there living your fullest life, I don't define it as being someone who has impaired or dysfunctional. The problem is, I've never met someone who has them true subthots and obsessions and who does nothing. So now we're getting into the next layer of what anxiety is and you sort of mentioned the word behavioral avoidance. Anxiety has two kinds of coping and some of them we can see we call those over rituals or behaviors and some of them are more covert. So right now in this room, I'm using my hands and I'm talking with you and I'm doing stuff to sort of engage with you and I'm answering your question. But in my head, Peter, you may not know that I'm second guessing what I just said, wondering if you believe what I said, wondering if I sound good, questioning if I should even be here, wondering if this is going to be a good podcast and if someone's in that state of thinking about all those things, though we can't see that. I'm starting to talk about a concept called a mental ritual. And so in the last 10 to 15 years, we've seen in the anxiety space, anxiety specialists, not just focusing on what people do behaviorally, but also what they're doing in their head and their mind. And now we start doing the difference between thoughts which are passive experiences and thinking thoughts I don't control. I call those the burps, farts and hiccups of anxiety. They just happen to us. But when you start thinking about those thoughts and trying to neutralize those thoughts and acting in advance of those thoughts and analyzing them and looking them up online and questioning them, that's a mental action. So now we just opened up Pandora's Box, anxiety just got bigger. It went from a condition where you're having these unwanted thoughts and feelings and avoiding maybe using substances, maybe trying to avoid a situation, not showing up to a presentation, maybe staying in bed long or doing things to not deal with it and certain conditions are washing your hands extra, you're maybe doing certain things to your body. Those are behavioral actions or rituals. But now we have a whole nother space of actions or reactions and those mental rituals are if not as problematic sometimes worse because the person with lived experience with anxiety often does no other mental rituals. They just think they're obsessing all day long. I hear that a lot. I obsess all day long. And I go, are you obsessing all day long? Or do you have obsessions? Or are you seeing they're stewing on it? Oh, you're stewing on it? That's a rumination. Yeah, that's an obsession. No, no, no. You're ruminating. You're fixated on it. You're trying to quantify. You're trying to solve it. That's a mental action. Why? Because you're trying to diffuse the bomb. You're trying to deal with uncertainty. You can't tolerate uncertainty. You can't tolerate the distress. You're trying to solve this Rubik's cube that's missing a puzzle piece. And so most therapists can't see that. And the person who lived experience just thinks they're just worrying all day long. And so we start separating the difference between worries and worrying. Thoughts and thinking. The first one is on the house. The first one is your body doing exactly what's supposed to do. The second one is you trying to solve a puzzle that you probably won't be able to solve. And you're going to keep doing it and keep doing it and dig deeper and deeper into a hole until you can't get out of it. So most of us are familiar with behavioral manifestations of coping, but mental rituals are equally as destructive and worse hard to identify and see if you don't know you're asking. Anybody who's spent any time meditating will be very familiar with what you just said about the difference between thoughts and thinking. And I was actually just talking about this with somebody this morning. As it pertained to mindfulness, right? So the idea for folks maybe not as familiar with the idea that if you practice a form of mindfulness meditation, you vary quickly. You're almost blown away at the torrent of thoughts that exist in your brain and how you can't turn them off. So if you sit there and try to practice, a ritual of paying attention to your breath and figuring out how many milliseconds you can go focusing on your breath and nothing else, you realize that the answer is a very short period of time. Maybe unless you've reached some state of enlightenment that I'll never reach. But what's basically happening is you're sitting there focusing on your breath. And immediately you're going to be thinking about what you want for breakfast. And then you lovingly bring yourself back to thinking about the breath and about a millisecond later you realize you got to do that thing after you know, it's just a non stop. It's a ping pong match. It's not going to force. It's incredible. So say a little bit more about that again, for the for the individual who has not practiced this highly uncomfortable exercise of mindfulness meditation, help people understand what you mean about the distinction between thoughts and thinking. It is important. I think it's uniquely important when we talk about anxiety. I like to talk about the W's of that level too thinking. I'm going to break into three categories. We haven't gotten to the third one yet, which is any real scary in just a second here. But I like to talk about the W's, the who what where when why how ends in a W and what if when I hear someone asking a question that starts with a W and whatever the statement is ends with a question mark in my work. If it's about their anxiety core issue, so if someone is social anxiety, the fear of public speaking, if someone has a fear of snakes, the fear of being bitten by a snake. When they're asking questions about is that snake going to be there? Does that garden have snakes? Is that public speaking event tomorrow and what am I going to do about it? What if they laugh at me when I hear those questions? Most of it's just something that someone's worried. But that looks productive. It looks like you're trying to figure something out. And for most of us, we just move on with our day. For the anxiety sufferer, it is an attempt to resolve uncertainty. It is an attempt to figure out something that you don't have the chance to figure out because that time has not happened yet. It's a fortune telling mindset of mental action. And so worrying the verb is an activity. And most of us do it and move on with our lives. It's like Teflon, it slides off of us. But for the anxiety sufferer, worrying looks like they're trying to solve something. The problem is is when they get their answer, they're not done. And that's the epidemic of anxiety. That whether you do a ritual that looks more behavioral, like scrubbing your hands, praying excessively, asking the police officer if they got a report if anyone got run over in the intersection which is called Hidden Run OCD, re-reading your email 17 times, or wondering about your email questioning, did I send that out? Was there a typo in there? Are they judging me? What if they say something back to me? Those don't look like rituals or compulsions. But it's our ability to resolve anxiety to solve uncertainty, to deal with this interfering that is killing us on the inside. And it is its own designation of symptoms. So maybe just to step back, the first thing I'm doing in therapy with almost anyone I work with is breaking down symptoms into three categories. And there's two acronyms I'll use. It doesn't matter for me amongst all the anxiety disorders. And I can get kind of Q2 with this, but it's category one, category two, and category three, very basic. When he's letters, it's T's, O's, and C's. If I'm dealing with OCD, which stands for triggers, obsessions, and compulsions. And for almost every other anxiety disorder, it's T, F, and SB, triggers, fears, and safety behaviors. And every DSM, every anxiety specialist, annual retreats anxiety, and any who battles anxiety should know those three levels of symptoms. Triggers are the things that bother you, the events, the people, the places, the things that are out of your control. It's God messing with us. And sometimes just you're sitting around and I thought pops in your head, can be a trigger, unfortunately. Sometimes a physical symptom can be a trigger. The middle column, which I use the letter O, or fear, O for obsession, F for fear, is the internal experiences you're having. And I use the word having, not doing, that are out of your control. Breathing, heart rate, yucky thoughts, upset tummy, a twitch, a feeling, and aura. For most of us, we call those worries, or fears, or obsessions. Sometimes it's an urge. And those are not up to us. That means your body is working. Sometimes it's working in overdrive. Sometimes it means you're a prefrontal cortex in your limbic region. We'll talk about brain stuff in a few minutes. I'm sure are not communicating properly. But that means that something went off in your body as a signal of, oh, there might be danger. So it's happening to you. The next thing that happens in the most basic behavioral paradigm, Peter, is stimulus and response. And what happens between stimulus response is we're all the magic happens. And one's ability to make decisions effectively between stimulus response is where therapy really takes action. That response and all the anxiety disorders is avoidance. It will be behavioral or mental. So it's a therapist job to figure out those symptoms, the T's, O's, and C's, to educate the patient on what they are because most patients and honestly probably most therapists confuse worries from worrying, thoughts from thinking. Most therapists are going to put anything between your ears and category two. In the last 10 to 15 years online, there's been language and descriptions of something called pure OCD. P-U-R-E-P-R-O-O-C-D. And what that was was people thinking that I just have obsessions. I'm a purely obsessional subcategory of OCD. And I have pure O-O-C-D on my website. I write about it. I blog about it because I want people who think they have that to find our website and to find us because I want to reverse engineer what they think is going on. They think they're just having obsessions because it's all happening up here. Which are really going on as they're having obsessions and then spending all day long up here trying to solve an existential crisis, which I would call them into ritual. Let's help people understand that. And we can either use, in fact, I'd like to do both. I'd like to use thoughts versus thinking and I'd like to use worry versus worrying to help people understand when they've crossed that threshold. So start with whichever one you want and let's pick a real-world example that you might experience in the practice. Well, I want to talk about health and medical stuff. So someone's having a bunch of physical symptoms in there of afraid that they might have cancer. They're afraid that they might have cancer. That's a worry. They're afraid that these might be symptoms of a heart attack of an M.I. event. That's a worry. What if I'm having a heart attack all of a sudden you're trying to figure it out, which by the way, asking that doesn't figure it out and googling it doesn't figure it out and calling your cardiologist who hasn't seen you doesn't figure it out. But when you go, what if this is a heart attack symptom? You're beyond worrying about it. The worry is I might be sick in this case having a medical event and you're trying to figure out like, what if this is the thing? And when you're trying to figure it out, that's an elephant then googling it. That's an elephant then looking it up online, calling your nurse or doctor friend or inlaw and saying, do you think this is what it is? So when I go to someone and go, hey, do you think that's what this is? Most people would call that reassurance seeking, which is a classic ritual. It's a behavioral thing. Me asking you, hey, you haven't evaluated me. You're my brother-in-law. Do you think this is a medical event? But when you ask yourself that, how is it any different? We haven't evaluated you. There's no lab work. We're not really going to get the answer. And you're really just looking for one answer. You're fine. So the dilemma is is when you go from that worry state to, oh my gosh, I'm terrified I might be sick to what if I'm sick, what if this is the event? People can spend not in that little moment, but all day wondering, is that another thing? Is that a heart issue? Is that a symptom of stroke? When I twitching, is that I mean I'm having a seizure? When they're asking themselves, oh, let me have questions. That's not the worry. The worry is just, I'm scared something's wrong. I'm scared something bad's going to happen when you sit there and start questioning it all. To me, it's no different than just sitting there and Googling all day long. What are these symptoms? And remember, let anyone look at that and go, of course, that person's ritualizing. But when you do it inside, it's the same mechanism. It's you trying to get to the end of the story. You're using your crystal baller time machine to get to the end of that story. Sooner than you actually need to. In that case, if you're having a rometical event, I'd go to the doctor. I'd actually go see a physician. But seeing there are questioning it doesn't solve anything. So you went from a state of having worries. I'm afraid I'm sick. I'm afraid something's wrong too. Seeing there, I won't use word per severed. I usually mean something else, but roominating on it. And that looks functional, but it's actually quite dysfunctional. Is it dysfunctional because of the duration? Is it dysfunctional because it comes at the expense of doing something else? Or is it dysfunctional because if an objective person were to evaluate it on its face, it doesn't make any sense. Now, I know I've said a lot there. But to me, this is the crux of it. I'm going to be able to answer that with one word. Yes. It's dysfunctional because it's taking away from your life. It's dysfunctional because the duration or intensity of it doesn't match the thing, that if you're spending all your time doing that and not going to the doctor, this is not going to solve anything. So in a single moment, anyone freaking out, I don't think that's dysfunctional. Peter, that's who any one of us would do. You sent an email and go, oh shoot, did I just do that? We all do that. Oh man, this feels tight in my chest. What is that? We all do that. So even the criteria for something like health anxiety, the DSM criteria requires six months of being concerned about whether to about symptoms or diseases. We'll talk about different kinds of health anxiety in a few minutes, six months. So in a single single moment, it's nothing more than you being inquisitive and curious. But the point is, is that's not going to solve whether it's a medical event or not, going to your doctor is getting an EKG. It's asking your nurse, sister, if you're having like a stroke, what does she know? So it doesn't solve the problem and it's trying to get to the end of a story or resolve some uncertainty or some ambiguity in a way that's not actually going to solve it. So it's just not a functional way to process. In a singular moment, in a single moment, the first time I don't care, you don't care it's what someone does. But when you're doing that multiple times a day, multiple times a week or from months on end, that's the disease. Now what about the individual who goes out to seek medical attention for something, but the pattern is so illogical. So they just keep having sort of unexplained symptoms and they create a story that says this is cancer or this is heart disease or this is whatever. And they follow through with the medical checkup and they should. And the medical checkup keeps coming back crystal clear. You're fine, you're fine, you're fine, you're fine, you're fine. And the goal post keeps moving. So it's, I think I've got this, I think I've got that, I think I've got this, I think I've got that, everything they get checked up for is fine. Is that health anxiety? That's possible health anxiety. And first of all, health anxiety is not a disorder. It's a class of disorders. It's a buzzword online, it's something you can Google, but the disorders within them, they are breakdown in really two, sometimes three disorders. One's called illness anxiety disorder, which used to be called hypocondriosis. The one's called somatic symptom disorder, which used to be called somatic form disorder. And then there's a third one that's a bit curious, which is conversion disorders or functional neurological disorders. But what you're saying is is in this case, someone has some symptoms and whether the symptoms stay or change. They're going to doctor after doctor. They've had all the appropriate medical workups. And every doctor said negative result, negative result, negative result. I have to be careful how I talk about this. I've done other podcasts where I've said a story like this, and I'm about to share. And I've triggered some people. And I'm not trying to upset people or trigger people, but in your situation, I feel very comfortable, probably saying it sounds a lot like a health anxiety kind of disorder. You're having physical ailments. You're going to doctors if you're at what's going on. We would most commonly diagnose that as somatic symptom disorder. If your medical charts are clear, if the doctors have consistently said, ma'am sir, I'm sorry, but there's nothing there. The problem is, as you and I both have anecdotal stories of someone getting a breast exam, going for their annual, going for a pap smith. If I had all the medical clearance, and all the sudden a month later, they find a pea-side shape under their armpit, oh my goodness, they have breast cancer. So I have a personal story. I won't spend too much time on it, where my wife, I was almost a widow about a decade ago, which is not funny to me. She was having some radiating discomfort and pain going up her right abdomen and backside. And she's standing in healthy and we have no history of medical issues. And one to a primary care doctor, we trusted dearly and he's checked her out and said, you might have a tiny umbilical hernia. You're young, you're healthy, you're thin. Don't worry about it. We said, okay, we'll see what happens. And a week later, she's still complaining. We then go to her OB and OB did a full exam and found absolutely nothing. We then went to a surgeon who'd be recommended, just to make sure. And I don't remember, honestly, what the surgeon did. I know we had an ultrasound in a CT I believe. And certain said, I would not do an umbilical surgical right now. You're fine, you're young, let's wait on it. Nothing's going on. Those are three doctors who basically gave her a clean bill of health with some superficial observation and then some very basic, non-invasive procedures. And then, but a week later, she said, Josh, it's not going away and the something's not right and it's raining at my back and they checked for gallstones, they checked for kidney stones and all this sort of standard stuff, blood work, you're now assess all of it. And someone said, why don't you go to a GI specialist and see what's going on and she went there. And she had a mass on her liver that was compromised over 50%. And that required immediate surgery. If that had rupture to blood out, she would have possibly died. The liver is one of the the only organ that regenerates itself. So we got very lucky. Had a significant resection liver, liver surgery. And she's doing well today. But if we waited on that and took three knows as, okay, I guess she's, take some of your profines, stretch, maybe it's gas, you know, figured out. I don't want to know the answer to that and that story. So the problem is, is sometimes we have to trust our own bodies. And sometimes we can't trust the doctor. In your situation, I think if you're chasing symptoms, you've been to multiple doctors with multiple, multiple workups and everyone's saying it's nothing that we can diagnose. For most of us, we're describing that you have some physical anomalies going on that maybe don't require medical intervention. And so now in the health anxiety spectrum, we're now starting to describe symptoms and three categories, symptoms that are medical, symptoms that are physical and symptoms that are psychological. So in all the health things, all these spectrums, we break those symptoms into three categories. If they're medical and require medical intervention and you worry about them, no kidding. So you and I would as well. And whether we call that an adjustment reaction Peter or something else, if you have a medical condition that requires medical intervention, you worry about it, most of us do. And I don't require a therapist or medication for that unless that's something that you want. After having physical symptoms that are not deemed medical, either because the lab report you're not back yet or because the doctor hasn't talked to you yet or because the lab results are negative. At some point we have to admit, maybe there's nothing medical here unless we're like waiting for lab results. But the worry associated with that, we would typically describe as somatic symptom disorder. You don't know what you have yet. You may have nothing and you're worrying about it and not leaving the house and doctor shopping and going online and checking your labs and wearing a postdoc somber and all the things you're doing to constantly monitor physical symptoms, body scanning, checking, pretty common ones at some point your quality of life is going down. Could something medical come from that? Absolutely. But currently we have no data to support the you have a medical condition and you're still worried about it. We have an issue. And then the other categories when it's all psychological, long time ago it was about AIDS. We don't see that that much anymore, but sometimes if they're going to get AIDS, they're free, they're going to have a stroke, a brain tumor. No symptoms to support it. They're just worried about getting an illness or disease. Back in the day people would call that person a hypocondriacle, the disorder was called a hypocondriacle system. Today we call that illness anxiety disorder. And people can have all three. They can have medical issues. A, they can have physical issues. They're not medical and worry about them. And they can also worry about getting other diseases, which we would call illness anxiety disorder. The most common presentation that I see in my practice and that people reach out to me for is when someone has a kind of a combination of physical things and they're convinced it's something. And usually by the time they're reaching out to me, they've been to multiple doctors. I don't, when someone reaches out to an anxiety specialist with physical things, the first thing I would say and you would say is go get a work up. So I'm never going to get in the way of medical care or not. First, second and third opinions. I think it's a smart thing to do. But at some point, when is enough enough if every doctor who is of quality and competence has ruled out what everything is going on? And even then, people go to great lengths. I've had patients get spinal taps off the record for cash to determine if they have to, I'll be against CSF because I think they're having a stroke or having a lot of mental health. That's one of the things I guess I would say that makes that playbook challenging is, in this day and age, you have more and more sort of, I don't know, for lack of a better work, just quacks out there that are going to come up with every reason under the sun for your symptoms. So you will find somebody who will come up with an explanation for your symptom. It'll be the mold in your house. It'll be the slight elevation of cadmium in your blood or in your blood or in your blood on your blood or go down the list. So now we've opened a Pandora's box, which is this individual who's feeling a little fatigued. Can't figure out why. Some things wrong with them. They're fatigued. Maybe it's, you know, fill in the blank. I don't know what it is. First doctor they see does traditional work up and says, you know, you're all your hormones look great. I don't, you know, everything that I can see looks like. But you're going to find that person within the first three, depending on which door you open, who's going to come up with an explanation. And they're typically going to have a solution for you that's pretty off the beaten path. If you go to a car mechanic and say your car is squeaking in the engine, they're going to have a wonderful solution for your engine even if it's not required. If you go to a psychiatrist and say, I think I need meds, guess what they're going to give you medication. And if you don't have doctors, they're going to find some problem and recommend some intervention, whether it's homeopathic, whether it's diagnosed, you know, whether it's prescription, something, they'll give you something because they want you to feel better. Yeah, I think part of it is that when you're a hammer, everything is an ale syndrome, but I think that, and that would be the most charitable explanation for what I think is going on, which is truly, there are just a lot of real charlatans out there that are, you know, just not, not practicing any former reasonable medicine, not even evidence informed. Right. Like evidence-based, I get this limitation. Yes. I will fully acknowledge the limitations of evidence-based medicine. I agree. But, but there is at least a left threshold of evidence-informed medicine. But when you start saying that the answer to your slightly elevated, cesium level, which, by the way, no lab has ever documented what the upper limit of that should be anyway, but let's just assume that my arbitrary level is too high and you're slightly above it. So that's clearly the explanation of everything that's going wrong with you. But I'm going to hand you some supplement that, by the way, I happen to also sell, happen to sell. That's how big it happened to sell. How weak are you? Look, it's your lucky day. It's right here. You've found the office. You found the guy that knows how to cure elevated cesium levels. That's the challenge I suppose I have, right? Which is, it's the challenge I have. You were wearing the same boat. You're asking me to, as a non-medical person, to make sure that someone is getting, you know, advocated for, spoken for, and referred to by providers. They're going to go to find anyone. And I'm, it's above my pay grade to know whether that doctor knows what they're doing, whether recommending medications or off label things that are, and how am I going to argue against that? So, most things I specialize, like myself, who work in the space of a lot of health and medical and I have a career where we haven't talked about where I've done lots of medical training, medical work in my career. I'm informed. I'm knowledgeable. I also medical people my family. I can ask the right things, but I'm trusting the medical people around me. So I'm on faculty at a university in Atlanta. I'm a joint faculty there. I got colleagues there. I got medical people around me. I surround myself with people that I think are sharp, psychiatrist, physicians, oncologists, just in case. And still, my patients are going to go to other doctors because they're just looking for the answer to me. That sort of within that health and I spectrum. If every doctor you've gone to, that I trust has given you the best medicine possible, or the best assessment possible. And you're getting the way answered. You go to the next person. You don't need the DSM to go. Maybe this is more than just a medical issue. I'm still going to advocate for the medical needs. I'm still going to support them and join them. And I'm still going to help them see that your physical symptoms are real. Physical symptoms are real. That doesn't mean they're indicative of or prognosticate a medical condition. Half the battle I'm doing is education around that topic. Yeah, I think that's worth stating that again. So if a person says, I'm experiencing this pain. That's real. 100%. I'm saying don't assume necessarily that that means that there is an underlying medical reason for that, or even something that you would find on the total best case scenario diagnostic. More often than not, there's not a great medical diagnosis or category that fits into the things that someone like, I, I mean, I see. I mean, I don't specialize that much in F&D or sort of that functional neurological space of pseudo seizures or or tingling arms or body part second going on. That's a, that's a whole another space of conversion disorders. But I'm talking about people that have chronic headaches, yeah, tummy issues, leg cramps, bones that feel sore. And they've had every work up you could imagine that would be considered for some of us bones that are sore. And there's about three or four conditions the most first are going to jump to and you say your bones are sore. And that's all been ruled out. And they're trying to convince you, but my, my thigh, like I can feel the bone, I can feel the marrow feels like it's, it's tearing itself up and we were talking about pain conditions. We're talking about, you know, neuropathic kind of conditions at some point, the intervention, which is them doctor shopping becomes worse than the pain itself. At some point, someone will prescribe you something and hopefully we're not doing with opiate to that point. But so, we'll prescribe you something, thing that they have the magical cure to fix, your distress, your pain. And that scares me. And my job is to sit with them and say the pain is real, the sensation is real, the symptom is real, but it not may not really be indicative of the thing that you think it could be. And by the way, going on WebMD or Google or because a social media influencer said, if you have this, this is probably what it is, does not diagnose you. And so, there's really this wonderful space of social media, wearable devices, which I'm a big believer of. And the access that we all have to our medical records scares the hell out of me. Because we are now patients being our own advocates and showing up to doctors saying, this is what I found out online. And I think I have this or this is what this person said. And I think I have this or my, my, my, my, my, my heart rate's been up all week. Doesn't that mean something? Yeah, it means your heart rates up. Period. That doesn't mean anything else except your heart rate is up. And so most people would assume that means you're, you know, a risk for a heart attack or stroke or means if you stare, you're watching long enough. You don't have hair on your head like I do. What if we talk about lies? Guess what's going to happen a few seconds? We're both going to do in this. Because that's what happens. And if I mention your left pinky toe, Peter, have you thought about your left pinky toe? This entire time we've been together because you are now. How is the toe next to it doing? And by the way, now how's the right pinky toe going? Now we get to think about that. So if you think about that long enough, you're going to feel your left pinky toe. It's going to be tactile and sticky and maybe sensory. It was there the whole time. You're brain didn't have to think about it. How's your breathing right now? We don't think about breathing. And I treat people who get fixated on swallowing. Breathing. There's got to be something in here. I have thyroid cancer. I have a softageal cancer. Because I feel something in there. You probably do feel something in there. And by the way, if you do this all day long and you create some bruising, you're going to feel a whole bunch of more stuff in there. Do you know that better than I do? But to come in someone that there may not be something in there because they've been scoped, tested, and blood checked. There's no signs of anything that's anatomical or physical in a throat, but they can feel it. It's not my job to say it's fake. It's my job to say you're struggling with something. And what are we going to do about that? And that is the message there. Do you go one step further and say, like, you're creating this? Or are you saying, no, I don't need to go that far. I just need to get them to understand. There's another explanation for this. There's no need to do that. But if I take that stance, I'm now the next person who's the naysayer on the next one who's invalidating them. And almost no therapist that I know would ever basically weaponize that or blame them for that kind of thing. What I can say is you may not have created it. And it'd be probably didn't create it. Like leg pains not being created. But if you sit there and focus on your left pinky tail or if you talk about life long enough, it's going to create head sensations of it. That's how it works. When you focus on something long enough, you pay attention to it. And if you pay attention to it, you're more aware of it. And if you're more aware of it and your brain actually works, it'll feel it. Phantom limb syndrome research has demonstrated that. People putting a dummy arm in a fake arm in a mirror and wacking an arm, we can feel that in our nerve endings because our brain's processing information. So do we have a dead arm that's not connected to it? That's actually causing pain? No. Do we have a pain reception or an information process and then going on? Probably. That's fascinating research. The point is, is I don't have to tell them that it's your fault or that you're creating it. But I can tell them that the thing you're doing is keeping it active. It's keeping it prominent in your focus. And as long as you focus on that, you're not focusing on anything else. And if you're not focusing anything else, we have a whole another disease. Disease one, there's something wrong with your thigh. Maybe not medical. Disease two, you're fixated on it. You won't leave the house. You're demanding opiates. You're complaining to people. Your husband doesn't want to hear anymore. Your doctors have cut you off. And I've worked with patients. I'm an Atlanta that have been blacklisted from two or the three major hospital medical systems because it's done so much doctor shopping and so much fighting with their doctors that it's a stress on the system. But they have the wearables and the social media and the online and access to their patient portal that proves that something's wrong. And just as an example, what types of things would they actually be doctor shopping for? What is this? What's a symptom that's a real world example? The ones I usually see the most are memory loss or memory slip ups, which some people actually put into the functional neurological disorder spectrum. A lot of chest pain that has had every EKG in medical workup you can imagine or sensations like ants crawling or physical pain or a pathoc pain for which it has no explanation. Those are the most common ones which is. And let's just take each of those in as much as you know details. I mean, what would be triggering events? Right. And we're going to I'll tell you where I want to kind of go with this, which is I want to understand the genetic factors that would pre-dispose a person to this versus the environmental factors that would predispose an individual to this. You know, I've had a number of folks on this podcast where we've talked at length about the heritability of various psychiatric illnesses. So you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you're in cancourt and discord and twin studies. We can get a pretty good sense of how these things work. And we know that with health anxiety, the heritability is about 30 to 40 percent. It's on the lower side. So it's low. It's on the lower side. Yeah. Where we see with schizophrenia. It's a frantic geoptism over there on the 70s to 80s sometimes. Okay. So this is, but it's there. It's not a genetic loading. That's there. Yep. But when you say 30 percent heritability, I hear environmentalized. So do I. I hear in the diathesis stress model, you have the diathesis there. It's low. But it just takes that right context to make it come alive. And for some populations for some people we work with a trauma trauma can induce this trauma can cause all sorts of physical manifestations of discomfort and distress and pain. Whether that's a physical or sexual trauma or an emotional trauma or loss, there's enough research and large scale studies to demonstrate even with pseudo um seizures. Panic panes, um, psychogenic non-aplectic seizures that, um, emotional and physical traumas, can demonstrate then bodily reactions that are not explained which we used to call conversion disorder. So trauma is a notable thing. Family history of it were parents are complaining and describing similar symptoms. So I see that quite a bit. I see that both with OCD. OCD has a heritability rate of about 50 percent and 40 to 50 percent. Health anxiety is a little bit lower. Um, and both populations. And what about general anxiety? Um, so I don't general anxiety. Like I go by disorder unfortunately. Okay. Um, if I go by disorder, I can tell you, but in general anxiety, I assume it's probably still on that 30 to 40 percent range. Just in general, I don't know if any other disorder outside of OCD that has a higher heritability rate of there's nine anxiety disorders. I usually refer to that one. Usually it's the highest gender level of 40 to 50. That's 40 to 40 percent. So I assume across the board if we merge them all together, it's going to be 40 percent. We're going to be in that 30 to 40 percent range at best. It's very atypical for me to meet a child or teen with OCD and to not have a first degree relative who has it. Excuse me, the first degree relative has taught treatment or agrees with it. But I was never child's like, oh, yeah, my mom does the exact same thing. And do you think that it is a learned behavior in that sense? I, well, we have to not deny that there's a genetic component to it, but when you are in a household where someone is doing things in a very hyper vigilant way constantly or always washing down the counters or always doing things on repeat like tapping the door or asking to say something over and over again at some point social learning kicks in. And they won't necessarily be the same. So another positive mom washes her hands 100 times a day. Johnny could easily manifest what clothing folding or re-minating on some other, you're describing a lot of the sub content areas of OCD. I don't know if there's any research study out there that has demonstrated that parent's sub classification of OCD mimics child, but at a macro OCD falls down to the next generation. It's pretty well documented. If if I've seen 100 people in the last year with OCD, I haven't seen them in last year, I'd be shocked if more than 15 didn't have a first degree relative of the OCD. It would be very a typical. They are seeing, say again, that they see that they live with, that they live with or have lived with. Yeah. So it would just be very uncommon. Which makes it difficult to parse out. It's very difficult to know genetic numbers and neurodiodidical. Health anxiety for me is almost identical. So I view health anxiety as a sub category of OCD. I think probably 20 years ago probably people view the HIV focus, much more as an OCD condition. Today we would call it illness anxiety disorder. But most of the colleagues I work with, people I've done research with, people that I talk about stuff with, view health anxiety as a sub category academically to own special category in the DSM. What I see the exact same things that you're asking about, which is that it is very rare for me to see someone as health anxiety for which a first degree relative doesn't also have health anxiety. And health anxiety, OCD for most populations usually starts around age 789, Pre-Pubescent. Health anxiety usually starts around the teenage years. A few kids I've seen can have health anxiety, epidemiological research with support that health anxiety typically starts in teenage years and young adulthood. I see kids with a metophobia fear of throw up kids at a completely of tummy aches because are afraid to go to school. I think they're focused on situational symptoms in response to situations. Then what you and I would think about more existential dread about health anxiety. So it'd be a little bit unconventional for a kid to be thinking about morbidity and mortality and things like that because kids are not developed to worry about that in general. Though it can be the case. But it'd be very unconventional for me to see someone who has health anxiety where they wouldn't say, yeah my mom also worried about that. A metophobia is no different, fear of throw up, very common in family and family dynamics. So first thing when I see someone who has a fear of throw up her metophobia is which one of your family members also has that fear. It's like the first question you ask. Oh, that one. Great. Now that I know. Biologic behavioral. Both. So you referenced HIV and AIDS twice. Is that really the first big landmark introduction of widespread health anxiety? Or is it just the most recent one prior to our current? It's probably the loudest. I mean you can go back, if you wanted to research on it, go back and grease and ancient time. People focus on the stuff and it brain mapping. I joking before we start talking, I use the word treffination, all sorts of crazy, psychobrain surgeries to help people alleviate stuff. But the HIV epidemic probably became the most prominent thing in the last 30 to 40 years that got people's awareness of what if I get that terrible disease because we don't know enough about it. The treatments weren't available at the time. The life expectancy was short and that scared everyone. But you could look at trends in the last 10 years and when I get together with all of my colleagues and we nerd out about this stuff, you can see trends during black lives matter, movement of years ago and the hashtag me, two movement when you see people coming in fearful of like, what if I say a racial slur, what if I get accused of sexually assaulting someone in the past and you see those those socio kind of driven moments where you see spikes of people coming concerned about that, COVID lit that on fire literally. And they're still lingering effects of that that we can discuss. But I don't know if I've seen an HIV concern in the last five to 10 years. I mean, just don't hear it. But I used to work. I've done a lot of work in HIV and STD prevention. I've worked in HIV clinics. I did an NIH research fellowship on HIV HIV and STD. So I've been in the I'm a weird psychology. I've done lots of medically based research and clinic work. So I've been in HIV space actually for about 20 years. As an OCD anxiety specialist, I'm sure I've colleagues that could say it speak to this. I haven't heard of someone complain about HIV concern about getting it in my career probably in the last 10, 15 years. Well, you name your brother condition stroke, heart attack, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, every kind of cancer. I mean, cancer is the most notorious. It's allowed us to sit the scariest since we're going to talk about. Is that signal getting louder? Yes. Okay. So let's now go over the three things you alluded to earlier. Social media, wearables and access to medical records. Is there anything else that you think is contributing to that? Let's assume genetic drift is not increasing the genetic predisposition to that so that the increase that you see in the incidence is environmental or triggered. Anything else driving it besides those three you think? Those are those are research based, we're meeting those things. I'm going to speak more on a personal anecdotal level. I have a general sense at the last five years since the pandemic and since we've seen a shift in culture around medical access and insurance and people getting proper care and political things and turmoil. I think most mental health providers and at the research would show this peer that we've seen a significant increase in mental health awareness, a significant increase in people coming to therapy for the first time, a significant increase in people staying in therapy longer and longer. And we've seen a significant spike in general anxiety since 2020, almost at twofold spike in most research studies. So all of that combined with a general sense of not being able to afford health care or frustration with your health care providers. I just feel like we're hitting this unfortunate, perfect, terrible storm of people being more vigilant about their medical and mental health needs in good ways, trying to be advocates and trying to seek services. But also I think we are at least in the United States. There's just a general sense of increased anxiety and stress on all of us and as you know, stress and anxiety turned somatic, turns biologic. But I think those three big areas of social media, wearables and access to health care are big players, but COVID got all of us to think about this stuff. And I was joking with some of your team before I came in here, but I even on the flight over here, someone was coughing in the robot hymn and I thought crap, what am I going to come home with? 2019, never would have thought that honestly 2018. I'm not, I'm not kidding. I've got a kid going to college and a fortune old. When they're kids, they had snots and boogers and gross and diarrhea and you pump them of meds and sent them to preschool. You just didn't care. Today, when you're a kid sick, you're thinking, how many days of work am I going to miss? So somewhere in the last few years, and I don't, I don't help anxiety. I don't get too caught up on that. I think about it more than I want to. Because of the work I do, but somewhere in the last few years, we've all become more in tune to our upper respiratory stuff. People are wearing masks before they never did in other countries in China and Japan. We saw people wearing masks before the pandemic. We see us all over the United States now. I'm out there restaurant just a few months before I came over here and three people wearing masks. Do they have it? Are they trying to prevent me from getting it? Are they afraid of them getting it? I don't know, but five years ago, I didn't say anyone, any restaurant person wearing a mask. By the way, would there be any pathology there? Explain. Well, if you see a person wearing a mask and let's just say you make the assumption that they're not sick. So they're not, I'm not making that. I'm not making that assumption. I'm making that assumption. If you see people walking through airports with masks, yes. And again, I'm not trying to ask this question through any lens other than pure inquiry. And I realize these are very loaded questions. But what I'm really trying to understand is if a person's walking through an airport wearing a mask and you knew that they were not sick. So they were doing it for fear of getting sick. Sure. Is there any reason to say that person's not psychologically functioning on all cylinders at the moment? It's on their situations. So my mom is doing very well today. Sorry, let me further assume that she was going to cancel. No, yeah, let me. I'm going to throw all that out. So you're not immune compromised. You're 40 year old, perfectly healthy person who's not undergoing chemo. You don't live with someone who's undergoing a multi-monetical or something. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I'm just trying to get at like. It's a fair question. But you're a person who pre-COVID would have never thought of wearing a mask. But you haven't escaped the COVID mindset. Now, you could argue, oh, what's it? It's not causing anybody harm. It's their face. They're covering up. I mean, aside from the fact that the briefs that Starbucks can't take the order, like no one's actually paying a price, is there any maladaptive behavior there? Sounds like a real therapist here. I'm real psychologist, possibly. I think if that mask is being used as a cover to avoid social interactions, as a way to get out of other events, to make sure you're not working in a certain part of the restaurant, possibly when you really don't need to do so. But if you're just wearing the mask because you're just a little bit extra cautious, don't want to get sick. Again, if we don't care about it, and you stay employed, let's say it's an employee or you're walking through the airport, I don't think it's anything pathological about that. I mean, I think that's an different than someone you're taking, or those like those bite-a-minsy packets before they get into playing. People do that all the time. Costco and other companies still box isn't boxes that stuff. Do I think this stuff works? Not really. But people are pounding that bite-a-minsy powder stuff to make sure when they go on their flight or their travel, they don't get sick. Is that any different? I don't know if it's any different. I think we all take our own approaches for homeopathics and I put the mask in that category of people who are taking over the counter kind of things or supplements to boost their immunity or to prevent themselves from catching something that would compromise their immunity. I think good for them and I don't think anything about it. What about driving with the mask on? That the only person in my mind. Okay, so if you're not a new driver or a driver, or not, I'd be the other day. Is that someone driving me on a freeway? They're the only person in their car. I assume it was their car. Whether there was nobody else in it and they were driving with the mask. So, again, if it wasn't a rental car and if there was a rental car, you might go, gosh, like I could see what if they thought, again, I think that's pathological to me. And I think we can probably say both, but if you're a rental car and you and I both know how the transmission of respiratory issues go and you're in a rental car that's whether they've been cleaned or not, someone smoked in it, someone coughed in it, but time you get in it, we're beyond that potential range of infection from COVID or other respiratory ailments. The first thing a mask isn't going to do a darn thing medically. I'm not a medical provider. I'm going to be careful. I say that on this and here, but I know enough about the science of that's not how you're going to get some kind of disease. That baffles me. Is that pathological? It looks funny. It doesn't make sense to me. Maybe it's they're going to be going to the next place and they forgot to take it off. Maybe they are immunocompromised. I don't know what their situation is, but if to your point, if someone doesn't have an illness and they're not trying to spread it. And we don't believe they have any state of immunocompromised status. And they're wearing a mask. It seems off. And so should the majority of people who are not wearing masks look at that person with empathy as opposed to disdain, which is probably how I was looking at that. I think anyone who's in a situation like that would show look at some with empathy, with compassion and think that's not my situation. And I hope that whatever they're going through is okay. But again, we start talking about what you can see and what you can't see going back several discussions ago about mental versus behavioral. I've never been in a podcast and so I'm saying, hey, what do you think about people taking an emergency or vitamin C or whatever? Whatever those powders are, no one's ever asked me that. Is that different than wearing a mask? Not to me, but we can see the mask. It is a little different. And I think that's the point, right? I think it's if you take the vitamin C pack, you're putting it in your water, you're drinking it, for all intents and purposes, you're taking a bunch of electoral lights. The person who takes that next step to put a mask on, presumably in an environment where nobody else is wearing it. Oh, I'm sorry, now I'll tell you in the airport, no situations or restaurants. In a car situation, that feels pathological to me. No, even in the airport, my point is they're doing it in an environment where nobody else is wearing a mask. There must be some, that that to me is a higher threshold. They're more concerned. Absolutely, they're focused on it more than the rest of us. And my one of my argue with them, maybe the rest of us should be focused on it as well. And I just don't feel like that. I have to do that. But I think, but how would you talk about that person? So let's assume that I'm making this up just as completely untrue. Let's say my wife can't stop wearing a mask everywhere we go. This is not true. Just for all her friends listening, I'm not riding out my wife who never wears a mask. But let's just assume my poor wife can't stop wearing the mask. And I'm getting kind of annoyed. I'm like, honey, this is getting a little ridiculous. Every time we go out for dinner, you're wearing a mask. Like, frankly, I'm embarrassed. And she's like, Peter, I just don't want to get sick. I just, I don't want the downtime. You know, she comes up with whatever seemingly rational argument she has. And I said, I get it, honey, but when I'm sitting across me, it didn't like to see your face. Sure. She's like, I appreciate that you like my face, but I just can't afford to get sick. I like my health. Yeah. And so let's say we present to you for therapy. Okay. Tell me how you're going to engage. First of all, I see this all the time. It's just metaphorically, it's not the mask. It's the romantic partner that I see quite a bit in my work. Because I run national romantic partner support groups, free support groups for people around the world. I mean, a colleague in California. And yesterday, from my hotel, I ran one of those. We see it all the time. It's just I feel free to come up with a better example. No, this is just a dumb one. I came up with. No, the example is is I have a romantic partner and his or her partner come in and saying, my partner is never going to events. Or my partner is constantly scrubbing down the counter. Okay. Or my partner makes sure that we have to have our shoes off for a walk in. Or my partner makes me say, I love you 17 different ways before we go to bed. Because the version I said wasn't good enough. That's the same point, which is what the person with, I'm used to phrase lived experience, which is a pretty colloquial common phrase for a mental person to say that someone has some, some things. I guess I'm already making the case that they might have a condition. But I see quite often when the person lived experiences doing excessive behaviors as causing impairment and disruption to the people around them. So we'll use your masks. Okay. You said, Josh, she can't. That word means a lot to me. Can't take it off. She won't. I can't even see her face at dinner. And that first meaning I'm trying to figure out not Peter, what's wrong with that? When I can't she get over because I know why you can't get over it. I'm trying to understand from what's perspective, what is it doing for her life? What is she solving? And I'm trying to hear her story to figure out, do I have any enrodes in here to figure out how rational this is really getting, how functional it really is. And so in the interventions for how things out of your hostility are starting to talk about cognitive behavior on revensions, I'm using motivational interviewing techniques and how to create a question with a lot of compassion and kindness to try to hear her story, hear her concerns because you're just the husband. You're sick and tired of it. Right. I'm coming in with a few. You're a few at this point. Yeah. But ultimately, I have a sense of my job to help her figure out is there any wiggle room in wearing this. And I probably may not do that in the first meeting, but I'm going to start assessing other areas of a life that she's not doing. They're probably more protective. And every person who does my work knows the research is undeniable, not getting on a plane is the funniest thing in the world because if you drive a car, you're not paying it all to statistics, because driving in a car within five miles of the radius of your house is the most likely place you're going to get into. Maybe not a fatal car accident, but a car accident. Airplanes, by all this stuff in the last six months or two years, is still by far statistically the safest form of transportation by the millions and millions of people that fly. But it feels terrifying when we start seeing planes colliding and things happening and changes with the FAA and stuff. So, but no one looks at that and goes, I'm going to change my situation. I'm just not going to get an airplane, but they drive. So, I'm trying to find those moments with your wife. I'm trying to figure out what is the value for her? Does she see that it's impacting her husband and her friendships? Does she see that it's limiting opportunities in her life? I'm trying to find what the cost and is there any way for that cost to outweigh the benefit of what she is not being immunocompromised for? I'm also trying to find out what other curious behaviors she's doing that look like the mask as well. Is she washing her hands a little bit extra? Does she keep hand sanitizer on her? Does she refuse to shake hands? Does she make sure she brings her own straw? And so, how often do you see that where a person shows up and there's sort of one chief complaint, but then upon further probing, there's a series of concentric circles that are building out from it. It's the whole point of the success of therapy because the answer is all the time. It is very isolated. Very rare, where I see a single anomalous symptom behavior action being the only thing that is worthy of attention or treatment. You can go as far as to play this out in substance abuse and eating disorders. There might be the primary substance or eating behavior someone is engaging in, trust me. There are other characterological and other tendencies that someone is engaging in that may not look as dysfunctional or impairing, but they're there, they're under the surface and a lot of them are probably happening. So I'm assuming that she's spending time at the restaurant also scanning who's coughing. Also seeing when the weight or brought the credit card machine, if that still exists, the fold out of there are butt back pocket. How disgusting is that peer that the weighters and weighters stick that in their butt back pocket are in their pants and they pull it out and ask us to pay for it. Like that's foul. Does that make you stop from paying? No. Most of us don't care about that, but that's pretty messed up. Do you really think that a person didn't go to the bathroom and do you think they washed her hands every single time? Of course not, but if you don't see it, you don't think it. So I'm starting to assess and her sort of this out of sight out of mind concept. What are the things is your wife paying attention to that she's aware of? What are the things and this gets a little fun? Should she be paying attention to that she probably doesn't want to? And that's thinking great. Thanks there. Mr. and make me worry about the other stuff out there. And my point is to say, maybe just maybe the mask is a bit of an overreach. Maybe it can be sometimes modified. And so if someone is completely vigilant about doing said behavior in this case the mask, and she can't take it off with you with her bow at a restaurant in the corner, I think we have something to work on there. If she's like, well, can you at least went on with Peter? Okay, we've broken some ground. We have some wiggle room there. But often someone has no wiggle room and they're not willing to give up whatever that thing is. And that's where we start talking about doing very some interventions. And interventions for this are a combination of addressing cognitive flaws. Understanding the behaviors mental and behavioral that he or she is doing that are way more pervasive than just the mask. Starting to ask them to make minor modifications to those behaviors, which we typically call ritual prevention. And then if I get lucky enough, we actually get into a place called exposure therapy. And we haven't talked about all that all about that. But a real anxiety therapist going back to the very first thing I said to you, you're not going to come to my clinic and be seen by an anxiety specialist, no matter what their degree credential years of service are and not get some version of exposure therapy. And all exposure therapy is an intervention that helps someone approximate their fear facing it head on in a safe, ethical, compassionate way without putting them in any ethical, legal or medical risk. Some people might think it puts them at risk. And some people might think they can't handle it. And exposure therapy, which goes back to the 60s, is the leading intervention for things like PTSD, phobias, social anxiety, OCD, and helping anxiety. But to get someone to get there means you have to get them across this process of readiness for change. This model of pre-contemplation to contemplation to ready to take action. And for a wife is like, I am never going to take off this mask. She is so pre-contemplation. I've got to figure out then what concessions or changes can she make? Maybe her impeter go to a cafe restaurant outside that's completely aerated, not inside. And she tries to take off the mask even for five minutes. And if she can do that, Peter, we're breaking ground. We're now putting some wiggle room between a dogmatic, anxiolitic, no way wiggle room action. And now as long as it's outside air. And when the waiter comes over, she puts it back on her face. Okay, I'm okay with that. But now you get to see your beautiful face. You guys can be outside. And now you're going to start picking cafes or outside more than inside restaurants. The slowly start building some resistance or strength, bravery for her to try it in different locations. And if she does it and gets sick the next day, you're going to fire me and hate me. But if she doesn't, then maybe we're starting to break ground and find other things that she can modify or change slowly. That meets her pace and that makes you happy. That's all good anxiety therapy. So is the idea that you use cognitive behavioral therapy to bridge the gap until they're ready for exposure therapy? Sometimes. Sometimes if someone's so pre-contemplation or so wedded in their rituals. And we see people who are literally scrubbing walls with light saw and bleach where the walls are down to the studs. That's more for things that contamination based OCD. People are doing behaviors that require almost hospital level care. Some of them are not ready for exposure based therapy. And in that case, I'd probably recommend someone if they're not on medication, probably you can be very seriously consider medication. But exposure therapy is the first line treatment for almost everything to do with OCD and health anxiety. Once you get them ready for the exposure. You have to. You can say that once you get them ready, but I'm never walking into a client with those to your health anxiety, not thinking I'm not going to do exposure therapy. They're going to be getting it somewhere. So if I came to you and said, but I'm an exposure therapist. Okay. So I don't know if this is a realistic enough example. So I'm going to sort of it's not just a Peter. That's not how these people present. So let's say I said, Josh, I travel a lot for work. But I got to tell you with all this news around air traffic controllers going, you know, losing sight of airplanes. I don't know if I can fly anymore. This is now actually posed a real risk to my career. My career depends on me being able to get on a plane every week to go and meet my clients or whatever it is I do. This is a real world scenario. By the way, there are people that are having increases in aerophobia or fear of flying. Way more than we had in the last few years. Sure. Sure. Because of stuff that's going on. The environmental trigger is, yep, there has been a rash of airplane crashes coupled with objective data that say air traffic controllers are overworked and the system is failing. Yes. And something bad is going to happen. And unfortunately, my job necessitates that I'm on the road, you know, all the time. And I can't take buses. It's too far. I can't take trains. Basically, I'm going to lose my job if I'm not willing to get on a plane every Monday and come back every Thursday. And I can't seem, I just don't know how to do it. And I've got two, I got two weeks of PTO. I'm going to do a little bit of medical leave, but I'm running out of options. How the hell are you going to get me on a plane? So first of all, that person is trying to figure out values. They're trying to figure out what's more important. The belief that I'm going to die in a plane crash versus my job in my livelihood and there are the trenches in that. So I want to join them there before we do anything. I'm going to do an assessment. We're going to have that first meeting or two. But I'm trying to figure out what I'm going to do about the assessment. You mentioned this earlier. Yep. Since any therapist is going to do an initial intake of valuation, which is gathering a lot of information that they have filled out in advance, going through that and then interviewing them, pre-usably, between six feet and 90 minutes to really better understand their story, what they're coming to treatment for, what their history of treatment is. In situations like this, you know, have they had other moments of fear of flying, fear of driving, other significant avoidance behaviors. Ultimately, the goal of an intake of valuation or first meeting is trying to figure out diagnostically what's going on. So once you know what that diagnosis is, treatment commences from there. So by the end of first meeting, a first intake, they have filled out generic survey forms, some forms that we would describe as evidence-based assessments that have been demonstrated in research to be the best for specificity and sensitivity of getting to symptoms of a diagnosis. And in each sub-disorder depression, social anxiety, Osteer's, everyone sort of has their tried and true that are research grade that we all sort of know or standard in the field. And so when you're going to fill those out, fellas, some general packets about their life and medical history, and I'm going to meet with them to try and help understand their story, to try and build the rapport, to try and connect with them, because ultimately I want to have them, you know, run through that brick wall with me at some point in therapy for this person, it eventually getting back into flying. Is that five sessions or 50 sessions? I don't know right away, and it's based on a lot of factors. But in the first meeting or two, I'm gathering a lot of raw data to put together a story, which we would call a case formulation that explains their diagnosis or diagnoses, and tell them what the treatment doctrines are. And in a case like this, more likely, Peter, so I'm probably going to come and say, do you prescribe benzos? And that don't prescribe. And honestly, if they have to get in a flight right away, and they don't want to miss up travel and PTO, I'm not a fan of medication in general, though I know it helps people and it definitely saves lives. I'm definitely not a fan of medication. It has a high addiction potential, but sadly when it comes to things like panic attacks, or not be able to get in an airplane. And if you're not, obviously, here she's probably not going to drive 24 hours or 20, you know, 12 hours across the country. And then unfortunately, what people usually do is they drink heavily or take benzos to get at least through the flight. And what happens on the other side? They're now inebriated. So they got through the flight by white knuckling it and getting under the influence. But now they can barely get off the plane. That's not a great solution, but it does end up being what people often do with fear of flying, because that's the only way they can get through their flight to get through TSA and get in the plane. It's going to be some sort of pharmacological, whether it's alcohol pills or a combination. So, but that's not my goal. What about alternative medications? So what about SSRIs or SNRIs, which again, have this sort of bad rap is being anti-depressants, although there probably a much broader category than that. Dmitrications like that have a role in at least being part of the tip of the spear to create some increase in psychological resilience. In a story like this to be blunt, probably not. If the story is that this person has never really seen a therapist before, has never really struggled with things like anxiety or depression, have never taken a medication. And this is an end of one kind of situation where they're like, yeah, I'm terrified of flying and it's ruining my life. And SSRI is going to take or SNRI is going to take several weeks to take action. It's not ultimately going to be, most, I'm trying to be careful not to speak and I've turned as a PhD. I don't usually speak too much about medication, but I'm speaking the way almost anyone would who knows about it knows. SSRIs don't treat the tip of the peak of anxiety. So, so when you're having a panic attack, SSRIs have been on them for six months, doesn't help with the panic attack. It can help long-term reduce chronic anxiety, which itself can reduce panic attacks. But if you're in the throes of a panic episode, which is what often fear of flyers experience, and SSRI in that moment, acutely does not solve, does it help you as a therapist by increasing the emotional resilience that then makes them more open to therapy? If this is just about fear flying in this unique situation, probably not again. But if someone has a multitude of symptoms and problem areas, and this has been going on for a while. So, this gentleman's missed a few meetings because he doesn't love public speaking, he has to sit around a table and present stuff. And he doesn't have to go into parties because he just doesn't do well unless he drinks a party's and he's kind of, you know, becoming a little bit more of a recluse recently social in the last few years, maybe because of medical issues or health issues, or just, he's just in a funk of life. Oh, there's also a flying issue. I think in SSRI in this situation might be a good thing, delieged, help calm some of the things that we're talking about, you know, we're talking about basically an increase in serotonin availability in the brain. And SSRI could be helpful here. But it's really just a medication for us to actually get to the real tools on a teaching because if this is much more of a longstanding issue, an SSRI might help him, but our teaching skills where he can basically have his own tools, his own skills, where long-term he's both off the SSRI and doesn't need a therapist anymore. But in this flying situation, honestly, if I was involving a medical person, I'd probably recommend nothing more than a benzo, which I'm not here supporting or in love with, but that's more likely to get someone in that immediate moment through TSA. Now you're saying we're going to give you a benzo because you have to get on a plane on Monday and it's Thursday. Yeah. And you're going to lose your job. So I need a bandaid and it's going to be a very, very, very tiny dose of X, such that it just gets you on the plane and not freaking out. But that's it. Now let's talk about what you're ongoing. CBT exposure therapy is to get him, let's say, six months from now to be feeling like his old self. Yeah. There's an inch to one because it is so in a unique way, a hard one to ultimately do the real exposures with because you don't have a flight simulator. Well, I used to. So I worked for six years in a virtual reality company that actually pioneered virtual reality interventions for fear flying through public speaking for years. Yeah. Yeah. In the 2000s after graduate school and I was on faculty at University in Atlanta for a few years. I'm still adjunct there. I left research and clinical career working in a hospital to then work for our startup and work in a private practice. So I actually had fear flying simulators that had virtual reality goggles, a platform that would vibrate. An old factory system. You could click buttons and make the smell of, you know, diesel fuel and like a stinky ham sandwich next to you and perfume. A full sensory experience to have that sort of suffocating horrible fear flying experience. But again, there's a few clanks around the country. There's not many that still use these kind of things. It's kind of a clunky system. So most of us who treat fear flying don't have access to simulators and those kind of things. And prior to 9-11, many people would actually take short flights with their clients and patients because you could afford it and do like a in Atlanta, I could fly to Savannah and back in and after noon and it wasn't very costly. Today, it's almost impossible. Shive me going to the airport. Maybe getting up to TSA, having the person buy a plane ticket that's refundable to go through a TSA to sit by the terminal to then leave the airport and then get their money back. The closest real world exposure, but what we're doing is we're addressing all the cognitive distortions or the faulty thinking, faulty logic associated with the fears of flying. I have a 30-tip hand that I often get people about understanding what flights are like, that air pockets and the flights are not real things, the people feel things. And that the wings can go in each direction or we see wings sort of wobbling. They can go almost seven feet in each direction. So 14 feet worth of movement. So when you see the wing doing this, it's not breaking off. And that there's always mechanisms in place when the pilots are flying to keep things safe. That flights going one direction or a certain altitude and flights going the other direction or different altitudes. They don't have head-on collisions in air. Basic facts to teach people stuff that sometimes helps people both for the most part. How much? I'm sorry to interrupt you. How much is their fear based on facts that your sheet is addressing? Sometimes. In other words, like, yeah, am I in this fictional situation? Am I afraid of a mid-air collision? Am I afraid of the landing because the air traffic controller loses us? Am I afraid of something as vague as turbulence? Because I don't understand what it's almost done. It's almost none of those. Honestly, the most common aspect of fear flying is having a full-on panic attack on the flight inside of a middle to that you can't get out. They can't get out of. Ironically, those people have a fear of dying and a fear of crashing and a fear of mid-air collisions. What they're really afraid of is having that feeling of losing their mind on the plane and that they're stuck on it. So yes, there are some real elements of teaching people the basics. But you can't, they're correct in that assessment, by the way. But then the treatment gets focused much more on panic disorder. When we're treating fear of flying, you're almost inevitably treating panic disorder, which again, by the way, highly responsive to exposure therapy. In fact, the leading intervention for panic disorder, unless you go back to my scenario, you have to give someone a benzo, which I don't prescribe. And there's a cute moments just to get through a single moment. And usually if a psychiatrist would prescribe that, they wouldn't have taken their first dose on the flight. You usually try that as you pointed out, Zanix, a low dose of Zanix, like a few days before, just to see how your body responds. That would be a pretty standard medical care practice thing. But when we're treating these kind of conditions like panic disorder, something called interroceptive exposure, or treating someone to their interroceptives or bodily sensations, is of all the things out there, like the undeniable grand champion of interventions. It is super effective. It is highly compassionate. It is not hard to learn as a therapist. And it teaches someone that they are not having to respond to the bodily sensations that they think are going to lead to a full on panic attack. So it would be very rare for me to be treating a fear of flying, a fear of being in a car, a fear of being in sore situations, by also not treating some version of a fear of panic reaction, or you feel like you're going to lose your mind. You're going to hyperventilate. You're going to pass out. That pretty much goes along with it. Whether you diagnose both conditions, panic disorder and fear of flying, the DSM would say you wouldn't, but in this situation, I'm treating both situations. And so I'm sorry, misunderstood. How what is the exposure therapy for that specifically? So let's step back. Exposure therapy again is one of usually four techniques. One of them is called in vivo exposure. And that is Latin for in life. Meaning you're actually doing real things with real objects. If I'd have fear of podcasting on public speaking, coming in here would be a great in vivo exposure. There's something called a marginal exposure. A marginal exposure is actually writing a narrative down or a story, which sometimes we do with trauma. Sometimes we do with a marginal situations that have never happened. So there's two of them kinds of a marginal exposure. But you're essentially coming up with a story that you're going to write down and record and listen to. This is just the first part of exposure therapy, as I'm describing. There's a second part that's even more important to me. The third kind of exposure is in torroceptive exposure. And that's commonly used for people who have health anxiety, physical symptoms or panic disorder. And in this case, we're actually inducing real, low grade physical symptoms, like Ibloriness, rapid breathing, sweating, tummy aches, arm swornness. If I unice here and do a two minute plank, my arms are going to be wobbly. So I'm inducing things that people experience in the real world that I merely make them freak out. I think they're having a panic attack. But I'm very happy to be struck. You're saying if somebody is worried about Ibloriness, you're going to put I drops in their eyes. I'm not going to put I drops in my eyes. We're probably going to look at an iPad that has these sort of cool visuals that's going to make their eyes. There's all these optical illusions I like to do. What about the tummy aches? How do you induce that? You have someone spin in a chair. You have someone. You have someone sort of do some cardiovascular exercise in the office, like sitting up and down, sitting up and down very quickly. You have someone spin on a baseball bat, creating nauseous, nauseous, nauseous, and queasonous and hard to induce. We're not having someone eat something or ingest something because that's going, I think, one step further than you need to. But you can create any sort of physical symptom from legsornus to a headache, kind of symptom, to a tummy ache, to tight shoulders, to cotton mouth. People have a fear of swallowing. Who are like drawing out fear of something getting clogged in their throat. You can recreate almost any physical, not medical, physical symptom safely. If you're now going to treadmill and work out, we're going to create 95% of the symptoms that people experience in them. A panic attack. If you go to a really high level of treadmill or an elliptical, I'm going to create all those symptoms. But I'm not going to bring extra size of coming into my office. So I am helping people bring real world physical symptoms to light and my safe laboratory in a safe place. And I'll get to the second part of the point of exposure and second, just so they can experience a thing that they're terrified to experience, but they already experienced it out there. Nothing we do in exposure therapy. Have they not already experienced? The fourth kind is just called media augmented or virtual rad exposure therapy. And as that people who are using either 3D goggles, virtual radicogals, videos, audio, audio clips to use sort of AV audio visual tools that are kind of mimicking the NVvo and imaginal and inter-receptive experience. And that can be something as elaborate as real world simulators, virtual radicogals, or even like watching a flight land on YouTube 20 times a row to see what happens when the flight comes down. All those things, we treat people who have audio intact out things like misophonia, which is a high sensitivity to sounds or people who are afraid of hearing something. So anything that brings that tool into the place using audio video. That's part one of exposure therapy. Which is you and a patient have come up with an elaborate hierarchy ladder, a list of easy, medium and hard scenarios in their mind that they think that they could some point do. Most people think they can never do the hard ones and they almost always do successfully. Inter-come up with this hierarchy based on what you asked about that first meeting, that first session, that second session. I'm collecting a lot of raw data to figure out what are the things in their life that are triggering them that I can recreate to help them face their fears head on and come up with new learning. And so Peter back in the 60s and 70s, we thought that habituation, or just getting used to it, was the creme de la creme of exposure therapy and we found out that that wasn't really solving it. And then we started shifting more towards cognitive models. Not just habituation and being in a distressed moment, but actually now coming up with new meaning about it, which is called inhibitory learning that was really started a seminal article in 1986 by Michael Cozac and Edna Foa and the foe was one of the pioneers of exposure therapy, both in PTSD and OCD and has done amazing work out of UPN. Her, Marty Franklin a bunch of people of the UPN sort of were the pioneers of exposure therapy. In 1986 they pioneered an article that taught us that habituation or just getting used to symptoms, it helps, but it's not really getting people moving further. And so when you start having these corrective experiences, when you start unlearning what you thought was going to happen, which anxiety is all about anticipating something and being colossally wrong, thank God, we need to get people to experience being wrong in a situation that mimics what they actually experience. So exposure therapy is shifted from just a behavioral physiological model to a cognitive model and that cognitive models helping people process that information after the exposure. So you just did some weird stuff for 20 to 45 minutes, whether you're huffing and puffing, practicing giving a speech to a screen, putting yucky things in your hands if you have OCD, a germ OCD, if you're afraid of bugs and spiders, maybe going to a local pet shop and looking at spiders behind the glass tank or putting spiders that are in like resin, fakes, spiders that are dead, like on your arms, all sorts of things that start, whatever it is that you can create that sense of fight flight or freeze, that sense of fear, that sense of dread. So your amygdala starts producing the chemicals that you experience in your own life. And my private safe place. Sometimes we go out in the community, we go to restaurants and shops, new odd weird things. And so we're doing that to have people experience that stuff, but also not engaging rituals and compulsions. So exposure therapy is a combination of doing things that bring on a sense of safe, predictable, but uncomfortable emotional physical feelings, while also not doing the mental and behavioral things that bring it back down. And if you can stay in that state for 30 to 45 minutes and do that multiple times a week, Peter, you start learning real distressed tolerance, real resiliency skills. You start disproving that the thing that I thought I had to do either to avoid it all together, or to undo this sense of dread or feeling, if I don't undo that and I sit with it, maybe just maybe when it happens in the rural world, I don't have to pop a pill. I don't have to run home. I don't have to wash my hands. I don't have to wear the mask. And so we're combining inducing a sense of arousal, psychophysiological arousal, cognitive interpretations that are usually faulty, not doing things to bring it down and stay with that, doing a few different interactive things through 30 to 45 minute experiences. And then afterwards, processing those lessons learned, making meaning out of these weird situations, finding out that you're stronger than you thought you were, finding out that no one died, finding out that in that moment, you didn't do that horrible thing you were one if you were going to do. Again, we're treating things like people afraid of being pedophiles, people afraid of getting horrible diseases, people afraid of killing themselves or killing other people, people afraid of contaminating things and ruining someone down the road. Some things are imminent and some things are, you won't know for fears from now. And so we're really tapping into this intolerance of uncertainty. This belief that I can't deal with the fact that something terrible is going to happen. So I've created this fabricated world around me wearing the mask to make sure it doesn't happen. Sorry, you gave an interesting example there. You said people have a fear of being a pedophile. Yes. Okay, let's say controversial. Yeah, I was about to say, is this a person? So let's just pause it that this is a person who's never acted out any, so absolutely. Okay. Do they fantasize about pitophilia? I fantasize, but they have thoughts and feelings about it, just like you and I have thoughts and feelings about driving off the bridge. Thoughts and feelings of robbing a bank. I mean, every time you see a number of trucks, I mean, our retruck I'm thinking, that'd be fun to take those four million dollars. But what do I do? Move on with my day. So everyone has intrusive thoughts. 99.9% of us have thoughts about sex, drugs, rock and roll, horrible things. And for most of us, those things are bad. Sorry, sorry. Sorry. It depends on the band. For most, for 90, 93 to 94% of the population, so there's about, you know, four to six percent of the population that battles OCD, they just teflon right off of us. I thought about like, you know, punching someone at a restaurant. I have a thought, stabbing them in the eye and moving on, road rage. I've thought of, you know, telling that person to do something back them and I just move on. But for the person who has OCD, that thought doesn't go away so easily. And then they start thinking about it. And then they start wondering about it. And again, if I start making you think about your left pinky toe, you're going to feel your left pinky toe. If you have these unwanted and true stuff thoughts about a kid or his or her body parts or doing horrible things, guess what's going to get lit up if we did a brain scan on you? The parts of the brain that regulate sex in a rousal and gets what happens when that part of the brain gets lit up, things down there start getting lit up because your brain's working. So, it'll be very clear because I have a few people out in social media colleagues and dear friends of mine who have been attacked on social media. These are not influencers though. They might be influencers. These are evidence-based science back amazing clinicians who use their advocacy and knowledge for good to help people to destigmatize some really wonderful people out there. And they've been attacked by some creepy people out there saying you're endorsing pedophilia. Absolutely not. When we talk about OCD and these kind of conditions, we talk about people who have egocentonic versus egodistonic experiences. Ego centonic is I want to be here on this podcast. I want to be a little bit nervous coming in here because it matters to me. It matters whether you like me. It matters if I sound good. That means this is a line with my values. I want to put information out there. I want to be a voice of reason and I want to educate your community about all these sort of anxiety conditions. That's a line with my values. That means it's egocentonic both to be nervous but also to want to do well here. I'm okay with that. Ego dystonic means you're having thoughts and feelings that are not aligned with your values. So in OCD it's epidemic that the things you're afraid of do not align with your values. Whether it's about hurting someone accidentally because you didn't wash your hands from you know the chicken or stabbing someone or killing someone or molesting someone or getting punished by God. There's all sorts of topics that people get really fixated on accidentally and they get terrified by that and they spend time thinking about it because they're trying to get rid of it or doing something about it like not going to the park. But does that mean that an ego-distonic person rarely, if ever, will act on the impulse because it is creating so much internal tension? Not only will it not act on the impulse. They don't even want to talk about it. They don't want to think about it. I don't want to be gross or offensive or I don't care about seeing the word pedophilia. It doesn't face me at all because I don't think about it. It doesn't bother me. To someone who has what's acronym this POCD, pedophilia OCD, they don't even want to hear the word. They don't even want to see it on a checklist. And then how does that differ from a pedophile? A pedophile is somebody who peace with the fact that they think about it. Whether they're a piece or not, whether they ever eventually actually heard a child, they think about it. They're turned on by it. They want to pursue it. We're still talking about the difference between ideation, which is just a clinical work for thought versus want intent and action. And so someone who is a pedophile or someone who wants to hurt someone else or who wants to rob a bank thinks about it, plots it. Whether they're lucky enough to do it or not, robbing a bank, maybe they do, maybe they don't, but they have full intent on it. And maybe they don't have the guts to rob a bank, but they want to. So that's not someone who is a line with that value. People who have OCD are not aligned with anything associated with hurting other people, wanting to bother other people. In fact, it's a common knowledge and sort of my work. Those are usually the gentlest and kindest of souls. They're tortured by the notion of having the most impure thoughts. So your thought is to help those people understand they're not bad people and that you want to reinforce. You are not going to be acting out on this impulse. Actually, I won't do that. You won't do that. No, because that's therapeutic reassurance giving. And so I'll probably from the very beginning, back to the first meeting, I'll probably say, I know who you are. I know what's going on here. Welcome home. We have groups. We have podcasts. We have meetings. You're in a safe place. And I know this is not aligned with your values. And I'll probably say to them, this might be the last time in our relationship, if I see you for 15 to 20 sessions. This might be the last time I've ever said to you, I know you're not a pedophile. Or I know you don't want to hurt a kid. And they look me like what? Because in therapy and in life, reassurance seeking is one of the most insidious, classic symptoms in OCD. We see it in health anxiety as well. But reassurance seeking is asking for clarity and permission and for confession and wanting to get that back. And if a therapist does that, this is for me one of the best litmus tests. When I say, go find that anxiety specialist. When I find an anxiety specialist, rabbit ears, anxiety specialist does reassurance and seeing says, you're going to be fine. I'm sure you don't have cancer. I've never said it's home. I'm sure you don't have cancer. I don't know if you have cancer. Because you don't have no idea. So I'm sure you're not going to have a stroke. You're never going to get Alzheimer's. I'm sure you're not a pedophile. When I hear that from a therapist, they weren't trained by me or someone like me. And you're barking up the wrong tree because now you are weaponizing that certainty principle, which is all the anxiety sufferer wants. I can promise you're not going to be a plane crash Peter. And I can't promise if your wife takes off her mask, she's not going to get sick of the restaurant. But I can promise is, is if she takes it off, her husband gets to enjoy her more. I can promise if she takes it off, she may be able to do other things that feel risky and scary, but actually add to her life. If she takes it off, maybe she'll have more opportunities. But I can guarantee if she keeps it on, she's losing her husband, her friendships. She's like, I don't care. I just want to get sick. Okay. Well, now you're choosing your own values here. Is that exactly where you need to get people? Absolutely. That is the risk calculation. There is no risk free. We don't have the equivalent of a risk free asset here. The only thing I can promise someone in this world is that they're not going to live at some point, which sounds morbid and terrible. I'm actually wearing a bracelet. One of my patients gave me this says you're not dead yet. It's the only thing I know in this world is that at some point we're both not going to be here. We're going to be between now and that data point. What do you want to do to have the biggest and best life? But if I sit here and promise them that they're going to be okay and that's going to be, I can guarantee you it's 14 sessions. I guarantee you that that prosax is going to work for you. I'm sung them a false sense of hope. I hope it works. I'm assuming you're not going to molest someone, but that's not my job here. My job is to help you understand what are your values, which I already know what their values are. What are you doing in line with them? Trying to not think about stuff and trying to be the best person possible. I already knew that. These things are you missing out on because you're so scared that your values could get compromised. Can't go to birthday parties or I can't see my aunt and uncle because of the niece and nephew or like, okay, so how do we start approaching the situations if you believe that you don't want to hurt anyone and you want to approach them? What things are going on on the inside and your body and your mind that are preventing you from going there? How do we start that process? And that's when we're doing exposure therapy or trying to figure out how do we start chipping away some of those rituals, some of those avoidant tendencies that you're doing? So walk me through that example. Again, this is such a fascinating one that never even crossed my mind as a condition, but it also strikes me as if you can fix something like that. You can almost fix anything. So you said something a second ago about within 14 or whatever 15 sessions, I'm never going to once but this first time reassure them. The implication of that to me is you think this person's going to be fine in six months, potentially. Most likely, a pre-pandemic. I was seeing people pretty consistently 10 to 15 sessions in most research studies for most of the conditions that I treat and that we've discussed today. Again, deviation from the manual a little bit. We like to talk about how to customize an intervention for the person but it's very evidence-based. 10 to 15 sessions, 13 to 16 sessions is pretty standard. Post-pandemic. People aren't going to talk about everything and it's my job to figure out how do we get to the core of what we're working on. I'm seeing people for way more than 15 sessions traditionally now. Don't love that. We never thought it was going to be doing that. We're most of my colleagues around the country who had agreed that we have now elongated the length of therapy, not because we want to because people have more stuff they want to unpack. More things they want to discuss. When that person leaves your care, whether it's 15 or 20 sessions later, do they have just as many thoughts about children as they did when they came in? So in general, I find that people have many less of those accidental internal unwanted symptoms in general. But I'm going to say something that might be upsetting to the people listening or the people that I've supported, I don't care. I don't care how many thoughts they do or don't have because you and I are not to find by our thoughts. Yep. We're not to find by our physiology. We're not to find by our hunger cravings or what we think until you say them or act on them. We are judged by our outward objective or when we avoid actions and inactions. And that's why when people were not taking anti-racist actions, I understand what people were judged for that because that's still inaction. If you chose not to vote, you voted for whoever won. So all of those principles apply to me and I tell this to my clients, I don't care what you think and feel. I care what you do next. And when you're coming to me because what you're doing next is shrinking your life. And I know who you are and I know what you want. But you're not pursuing that because you're so afraid that that bad thing might happen. And so in any situation fear of flying, fear of contamination, fear that you might hurt someone, fear that you might have a disease. I know you don't want to die. But all the things you're doing to prevent cancer are costing you financially. You can't see doctors, your family doesn't want to talk to you. You think you're trying to prevent dying. You're dying right now. I call health anxiety the cancer psychiatry, which is what it is to me. It's eating you from the inside. It's its own pathology. It's killing you and spreading everything around you. And you think you're trying to prevent this horrible disease down the road. You spend your career trying to help people elongate now and down the road. I'm trying to help people not eat away what's happening right in front of them. And so their value system is mission critical. So now in our discussion, we're shifting from cognitive behavioral therapy, which was really, I think the biggest change in the field of psychiatry to help people find evidence-based, randomized controlled trial interventions that are research grade that really help people to the next wave, which is still under cognitive behavioral therapy. And we talk about exposure. Now we're talking about act, acceptance and commitment therapy, which CBT historically did not talk about these kind of things like values. What do you really want in this world? Who are you on the inside? And so act as an extension of doing CBT and I, CBT's the umbrella exposure therapy is underneath that. And I put act underneath CBT act pioneered by Stephen Hayes and other wonderful researchers and therapists really developed this sort of six construct. They call it the Hexaflex. This six construct paradigm that identifies your ability to accept things that are happening inside of you, thoughts and feelings without it defining who you are. Your ability to be present in moments, even if you're having like two-thake. Like a medical pain right now going on, your ability to be present in the moment, to be able to use yourself as a self, it's called self-concept. That I'm not to find by my thoughts and feelings. I just have thoughts and feelings. And so we teach people when they have the thought like, God, what if I kill someone or like, what if I'm gay? There's something called sexual orientation OCD, which we haven't talked about. Or like, what if I get cancer? You can shift that to, I'm having the thought. What if I have cancer? I'm having the thought. What if I kill someone? You've now created some space between you and your thoughts. That's a powerful skill. And there's a bunch of techniques out there called cognitive diffusion that help people separate themselves from their content of their thought. And now we're looking at thought as a process rather than an object, Peter. Very powerful stuff. And within that act, Hexaflex is values. These are mission critical, because for the work that I do with anxiety, for the work that you do in your work, you and I actually kind of have the same goal. We have the goal of people today, living their healthiest and richest lives, and elongating that as much as possible someone will get to the end. The end doesn't happen as rapidly and as destructively as it sometimes does. We're doing the same thing here. So when psychiatry and anxiety come together, values fall apart, people's values become focused on intolerance of uncertainty. I use the word Yucky a lot with three-year-olds and 50-year-olds, making Yucky go away. Not feeling, not thinking. Your value shift to a negative reinforcement process of doing things or not doing things to remove some bad outcome. In your position, in mind as well, is doing things that increase good outcomes. So I'm trying to shift people and I have this sheet I use in my office all the time from the right side of the paper, doing or not doing to remove some bad things that's going to happen, which is called negative reinforcement, to doing or not doing whatever you want that has the not a guarantee, but the possibility of increasing your lifespan, increasing your marriage, increasing your sex life, increasing your health, increasing your cardiovascular functioning, increasing your ability to go to the doctor, and hear the results. And if you have questions, ask them appropriately. And if you don't believe them, go to one more doctor. And after that, move on with your life if you can. Because at some point, all of the fact finding that you're doing, it's like the worst puzzle ever. I give you a thousand-piece black puzzle with no corners. And I took one piece of witness, not get my pocket. And I just haven't told you that yet. And you're trying to solve this puzzle and you're never going to solve it. And your value is solving the puzzle at all costs. I'm not leaving the house. I'm not going anywhere. I'm going to quit my job. I'm not even going to eat until I solve this puzzle. That's not solvable. So your value shifted from doing a puzzle to only solving the puzzle. And the problem is in my work, most of my patients can't solve the puzzle. They have to drop the rope and pick a different game. And that's the game of life. Values, people, love, health. Therapies about getting people to see that shift, that cognitive shift, that paradigm shift from removing uncomfort, removing ambiguity, removing uncertainty, to doing things that make your life bigger and better. There's no guarantee for that. But that's a much more exciting life to support someone and then just making symptoms go away. So I don't care if they stop having thoughts. That's ideal. We often see that with medication and talk therapy. I don't care if they feel less or more. I care that when those incidious and uncomfortable symptoms show up, they choose to healthy action that gives them life. They do that. I'm done seeing them. And I don't care what the topic is. I don't care what the disorder is. If they have the skill of stepping back from their internal symptom topology and choosing a healthy action that increases their world, their own therapist. Now again, we have talked about this directly and indirectly a couple of times, which is the, it's been referenced through being present directly through mindfulness. We've talked repeatedly about the space between stimulus and response. Is mindfulness meditation as a formal practice? A part of this therapy with anxiety? Absolutely. So I don't typically treat a teach breath work or meditation per se. But anyone who has the capacity to cognitively or physiologically be present with themselves and with the world around them and staying in control, it's a winning intervention. So meditation as a place in this, mindfulness has a place in this, relaxation training has a place in this. If taking a cold plunge or going into a sauna is going to get you to a place of recognition of what your needs and values are on this world that has a place for it. I find exercise even though I'm a therapist who does cognitive hero therapy. I'm a pickleball fanatic, play a can get enough of it. I find exercise to be the best form of meditation mindfulness. You can't play or do the sports that, I'm not talking much like weightlifting or walking on a treadmill at high level sports, which I'm not an amateur. I'm a pickleball with people at a local community center, but I like to play pretty intensely. You can't do that and not be both mindful of what's happening around you. And in this state of almost euphoria, which I view meditation to be, and that's why the paddle sports are always viewed as some of the best sports for longevity of life for cognitive functioning, for hand-eye coordination, for staying present. And obviously for cardiovascular functioning if you don't break a hip or break a leg, which some people do. I think any of those interventions or activities that increase your sense of awareness, your sense of higher body operates, and that encourage you to do things that are healthy and increase healthy actions, all those have a place in it. As does extra-critic activities, prayer, knitting, clay, drawing, painting, all of those. None of those suck away your life. None of those keep you away from loved ones unless they become an obsession or an addiction in a bad way. What are some signs or things that you see in therapy that give you concern that a person is not going to recover? And maybe we start with that question, which is, what is the success rate, success defined as a person who, after some finite number of sessions, gets to the point where actions and behaviors are remediated, independent of thoughts? Yeah, I want to make a statement on that question and I promise you all answer it, because there's a lot of controversy in the field of psychotherapy research. And even in my kind of world of O-Ceaning, anxiety researchers about what research is and what real outcomes are, the medical field does not debate this. And so I wish the psychotherapy field of research didn't debate this either. It's not just about when you're doing better after therapy, which I don't think that hard to achieve. It's doing better after months of no therapy. I know my patients are doing better when I don't hear back from them when they truly become their own therapist. So the best research to me in psychotherapy and the best RCTs randomized controlled trials show when there are six months, 12 months, eight months of follow-up that is demonstrating continued symptom remittance or sub-diagnostic gain. So my answer to your question is when someone, this is funny because we're talking about health anxiety, when someone is therapist shopping, we don't usually call a doctor shopping and be therapist shopping. When they've been to five to seven therapists in a short amount of time, that scares me. Because what that tells me is that they're looking for a certain answer, a certain kind of therapist, and no therapist is matching their needs. And that's under for the funding romantic partner when someone has been through multiple partners in a short amount of time, they're the consistency in that that concerns me. When someone is a year-butth therapy, that really scares me. Because again, that means that they know all the answers and they're struggling with what we call cognitive flexibility. And an acceptance and commitment therapy and an CBT, cognitive flexibility is mission critical. Unfortunately, I'm going to be teaching you this goes back to the FOA and COZAC 1986 article about corrective information that may be your wrong. And when someone is characterologically unwilling to be wrong, you're not going to do well in therapy. It's just a fact when you figure that out, how soon? Within the first two three sessions, I think most therapists have a general sense. I would say in the first two three dates, someone knows whether there's an attraction here. I think the first two three sessions, most therapists know whether or not there's some wiggle room in here. And to be fair, I'm going to 25 team practice. We have therapists in three states, Georgia, mostly. And we see people in 40 states. So we're a mega practice. And the state of where my career is at, I'm very privileged to say this. I'm very appreciative that I can say this. I see the sickest of sickest. That's what turns me on intellectually. That's what gets me going. I can treat a dog phobia. We treat that. I can treat someone who's having weird eating issues. I can treat panic attacks. I did that years ago. So I'm seeing people who are very ill, who have been to hospitals, who have failed medication trials, who are who have tried TMS in ketamine. I'm seeing very ill people. And I'm not perfect. I'm not getting 100% results here. But I'm seeing people who think that they have no chance to get better. But they want to. And they're desperate for information. And they're desperate for someone who can see them. And they're saying what's going on. And so my success rates popping up better than the other people I saw that were easier to treat. I'm seeing people who shouldn't be getting better. And they still get better. But it's because they want it. They're willing. And they're trying everything they can even if they're stubborn, even if they're hopeless, even if they're not doing well. So for me, I don't know if I'd use a word character logical, but they're these sort of intrinsic cognitive states that people run where they just can't see anything. But what's in front of them? And if I can't push them beyond that, I'm going to be the next therapist that they fire. And I'm aware of that. And one to new ideas to weird interventions. If someone's never had exposure therapy, I see plenty of people who've been a multiple therapist who never even had exposure therapy. And to me, that's like you treating someone for how in the medical condition and not giving them a cholesterol medication, that's no brainer. I see people who have a condition that the only intervention they should get is some version of these cognitive behavioral therapy. And they haven't had that. They're seeing a supportive therapist or an analyst or they're doing soft therapy. And you're like, I blows my mind. So when I see someone who is not willing to hear my ideas, when I see someone who when I share with them videos or clips, they're not willing to watch them. I'm watching that resistance plant. I'm like, how do I connect with them? Another major factor, and this has been proven in psychotherapy research across psychotherapies, is the in-between session experience. So your sessions are weekly, typically or typically typically weekly. Most most, I see most people weekly. When I'm seeing someone that needs a high level of care, sometimes I'm seeing two or three times a week, we have an intensive outpatient program where I don't manage a runcie patients that have a staff that does that. But typically weekly. And there are in-session interventions, things I'm doing with the person, funny moments we have, light bulb moments and techniques we practice. And then I don't like to use the word homework. But then there's homework. The research is undeniable in a homework driven, structured kind of therapy, like cognitive behavioral therapy, dialectical behavioral therapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, mindfulness and CVT, all the interventions that utilize skills between sessions. This is no different than working with a trainer. If you go with a trainer and don't work out for the rest of the week, guess what happens in week two. You've gained nothing. If you practice through golf instructor in week one and you did no practicing on the course between the next appointment, your stroke's not going to be any better. And psychotherapy research is no different. If you're not doing the assignments between sessions, you're not learning and messing up. I love when people mess up their assignments. I don't care if they do them right. I just care they try them because if they mess up, guess what I get to do? Correct information. So this is all about learning and messing up, learning and messing up and learning from that and building from that. So that's another kind of critical ingredient. When I see someone, when they're asking, like, what do you guys do between sessions? Nothing. What they ask, what they assign you. I don't really, I didn't do it. But I didn't like what they gave me. I'm like, oh, okay. Am I going to give them the right assignment or they just going to block me as well? So I follow that under again, more cognitive inflexibility or they think they know the right way. But interventions between sessions is where we gain mastery of skills. And then they come back and I refine them, we practice them and then they practice them and then I come back. And that in between stuff is actually pretty important. And when someone doesn't do work between sessions, if there's work to be done, I'm having groundhog day. I'm having the session of like, well, let's talk about what we talked about last time and what got in the way and did I not assign it right? Did you not understand it? And we're having a little bit of playback, which kind of can be defeating in therapy. When you're thinking, you know what's best for them. And sometimes we're wrong. And then you try something else. But if they're not trying it, I can't learn from their mistakes. Does anxiety, whether it be health anxiety or any of the subsets that we've talked about today, does it tend to traffic with other comorbidities, either health, comorbidities directly or more importantly psychiatric comorbidities? Yep. So again, I said earlier, one of the most common symptoms in anxiety, truly the most common avoidance. So it's not shocking that we see low grade. We're not substance abuse, specialty clinic. Boisey people dabbling in alcohol and marijuana use and in opiates and stimulants to feel better. So you'll see pretty common co-currence of substance related usage. They may not fall on abuse and causeality there. Josh, you think is I am finding I am using the substance to medicate the anxiety or is it the other way around? It's probably by directional, but there's definitely an element of I'm self medicating because I don't want to deal with my stuff. That's not shocking to most of us. And so especially if we're doing exposure therapy, having someone who is muting their anxiety response, who's muting their sympathetic person, pathetic activation, if I can't tap into that to have their amygdala and limbic region light up. If I was doing brain imaging to then have them feel that to then teach some some corrections. If I can't tap into that because they're numb now, I can't make those changes. So that's one sub area. I want to dig into that a bit more. Sure. How do you manage that then? So when you get under the hood of somebody who's coming to see you and you realize actually they're kind of high every day, not with you. Let's just assume that they come in and they're not. But they're basically using marijuana every single day or that you know, they're using alcohol or whatever it is. How do you manage that? Do you say, listen, I can't really help you until we get you off this because I need to experience you in your your native state or how do you sometimes sometimes it's a black and white. If you're at this level of usage, even if it's not, you know, impairing their lives completely, I may not be the right therapist for you. But I come from a harm reduction model. I've worked in abstinence only models. I'm a believer that if we can reduce this and get into a moderate state of whatever it is you're using as a starting point, this is the concept of working at the hierarchy of exposure therapy. I can't ask them just to quit. Like that's not even a concept to me. So we're taking baby steps. If someone's willing to make a consensus. What if they say, but, but Dr. Listen, I, I have to use this is actually helping me. Let's just, no one's probably going to actually say that on alcohol because I think they're not. But the say it is, yes, they'll say it on benzons. They'll say it on marijuana. Yeah. They're saying you don't understand it. This is an axiolitic. This is actually reducing my anxiety. We shouldn't be cutting this back. I've seen patients who use weed chronically, but are functioning the most areas of their life in general, occupationally, their partner smokes with them or their partner doesn't care. But they're coming with anxiety issues. It can create a real dilemma. Mm-hmm. I need pockets of time where they're not just always feeling not going to say good. No. So I want them to feel distress in small doses. I want them to have these hiccups where they can feel on have differentiation. Ultimately, the short answer is, as if someone is wedded to using a substance and it's just going to get in the way of my work, I will probably refer them to someone who is more likely to work with them. I don't know who that person is sometimes because most therapists don't want to work with someone who is chronically using a substance that's causing impairment and they're not willing to give it up. And if they're not willing to go for treatment for that, then we have a different issue. I think more often when I'm finding is I'm like, okay, so the first three sessions I'm going to discuss this. I'm going to bring it up. I'm going to ask if there's any way for us to change it and to see again if there's any wiggle room. There's any flexibility in there to make changes in anywhere of your life. Can we just give it up on Tuesdays? Can you just make sure you don't smell like we when you walk into my office and Georgia, it's not legal that people still smoke it, you know, like everyone else. So, but you know, if you're smoking and driving, that's DUI, that's DUI, that concerns me. So, in general, I'm in a harm reduction model. I'm like, how can we do things that bring less harm to life and open up your life more? If someone is wedded to anything in our life that I find to be destructive and I think it's going to get in the way of our therapy, I'm not the right therapist for them. Having said that, there's again a run interesting sub-area of research in the exposure literature for which exposure therapists who get really literal and very dogmatic won't do exposures for people who are under the influence. They won't do exposures on the day where someone's taking a benzo. Then, so in a lot of exposure research, again, if you think about PTSD populations, Peter, we're polypharmacy is honestly usually the baseline where people are taking sometimes in SSRI, one or two benzos, one long acting, one short acting, maybe a stimulant, maybe even a low dose, you know, anti-psychotic, you're doing a research study if someone is taking a benzo in the day of exposure, you can't tap into the things we're trying to tap into into that bulb of the amygdala, that bulb of emotional centeredness to have that lit up so we can have some attractive, corrective experiences. So, you'll see in research studies whether people noted people were not allowed to take benzos on the day of exposures. So, that becomes a challenge. What I'm doing anxiety work and someone's doing something, I don't view it as a legal or ethical issue, but it's muting, mind-loading to tap into real presence, talk what presence. I mean, I'd be the right therapist. And maybe it's a bad thing. That's really the message, right? It's not a judgment. It's simply an efficacy question. It's just that I can't actually help you. What you want from me and what I'm able to offer you is attenuated by the fact that we're not going to remember this conversation the same way. That's not good for us. The question about comorbidity, ADHD, or I'll say attention issues is pervasive. And we see lots of cancer or clinic, but I can't even tell you that chicken and egg of do of ADHD or anxiety or both or neither have the time and even the best diagnostic diagnosticians can't tell you because if you have pervasive intrusive thoughts, Peter, how the heck are you not constantly interrupted in your prefrontal cortex? How? Rapping and killing or health, their disease or dying or morbid topics, how can you possibly be attending to all the things in the room? And so people who have anxiety have these intentional biases and disruptions, OCD and health anxiety related conditions do have the research. We don't know all the mechanisms. There's a breakdown between executive function operation and the emotional or limbic region. Like there's a burzer breakdown there. There's a disruption there. And so attention is pervasive in the OCD community. We're seeing higher rates of co-occurrentive autism and OCD is pretty common. And then when you get into the molecularity of OCD, we see a lot of people who have kind of these interesting areas like ticks. Body focus repetitive behaviors, something called tricatilomania, which is hair pulling of different parts of your body or dermatilomania, which is skin picking. And so we see co-occurrentes of ticks. Tricatilomania and dermatilomania are called body focus repetitive behaviors. So they're called BFRBs. So ticks, BFRBs, medical issues, a lot of co-currents of like chronic medical issues like IBS, restless like syndrome with people who have chronic anxiety, ADHD, autism. I mean, it's really a little bit of everything. So in an anxiety center, like I said, we all sort of at the center, future of it all, all treat the primary nine anxiety disorders. And then all this dabble in some dual autism, some new ADHD, some are doing more mood disorders, some are doing a lot of regular relationship and emotional dysregulation stuff. But you have to know the science and molecularity of anxiety to understand that. And if you're not the right person to treat that, we'll make a referral out or referral within our team. What do you think is the biggest myth about health anxiety? That this someone's making it up. That someone's looking for attention. That their secondary gain is disheartening and sad to see a medical professional or loved one tell the person that they're just drug-seeking or seeking attention. I know that's the case on an occasion, but nobody wants to have, I'll say, OCD as well. Nobody wants to have OCD or help anxiety. It is not functional. It is not fun. It is not enjoyable. It is not adaptive. And once someone says, oh, my OCD helps me like be better at work. That's not OCD. You're talking about something else there. Whether we're talking about perfectionism or OCPD, obsessive, compulsive person, not disorder or something else, there is not an ounce of functionality with OCD in anyone who I've worked with. Anyone who I care for, all my social media friends are out there that are an Instagram and TikTok who are amazing humans, destigmatizing these conditions. No one believes OCD has any adaptive health aspects to it. Health anxiety for me is terrible because you and I are in different professions, but we're trying to help people live their best quality of lives, live their fullest lives. It breaks my heart when I see someone who has health anxiety who is convinced. And I'm not talking like they're wondering. They're convinced that there's something wrong. Despite my loving, compassionate guidance, five to seven doctors who have told them they're crazy, which is what they're in appearing or go to the ER or go see a shrink. That's the message they get. They are 100% centonic convinced that there's something wrong with them. And it's absolutely heartbreaking to see that. And until you can get them to shift that needle and be a little more flexible, they're stuck. And they're losing their quality of life and the thing they're trying to preserve is the exact same thing they're killing. So I think that sort of sense of I'm making it up. I'm fabricating it. I'm looking for attention or I'm just looking for drugs is just not the case. I know again, anecdotally I'm sure it's out there, but we all know that. But these people don't want to be this way. They don't want to be seen doctors. They don't want needles. They don't want, you know, all the exams they go through. But they're willing to do it. I've written about this in my, I put out a book a year and a half ago, I did it in my book. My of health anxiety online platform that people come to for support groups and information and cool challenges and weird stuff that that's all out there. And we hear this unfortunate story all the time. I'd rather just have cancer. I'd rather have my army amputated because I think I have an osteo-star comon here. I'd rather just have that nerve-nerve clip. I'd actually rather be paralyzed so don't feel my leg pain anymore. And you're thinking, did you just say that? You'd rather have finality of impairment or disease that every physician is told you you don't have rather than a different approach that I'm trying to offer you. And whether that's some medication, talk therapy or something else, you'd rather be impaired or a quadriplegic or have the diagnosis of cancer that you don't have just so you stop worrying about it. Like, wow, that's another level of willingness to, you know, get answers. That's how insidious and how disgusting and how horrible these sticky tricky conditions are, which I'm most referring to OCD and helping anxiety. They have these thoughts and belief systems that are so entrenched and so believable and it's the biggest ruse in the world. And if I can get them to hear that, if I can get them to realize that maybe if we can drop the rope and come back and try to different way, maybe just maybe trying to figure out what you have cancer or not is not the most important thing you do today. You have a sense of what the prevalence is today of people that are as ill as you just described. At your research in the last 10 to 15 years is pretty consistent about four to eight percent of population has some version of health anxiety in their life. Of people of chronic illnesses, a third. Over 30 percent of people who have chronic illnesses, Crohn's cancer, diabetes, sickle cell, etc. Over a third have some version of health anxiety. Most studies I've read have gone through and when I report this and share this, about 20 to 30 percent of us have consistently some subclinical health anxiety notable preoccupations. As we get older, obviously increases because we have more health and medical issues. And there is an interesting Swedish, I think we just came out a year or two ago and then a 24 big study post pandemic that health anxiety has skyrocketed in the last four years just because of whatever the pandemic has done to the world and people's hyper focus on stuff. So the level of people that I see, I think in the OCD and health anxiety community, if we're saying that 60 percent of the population as OCD or health anxiety probably over third of them are at that severity level where you start wondering about insight, you start wondering about their ability to reality test and that's why medication in this case, Peter I think is usually pretty fundamentally critical. It is pretty rare for me to see someone with severe OCD or health anxiety who does not benefit from or who would not benefit from NSSRI or NSNRI or some kind. And often you'll see psychiatrist ad and low dose of an A-tip contact psychotic for a lot of mood instability. Thorazine, cypress, sarquil, Thorazine's little bit older, but I'm a vilify which is sort of in that mixed class just to help with the mood issues. So I mean at least I've third of the patients that come to our clinic and we see the wide range of everything and the patients that my colleagues see, I'd say at least I third of that such severe level and there's not enough providers out there and is the medication temporary to get them through the therapy. It's necessary to get them through the therapy. Sometimes how many of them can get off the medication? I don't have an answer to that. I'd probably, I'd rough estimate probably at least a third half. But for a lot of people they're afraid to come off the medications if they're to stay well-point and I'm a believer in a few year on the medication doing well and you want to stay on it great for you. Some people try and come off and it creates a spike in symptoms and we immediately get back on that's why most people will taper down and not just you know just go on medication. My bigger concern is when someone is unfortunately not because you're trying to be whether unfortunately treatment resistant which has a much more pejorative term than I want to be but means they're not, they're treatment non-responsive, I should say. They're not responding to the normal pharmacology and that's why we see people today. I have very little knowledge of the science and mechanics this. I can't much speak much about it but I see people not getting deep brain stimulation, ketamine and other kind of pretty new-age medication interventions or device interventions. I know in last few years there's been research looking at things like MDMA and other sort of hallucinogens sometimes with VA better in populations and trying to figure out like what other medications out there or what other poorly controlled medications out there can help people. That excites me, it scares me because people go, oh I can take, I can take low dose silascibe and like get better. You're not taking regularly low dose silascibe and you're experimenting with mushrooms. That's not the same thing. You're trying ecstasy, that's not controlled MDMA. So all these new-age technologies and medications are important because unfortunately there's going to be a population out there that doesn't respond to CBT. Still even even with the best studies, these kind of interventions are like 60 to 65% effective. There's other interventions out there like other medicognitive therapies and an intervention called inference-based CBT. So like other cognitive-based interventions that people have been developing and refining and improving but that's still in that CBT range, 60% is not enough. And so I'm excited to see next wave genetic research and testing and medication research to figure out what are the ways can we find a way to sort of fix the where the brain is falling apart and where genetics kick in. You mentioned TMS briefly, where do you see the promise there? I don't right now, I mean I think it's still an experimental phases. You know there's people that have short-term memory losses. My experience is that people have an initial improvement early on and then it fades. That's been my anecdotal experience of maybe knowing 15 to 20 patients in Atlanta. I know Atlanta has a few TMS centers and ketamine infusion centers. I'm seeing actually more psychiatrists right now. Actually psychiatrists in private practice, not even like the universities I belong to and I go to, are now offering ketamine infusions in private practice, which to me is like that's brand new kind of thinking. They're trying everything they can to offer patient stuff. So I don't know enough about the research in the science behind TMS in ketamine to speak to at a large scale and then where the people should try it but these are options at researchers and psychiatrists are looking into because we know that again CBT is 60% effective SSRIs on a good day are 40 to 60% effective for most studies the combination of an SSRI or SNRI and CBT is usually the best outcome but they're still not treating everyone and not everyone can access them and you know I love what I do. I'm pretty awesome therapist. I'm proud of what I do. I've trained a lot. I disseminated. I try and make it as available and accessible and affordable to the people that come to our clinic. And I'm going to Facebook group of about 5,000 specialists in a very closed private Facebook group who this is all we discussed. This kind of stuff 24,7. It's an amazing Facebook group. It's been around for about 8 or 9 years. You can only be able to do it for practitioners only. Only for practitioners. There's tons of Facebook groups and social media platforms out there and other kind of things out there and I'm on 20 other Facebook groups but I'm in this one special one out there that two-month colleagues launched I think 2017, 2018 that has right now almost 5,000 OCD, body folks who are about to be ready for BFRB especially especially specialists of junior trainees to as senior and seasoned as they get which I'm getting to that stage of my career. And we all have these discussions. We all debate like what are the medication options? What are the alternative interventions? What are you thinking about this thing that's on podcasted about? We're all trying to figure out how do we get another 5 to 10% efficacy with these populations who are just not getting better. Hospitals and last few years have changed and about 10 years ago I feel like there were more hospital centers willing to take on residential patients and right now there's only about 5 that I know of in the country that I would view as sort of the best OCD centers. There's tons that pop up every day and things that IOP and PHP centers that sort of show up and I'm always supportive of them but not they're not doing it up in space practices. And so there's not enough of what I do out there Peter to meet the needs and so hopefully other biologies and genetic testing and other interventions sort of increase this but at the end of the day the kind of work that I do and the my staff does for cognitive behavioral based exposure based work for health anxiety and OCD. Sometimes with and without medication seems to be the most effective the most available in the most that gives people their life back afterwards. That excites me. I love that. How much are you guys seeing long COVID that may or may not be long COVID? I mean it's again it's it's not something I know anything about so I want to be mindful of not actually demonstrating just how ignorant I am but you know I'm not sure what long COVID is. I'm sure that there is undoubtedly a subset of people who had COVID who are having an ongoing issue as a result of it. My intuition is there are also a lot of people who think they have that and in reality they either don't have anything medically wrong with them or maybe they have something else medically wrong with them. So you're probably far closer to that but what are you seeing? I'm enjoying you in the ignorance and humility if I don't know enough about to say anything major but I think prior to COVID people describe identical symptoms that they're describing now and now attributing it to long COVID. And so if you look at that I've been practicing for almost 25 years. You can look at it and go well if it wasn't long COVID then because that we're didn't exist. That phrase didn't exist. How could it be so high today? I don't know the answer to your question but I see people coming with a set of head fog, fuzziness, and a tent of stuff kind of low grade depression not feeling great having a hard time articulating and like I had COVID a few times I'm wondering if it's that and I'm joining them thinking I'm wondering if it's that too. But I have no idea that doesn't sort of mind needs how do I help you be adaptive? How do I help you function? So I don't have a good sense of that but I think it's an easy thing to latch on to and people have gotten on disability for this. People have sought out medication treatments for this. One of the past they just assumed that they had you know ADD or headaches or they had some head stuff going on. So it is there a benefit in that situation of saying everything you just said which is actually I don't know what it is but point of help you. I want to help you adapt to it. Can you take the next step and say let's assume for example that whatever you're feeling which is real we're going to acknowledge that it's real. Let's assume it's not attributable to a biologic symptom and then we go down the same pathway. Is that helpful framing? Remove the first part or the second part. Let's assume it is or is not a bioprocto of biologic. You don't have a solution for it if it is biologic. I have solutions for it whether it's a isn't what you want to do next. So I really do stay in that great space. I don't know if you have cancer and let me tell you, even in the book I have a case report that a kind person allowed me to share where I treated her for health anxiety. G. I track a soft gel issues Peter and then it was very successful and went great and she was starving herself and losing weight and losing her life to a new medical conditions and a year and change later, sure, it says by the way I have thyroid cancer. Now did we miss that and the answer is no because she was being followed by a thyroid specialist and was on the sin throat and other stuff but but it's tricky because I don't take away from the work. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I don't know what I don't know what I do know is your life as known as good as it could be. Can we try some stuff? I don't know what you're going to get cancer or not 33% of us. Hey, to say this to people who are going to watch us or you know 33% of us are going to get cancer. I have patients that don't know that we're born with cancer cells. What does that piss them off when I tell them that? By the way, I don't know if it's going to express itself or not but we all have cancer cells. Don't tell me that. So I don't know which people I'm going to see that are going to have that thing that they were terrified of. I don't know what other people I'm seeing right now that have something that's been unassessed and undiagnosed. What I know is there are things that I can teach someone of mind and body. You're not doing too much different. You're just doing much more than medicalized space that can give you better life today. That can elongate your life today. That can have you more present in your life today. And if you die tomorrow or six years from now, we regret the things that we did to improve your life. And I'm serious like the bracelet you're not dead yet. You're not dead yet. So what do you want to do about it now? Because the other stuff you're concerned about, go to a doctor or not, go to an immuall immuall, just or not. Go to your EMT or not. That's your space. Here's what I can offer you. And I'm a mind, I'm a believer of mind over matter and you are what you think and you are what you do. And there are so many things that we don't happen to in our physical and mental capabilities. I love that part of my work as a CBT specialist. That's why you I got board certified, you know, board certified in like 17 domains. I got board certified in this CBT space. It's called behavioral and cognitive because there's so much that we can teach people about diet nutrition, exercise, these are things that are bigger for you than you are for me about healthy lifestyle habits about not getting fixated on thoughts like greed and regret and guilt that really eat at people alive their poisons to us. And they manifest thematically. Those things come out of us. So when someone comes to me and says, I think I have this condition whether it's a seizure to disorder, cancer, or long COVID, I get to play. I don't know anything about that. What I do know is here at Cedus kills I can teach you. If you want to join me in that process, I can make your life a little bit better or a lot better. What do you want to do? Now you have agency. Now you get to choose. And you might have that thing. Go do that thing. Go fall with that doctor. But ultimately, then the day people are going to make decisions for themselves that you're going to be about removing discomfort, ambiguity and uncertainty, negative reinforcement and or it's not just or doing things that give them a chance to improve their quality of life relationships, romance, financial status, whatever it is. And so I like to help people do that build rather than just remove bad. But people come to someone like you and me and say, can you help me get rid of my symptoms? I'm like, I can. But we also like add tier life and that's what pausing reinforcement is. That's what living the fullest life is possible until you and I no longer have that time. As finally, I want to get a sense of where you think the balance lies between the abundance of information we have today about health and the whatever we want to call it, the triggering of more health anxiety. So at the outset of this podcast, we talked about, hey, look, I'm sure indirectly, well, directly, but inadvertently I'm contributing. People like me contribute to health anxiety. But of course, we contribute to a lot of good things as well, right? We contribute to a lot of good. Yeah, I think we're a far net positive. So what steps could someone like me take to without diminishing the good reduce the bad? I appreciate you asking me that because the work that you're doing is having people go to unbelievable lengths to with biomarkers and physical things for now and in the future. And my career and the things I focus on are about letting go of the future and focusing on the now. So there's a little bit of there's attention there. There's an attention there and I appreciate you acknowledging that. I think one of the nicest and kindest things they can do is make sure that people are not absolutely dogmatic looking for a singular answer or a singular diagnosis or a singular cure. And I know you don't. But I would get concerned if someone was going to Great Lakes because they believe that there's only one fuel, one vitamin, one diagnosis, one biomarker that answers everything and people who think that way, even I both know are set up for failure because nothing is 100%. That's point one. And the work that you do is to not purport the belief that if we just solve that one genetic anomaly or if you just build more muscle mass, you're set. Because people hear that and you're where it's God, they're going to do that and they're not going to build the fulfill that. I also think teaching flexibility, cognitive flexibility is critical. So you're asking people to take on a lot of new ideas. You're asking people to try new things, explore new things and that cognitive flexibility includes, hey, let's try something different than the thing you wanted to try. And so I almost this is kind of an exposure therapist or funny, funny cats. We do weird stuff. I mean, if you came to my office Peter, we got stumps, like dead stumps, fake dead stumps and fake blood and fake seamen and needles and and and and and and sco Animal Skoles and band aids and and weird outfits where we're all sorts of like we are disrupting a lot and disruptions a good idea, especially when someone's not expecting it and they get better for it. So I think in your space if you can continue to do what you're doing but add elements of surprising disruption where it's not linear and it's not it's silver bullet and you thought it was this and then you public say, well, we thought it was this where we're changing our course, that level of disruption of flexibility just just promotes that we're all trying to achieve this final linear option but we're never going to get to linearity. There's going to be so many pasts that we're all unique on and keeping people curious and flexible and not believing that you know, if I take this shake and do this thing and find this bar of biomarker, I'm going to live the best life possible because even you know, that's not true. But people want that. People want the one solution, you know, we have these wonderful medications right now that are helping people lose weight. That's fantastic but that's one of a thousand other options out there. It's the quickest and maybe the easiest for certain people with and without side effects but those are not the only options and so I think when we start looking at these sort of medical and biologics that are sort of so effective and so efficient and so quick, I think the medical industry sells that a little bit too much and that's why people don't want to kind of see someone like me because they don't want to do therapy, they don't want to do this for 15 to 20 sessions. They don't have to like learn stuff, just give me the pill or the laser and I'll be great. And so I always get worried about when physicians or medical people are selling wonderful, lovely ideas that make life better but they're so, this is like Jurassic Park when you're you're jumping science and when you're like the single thing and any jumped science and learning, in knowledge and having not learned from your past mistakes and so that curiosity and that flexibility I think should be built into anything that you're doing, anything that I'm doing and with my patients, I'm trying to be curious. I'm not right about everything. I'm probably wrong about how things I'm telling them, I'm going to keep trying and keep learning and we're going to have this relationship that is collaborative and it's going to be, we call it collaborative and purestism and we're going to learn together and hopefully we're, as you said, net positive, more right than we are wrong but inevitably a small percentage of the people that follow what you and other people put out there about living your best healthiest life which is fantastic, are going to take it one degree too far and believe that that is all they can do and unfortunately that's, you know, a percentage of any population out there that's going to be trapped into looking for this single solution or the single medicine or the single biomarker and they're going to go to great lengths to solve that and in my work that ruins people's lives so it doesn't discredit all the amazing things you do it's just staying flexible and curious and not believing that anyone thinks solves anything is all I would ask of you. You mentioned that your practice takes care of patients in 40 states so I assume that means telemedicine is a big part of what you guys do. Yeah, prior to the pandemic, a lot of states got together, psychology, last states first psychologists came together and developed a jurisdiction approval called side packed PSY, PACT and it allowed those of us this happened to start before the pandemic which was very innovative and then in the pandemic it's sort of just exploded. We're therapist if they got approved by this with going through a few checkboxes probably paid some few a few fees which I you know you paid and filled out your credentials and history and proved you have no bad stuff become a site packed eligible provider and that means I can see people in the 40 states that have agreed interstate jurisprudence or allowance and so that has expanded or I'd go to do telehealth. Prior to the pandemic, I already did telehealth in the state of Georgia. There's plenty of rural pockets or people that just want to land a traffic sucks people don't like driving the land to us so I was doing telehealth anyways but side packed has allowed providers who have doctorate level degrees to be approved to see people in those many states. What about 10 that don't? You can guess two of them that want to hold on to their money in regulations. Who do you think those two are? I would guess California, York. Yep, those two. I don't care about them. I don't care about but those two are probably never going to agree because of all the reasons that are just so wrong unfortunately and I only ask because I know that people listening to this are going to want to sort of have an opportunity to probably reach out and work with you so sadly people who live in California, New York, you are not able to work with. Anyone who is in Lester, Lysons in that state, you cannot do telemedicine with people in that state sadly and there's no good reason for that. The other rate states I can tell you what they are but it's probably just because they haven't addressed it or approved it yet. And currently there's an equivalent thing called compact for the master's level providers up there. They're trying to do the same level of inner state access and you just can't get a California license and plan. I can but I'm not going to. I see. The cost and the time to get a California license. By the way, I have a ton of California colleagues that are fantastic and do a great work, same thing in New York. So ironically, despite those two states that they haven't abandoned so people have got plenty people who are doing great stuff there. And so yeah, so at a master's level there's another thing called compact that might come around to the next year or two to get a similar increase to access and increase availability to these kind of vulnerable inner interventions. But yeah, so we've been doing telemedicine and I think in the last year or two of we've been monitoring it. We're probably doing more than 50% sessions on video, possibly close to 60%. I don't love it. I do it. I love what I'm doing with people who need it because they can't get to someone like me any other way. I don't love it with people who just don't drive across town or just want to find the easy way out. I get that. But it has increased the ability for someone like me and colleagues in my space who are doing what I hope is described as best practices and being very ethical, being very compassionate and helping people get their lives back as soon as possible. It's increased our availability and accessibility, which I think is absolutely fantastic and should be the way. Well Josh, appreciate you coming out here. This has been a really interesting discussion. Yeah, honestly, this is more complex than I had imagined, but I think that's often the case whenever I do an interview on a podcast. I always come out learning much more than I thought I would learn even. So thanks for sharing your expertise and thanks for what you're doing. I appreciate it. Thank you.

Whenever I think of the brain, I think of GBMs, right? I think of these awful tumors. Is there anything on the horizon to render them less lethal? We are making progress, and specifically, around understanding what causes. I think that neurosurgery remains a little bit of a black box. So we're starting to see things like stroke become more like heart attacks. These are really game-changing things when some of them go home the next day after such a huge thing. Let's talk a little bit about brain computer interface. I think in a nutshell, what it means is a system that is recording from the brain and connecting those signals to computer that analyzes the signal and then does something with it. Have people understand how you even do a wake surgery? The brain itself doesn't have any pain or symptoms. I think the thing that struck me the most, the first time I saw neurosurgery, was how the hell do they know what they're doing? Like how many billion cells did we just walk off there? There's this popular idea that we're only need 10% of our brain. I'm sure you first of all. I've heard this and I don't know what it means. It sounds like malarkey to me. Right. What do you think the world looks like in 2040? Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Betty, thank you so much for taking a time out of your very busy schedule to come to Austin. Really excited to talk with you today. Oh, I'm thrilled to be here. Thanks Peter. So there's so much I want to talk about with respect to what your career is about today. And what the field of neurosurgery is in today and you know, how the bounds are really being pushed. But as we were talking earlier, I think that neurosurgery remains a little bit of a black box. And it might help orient our listeners if we give a little bit of a history lesson. So can we orient ourselves back into the latter part of the 19th century? And what were the typical problems that would have presented to a neurosurgeon and what were the tools that they had at their disposal? And let's let's posit that we're speaking after the development of anesthesia at least. So we're not in completely gruesome lands of you know, holding people down. Yeah. Well, that is a really interesting question. And one of the reasons neurosurgery is a little bit of black box. It's in many ways people consider it sort of like extreme medicine, right? It's like a very small group of physicians that are taking care of patients fairly severe kind of indications. It's a really rare fight field that takes a very long training in addition. But let's say we go back 100 years. We're talking about the era of Harvey Cushing who's considered really the father of modern or surgery. And I think that was a clear inflection point in the history of medicine. And the history of neuroscience and the history of neurosurgery really the beginning of a wood-culter modern neurosurgery. And why I think that Cushing was so powerful was his observation in addition to his ability to do extraordinary surgeries. So in addition to being really an absolute observer, in addition to being an incredibly technically skilled surgeon, I think it was also an incredible internist too, diagnosing some of the first pituitary tumors and the effects of those on, you know, an endocrine function. And then really the era of modern tools of craniumy, you know, opening the skull to get access to brain tumors. And everything followed since then, you know, the main categories of neurosurgery have to do with tumors, the vascular system, which are aneurysms and strokes and blood clot spine. And then probably the most recent one is the one we call functional, which actually has to do with understanding the functions of brain circuit, but also intervening to change how they work using deep brain stimulation or other relation methods. And those are the really exciting new developments. And I think Harvey Cushing would be credited for the development of the electric carter as well, wouldn't he? Absolutely. I mean, there's like a particular method that you could operate without one of those things. Yeah, and not just in the brain, but anywhere in the world. Yeah, it's like the key of controlling bleeding in any surgery, but particularly in the brain. Yeah. It's a tricky thing. And so Harvey Cushing was just the starting point of modern neurosurgery. Then there's Wilder Penfield, who wasn't American, but really did some incredible work in creating the Montreal neurology goings to. And that was really beginning of what we'd call it, instead of modern epilepsy surgery. So surgeries that are designed to stop people from having seizures. And he popularized this thing that we all learn in medical school, called the harmonculus. It's this picture, right, of the little man there. And essentially, the part of our brain that controls every muscle in our body. And how it's laid out in that particular part of the brain, it's something that we all learn. He's also a brilliant scientist who helped us understand some of the basic things that we know about language. And from a technical perspective, really popularized and developed the concept of awake brain surgery. And that's really something that's captivated me since medical school and what I now specialize in now. So let's kind of fast forward a little bit into an era sort of before you and I were in medical school. But, you know, sort of call it the 70s and the 80s. What was the state of the art? Call it 40 50 years ago with respect to the vascular management, the oncologic management of masses in the brain relative to today. So exclusive of the interventional side of things just in terms of being able to operate on the brain. When did it kind of like where were the platos in technology? Yeah, well, what's interesting about it is some of the things that we do now. Are almost identical to the way that Cushing did it over 100 years ago. And then some of it is radically different. So, you know, one of the workhorse surgeries that we do is called a craniumy. And that basically means where you remove a piece of bone temporarily, you know, place it at the end of the procedure to access something like a brain tumor that's in the frontal or temporal lobe. That's still being performed today and still really indicated. But where we are now, there's ways of using laser probes through very small incisions to get to deep targets in the brain to oblate them. There are ways of now even using focus ultrasound that can be targeted, you know, to specific nuclei in deep parts of the brain in order to control someone's tremor. For example, this is what we would consider relatively non-ambusive approach to do a neurosurgery. So, things have changed radically. I would say one other area where we have seen tremendous disruption actually is in the vascular neurosurgery field. So, back in the 80s and 90s, you'd have a large craniumy and incision probably about, you know, seven to nine inches long removal of piece of bone and then using an operative microscope to dissect down to the deepest parts where the blood vessels are coming. And to fix let's say an aneurysm which is essentially a ballooning of a blood vessel that when it ruptures can be fatal. And so, that is a lot of what I trained on. Nowadays, 90% of those procedures are now done, you know, through a catheter in the groin that's visualized. We put coils into the aneurysms to help secure them. We can now do stents. A huge change actually now has been able to, now being able to retrieve and dissolve clots that are, you know, causing acute severe strokes. So, those are probably the most dramatic things that we've seen someone come in, not able to talk, paralyzed on half side of the body. In the old days, we would just give some medications keeping our fingers crossed at that would work. It rarely worked. It was really the minority of cases that had helped. But nowadays, there's a much bigger fraction of patients where you can put the device in, retrieve this stroke. And these are really game-changing things when someone can go home the next day after such a huge thing. So, we're starting to see things like stroke become more like heart attacks. The cathelabs are not just treating heart attacks, but they're also treating a local brain attacks or strokes. So, some things are relatively similar to 100 years ago, and then some things have just been totally changed. Yeah, so, so, if 30 years ago, a neurosurgeon was doing a cradionby virtually every time they were addressing pathology today, it might be less than half the time. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. And again, that's not an dissimilar parallel to what we see in other parts of surgery. I was just talking to a vascular surgeon a couple of weeks ago, who was finished just training around the time I did. And I said, you know, how many open surgical procedures are you doing? I was talking about triple A's and all sorts of, you know, fempops and things like that. And he said, yeah, we do very little open these days. It's virtually all done with stance. Which again, you know, even see like at carotid arteries, the whole thing, I was really blown away at how little they are operating now, meaning operating in an open sense. Obviously, they're still intervening. Yeah, absolutely. I think that, I think what's happened with surgery is that. And this is not a trend. This is the force of evolution that is guiding us towards things are more minimally invasive. Less collateral damage, you know, to get to the targets and getting people back to life, you know, sooner and it's a very exciting time actually to be in medicine with all this technology that's coming on board. It's, if you're okay with that change, it's absolutely thrilling time. Yeah. Now, I know this is not your field of interest. So feel free to say, yeah, I don't know enough about it. But whenever I think of the brain, I think of GBMs, right? I think of these awful tumors, which I guess for the listener, we can explain what that is. So, so maybe telphokes, what a GBM is, why a GBM is truly one of the cancers that gives cancer a bad name. And I guess my real question for you is, given that traditional surgery has historically never worked for this tumor, you simply can't resolve it. And you think about the transition away from cranyotomy big open procedure. Is there anything on the horizon for GBMs to, to render them less lethal? Yeah, it's a great question. So GBM stands for Glyo Blastoma, multiformy, and it's a mouthful of a horn. But if you break it down, what it's referring to, the Glyo part of that word refers to the cell origin. The brain has different types of cells, and if you look in the big buckets, there's neurons, which are the ones that primarily are the ones that allow us to do thinking and function. And then there's a large population of support cells that we call Glyo, and that's that first part. Glyo Blastoma originates from those support cell population. Multiforme refers to, you know, these original descriptions, histologically, of the tumors that really showed multiple form, multiple histology, some of the key features of it are the necrosis, the tumor grows so quickly that it outstrips its blood supply. And in its wake, it leaves cell death what we call necrosis. So like you alluded to, it really is a terrible kind of disease and condition. We are making progress, and specifically around understanding what causes. So, you know, just 10 years ago, you would remove one of these tumors, and you send this to the lab, and you could get the diagnosis of that this is a Glyo Blastoma. Now, in most academic medical centers, you'll also get a genetic profile of the tumor. So nowadays, we actually know specifically what kind of mutations are involved in the tumor, and that's going to be really critical for this next chapter, which is using those genetic alterations actually to. And so, to tailor and personalize, you know, chemotherapy and more. So, this has big implications, because we're now moving from narrower, we use a visualization of the histology. Now, to this molecular profiling, which is more mechanistic, the new chemo agents are really going to be targeting mechanisms, as opposed to general things like cell cycle and metabolism and things like that. So, these are the things that are changing, you know, and we needed to change faster. They're also really exciting things that we're seeing around new ways to train the immune cells, to target things. It turns out that Glyo Blastoma is actually suppressed parts of the immune system, so they're kind of like growing and stealth, and they activate molecules and cells in a cloak way that can't be recognized by immune cells anymore. And so, if we can basically allow the tumor to be recognized by the immune system, that could be something that really unlocks therapy in the future too. But the things that we do know that work pretty well right now, at least in terms of prolonging survival for patients, and really meaningful survival actually still is around the server. So, that's the more extensive the resection, the longer the survival is, and that's been really well-characterized now. But it's not curative, like you said, we can remove 99% or even 100 in beyond what we see on the MRI. Fortunately, there's usually microscopic cells that go beyond what we can see on the MRI that are still there, and over time, or we populate, you know, the tumor. And so, it is a really complicated and tough disease, but we're working really hard on it. Do we have any idea what predisposes an individual to this from a risk perspective? Short answer is now. It's a flicks young, it reflects old, open-eye-watched children die of this, teenagers, people in mid-life, people at the end of life. It seems to have no apparent pattern. Yeah, and part of that has to do with its mechanisms. It's not something that we consider as a heritable kind of risk. But what it does rely on is a set of mutations, and it's rarely the same set, which is a very polygenic condition. Exactly. And that's what makes it really tricky to treat. When we talk about glue plus tumor, we're actually not talking about one thing. We're talking about a system of genetic alterations that together have cascaded into the form that we see. And I suspect we'll come back to this, Eddie, but you've alluded to chemotherapy agents that can be used, whether it's the treat, glioblastomy, or anything else, including mettes of other epithelial cancers that spread to the brain. And the blood brain barrier poses a challenge for treatment. Do you think the future lies in treatment within the CMS, this CSF, so treating directly inside, I don't know, intratheically or directly into the central nervous system, or do you think it's designing drugs that cross the blood brain barrier? I mean, what do you think the future looks like? I think it's going to look like all of the buff, actually. And this is a situation where we do need to look at all possible options. This is not like the kind of thing we're thinking, like non-emvasive or minimally invasive, like really something that will work as the first priority. One of the technologies I'm really interested in following how this develops, and we're doing research on this at UCSF, is using focus ultrasound. So most people know about ultrasound to diagnose, but if you change the energy profile of it, you can actually use acoustic energy through an ultrasound to actually open up the blood brain barrier, and targeted parts of the brain. And so there is a lot of development on using that as a way to do delivery, as opposed to putting a catheter or something directly in the brain. And then with that a set of new agents that can be really molecularly specific to get to the brain, to get to targets once you open up that blood brain barrier. So what attracted you to neurosurgery? Was it something you knew you wanted to do when you went to medical school, or did you figure it out well there? I had a sense, it was probably late, and I always knew that I was really interested in neuroscience, so the general field. It wasn't until I was a medical school that I was actually exposed to it. And I remember really clearly in my first year, I had this neuroanatomy professor Diane Ross, and it was really incredibly kind person who was patient with me, as we were learning, you know, you probably remember in that school like learning hundreds of different parts of the brain anatomy. All of which I've forgotten. I know there's a brain stem somewhere in there. There's somewhere something like that. So that's part of our ritual, right, in medical school to learn all of those terms and locations. But as you know, certain teachers like just make such a huge difference. And so she took me to the operating room one day. And I saw one of my mentors at the time I was just a student, but he ultimately became my mentor, Dr. Burger doing a wake surgery on a patient with a glute blastoma. And the surgery itself I thought was pretty interesting. But the part that left me a stroke and the part that basically made it very hard for me to sleep for a couple days was really just seeing an exposed brain. What the cortex looks like, the cortex is the most part of the brain. It pulsates, it moves. But those are not from the mechanics of the brain itself. Those are all just from the breathing and the heart rate, et cetera. You know, it's a blood flow is coming through. So, you know, the thing that really struck off for me was seeing a patient talking and not fully comprehended, but really being off of the kind of computations that must be happening in this part of the brain. And it's not like you're looking at a computer. It's you're looking at essentially an organ composed of biological cells, 86 billion to be precise, you know, how many neurons they're on the human brain. So that scene to me was deeply inspiring and I was basically hooked. I was so like hooked that I didn't really understand what I was signing out for. Because the training for it after that, you know, was pretty difficult. I have to say, seven years. And, but it was worth it. And I love every minute of it. And I'm still learning, of course, whereas at the very beginning of a new inflection point in our surgery, which is understanding, you know, how the human brain works. And the epiphany you had at some point in residency wasn't there? Well, I think there's an epiphany about, well, we have this access, really privileged access to use the information, what we call brain mapping, basically. And so we do the brain mapping because we want to be very precise about how we're preaching, for example, brain tumor or spotted brain that's causing seizures. And we do the brain mapping so that we can map out the areas that are really important for language or the ability to move your arm. That's what we call the brain mapping. And we want to identify those areas so we can protect them during the surgery. At the same time, do the max mode of reception. Like we spoke about earlier, the more that we can remove the tumor, the longer they're survival. The more that we can remove of the seizure sound, the more likely someone is going to be cured of their epilepsy. But in our surgery, there can always be a cost, right? And that cost would be paralysis or aphasia, which is a condition where you lose the ability to speak. And so we're always trying to balance, you know, sort of like, is it worth it to go that extra? A couple of millimeters versus versus not. And in many cases, these are really profoundly important decisions that have to be made right then and there in the operating room. And brain mapping is the way that we figure this out. In the old days, Walter Penfield, 150 years ago, 120 years ago, would use an electrical stimulator. And would apply it to the cortex. And that will temporarily activate or disrupt the function of a specific part of the brain while someone is trying to speak or move. And that's traditionally how we've done mapping. And that's one of the tools the techniques we still use today in order to make sure you know patients are safe during these procedures. One of the revelations I had during residency, of course, is that I think we can do a lot more than just applying stimulators to do the mapping. We've developed technologies to record from the brain that allows us to not only do the mapping, but also is really the first window that we have. That we have like understanding, like essentially how neurons work, how they come to the information about words, for example, like in the conversation we're having. There's a part of your brain in the temporal lobe, which is right above your ear on both sides. But the one on the left in particular, you're right handed, right? Yeah, so 99% of right handers are dominant for language on the left side. And there's this one spot in the temporal lobe, which is just about two centimeters above your left ear. That's processing all the words that I'm speaking to you right now. And so we've used this technology not only into map those critical functions, and that's sort of where the science was. I would say about 10 or 15 years ago, figure out where these functions are in the brain. Now we've moved the science to understand how those areas work by a progressive evolution of new technologies, get us to higher and higher resolution. And what I mean by that is we can measure the neural activity of cells and cell populations, and then link them to, for example, different consonants and vowels. And that's been really an extremely exciting development human neuroscience. I want to back up and just have people understand how you even do a wake surgery, because the traditional way that surgery is done requires general anesthesia. That's a general anesthesia typically requires three things. It requires one type of medication to blunt pain. Yeah. Another type of medication to block memory. And another type of medication to paralyze you. Now, of course, if things go wrong and things have gone wrong, sometimes patients are paralyzed, but they feel pain, but they can't communicate it. And these are these catastrophic, but fortunately very rare events that occur in anesthesia, but correct anesthesia is done where a patient has no sense of time or memory of anything. They can't feel anything, and they can't move, which means they're actually safe, right? That's to save them as well. So help us understand how it is that you can do surgery without all three of those conditions being present. Like I said in the beginning, this is extreme form of medicine, extreme form of surgery. And the way that in a nutshell it can be done is that the brain itself doesn't have any pain receptors. So the pain receptors are the ones that are in our nerves that are in the scalp that are throughout our body. These are actually the way that we perceive pain and touch. And I think it's paradoxical to many people at first, but the brain itself, which is processing that information in the body, actually doesn't have those receptors itself. So the way that we typically do this is to numb the scalp. We use things like when you go to the dentist office like Lydocaine. We can inject around the sight of the incision, the bone, by the way, doesn't have any pain receptors itself either. The membrane on top of the brain that we call the dura does have some pain receptors. So sometimes we have to be sensitive around that and do some local anesthesia around the dura. And interestingly, the brain tissue itself doesn't. There are some other areas like around the blood vessels that can't be sensitive. The membrane, the dura, is sensitive. So there are areas, but they can be numb. And so this is a really important fact that allows us to do these surgeries awake when it's necessary to do it. So the patient is rolled, and I've seen these, and I'm just blanking on exactly the procedure. So the patient is rolled into the OR. They're not intubated. Correct. And never intubated during this. So this is a patient who is laying their wide awake, no endotracheal tube. Right. Maybe a fully catheter for some comfort? Yes, fully catheter. Yeah, and usually, the follies are not that comfortable. Exactly. But primarily, so we can monitor the urine output during the surgery. And you begin by making your incision, I mean, drawing where you want to make your incision. And then literally just doing this as though it's a local, you know, like you're having a lipoma removed or something. You're literally just covering the lidocane and FNF for an across the scalp. You're boveying down to where you need to go. Once you get to the bone, you can start to literally put a hole in and start to saw across your bones. Yeah, you've been from, yeah. So just to add a little bit more detail to that, which is that. Usually the head is fixed, so it's not like someone sitting in a chair and we're just doing this while they're moving around. But we have a head holder that fixes the head. You can move your arm. And there's the patient is somewhat sedated and then you can lift this sedation. Yeah, exactly right. And so we do a light level of sedation like propapole or like propapole, but a much, much lower dose. So it's not a general anesthesia dosing. It's a very, very light dosing. The whole of the party dosing. And that way it allows the anesthesiologist to stop it when you say, hey, we're, you know, because we might need an hour to get in. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. Yeah. Even if the surgery's like six or eight hours long. And primarily for comfort, we'll do sedation at the very beginning. We'll have the sedation turned off so that patient can be fully awake for the right amount of. And then you can ramp up this sedation to finish the procedure in close. But again, it's all done at the level of a colonoscopy, not the level of, that's right. That's right. Yeah. Again, we were talking before the podcast how my second month of general surgery, I did neurosurgery, meaning we rotated through it. And one of the things that blew my mind was how, for, it sounds silly, but when you, when you look at textbooks and you study the humongulous and you look at all of the vascular. And then you actually look at the brain. It's just like any other organ. It's just kind of a blow. It's like looking at the pancreas for the first time. You're like, that's it. Yeah. How do I know where everything is? Right. And I guess what makes it different is there's probably no part of the body where the real estate matters so much. Right. When you're operating on other parts of the body, for example, if you're operating on the heart, you can really see what you're doing. Right. You know where the left end here, your descending artery is. You know where the occlusion is and even though it's very technically complicated surgery, there is complete anatomic clarity of what is happening. Yeah. And I think the thing that struck me the most, the first time I saw neurosurgery was how the hell do they know what they're doing? Like how many billion cells did we just walk off there? And obviously this speaks to what you're talking about from a functional standpoint. But but a lot of times you're not doing that, right? So if a patient has a meningoma or some other tumor, how do you bracket that trade off? So do you just sort of say look, there are places where you never want to have a tumor. For example, right above my left ear, that would be a really difficult place to have to respect because the real estate is so precious. And that's where we're going to probably recommend doing an open awake procedure to help guide us. Is that kind of how you're using that? That's exactly right. And so the real estate is critical. That's an understatement. But that being said, there are some really expensive real estate in there. And there's also some cheaper real estate. But that's I guess that's one point. It's like that's sort of like telling me about Manhattan. Yeah. There's no cheap real estate in Manhattan. There have been to be areas that are $10,000 a square foot. Right. But there's probably nothing less than 4,000 a square foot. So there's this like popular idea that we only need 10% of our brain. I'm sure you've heard this. I've heard this and I don't know what it means. It sounds like malarkey to me. Right. So that might mean to stay alive. Okay. To to to to to to to to to inspire. You might only need to to to to to to to to to to inspire. You might only need to to to to to to to to to to to to to inspire. Right. So what what what what it really means is that there is. Maybe about 10 or 15% that. It's very critical for our basic functions. Our ability to move to talk, you know, to see, et cetera. It's actually a lot more than that. But it's also referring to this point that there are parts of our brain, actually, that are extremely redundant with other parts of the brain. So the frontal lobes, for example. We do surgeries there routinely and oftentimes people really have no effect. Even in terms of judgment, even in terms of. Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. Because we always think of the frontal lobes where we have sort of executive function and where we have the ability. We always joke like when my friends in med school, we said he had no front to low. Exactly. You just could stop saying the most inappropriate things. Don't get me wrong. The frontal lobe actually has a lot of critical function for executive decision making, you know, impulse control, et cetera. But my point is that it's redundant, meaning that. Different parts of the frontal lobe actually have similar purposes and similar role. And so for the most part, a lot of our patients can accommodate a fairly large surgery. Sometimes even removing the entire frontal lobe. Both sides? No, not both sides. Really, usually these pathologies are only one side. So if you took the entire frontal lobe from. The left or right side, would there, would it be a substantial difference? I've done that many times just so you know. And it really depends on the case in scenario. If someone's been having something that's slower growing there and there's been time for the brain to reorganize. What we call plasticity, a lot of those functions will essentially no longer be in that right frontal lobe. And they've moved to the left side. Wow. And people can tolerate what is the mechos versus that happens? Well, time and function, meaning like these things don't happen overnight. They take, you know, sometimes weeks and years. But basically what happens is some neurons get lost over time. And then others will compensate in terms of that function. But how does that actually happen? So let's posit that we have a slow growing lesion in the left frontal lobe. What is the left frontal lobe doing to communicate with the right frontal lobe? Yeah. To say, hey, these neurons are being compromised. Their function is deteriorating. You guys need to pick up the slack. How is that message being transmitted? Well, part of it is that both parts of the frontal lobe for people, most people are both doing the function most of the time. So it's not like it's just transferring the information. It's the both sides, where originally, you know, involved in those functions. And then once I get weaker and the other one has to pick up that slack. At a cellular level, this is what we call synaptic plasticity. The weights that essentially make up who we are. These are just the weights that neurons use to communicate with one another. All of our learning is towards shaping that weighting of synapses that occur. We're neurons touch each other. And that can happen. That can change, you know, throughout our life. Every time we learn a new word, those are new synapses that have formed that were never there, new connections. Precisely from the left to the right side, there is this structure that we call the corpus colosum. It's an information highway that connects the left part of our brain from the right side. There was a Nobel Prize, Roger Spirig, who done really incredible early experiments, describing patients who had surgeries, or used to split that in in certain instances. You have this phenomena where people essentially like have two functioning brains, but they're not communicating to each other. So it does require that there is this connection between the two areas where they're being reorganized. Outside of epilepsy, why else would the corpus be severed? That's really the main one that we use it for. Can you describe how patients that undergo that procedure behave? It's very fascinating. Yeah, so there's a phenomenon that we call a dissociation syndrome. So basically, okay, so the clinical indication, the medical indication for why someone would undergo this nowadays, is that patients, some patients with seizures have severe seizures where they fall down, where we call drop attacks. And usually what that means is that the seizure is spreading so quickly across the brain that people lose the tone in the body and then basically fall. And why that becomes a problem in addition to the injury of the seizures, is that people actually injure themselves. So it's not uncommon for people who have these kind of seizures actually if you're wearing helmets all the time, because there are such factors that are just medically recalcitrant seizures. They cannot be prevented with any degree of... That's right. That's absolutely right. I see. Like without any kind of medication or any other. And these are particularly ones that there's not one small spot that's causing the seizure. It's, you know, like the whole half or quadrant of the brain. But the problem is, and what a seizure is is basically when you have this very uncontrolled synchronic of a large mass of the brain cells. So normally, if you think about the brain and the neurons within the brain, it's like people in a stadium, they're having their individual conversations. That's the way the brain normally works. But let's say all of a sudden everyone's doing a wave in something hyper coordinated. All of those like normal conversations are now gone. The brain has now become hijacked by this other phenomenon where everything has become very coordinated. That's why people lose consciousness because all the normal function is basically shut down. And the way that it can become synchronized is through its connectivity, right? Every cell connecting to its adjacent cell and every cell connected to all the other cells in the brain through the things like the corpus close that connects the left to the right. And so when you get that hyper synchrony, people can essentially lose consciousness almost instantaneously. So one of the reasons historically why the corpus callisonmere was invented in the very first place was to sever the connection between the left and right hemisphere. Which doesn't stop the seizure. It just limits the spread. That's exactly right. It doesn't stop the seizure. But what it does is stops the propagation, the very fast propagation of the seizure from one side to the other. And in order for someone to lose consciousness, you basically have to have both sides of the hemisphere or a deeper structure like the thalamus. That's basically how consciousness. In order to have consciousness, you have to have both hemispheres out in order to lose consciousness or a deeper structure in the thalamus or something like that. And so these kind of drop attack seizures are once that people black out fall. And one way you can actually dramatically stop a lot of that is disconnecting the left from the right hemisphere. And so how does that patient? How is their life different aside from the fact that hopefully their propsisiers are gone? What's the change in the way that they're left and right behave now disconnected? Most of the time when we do this nowadays, we disconnect about the anterior two thirds of the corpus close. And the reason why we don't typically transsect the whole corpus closeum is because of some of the side effects that people can have in which we would call it dissociation syndrome. Where you can basically have a dissociation between what the left brain is doing in the right brain. So for example, someone essentially feeling something on the right hand which is processed by the left part of the brain and the right part of the brain really having no awareness of what's going on. And people can get by with that, but you know, it does affect how they can get along. So nowadays we try to just do the front part of it and leave the back part that helps reduce some of those side effects. But does it solve the initial problem of the seizures? Yes. No. It doesn't cure the seizures, but it really just stops the propagation of the seizures so that people don't lose cognitive. But sorry, by leaving one third in the posterior still adjacent, it prevents the propagation across the hemispheres in many many cases. In some cases nowadays still we have to do a total. Total. Calisotomy and it's a it's a very delicate surgery because the corpus closeum that connects the left and the right. It's not sitting on the top of the brain. It's actually very deep. It's very deep. So to get there, you actually have to physically separate the left and right hemisphere. We do that from the top. We do a craniumy that's centered over the midline. But it can't be right over the midline because we have a large draining vein there called the supersonic sinus. So we have to either choose the left side or the right side. And then we have to very carefully separate the left from the right and through that narrow corridor, transsect those connections. And what's directly underneath it that prevents you from just running that bovey a little too hot? Oh, well, there is a blood vessel that runs along the top of the corpus closeum. And that's actually the most critical part of the surgeries that we separate those two branches, those pericolosal arteries. Those arteries are really important because they supply the part of the brain, the medial frontal cortex. And the part of that that is part of the motor cortex actually is what supplies and controls our legs. So if you have a stroke, let's say, as a side effect or a complication of that procedure, then someone would be paralyzed and leg. So it's a fun, delicate surgery. It's amazing to see that exposure of the corpus closeum. Listening white, and that's how we can see it. And it's very distinct from the cortex because it's really clear white that white comes from the myelin. Yeah. It's a heavily heavily myelinated structure because it's conveying information from the left side of our brain to the right side on the order of milliseconds. You know, a super fast connection. And do you ever think philosophically about what the implications are for human consciousness by the fact that you can do a complete transaction of the corpus and seemingly produce two people? That's right. Or potentially two consciousnesses. Yeah. What does that mean? Well, I think that goes back to a harder question of, like, how do you define what consciousness is in the first place? Or there's a lot of philosophical debate about that. Do you trouble yourself with such debates? I mean, it's not really. No. Okay. I can't because I can't wrap my head around. Yeah. It's above my pay greater. Yeah. I do think about it from sort of the practical clinical perspective, not so much the philosophical. The clinical one is like, is a patient in a coma or not and why? And how do we get them out of that? You know, traumatic brain injury, certain strokes, epilepsy, et cetera. We think about consciousness from that perspective literally all the time every day. But from the philosophical, I don't lose a lot of sleep over that one. Yeah. I lose a little bit of sleep over it. Let's talk a little bit about brain computer interface. You mentioned it already. I hope I'm not insulting people when I say this, but if we're going to be brutally honest, we should at least acknowledge that medicine today has been pretty unimpressive when it comes to treating neurodegenerative disease. So whether we're talking about Alzheimer's disease or even other non-degenerative forms of dementia, we're talking about Parkinson's disease, flu-garious disease. I mean, we just don't seem to be able to treat these diseases. So whatever medications we throw at these things, they, maybe in the case of Parkinson's disease, we can delay progression a little bit. But would you agree with that assessment that sort of the traditional approach to treating these diseases has been largely unsuccessful? I would largely agree with the caveat that I think a lot of progress is being made to understand what's going on and from that I think there's a lot of promising therapies. But I would generally agree that within neurology and neurosurgery traditionally, therapies really have been designed to stop things from getting worse or slowing progression. Replacing function has never really been possible until very recently. Yeah, and I guess what I want to understand from you because I think this is something that you know more about than anyone. Or certainly among the people who would know the most about it is, do we need to revisit our approach to these diseases more from an engineering perspective than from a peripherally administered medication perspective, so the traditional approach to treating disease would be medication. You take an injection, you take a pill, you take something, and you hope that enough of it gets across the blood brain barrier, and it starts to treat the condition at hand. But it's hard to look at a patient with Parkinson's disease, which is a motor defect disease, admittedly that stems from the CNS, and not at least think, you know, this is a functional condition, right? Why isn't there, or is there an engineering approach that could be taken to this? Yeah, it's a good question, and I don't think that, well, let me put it this way, medications are always going to be a really important goal, not only to sort of reduce symptoms, but hopefully find cures. But there's this whole other class of therapies that are coming online that have to do with this other property of brain cells, which is very different than, let's say, the pancreas or the liver. It's the electrical side of the equation, so there's the chemical and biological side, but then there's this electrical side, and the brain is an electrical organ. Our thoughts are really dependent on these electrochemical kind of processes that happen at individual neurons and the collection of them. So there's this large and growing field that we call neural engineering, that is really trying to use computers, sensors, chips, in order to interpret, you've stopped on how the neurons are signaling to each other, regardless of their, you know, pathology or the biology, but just what are they saying to one another, can we eavesdrop on that, can we interpret it, can we decode it? And then more importantly, can we use that information actually to guide, you know, sort of more normal signaling? Why this is potentially important is that if the end of the day, the function is from that electrical activity. It's the propagation of those action potential by neurons, which give rise to our thoughts, or really to communicate our ability to walk, move our arm, without that, it's not there. So I would say neuroengineering as a complement to the biological or pharmaceutical approaches. Any of you and I were mapped simultaneously together, and this question might not even make sense, so please feel free to adjust the question to make it logical, but I think you'll understand what I'm trying to ask. Somehow all of the electrical activity of my brain could be mapped to a computer, and the same could be done with yours. And we were thinking the same thing, so it was an experiment where we were both told to think the same thing. Peter, Eddie, we both want you to think about sitting on a beach with your feet in the sand, it's hot. Like what is descriptive is you want it to be? Would the outputs on the computer screen be similar? Would the computer be able to appreciate similar electrical output, or could two people that are doing the best job they can to have the same thoughts, not be able to produce that? In other words, is there a one to one map of thought to electrical activity? Short answer is actually both. Okay, so in that example that you gave, if both of us are looking at the same picture of a scene on the beach, yes, the same part of our brain is going to be processing those images, and the very back of the brain that we call the Cipital Lobe, the primary visual cortex is going to be parsing that space into what we call red and on top of the space, like essentially, you know, where those different pixels are located in the image. That part is going to be highly conserved, not identical, but highly conserved between your brain and mind. It's where these computations go further upstream, where they become much, much more differentiated, much more specific to our brain, much more dependent actually on our history, in our thought, you know, history of thoughts, our personality, you know, everything that's interacting with the rest of the brain. I'll give you a great example. The way that you may hear Spanish or French or German is going to be very different than someone who is a native speaker of those languages, right? Your brain is going to process some of those sounds, you'll hear them, but you're not going to be able to pick out the words for easily. Or the way I hear an engine versus the way my wife hears an engine. I love the sound, she's mildly annoyed by the sound. We're hearing the same thing. Absolutely. Yeah. So there are parts that are going to be very similar, like how we process some of the sensory attributes, and then the further you go deep into the system, the more it's become, like, very, very tailored. Some of this is hard-wired, right? Like the way that our visual system early on is a lot of it is hard-wiring. It's heavily influenced by what we see is, you know, if it's being a snake, should automatically produce a negative response that doesn't have to be learned in theory. I assume evolution of how they acquired us for that. There are some things that are instinctual. Certain odors would be hard-wired, not the things that are going to smell rotten or something like that. Oh, yeah, absolutely. There's a lot of those things that are very intuitive and... Now going back to the, we're showing you the picture of the beach. How much do you change over time? So if we did that experiment when you were 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, would that also change? It will change, but less. And I think over time these things become refined, and over time actually lose their refinement. So as we each have some of those representations, actually become less clear. If we talk about hearing, for example, there are a lot of people in the population over time, it's very hard for them to be in a crowd of restaurant where there's a lot of background noise, competing conversations going on. And yet these interviews can have perfect hearing. So signal processing is becoming the problem. That's exactly right. It's not an ear problem per se. It's a perceptual problem, and largely in the brain. And that it has to do with how that information, how, how, how, like the fidelity. Is that a carbon-dure of something bad? It's independently no, but we do know that when people have that problem, they tend to be more socially isolated. So there's a lot of secondary things that happen. We do know that when people have hearing loss and it's unrecognized, a lot of people have unrecognized hearing loss. And what people don't fully appreciate is that if you don't have access to communication, to conversation, and you're not, your brain is not getting those same signals. It's becoming deprived. And what we do know through many studies now is that the cognitive effects of that hearing loss actually can be quite profound. It accelerates age-related memory loss. Yeah, we, we actually internally in our practice, believe that that is causal to cognitive decline. Now there was a study that came out about two years ago that suggested it wasn't. Although the study had a partial retraction. The methodology was a little flawed, but to my knowledge, I don't know if it's been repeated. The question being, of course, is if you correct hearing loss, let's say you randomized a group of people with early MCI, and you correct hearing loss, do you correct or prevent or reverse it? And, and again, if there's causality there, you would expect that you would. What about with visual, you know, as people get older and they develop cataracts or things of those nature, and their visual acuity goes down, does it have the same effect on depriving them of enough neural stimulation to maintain precision? Yeah, it's not as much because it's not a language issue. It's not as much. Yeah. And I'm less aware of the prevalence of something that's age-related just in the visual cortex, for example. So let's go back to brain computer interface. What would you explain this to somebody at a party if they said, but it sounds pretty high-tech, but what is it? Okay. Well, okay, so let's just break apart the terms. Brain refers to really any kind of thing that interfaces with the cortex or the deeper structures. The computer is a digital device on the outside. A lot of people now call this BCI, brain computer interface for short. It's a very messy term because it could mean a lot of different things, but I think in a nutshell, what it means is for most people, a system that is recording from the brain, whether it's non-abacive from the scalp or something that's fully invasive, like within the brain itself, and connecting those signals to a computer that analyzes the signal and then does something with it. In many cases of BCI research, the application is, for example, to remove a computer cursor, or in the research that we've done is to replace speech words for someone who's severely paralyzed and unable to talk anymore. And so it's about interpreting brain signals and then using a computer to interpret those signals and then transform them into a form that's useful to us. So in that example, you gave your describing a patient with a phasia who can't speak? Let me be very specific about that. So a lot of the work that we've done is on people that have severe form of paralysis and a phasia we typically refer to as someone who's got, let's say, a stroke. In the language centers of the brain, where we focus recently is on patients that have a severe form of paralysis like ALS. So their problem is they have largely normal language, but they can't get those. Can't get the motor signal out to the vocal tract, the lips, the tongue, the jaw, the larynx, those descending fibers are severely affected by ALS, they degenerate. And that's why people progressively become paralyzed and lose ability to speak. And an important part of that is that they lose ability to speak, but they still have full cognition. Yeah. And for that individual by attaching a computer to their brain, you're able to hopefully extract and written cursive text, whatever across the computer screen, what they're wishing to say. That's right. Okay. Let's talk about how that could possibly be done. You mentioned earlier, there are at least two broad ways to extract that information. A non-invasive way where presumably you're putting electrodes all over a head that says, well, shorn is mine. Alternatively, a very invasive way where you actually remove the scalp and you lay these things on the cortex itself, correct? Yeah. So the range would be EEG, which is where sensors are placed on the scalp directly, recording non-invasive way. You can remove them at any time. And then the far other extreme is electrodes that are actually placed into the brain, the most severe. ECOG would be electrodes that are on the brain service that's short for electrocordicography. And that's where we've done the vast majority of our work in my lab. And that's just placed on the surface of the cortex, under the dura, on the cortex. That's absolutely correct. Yeah. So what's nice about that is that you don't have the injury to the brain itself from the insertion of the electrodes. It's a stable recording over time. We now use ECOG devices to essentially help people with seizures, for example, where you can basically have a pacemaker now that records from the brain service and then stimulates to help stop the seizures. And this is a fully implanted device. It's moving towards that. So the work that we've done in our clinical trial is using an array that's surgically placed, but connected through a port. We call it a percutaneous port because it's actually physically attached an anchored to the skull. It's an array on the brain. It comes out the dura and is anchored in the skull. Where's the port exit the body? Right on the top of the scalp. How do you prevent infection with such a close? Yeah. It's a really good question. And that's what the main problem with this early prototype BCI. And it's our group. There's other groups around the world that are using similar things primarily to show if you know, it's possible actually to decode brain activity for useful purposes. So what's happening right now in the field is a lot of these technologies are now going to become wireless over time. But you're absolutely right. One of the main reasons is that we want to move away from the percutaneous. We want to move away from the ports which are infection risk on top of other problems. And move to things that are fully implanted, fully wireless. How long do you feel your way from that? Basically about a year. Okay. Yeah. We've been working on it for quite some time. And so it's a really interesting time where we're seeing a convergence of like what's possible with electrical engineering. You know, high bandwidth wireless, press a way beyond what we can do with Bluetooth. Events, electronics that now allows to print some of these sensors on a substrate that is thinner than a piece of paper. Really, really small. And on a substrate that can conform to the convolutions, you know, the different peaks and valleys of the, you know, human cortical surface. So what is the tradeoff between ECOG and sensors inserted directly in the brain? Yeah. What's the resolution difference? Well, that's a very important question that we and many other people are trying to figure out right now. Most of the time when people are putting an electrode into the brain, there has to be some gain for that. And usually that's for recording a higher resolution, usually trying to record the activity of single neurons. A single cell. How can you isolate a single cell? Yeah, really small electrodes. Super small electrodes. And that's, we do a lot of work with this in our research. The challenge for the field is just been that it's very hard to stable it record from single cells more than a couple of hours or days. So that's one challenge. The problem challenge is that when you put the electrodes into the brain, you can create a reaction. Those glial cells, so we talked about the very beginning of those support cells, they actually have immune function as well. They detect that there is a foreign body and they'll activate and they'll react to it, create a scar around the electrodes. So the advantage of having electrodes in the brain to do this very microscopic kind of recording is that you can get a finer signal from single cells. The disadvantage is that it can create a reaction that reduces the fidelity of those signals over time. One of the reasons we've been most interested in using these sensors on the brain cortex is that we've learned over time that if you don't have the electrodes penetrating through the peel surface of the cortex, that's the outermost. Very thin membrane that's covering the cortex. If you don't have anything going through that, you can avoid a lot of those immune reactions, avoid a lot of that's going. That's going to preserve the function that's underlying, but this is something that we're actively trying to understand. So just to give me a sense of magnitude, if EEG on the surface is one, one unit of resolution, what would ECO GB and what would implant it electrode be, is it one, ten, hundred, what's the scale at what's your thinking of resolution? Well, I would say from the scalp, let's say we just arbitrarily call that one. You know, and then you think about what you could do with this ECO GB, I think we're really talking about let's say, you know, a thousand times better resolution. We've been able to answer very fundamental questions, actually about how the brain works using those kind of surface recordings in a way that's impossible with surface scalp electrodes. And then once you go take that further to single neurons and you've got another resolution probably six to five five five thousand. So there is a big jump is just going from an EEG to an ECO G directly. That's a three log change, right, whereas you're a five X change going deeper. And so one of the reasons for that is the skull and the scalp are major loss of signal. The signals are small to begin with. So once you're trying to interpret them through the skull of scalp, they're basically gone and very diffuse to. So trying to understand like where they came from in any precise ways, almost impossible. When you're recording directly on the surface, you're basically at the source itself. The cellular level, the single cell recordings are terrific for trying to understand that ultra fine resolution primarily. In the case of we use some force for research primarily to understand, you know, what's happening at those units, but still to this day, there's really no way that you can chronically and stablely record from the same cells, you know, over. Because of the reaction. Also because of how fine of a problem it is, like how precise it has to be. We're talking about a single cell, you know, a couple of microns in diameter. And you've got a electrode, any micromotion at all, anything changes that. And so typically what we see with a lot of those systems that record from those is there's a lot of turnover from day to day or hour to hour. Meaning you're drifting between which neuron you're recording in. That's exactly right. Yes, but does that imply then that I mean, just taking a step back, you said 82 billion neurons in our brain. So you put the probe into one and it moves over to the next one and the next one and the next one. One like me would naively assume they're all the same. You know, those are like three row homes that are basically all identical on the upper west side. Like that's we're not talking about try back a here. Because it really matter if the probe moves between those three sounds like the answer's yes, but I'm curious. The answer is yes. And because we now know that, you know, cells that are right next to each other can have some very different information. Now that being said, when you go through a column of the cortex, the column is this vertical organization. Typically what we were thinking about when we look at is the two dimension of the surface, but there's a third dimension of information processing, which is the different layers of the cortex we call the lamina. And typically in some of the sensory areas, for example, if you put a electrode, it's primarily going to be tuned to the same information across those different neurons. Across that depth. So you're right. In certain areas, you may have neurons that are tuned to the exact identical thing. And for decoding purposes, that may actually not be a big deal to have it not, you know, not very stationary over time. In other instances where you're trying to code from areas where it's a lot more intermix, it can have really profound implications where you have to recalibrate the algorithms that the machine is doing to interpret the signals. You know, every couple of hours or days. So when you do ECOG, how do you direct the sensor at the part of the brain you want to go to? Because I assume it has to be far more nuanced than just where you slap it on the cortex. Yeah. We're definitely getting into details. And I love that Peter. You're not afraid of getting into the details. And so this is one of the actually the elutes to one of the things we were talking about earlier. The part of my brain in the part of your brain that is responsible for speaking, especially in the motor control part, is largely the same. It's in the same ballpark. There's a lot of variation when we come down to the details. The micro geography. But it's in the same. It's like largely in the same city, if we're talking about geography. Where your house is, first my house, et cetera, that's going to be a little bit varied within that. One of the nice features about using ECOG or electrocordicography is that you can put an array over that entire area safely. And you can sample very, very densely across the other across the entire city, let's say. And so it doesn't really matter actually at the end of the day, if one person's there and the others. But it seems to actually be a feature, not a bug, right? Absolutely. The bug is you give up the resolution at what's happening in the kitchen of that house, but you now get to look at all the houses. Exactly. And you get to do it in a way that's very safe and scalable. And you're only, I mean, the biggest thing you give up is 20% you give up 80% of the resolution roughly. Right. But yeah. So with ECOG, tell me how many words per minute you could capture from a patient with ALS. Okay. So what we did in our clinical trial at UCSF? Was this the 2023 paper? Yes. Okay. This is the nature paper. That's right. So we published a paper in 2023. We worked with an participant named Anne. She had a very severe brainstem stroke about 20 years ago. How old was Anne? She was in her 20s. It wasn't long after she got married. Actually, just a couple months after her second daughter was born. She was playing volleyball with her friends, collapsed, taken to the hospital. She survived the injury. She's hooked up with it for a team of artists. Yes. That's exactly right. Okay. Peter, you're very, this is just a memory. Your medical school is actually pretty good. This is impressive. But back to Anne. Yeah. Absolutely devastating. Okay. So just so people understand, for people to artery, everyone's heard of the crowded arteries. Okay. The crowded arteries come up through her neck and they primarily give the blood flow to the front part of the brain. The for people to artery is an equally, if not more important set of arteries, that supply the brain stem, which connects the brain to the spinal cord, in the back of the brain. So we have these two pairs of really important blood vessels that come to our brain, the crowded and then the vertebral arteries. Anne had an injury, while she was playing, and it was really just unfortunate, but she had this stroke and the vertebral artery that blocked the blood supply to the brain stem. So functionally what this means. Can I ask you a question? Does it have to be bilateral to cause the injury, or if it happens on one side, can the other side not perfuse around the circle of willas, why does that injury happen? Yeah. Just to be even more precise about this, unlike the crowded artery, the vertebral arteries, you have a left and right for a typical artery that come up through your neck. Then they go through the base of the skull through the framing magnum. It's essentially where the spinal cord is coming through the base of the skull. When they enter the skull, they become one artery. It's called the basilar artery. And the basilar artery and the small, perfrating arteries that come off that supply the brain stem are absolutely critical. So it depends where the dissection occurs. If it occurs before the bifurcation, you're probably fine. If it occurs above the bifurcation or the where they join is not the bifurcation, but yeah. Yeah. Actually, you're right. Like there are many cases. In fact, sometimes we for various reasons actually have to occlude a vertebral artery. And then the other one, just collateral, you know, gives the collateral flow. So the basilar, however, doesn't have that kind of information critical. It doesn't have that insurance policy. You know back up. Right. And so it's such a critical structure. And when there's a problem there, it's usually actually like terminal. And survived this stroke. She was left quadriplegic, meaning she couldn't move her arms and legs. But in addition to that, she couldn't speak. Because the nerves that come through the brain down through the brain stem and go to the cranial nerves, which supply the vocal tract, those were also directly affected. And yet, just again, you'll have to pardon my profound ignorance. Those would be lower cranial nerves. That's right. So the three, four, five, the ones for the diaphragm were intact. So she could still breathe on her own. But what is it? 789 would have been compromised, which is why she couldn't speak or something in that neighborhood. Yeah. It's not really the, um, it's the cranial nerves in particular around the lower ones. Okay. And those distributions that allow the control of the tongue. That's a hypoglass one nerve. That's number 12. Okay. It's number 10, the vagus, you know. But it's not precisely the nerves. It's actually the brain stem nuclei. Where the nerves originate. That's exactly right. And that's not something one predicts from any type of stroke. It's simply the nature of where what part of the brain stem was affected. That's exactly right. And was the paralysis or result of her cerebellum also having in-farks? No. No. It was all brain stem, really. Just brain stem. Good for God. Yeah. Precisely that are there. We call the ponds. Yeah. So, um, yeah. So, devastating. Devasting. So, this for 20 years. And is now in her 40s. In a wheelchair unable to speak. Right. So, um, I think some important things about this are that, um, It was actually about 18 years after her stroke that she decided to participate in our trial. And we had talked actually a year earlier. She said, I really want to wait to participate in this trial because I want to wait until my daughter graduates. And then I can do this with you guys. And I assume she said that because the risk of something catastrophic happening was high enough that she felt she needed to wait. Well, she's a mom. Yeah. You know, um, and she wanted to be there for a daughter. And, um, you know, she had a year for the graduation. And she reached out to us because, um, we had an earlier participant also with a brain stem stroke. That we treated that we did this trial that I'm about to describe. And she read about it and so she reached out to us. And how did she communicate at that point in time? Yeah. So the main way that she communicates is through devices that can track her eye movements. Um, those are translated to a pointer that can point on those screen to individual letters or words. And so it's a very painstaking way of communicating. One thing I've learned about Anne is she's just a tremendous person, uh, positive person. Um, she's just a force of nature, you know, she recently actually used that same system to write a book chapter. Um, just incredible. Okay. So we started this trial called the Bravo Trial. Um, something that we worked with the FDA very closely to get approved because it requires a brain surgery. It requires this percutaneous port that we talked about. Um, the reason we were able to get it approved in this form was that a lot of the components that we were using were actually existing medical materials. So the safety of it was largely already known in terms of its bio compatibility, its bio stability. Um, what was not known is that if someone is not spoken for a decade or two, whether or not those parts of the brain actually would still work. Yeah. It's really interesting because we know that if a person loses their sight for X number of years, I'm guessing that the occipital lobe doesn't work the same way. It's not processing the information. So it, I don't know that it actually physically atrophies, but I'm guessing that it's not, it's not the neurons aren't firing the same way, right? That's right. So what would be interesting is we just don't know if Anne's inner monologue is still happening. Right. The same way. Right. Or yeah, that's a very interesting question. Right. And I think that ultimately that was the biggest risk actually. There's a lot of emphasis like on the technology, but the basic biology of how the brain works and whether that information is still being processed. I think are really the more important ones actually. And so, what we did was we did a surgery where we implanted an array of 253 ECOG sensors. These are the sensors that are densely spaced. How many? Not 253. So we're talking about something about the surface area of a credit card. And it's filled with electrode sensors that are spaced about 3mm apart. Each sensor is about a millimeter, and diameter. And so basically you've got this credit card sized array that was placed on the part of a brain that processes words. In particular, the motor production of the words. The parts that control the lips, the jaw, the larynx, the tongue. Eries that were functionally disconnected from her vocal tract because of this stroke and the brain stem, which connects the brain to those muscles. And so, we did the surgery about three weeks later. We started our research sessions with her. We connected the cable. It's basically an HDMI cable. That is attached to a head stage. The head stage transforms the analog signals from her brain. These are a small voltage. Yeah, can you work with me? Maybe. I think I know I get into the weeds a bit much, but I think it's kind of interesting in signal processing. Can you explain why the brain is analog and why you have to convert that to digital? Yeah. Good question. Well, to some degree, there's a level that it is digital. Like when we talk about... Actually, the potential is digital. Single, nervous. Action potentials, like firing, yes or no. Yeah. That's like a digital form. But when we're recording a lot of these, especially the ECOG, it's an analog. It's looking at the average of these from a population of, let's say, a couple of thousand of those neurons activating. And the work that we've done actually over the last decade and a half, which led up to this, using methods like ECOG, we've learned from that there's a map what we've learned during the very beginning, like the homonculus, but a mini-homonculus, that is corresponding to those parts of the vocal track, the lyrics, the tone, the jaw. We figured out essentially how those signals correspond to every consonant and vowel in English, about a decade ago. And actually, that was the impetus for actually starting this clinical trial. Was that we essentially had identified what the neural code was like, what part of the brain, and how that neural activity corresponds to all the movements that create, you know, syllables, for example. How big a data set was required to create that knowledge? Probably about 36. That's incredible. That's incredible. To just get the basic idea of this. And is this something where if that were 36,000, it would be how much better? Almost, hopefully perfect, like near a perfect, what we're talking about, let's get to that. Yeah, okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Right. Like how does this scale, how do we use the information from other individuals to help and of one, for example? But in Ants particular case, we started from the beginning. We actually didn't use that data. We knew that it was possible. We knew what the nature of that data and that code would look like. And then at the same time that we're doing all of this research, Peter, AI is developing in parallel. Yeah. Okay. So all of these tools that we now are using every day, transcribing our voice right now into text. We use that technology. We can actually use those same technologies that generate voices, called speech synthesis. And so we've used a lot of the same tools, machine learning tools that are in modern day, AI's. And we're now applying them on the brain activity and trying to use them to not translate, for example, text and synthesize speech. But now the equation is different. It's translate from brain activity and to synthesize speech. The input is not text. The input is the ECOG activity across these 253 sensors. Which of course is the logical extension. But just if you ignore the cost of compute, is there an advantage to doing it that way? Because you take out an intermediary step. Yes. Yeah. It's because we know that the ballpark is there, but we know that everyone's brain. That detail level, like if you're going to reconstruct the words, you can't just be in the ballpark. You have to know basically what each leave of grass on that ballpark is doing. And that's highly variable across individuals. So what is AI? Just trying to think about what the machine has to do. What is its training set? How does it know? Yeah. Walk me through. I'll walk you through. So the way that we train the algorithm, the way that we started this was we would give in prompts on a screen and text. And basically we would ask her to try to say it. So the value of that is we know, can she move her lips? She can move a little bit. She can't speak. So she can move her jaw or her lips, but none of it is intelligible. She has what we call an R3. Basically she can vocalize a little bit, but none of it is intelligible. Any form? I see. But if her inner monologue, if you put up the word, the cow jumped over the fence and she says, and in her mind, the signal is the cow jumped over the fence, then I totally see how it works. Yeah. At that point, you have infinite training data. You would basically just have her read, war and peace. Right. So let me just clarify. The theory that we are decoding from is not the part of the brain that it's processing either in her monologue or reading. It really is this part that is about this volitional intent. Oh, that's such a good point. To speak, right? So it's not about her. It's not reading. It's not reading. So when I'm reading, the cow jumped over the fence, but I'm not, if I just go, what part of my brain is internalizing the cow? You're visual cortex. Yep. And then as it goes further, it's going into some of the language areas. But it's not necessarily activating the lips, John, the larynx, you know, the areas that are paralyzed. Right. And so we're tapping into a part of the brain that is really, So this is a hard exercise. This takes a lot of effort on her part. A lot. So let me describe actually what that was. So for days, what we would do is have a sentence on a screen. And we'd give her the start time and the end time. And during that, she would just look at the sentence. She'd give in to go cue and then try to say it. Nothing intelligible comes out. She may or may not be moving the lips job, but just try to say it. And that turns out to be very important. Oh my God. Like you can't just think about it. You can just, oh, wow. You have to actually try to say it. And that's what she did. So we started with a very simple vocabulary of about 27 words. The words that we chose are the NATO code words. Alpha, Bravo, Charlie, Delta, Echo. We did that because we could measure basically the accuracy of the decoder. That was analyzing those brain signals and translating them into those 26 different code words. And on the first day, we were able to train the algorithm on a data set of like maybe about an hour and a half. To get to about 50% accuracy. And does 50% accuracy mean she could get half of them right? So any time you showed her one there was a 50% chance it would be correct. But well, you just said in our sense identical. Okay. Like so she's looking and then try to say. But there wasn't a bias towards the subset of them that she was always getting right and others that she was always getting wrong. Actually was a bias. Yeah. Actually if I get into details, yes. Some of them were more discriminable than others. And was it based on the number of syllables? Yes. Actually it was based on that in some of the phonetic properties. But one of the reasons why NATO code words for us was a really useful training task for us is because NATO code words were developed in the first place by the military and proof communication accuracy. The reason why we actually use those code words is because sometimes if you just say a, be, you know, like D, Z, there's a lot of confusion. So that's why we actually use those code words. It increases the discriminability and intelligibility. We're a lot of those settings. You just can't make those errors. For example, you know, pilots. Yep. You know, in the call numbers, for example. So we use that because it has high discrepanability. And on that first day, you know, I think we got about 50%. And this is going straight to voice. No, this was going straight. This is going to text. This is straight to text. Yeah. And so we're just trying to figure out, could we, um, to code which work it was and it was displayed in text? Um, so that's pretty me. That's the first day 50%. That's the first day. Yeah. And then over the next, I would say about six days. The performance just got better and better. And then by about, you know, like a week into this, she was up into the 95% range. Um, so that was unexpected. Um, it was incredible to see the performance increase, you know, so quickly. But that did take a full week to do that. As a question now. And I'm sure that the NATO code is not designed for this purpose, but presumably one could concoct a series of words that contain within them the full range of, um, of tones of, um, phonetics of syllable juxtapositions that would allow you to use the smallest possible training data to get the largest possible outcome. Does that make sense? Absolutely. And do you have a sense of what that would, like, how would one even develop such a thing? Because this is a novel problem. Right. Um, it's actually a really important and more profound actually, then you may realize, um, what you're referring to is the generative property of speech and language. And what I mean by generative is that you can take these individual elements like consonants and vowels, which by themselves have no meaning at all. Yep. And give rise to all possible meaning from just different combinations of them, just like DNA. Yeah. DNA. We've got four base pairs essentially as a code for all of life. Except DNA is so much easier because it's finite. Mm-hmm. And the rules are always the same. You can define all the rules. Yeah. Here you have. So it's, it's, there's only four base pairs and they can only combine in two ways. And everyone has a one to one mapping with what it's going to become. Here you have 26 letters. They can combine in a near infinite ways. And then there are all these dumb exceptions. Right. So that's where the AI actually comes in. So let me, let me just explain a little bit about how that algorithm works. Um, because what you ask about actually is very, very much at the heart of the way that we do this. So we don't go from the brain activity directly to speech and words and sentences. In the very beginning with the native, that's what we do. You can use an algorithm called a classifier. It's going to look at the pattern activity and then just say, okay, looks mostly like beta. Another one looks mostly like echo. Another one looks like Charlie. Okay. But to get too expressive, normal speech, you need something that actually can open up much more common at the world. Yeah. So much more common at the world. Yeah. Potential to generate sequences of syllables, words and sentences. So what we did was we built a decoder that translates the brain activity patterns in very small segments. Like 10 to 20 millisecond little chunks of brain data. Really small signals, right, like small windows of signals. And the machine learning is looking at those small windows and making an educated guess. How does the mapping of that brain activity relate to a given consonant or vowel? Now, I'm using consonant vowel just because it's easy to understand. The reality is we used a speech unit. That phone number or something like that. A phone number. Yeah. But actually something that was statistically derived from a speech recognition algorithm. It was statistically derived. It was not something that was linguistically or, you know, that you read about. It's like really a computational unit that we know. If you have a hunt, if you can decode a hundred of these units, you can generate fluent comprehensible speech. And so we used AI actually to derive what those units would be in the first place. We took a speech recognition system that meta had made open source, you know, about five years ago. It's one of the leading speech recognition algorithms. We took, essentially, the neurons and what they do in that neural network. And then we try to map those actually to the brain activity patterns. That's on the very front end. The first step of the decoding. It's translating the back that neural activity patterns to these individual speech units that are just 10 to 20 million. And then it's, of course, knows the sequence of these units over time because it's part of the algorithm calculation. And we use something called a language model, which is something that all of us are now familiar with when you're texting it out of corrects. You're speech, why? Because it just got a model of English in there. And that it knows what particular sequence of the things should be like. And so even if a lot of the data is kind of fuzzy. As more data accumulates, you get a sequence. And then it can basically use a best guess over time. What we call probabilistic inference of what was the most likely word or phoneme at any given time point. And ultimately, we could construct sentences. Did you get a sense from Anne as to how her level of fatigue with this progressed? In other words, what becomes the bottleneck? Is it, does it get easier and easier for her to go through this talking motion as she practices more? Is it just like any other muscle that we think of that has sort of atrophied? And now she's sort of getting her talking back in shape? It is a bit of that. And we're trying to make that easier over time. I think in the beginning days, we were trying everything to get it to work. And a lot of it, again, has to do with this volitional intent to speak. That turns out to be the most critical thing. Peter, one of the things that I thought was really interesting also was we were doing so much decoding through these tasks at over time, actually a couple months into this. And it reported to us actually the strength of her oral facial muscles, her jaw. Tony, there were actually getting stronger through this constant therapy, constant rehabilitation. And so I think right now everything is about just decoding the brain activity, you know, to an artificial, digital thing. But I do think that in the future BCIs are also going to be a way that we can do rehabilitation. Right? Like it's a way that we have this direct readout of what the brain is trying to do. You can essentially build a prosthetic that helps people speak, but in the process, someone who hasn't spoken for a while, regain some of that natural strength over time. So that's a new indication that we're thinking about in the future. How do you use this technology actually to augment the next-seller at rehabilitation? If Anne had that stroke today, how different if at all would this process look, if you were working with a person who hadn't spent 20 years or 18 years without speaking? There's no question that I think it would work faster. There's less to learn. For her, not speaking for 18 years, basically meant that she basically had to relearn how to speak. And we had to keep up with her relearning. Her brain was probably re-organizing, relearning, actually some of those fundamental things. And she could see the feedback of essentially whether or not she was trying to say it was right or wrong. And it was very intense work. So we're trying to make that easier over time. But I think certainly the more preserved, the more recent that activity is, those memories, the synapses we talked about earlier, the more stable, the more functional they are, the easier it is to actually decode them. So what will be this ceiling for the current technology? How many words per minute? And at what resolution or accuracy do you think the current technology with, because this was ECOG in her case, correct? Right. Where do you think it's going to go? Where do you think it will, where will this asymptote? We're seeing a lot of progress in this field. At the same time, or soon after, what we were doing, there were other groups that basically could see similar effects. Ars was primarily from the brain service, other groups, close colleagues might, were able to now do this with electrodes that were inside the brain, you know, seeing these inter-cortical arrays. So it seems that it's possible with different approaches. I think what is going to be a key question is, you know, what's going to be the right form moving in the future for many patients. With Anne, we were able to get about 80 words per minute on average, so sometimes much faster than that. Like comparison, how many words can you and I speak comfortably? Like you and I are probably doing about 150, 160 words per minute right now. Wow. So she could speak at half the rate, yeah. It's bigger. That's pretty amazing. Yeah. And it's not like the speech was coming out super slow. It's just that there's this built-in latency time that we used to translate the brain activity into those words and sentences. And what we published in 23. You had a very short latency on your more recent paper, didn't you? That's exactly right. So in the 23 paper, our decoding strategy was to take this sequence of decoded phonetic elements. And we could look at that sequence and then apply the decoding algorithm in the language model to reconstruct full sentences. And then we could even synthesize them. In fact, in personalized, I'm actually to her pre-entry voice. In a more recent study that we just published this here, we were able to do this in a streaming way with, you know, less in a second latency between each phonetic element. So it's not like we're waiting for the whole sentence to occur, but we're doing decoding on the fly and it's intelligible and fast. And that will get the words up to what you think. It's quickly as she can try to say them basically. So, and this is all with the same hardware. This is with the same hardware, totally different algorithm. So are there on the intercranial hardware? Obviously, there's a big material science push to come up with the most immunologically inert substance possible. That's your challenge there. But with the ECOG, is there another hardware step function you're waiting for? Not really. I mean, I think the thing that's most exciting about this is that we have the technology now. We got to optimize it in the right form factor. I mean, I guess it's just moving to a fully implantable device, so you don't have to deal with the infection risk. So we need to have the array that will have a lot more channels. Actually, so last time I talked about a credit card size with 253, we'd like to have something that has 4x that amount of sensors. This seems completely achievable when you think about what Nvidia is doing or TSMC. I mean, that strikes me as very solvable, right? It is, and we are doing it right now. And with any medical device, you got to put it all together and make it improve it. So we've taken these components that have very high bandwidth wireless connected to this array. And I think in many ways we've done the hard part already, like what Andy did, what Pancho did, use one of our earlier participants. What Walter doing, these are incredible people that really the first people in the world actually to be able to achieve this real pioneers. That was the hard part. The hard part is always like the first time. Yeah, for sure. Do the proof of concept. It's the proof of concept. Everything now is actually just a optimization to be honest with you. Do you think of this more as an engineering problem now? It is. Yes. So let's now expand it, right? So you have the proof of concept for the engineering problem that says brain works, motor system doesn't work. We can extract speech. What about these other problems that we talked about at the outset? What about ALS, right? Not for speech, but for respiratory function, right? So a patient with ALS is I assume, I don't actually believe it or not know much about it, but I assume that they ultimately succumb to respiratory complications and with the explorations or things like that. So so if we could, if we could overcome that problem and bypass the degenerative motor neurons, is there an engineering solution to ALS based on the type of technology we're seeing today? When we say solution, I mean, to preserve communication for someone, to preserve. Well, I would say let's go even beyond the ability to talk, but the ability to breathe normally, for example, like the ability to not lose motor function outside of the CNS. Yeah. So to do that, basically, is another couple of step functions in engineering, where basically, we're talking about bypassing pretty significant sections of the nervous system. So you're going to tap into the brain to get some of the control signals. Some of this, you don't even need to tap in the brain for breathing a lot of it is, like, as you know, is wired for not thinking about a certain way. Central pattern generators in the brain stem, for example, are really important for that breathing pattern. Like this is my son, I know you've had a bit like, why is it that we couldn't wire into all of the cranial nerves outside of the cranium? Yeah. And create a respiratory system that is fully automated. Like, like, almost think of an AICD for the diaphragm and chest wall. Yeah. So we've spent almost all of our time really talking about the brain side, but then you can imagine another whole new enterprise and endeavor of building the electronics that not necessarily even tap into the nerves that cranial nerves, let's say, or the cervical nerves that go to the diaphragm. But you bypass those two and you go directly to the muscles. Yeah. Exactly. And so there is a field we're not directly doing this research ourselves, but it's highly related to where the future is. It's called FES functional electrical stimulation. So coupling the brain computer interface, the device that's decoding the brain activity, translating into the control signals, and then actually acting on the muscles through stimulating. Electroids that are in the muscle themselves and doing that coordinated movement. But everything actually is a really interesting one because it's not as complex as let's say using our back restoring our hand. You know, it's interesting. Everybody assumes today, you know, if you really want to be in the forefront of technology, you need to be on the CS side. But the truth of the matter is you need just as much horsepower on the bioengineering side here. Electroengineering biomedical engineering, mechanical engineering, I mean, these are material science. I mean, these are this type of problem is the intersection of everything that is high tech from AI to computer science to all disciplines of engineering. Coupled with medicine, right? I mean, you have a surgeon too. That's exactly right. I think that you hear the nail on head because in many ways that's the challenge actually more than the technology itself is from the brain. The technology itself is really how do you get the engineer in the room with a neurosurgeon with a neurologist, the neuroscientist like all thinking and a really conservative way about solving this problem. And then what you're going to see in the future actually is that this is going to evolve more and more as a biological problem. Thinking about biology is the next technology solution in junior itself that are interfacing with the brain as opposed to, you know, metal electrodes. New ways of doing computing that are through biology that are not through semiconductors. You know, that I think ultimately is where things are ultimately, you know, are going to go in the future. Well, say more about that. I mean, this is. There are some people that are already talking about this, but I'd like to like people to understand more what you mean by that because it's it's complicated. Well, it is it is complicated. What I'm talking about really is, you know, I think the next couple of steps. But what one of the reasons why this comes up is that when you have these, you know, okay, you actually said it really precisely before, okay, you've got this electrode system. Let's say you're recording from one cell. Best case scenario, you'd be the electronics system that can maybe do 10, maybe 40 in the future of 1000 channels. But the denominator is 86 billion. Yeah, like we're not in the scale. Yep. Right. Not in the same regime of scale. Biology has done that all along. Biology has solved a lot of these scaling problems. Cells that have the same genetic programming, you know, multiply because of their environment. Other factors have become specialized for a specific function. That's how our brain is. Right. Like each individual cell has the same genetic program. But because of its local meallu ends up having a different identity, different purpose. And so I think that is really, you know, thinking outside of the electronical engineering really moving into the realm of like bioengineering. And this field is moving pretty fast. You know, there's a whole field that we call organoids. And this is creating mini brains from cell cultures or stem cells building miniature brains primarily being used as models of disease right now. But also as ways to test new drugs. But we're going to see these now interfacing with the world of brain computer interfaces. And so I think that that's part of the future for shirts for exciting. It's not like like near term. But there certainly is something about the future of technology is actually in biology. What is your stretch goal for the field in 2030? So stretch goal, meaning I define that as things have to go well, but it's we're not talking science fiction. By 2030, I hope that we have these systems actually available to a much broader market. Like we have shown in a research setting, very controlled setting that this can be done. The proof of concept. What really needs to be done is a lot of hard engineering to make this practical, usable, useful for people like with a real world of engineering. For people like with a variety of different neurological conditions, not just L.S. but spinal cord injury, stroke, multiple sclerosis. And that's a challenge right like everyone may have a very specific need. We need to be able to solve that. It is an optimization. It can be solved. That's what I'd love to see by 2030 like just let's get a couple of these across the finish line so that they're actually out in the world helping people. Is there a current company or set of companies that are the natural owner to solving this problem based on their existing expertise or is what you're talking about. Basically new companies that have to be, you know, that have to become capitalized and do this denova. Like, yeah, who would be the natural owner of this? Well, I think it's both. So, the most famous probably is Nirl. Like Elon Musk company that has a very specific approach where you have a robot that is surgically inserting and sewing electrodes into the brain and trying to record from that, you know, very finest resolution. And I think there's a lot of progress with that, but also we've seen a lot of challenges. It's a really hard technical problem to solve with that scale. There's a fried brother, companies in that vein. One of the things that we're working on is a highly customized ECOG approach because basically we already know that it works from a lot of the work that we've done. And we can make it a lot higher resolution than we've done before. And make it much safer with a fully implantable system. And then we're going to see more and more over time that this is going to become less and less invasive. Just like we were talking the very beginning of our conversation, surgeries have become less invasive over time. Brain computer interfaces will become less and less invasive. We're at the very beginning of this story. So like getting the most amount of data right now is the most important with highly invasive approaches. But I think it's time goes on. We're going to back out from that invasiveness. That's always how things evolve to make it more generalizable easier and safer for people to do. And when you say less invasive, do you think there will ever be a day when you can do this off an EEG on the surface or do you think, No, it will be more like minimally invasive surgery to open surgery where instead of a cranny otomy, we're going to bore a single hole in there. We're going to put a small tiny chip in through the Dura implanted on there and we're done. I think that there's some. The latter. Okay. Okay. And there's the resolution at the outside of the skull is probably never going to be good enough. We're talking about a physics problem that I think a lot of people have tried to solve. Batteries will never store energy nearly as well as hydrocarbons full stop. That level of resolution that we have from the scalp like you know in theory. I think. But in practice, no one has been able to crack that a lot of smart people have worked on that problem. Yeah, interesting. I do know that devices can continue to be a miniaturized. I know that surgery can continue to be safer. So we will see this point in history where. You know, devices. At some point are not going to just be about medical applications. There'll be essentially, you know, enhancement level. There's huge ethical questions that we're going to have to deal with when that time comes. We're not there right now. But. I would bet on the technology. You know, because we're not talking about breaking any rules and laws of physics. In order to get there, we're just talking about scaling. Electronic or miniaturizing it in a way that is just a smaller form factor. But over time, everything becomes less invasive. So I'm sure you get asked this question all the time, but going back to the origin of Anne's story. So many people suffer brain injuries. And if you could wave a magic wand, you would just hope for some. Regeneration of the injury portion of her brain and my guess is in the case of. And the actual total volume of cells that are damaged is quite small. It could be this, you know, half the size of your thumb, right? I mean, it's a relatively small, but it just happened to be in the most precious part of real estate in her entire body. So do we know, or do you have any point of view on the potential future of stem cell like interventions for the purpose of. Regeneration specifically in the CNS? Yeah, I mean, this is an area that I think got a lot focused and attention maybe about 10 or 15 years ago. And I would say largely the results were pretty modest. Yeah, it best. Yeah, it best. It's coming back now because of a lot of cell based therapies, organoids. Building miniature models of brains on cell culture, basically. I think the first things that we're going to see and where I am seeing some promise is very focal delivery in replacing cells that have been lost in small targets of the brain. So back to Parkinson's disease where you've got the generation of dopamine, energy neurons and the substantial nigra. The goal is can you replace and basically transplant some stem cells into that part of the brain? And remind me why the cells in the substantial nigra go, is it an autoimmune like what do we know what's killing them? I think there's a lot of, a lot of, it could be multiple fault. It's parlegionetic. There are certain genes that could just both sit generation there. There's certain environmental toxins that can cause the degeneration and then there's like a huge bucket like we still don't know. You know, what's causing that? But if end of the day, there is a degeneration of those very specialized cells. Most of the treatments are around dopamine replacement medications. And how close do you think we are towards transplant? Well, it's already been done actually like 20, 30 years ago. Oh, really, I was using a fetal crafts and. They just didn't take. Some of them took in fact patients, some patients got benefit from it. And the side effects were also fairly severe. They were a variety of different reasons. What kind of side effects? Like if you have too much dopamine, you can actually get disconnections. So hyper movement. So Parkinson's, one of the carnivorous symptoms of Parkinson's. Hypon movement. Yeah, Brady cannesia specifically where you have slowed movements, slowed initiate movements as well. But if you have cells that are just pumping out dopamine, they can also be putting out too much and you get the opposite effect. So it's not as simple as just putting them in there. They actually have to be tuned in the right way to put out the right levels. And so there's a new generation of new therapies that were really interested in traveling UCSF that are much better cell models, much better control that dopamine that's involved. We have much better delivery systems to make sure that the different distribution and. Could you imagine that? Could you imagine engineering your way out of Parkinson's disease? We're working on it. What about synthetic cells? Where you completely get to control it, right? So again, you have the substrate problem. But if it's truly a synthetic cell, then presumably it can make dopamine as well. I mean, it's supposed to an implantable sort of slow leaked dopamine that you come up with some slick way to refill. But what do you think is more likely kind of the more pure engineering approach or the more biological. The more biological transplant approach where you just try to tune it. The near term, of course, is taking some cell cultures. They are not like purely synthesized. That's still, I think, is a huge goal outside of just brain. Like, can you generate a cell denoval. Without some, without some origin. What is that? Is that require immune modulation? Oh, absolutely. So it's a full transplant. Yeah. So a lot of these patients initially will be on immunosuppression for that. But that's also improved a lot. Right? That's just immune-ocupressive as if they had a kidney transplant or a liver heart transplant? Yes. Wow. Yeah. But I think that's primarily right now the level of precaution. You know, and there is progress being made and try to make these things as least immunogenic as possible. And that's where a lot of the engineering actually is focused on. It's just making, like the least immunogenic to avoid a rejection scenario. So I am excited about that. And that's some of the biological engineering that I was talking about. Like biotechnology or the future of technology. We really coming back to the biology, moving a little bit away from the electrical engineering. So in 15 years, in 2040, you know, you're still going to be operating. You'll probably be in the final decade or 15 years of your career. So, you know, by a surgeon, standards, plenty of plenty of work to do. What do you think the world looks like in 2040? Which made your problems that stand in front of you today. Do you expect to fall and what will be the implications? I think that if the course that things are changing and how many things are being unlocked right now. We're close. I think we're really getting close. Some of these things are not standard because of the side effect profiles or two severe. But they can have therapeutic efficacy. We need to do that tuning this optimization. There's a lot of proof of concept out there. But like I alluded to earlier before, 99% of the work is in the optimization in that engineering. I do think that now that we understand what are the molecular and genetic drivers of a disease is devastating as a glialplastoma. We will have way more powerful tools that will hopefully make a chronic condition as a piece to a life, you know, a death sentence. And 18 months on average. That being said, with surgeries, we can get out to years, many years. But a goal would be to make a chronic potentially cure. By essentially attacking the mechanisms, we now know the genes that are altered. We need to be able to turn on the immune system to recognize huge amount of effort and trying to figure this out. I do think, and I'm very optimistic around neurodegenerative disorders. There's just so many promising things. Including the cognitive ones like Alzheimer's. I think earlier diagnosis and earlier treatment is going to be the first thing where we're going to have, you know, the best effects. But that is a really difficult one. But around Parkinson's where there's a focal. Yes. Problem. You can regenerate those cells. So you're more optimistic on the movement disorders than you are the cognitive disorders. That's right. And partly is because the target in the cell loss is very focal. We can get cells through a surgery. We're talking about Alzheimer's. It's a bit trickier because it involves multiple systems in the brain simultaneously. There are studies even using electrical stimulation in parts of the brain that are really important for encoding memory. You know, these things are promising. But I think for these really step functions that whatever one wants is either stalled disease or roofed. It's going to take more time. But I do think the early detection is going to be a game changer. A little off topic. But it's come up through the story of, and do you have a point of view on things that place people at risk for the Stibular artery dissections? For example, you know, for whatever reason, whether it's just a wives tale or not. I've always been afraid of having anybody ever adjust my neck for fear of, you know, having a different stibular artery dissection. Is there any truth to that? As a risk, are there other things that people should be aware of given the low probability, but very, very high severity of such an injury? It's not a wife's tale. It's actually statistically proven that certain kind of chiropractic movements around the neck can cause an injury to the wall of the vertebrae. That term dissection means that the wall of the artery has dissected. There's usually multiple different layers to that vessel wall. And what happens with the dissection is that the vessel is injured, and then blood actually starts splitting the wall of the artery more up until the point where it becomes occluded. And so it's a very, very dangerous situation. And like you said, a critical part of the brainstem. So generally we recommend, you know, like not severe aggressive movements, you know, but sometimes you can't see it actually around sports. You where you have a very high velocity movement around imposter around the neck, you know, and so those are the other cases where you can see it. That being said, this is very low incidence. Yeah, low probability of happening. So it's not at the level that you could really tell people to avoid certain sports or anything like that. If if we could bring Harvey Cushing back from the dead, then you could have dinner with him tonight. What do you think he would say if he was, you know, if you saw what was going on in the field that he created? I think that there would be one part of him that is looking at some of the surgeries that we do, or we're still doing cranial enemies and you would say, that looks pretty similar to what we did 150 years ago. I think that's part of his genius. The fact that we still do it means that it still works and it still safe gets people through. And a lot of that credit goes to Dr. Cushing. But there will be things that I don't think he could have ever conceived. The way that we're retrieving blood clots that are reversing strokes. What we're doing with brain computer interfaces, you know, decoding brain activity, the substrate of thought to replace communication for people who are paralyzed. I think that that would have been very hard to really imagine back then. Primarily because our knowledge was so limited in electronics was nowhere even close to being able to imagine what could be done now. So a lot of what we're seeing actually relies on technology that has evolved like artificial intelligence. A lot of the work that we did on decoding the brain just couldn't work, even though we had a hardware, you know, like maybe 10 or 20 years ago. Probably even earlier than that, the decoding was not possible until this modern machine learning. And so these things are just accelerating very, very fast right now. When I was a resident, I used to have this very famous picture on my wall of the sort of the five physicians who are sort of the founding physicians at Hopkins. Of course, you had Hallstead in surgery and Osler in medicine and Kelly, I think, so I think Kelly was gynecology and then there was a pathologist and of course, Cushing was the understudy of Hallstead before he left for Harvard. And I honestly think if you could bring all of them back to life today to see how much each of their fields had progressed. I think that Cushing would be the one most blown away because, and maybe I'm wrong in some historian will correct me, but I really think that what we've talked about today is to your point unimaginable, right? So of course Osler would see medications that he never could have conceived them, right? I never could conceive of a GLP1 agonist and the profound effect it could have on weight loss. You could never conceive at the time that there would be a medication that could eradicate cholesterol, let alone an injection once every six months that could do it. He might have not even conceived obesity back then. That's a good point. Although he was tasting urine, so he certainly would have diabetes. But yeah, I think the mental leap to where we are although look maybe the pathologist would have never imagined the genomic sequencing that we could do of tumors today, right? Of course back then it was all histology. So it is amazing to me how much medicine has changed in a hundred years. And of course it doesn't take a leap to imagine that if we're still around as a species in a hundred years, the next hundred years is going to offer far bigger changes. Absolutely. I mean the pace of acceleration now is unprecedented. The underlying reason why I think Cushing would be the one that would be the hardest to understand what's happening now is because we are talking about the brain. We are talking about an organ system that we're just starting to fathom and put around our heads around sort of the complexity. And for the last hundred and fifty years neurosurgery has really actually been about how do you avoid injuring the brain? How do you take a tumor out of it? How do you deal with the plumbing which is the the vascular system, the blood supply? But if you think about it like the biggest open-ended questions are really being addressed right now in the coming decades, how does the brain itself work? And then how do we tap into that to address a large variety of neurological and psychiatric conditions? The history of neurosurgery was actually primarily about trying to avoid injury, stay outside of the brain, et cetera. Now it's much more inward looking trying to understand actually how the system works, how the organ works. And it's a super exciting time because every time we unlock essentially a function of a certain part of the brain, there's a very high probability that there's going to be a therapy either through brain computer interface or through a new biological approach. Every time we unlock a new mechanism, there'll be something that we can do to treat it. And that's what the future is going to look like. You know, one of my hidden agendas of this podcast is to encourage as many young people as possible to go into medicine. And I understand that today medicine is not nearly as attractive a career as it was 20 years ago, 30 years ago, 50 years ago, and the best in the brightest or typically going elsewhere. But I think a podcast like this as as as our many of the podcasts I do with doctors, I think I really hope it showcases that we need the best and the brightest to go into this. And again, this is not saying we don't need another brilliant person doing AI or investment banking or law or wherever else the top people go, but there is really an opportunity to bend the arc of civilization by choosing a career in medicine. And what you're doing, Eddie, is really on the forefront of that, especially the way it combines all disciplines of science, medicine and technology. It's just it's super exciting. Thanks, Peter. Yeah, I'm really excited for that too. Thanks for coming. I really appreciate this discussion. Thanks for having me.

You can build a great body on six exercises. I just don't see any evidence that anything Trump's exercise. 50% of Americans are not training or doing any kind of exercise. You don't know you're losing the battle until it's too late. They a little bit about the programming. I know that it works and I know that it doesn't have to be hard and it doesn't have to be uncomfortable. Galaton muscle health is really what we're talking about. Do you think that the average person appreciates the role of nutrition in that? The minimum amount of protein I would ever recommend would be 100 grams. It's not sex specific. It's body weight specific. Up until about 18 months ago, I was still squatting and deadlifting regularly, though, with much less weight. I just sort of decided the risk reward trade-off wasn't there for me. You're not gonna piggyback someone in and take a shit. Like that's not how it's gonna work. In order to get used to the bathroom, you all need to be able to body weight squat. Coaches want kids to specialize earlier and earlier. If you look at most of these people that are telling you that kids need year-round sports, are people who are making their living from year-round sports. It's not like injury rates are going down. So we're playing more and getting injured more. Is there something significant that you've changed your mind on? And not just changed your mind on, but it's changed the way you behave. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Lady and gentlemen, thank you so much for all making the trip out to Austin. I've been looking forward to this one for a while. As some listeners might know, this is our second version of a round table. But unlike the first one where I had interviewed the three guests multiple times previously and they were very familiar to the audience. All three of you are people who's work. I'm very familiar with, but I've never had the privilege of sitting down with you one on one. And as much as I would have loved to have done that first, I think it would have stood in the way of doing this today. So before we jump into what we're about to talk about today, which is all things related to resistance training, I want to just ask each of you to maybe give the non-biobversion of who you are and as such why I think you're a great part of this. Let's start with you, Gabriel. Certainly, well, my name is Dr. Gabriel Lyon and I'm a fellowship trained physician in geriatric syndrome and nutritional sciences. I did my fellowship at WashU. And at the time, I was very reluctant to do geriatrics because it can be a very arduous and sad experience. But I was fascinated by the nutritional research side. And there was a moment we were working on a study looking at body composition brain function. And I really took to one of the participants and I mentioned her brain. And at her mid-50s, she looked like the beginning of an Alzheimer's brain. And in that moment, Musclecentric Medicine, which is the concept that I practiced and founded was born. And it's really that skeletal muscle is the focal point of all our health and wellness. I'm an author, wrote a New York Times best seller, called Forever Strong. And I continue to do research and work within the space and on UC patients. I do UC patients. I have a medical practice. I do UC patients. And we actually just submitted a paper that got accepted for publication on sexual function, the relationship between sexual function and muscle mass. OK, cool. Yeah. Mike. Michael Boyle, I'm a coach. I've been a coach. This is my 43rd year actually coaching. I was lucky enough to bounce right out of college and into a college job. I started out as an athletic trainer. When you said to be amodist, I think I invented training for the NFL Combine, at least as a book that says I did invent training for the NFL Combine in the 80s. I worked in the NHL for the Boston Bruins in the 90s from 99 while I worked at BU because strength coaches were basically part-timers at that point. And worked at BU for 30 something years opened a business for profits, strengthen conditioning, probably the first one in the United States in 1997. And then in 2012, I left BU where I've kind of always had more than one job. And I jumped over to the Red Sox for two years and was able to get a world series ring out of the Red Sox in two years. And then realized that that was not very conducive with being what I really want to be a good father and a good husband and was like, OK, I'm done with pro sports. So now I coached my son and his friends. I have a son of a place called the Cross. And I'm still actually functioning as a personal trainer, I guess, in some cases and as a strength and finishing coaching, in some cases. So I'm more than anything just a practitioner. And what type of clients do you see now? What's the range? The range is 11 to in their 80s. So that's our client range. We don't take kids until they're 11 because we really don't want them in the gym before that. And we'll take them as old as we can get them. But I think the oldest right now is early. Actually, no, we had 89. And that's actually my son's pediatrician just turned 89 and retired last year, believe it or not, Dr. Leeder had still been working all those times. And he's one of we have a couple of three generation families of which he's won. We have him. We have his kids. And we have his kids that are all training in the same space. We're at, well, there are a lot of things I want to talk about that are embedded in there. So we'll come back to it and Jeff. Jeff Cavaliers. So I'm a physical therapist by trade. Sort of moved out of the clinic at an early stage. I've got a great opportunity to work in that role for the New York Metz, which was a dream country for me because I was a die-hard met fan growing up. It was like, you know, presented the dream job. And from there, sort of piggybacked into how could I continue this education of athletes on a broader platform? Was well aware of the power of the internet at that time. So I started a YouTube channel, which by luck, beyond just my family members of Scriber Early On, I got a few others that did along the way. And sort of piggybacked that into a broader message, which was, OK, it's now it's not just about training athletes and empowering athletes, but how do I empower people who want to be more athletic, feel more athletic, move more athletically in daily life, not just in where they're going to pay to paycheck. So that became my mission, really, from that point. Now, beyond having to sort of maintain a certain level of consistency because I want to practice what I preach. I also have two young boys. I started late 40 years old. I have twins. And now I feel like I got to make sure I can keep up with them when they're ready to have me be able to run them play. So I have a lot of motivation to keep doing what I'm doing and stay in the shape I am. But I believe that it requires having understanding of injury, training around injuries, because no matter what, as we get older, things do start to break down. And I think you have to have strategies to be able to push through that and train around that. And I think that's where my big strength is as a PT to provide that background to help people do that more readily. Let's start with a question that probably has an answer, although I actually am a bit embarrassed to say I don't know the answer. Some wondering if what any of you guys do. Do we have a sense of what percentage of people in the United States do not practice resistance training? Well, we know that 50% of Americans are not training or doing any kind of exercise. I from the research that I've read up until recently, it's probably 70% do not meet the criteria for both activities. 70% in total, then, I don't think it's 70% of people who are doing some form of exercise. That's a great question. I believe that it is 70% of people in total. Got it. Okay. I can't even fact check that. I mean, that's. I can't believe it. I think it's lower in terms of if you talk about resistance training because we were talking about lower than 30% would do resistance training then. Yeah. Because I think 20% of people belong to a gym. If we look at home gym stats aren't very good in terms of people, their home gym person who actually has one in use is it is probably more unicorny than we think they are. And so if you start looking at that number, 20% have a membership 50% of those people use it, which now brings us down to only 10% of people in the United States are actually in a gym. And then you look at that and say, what percentage of them are resistance training? Maybe now we're down to 5% because you see a lot more hamster wheel people who are just walking on a treadmill or walking on a stair climber or whatever it is. So I would think the numbers are pretty low. We spoke a little bit about this, but we have digital statistics that actually show people who have signed up to train with our programs, let's say, either be at home or at the gym. The percentage of people that make it through our programs is only 20% and that's very high. That's just the industry standard. Right. Which is usually like 10% or so. So those are people who show the commitment, made a purchase, put their heart on dollars behind it, have everything they need. I would think in terms of the tools and sets and reps and what's supposed to be done. We only 10% will finish the program. So I think that's a pretty remarkable statement on why people can't. I think there's a lot more of a desire to do things, but the ability to actually follow through is where I think we're having a hardest time. So it might be then Gabrielle, your stat is 70% of 50. The reciprocal of that 30% of 50, 15. It might be that our range is somewhere from 5 to 15%. If I were going to sort of triangulate between these three data points. Again, that's kind of a hard thing to digest if you're asking the question. And I've never been sort of shy about my thesis, which is of all the pillars that we have to embark on improving our health, whether it be changing our nutrition, improving our sleep, taking the medications and supplements that can be actually quite important. I just don't see any evidence that anything trumps exercise. Purely from an actual lifespan perspective and from the standpoint of reducing the risk of chronic disease, when you then layer in the benefits it has on quality of life. I mean, it's just sort of a no brainer. So what do you think and Mike, I'm going to start with you because you've been at this the longest? What do you think explains the disconnect between the fact that we have this incredible tool that will lengthen your life, improve the quality of your life, make you look and feel better. And yet, five, 10 at most, 15% of people engage in it. What are the barriers? I think the biggest barrier is just life, lifestyle, kids, jobs, people thinking you really have to commit to is it getting there early? Is it going there after work? Whatever it is, it's adding hours to you day. I think that's probably the biggest barrier. In some ways, I guess that's economic, right? People don't have the economic freedom to say, hey, I can devote. That's why I laugh sometimes when I hear people talking about hours. It's a week of exercise and hours, week of cardio. I just kind of snicker in terms of if I can get someone to do two hours a week. And that's why I like your guideline more of, I think you said 75 hard minutes and I'm like 75 hard minutes now is realistic. But even 150 minutes, some of the guidelines are crazy. And then there is a lack of awareness. People, you don't know you're losing the battle until it's too late. That's what we see in our business. We see people coming in and you think, wow, thank God you got here now at 50. You're thank God you got here now at 55 because the end for you is going to be bad. But you're, and I'm not saying this to flatter you, I've been following you for a while. And you know, you and you are getting the message out in a way that it hasn't gotten out before. Because the message before was either geeky or nichey or whatever it was, but it wasn't this, hey, this is really good for you. And this is going to make you live longer and live better, which stubble bonus. I mean, you know, you want to live longer, but you don't want to, who wants a long shitty life, excuse me, I don't know if it's supposed to swear, but who we swear don't work. But do you know what I mean? Versus looking at it and saying, hey, I would like to live longer and Jeff and I talked about this, I've experienced 50 to 65 and trust me. It's not fun. The decline is rapid and the decline is significant. And I think if people like, if you don't wake up by the time you're 50, you're going to be in real trouble by the time you're 65. Yeah, real, how much of a difference do you see between men and women on this front, not from this standpoint, not from the economic standpoint, but from some other barrier to entry? Do you see differences between men and women who are who are new to resist the training? I do. And the first thing that I want to say is you're absolutely right, there's nothing more important for maintaining health and wellness than taking care of muscle health, whether it's strength training mobility resistance, but skeletal muscle health is really what we're talking about. Where is the disconnect from men versus women or people in general? Part of it is cultural. We live in a society of comfort. It's very easy to take the escalator or take an elevator when it comes to nutrition. We all have to eat, but we don't all have to move. I literally could sit at my house order my groceries, Amazon Prime, everything, and I never had to take more than 300 steps. Where women typically strength and strength training has not been the focus. And we know that. Even just from a standpoint of walking to the gym. You don't see or you're starting to see it more. I really do feel like we are on the precipice of women recognizing the importance of strength and muscle, especially with new conversations around menopause and more potent conversations. But they're busy. And the other aspect of that is there are self-imposed limitations. A woman would look at a 40 pound weight and go, I can't let that. But she would look at her 40 pound toddler and go, I'm going to lift that and I'm going to carry my groceries and I got it. And that's really where I think that we can change the disconnect is re-educating the importance of muscle and then also changing the cultural conversation. Obviously, you're really fit. Has resistance training always been something you have enjoyed. Did you grow up doing it or something you kind of came to in your 20s or beyond? I grew up doing it. But at the time I was five, I was writing 10 miles on a bike. And with the conversation around children, if we teach them good habits now, then we don't have to have them spend a lifetime outgrowing old habits because we're not raising children or raising adults. And yes, I have always trained. So I'm in the same boat and I suspect that's true for all of us. And so one of the challenges that I know I have that's a bit of a blind spot is when I'm talking to patients who are perhaps representative of the real world, which is people who are like, actually, I don't enjoy the feeling. Like, I'm sure you've all heard this. I don't like the feeling of lifting weights. It hurts. I don't like that. I mean, I can't tell you how many times I've heard that. And I appreciate the honesty that I can't relate. And it's hard when you can't actually relate to what your patient is saying. I can relate when they complain about having to watch what they eat because that's a struggle I would have. But I truly can't relate to that. So do you think that that's a function of having started early? Or do you think that there are literally just, just as we have people with different eye colors and different heights, there are truly different, as in genetic, hard wiring that would speak to an individual's appetite for that kind of discomfort? I think it's, I actually think it's the latter. I think people, there are some people who are more inclined to enjoy that type of stress. I doesn't matter how much I run. I do not enjoy the stress of running. I don't enjoy how I feel. I don't enjoy the feeling I get in my lungs when I'm sucking for air. I'll do it because I know I have to. But I do. There's no enjoyability about that. Training hard and lifting weights and pushing myself to the upmost level of effort. That's always been something I actually kind of enjoy. And I think that it can be learned, though, you can get better at it. Just like I can learn the discipline to continue to push and run when I don't want to. So after doing it for a while when you start to see results, the results actually might become motivating enough to go like, well, there is a trade off here. I'm seeing the trade off. And I think that's what when we're talking about before about people, the start being the thing that's stopping people is that the perceived level of what they're going to have to do is usually bigger than what they have to do. I've mentioned before, you can build a great body on six exercises. Literally the row squat, deadlift bench, pull up the curl, done. Like you've got everything you need. You don't have to complicate it. If you keep trying to get stronger at those exercises, now you might get bored at tears, but you can build the prerequisite foundation to get a better body. But people want sometimes to complicate it in their heads so that they have an easier out because it makes it a little easier. See, I don't have time for all that. We like in it too. I've known a few people in my life who have wanted to start businesses. I got this great idea and the gung hole, they want to do it. Then they get caught up in. I don't know if I should set an LLC or if I should do it as a corporation. I want to get my business cards. I can't figure out my logo and they're doing all that stuff. They never take the stuff of actually just starting what their service is going to be. They never get going. People do the same thing in terms of fitness. They make it bigger and they make the commitment larger so that they can almost have a safe landing spot to be like, yeah, I'm just going to get it going. It's our job to educate them as to how simple it can actually be. Simple being like what you need to do, but I think the commitment to actually showing up and doing it, that's hard. What percentage of the people that walk into your gym are coming to resistance training for the first time? I'd say 50 if I was guessing because some of them were high school athletes and have some basic relationship with strength training. What percentage of them are approaching intelligence, strength training for the first time? 100%. Most of them are coming. We're going to party like it's 1999. People come in and they kind of look at us like what are you doing. I think that's where when you talk about people saying they discomfort, my first would be like, what discomfort? They shouldn't be in a discomfort. If you come in and start working with us, my whole goal, I say to somebody, you should get out of bed the next day and be like, I think I worked out. Yeah. I felt okay. I always tell everybody everything's engaged on how you if you get up in the morning and you're crippled. Yeah, we did something like I did a bad did a really bad job. You should not be uncomfortable at all. We should be able to, this is whatever, you know, slow and steady wins the race, 1% better, however you want to look at it. And if we can just layer like, I always think, I'm a big attendance guy. If I can get you show up two days a week for a year, you'll be remarkably different. And you might not have ever had, you know, many people, you know, balls to the wall or go to failure. Like we would have done none of that, zero. And yet you would look at somebody and think, wow, like if you came into our place, everybody looks younger than they do, every single person. I am 100% certain, not just of the longevity benefit, but about the physical change that people undergo because I just show you people and say, yeah, that guy's an 80 year old, two-time cancer survivor and people like he is. And I'm like, yep, they look different. And they all look different, they all look younger. And again, what is that? Is it hormonal? I don't, I mean, I would get out of my not a scientist, but I know I know that it works and I know that it doesn't have to be hard and it doesn't have to be uncomfortable. So let's talk about an example of somebody that walks in. So somebody walks in, they're 50 years old. Let's pick a male to start with, but we're going to do many case studies today. I think, because that's how people I think can sort of connect. My goal is to make sure everybody listening to this can identify with a person, theoretical person we're going to talk about. So 50 year old guy comes in. He's done a little bit of the trade-it-is-health for well thing. So he's been working himself to death. And he's had some health scare, right? He went to the doctor's office and they told him, your blood pressure is really high. There's something going on. Or he's just sort of confronted his own mortality. He's lost a parent, right? That's a big wake-up call for somebody in their 50s. Played sports in high school, but that was about it. So doesn't really do much of anything now. And somehow his land that himself in your gym, maybe he saw a he saw a Jeff on Instagram and he was like, that guy looks incredible. I got to do something. And what he's doing sounds cool. So how do you interview this guy? How do you find out what his goals are? And then how do you create that show up attendance pattern that's going to make sure he can give you a year of whatever it is two days a week? The show up attendance pattern is a big thing. And that's a really good book called Never Loose Customer again. And one of the things we talk about, we approach our business much more like a restaurant. And I got what's an unreasonable hospitality. I think is the Will Grdard book. And we try to get our, we try to train our coaches. We refer to them coaches more than trainers. Way more in the customer service skill, because we realize that we want to get the person to come back. That's the goal. Get them to come back. Get them to get through the first workout and come back. And we don't need to be people. I don't talk a few about their goals. Because I know what, I look, I think your goal is to not be the kind of sad sad sack of shit that you are right now, unfortunately. And that's, you know, we just want to get you going. So it's like, just get them on the conveyor belt and carry them through and make them, this is the one thing. And I have one of the things I wrote in my notes that CrossFit did well. They created community. You need to create community where people are comfortable. One of the, of Jeff problems that we had was people would say, I can't go there. It's all athletes because they come in. And you know, just from our marketing standpoint, there's jerseys all over the place. And it looks like a place where athletes train, but 65% of our business, so people like us. But just getting them to be comfortable in that environment and getting them to show up again. One week, tell everybody, if you've got new people in your group, you should text them. That day, and you should text them the next day. How was it? How did you feel this morning? We're trying to build a relationship because it's, it's relationship marketing. Get the person, no like trust, all the things that you read about. Get them to know you like you trust you. Want to come back, want to be part of it. And then we can take care of the training part, but the training part to me is relatively easy. It's the getting that person to be consistent and to come. And all in why I call them check the box clients. I just want check the box clients. If you check the box, which means I got to Mike Boyle's twice this week, you will get better. You will feel better. They're a little bit about the programming. I want to understand a little bit about programming for us. Very assembly, lineish, very, I always talk about the idea that it's a, it's a recipe and not a menu. So no one gets to pick what they want to do. You come in and it's like, no, this is, this is how the cake is made. It's in this order. This is what you get. Don't like it. Go someplace else with it. You know, go to plant fittings. You can make your own cake. You want to come here. You do it the way we do it. Everybody form roles. Everybody stretches. Everybody does their mobility work. Everybody does dynamic warm up. Everybody throws medicine balls. Everybody does some sort of power training. I want, I'd ply metrics, not really actually some sort of jump training. Then they'll go and they'll lift the lift takes 36 minutes. And then they'll go and they'll do some type of conditioning work. And we'll start really, really again, really easy. Try to give them something that's very achievable. Don't get them particularly tired. And then boom, out the door. There's an hour. Hour, hour, door to door. Not hour, door to the shower. Yeah. Okay. And 36 minutes of that is the actual resistance training. But obviously everything that's leading up to it and on the back of it is, I mean, that's clearly training as well, right? Right. Right. And the more, I think, honestly, for the old decline, more important. We always talk about it for 15 minutes. It's more important. Getting people to roll to stretch, to start to deal with the tissue limitations. Because most everybody that comes in has something. No one comes in. Healthy, no one comes in and thinks so. I have nothing that hurts. Progress is made by advancing weight, advancing reps, advancing sets, jumping higher. I mean, personally, well, mostly by advancing weight. I mean, if you're going to look at the simplest way, it's just try to get them because again, females, right? You're just trying to get them to engage in progressive resistance. I always think with someone said, you know, I've been doing the five pound dumbbells for the last year. I'm like, oh, you're only wasted like 50 weeks. Right. You know, so our thing is just get them to pick up something that's a little heavier. Get them, you know, we try to figure out ways to, you know, could be isometric. It could be centrics. It could be, you know, we try to vary it because now we're in the, with our adult clients, we're in the entertainment business a little bit. In terms of, we've got to keep it interesting. Like you said, you can do six exercises, but we have to figure out are there 14 different versions of those six exercises that we can do to keep somebody not thinking they're doing the same thing over and over again. And so that's, if we get one complaint, it might be that it's, we're doing, we do the same exercises a lot. It's kind of like, yeah, because we do the good ones. But we don't, our adults don't touch a barbell. Okay, I was going to ask you, were there any things that are off limits? They don't barbell bench press, they don't barbell deadlift, they don't barbell squat. No one squats anyway. That's in, that's another whole conversation. But, oh, almost all of our lower body stuff is unilateral. We'll do goblet squats, basic stuff with people that are really deconditioned because we need them to be capable with two legs before they're going to be capable of capable on one leg. But it's very, I would like, I would say, people were really smart and really safe. And I think that's what you want to be if you want to keep people coming back. I think you can be really smart and not be really safe and you can be really safe and not be really good. And I think the, the mid ground is where we want to operate. So Gabriel, what's the biggest thing you're thinking about when a patient is in your practice? And they're, you know, they're coming along well on many of the other lifestyle adjustments. Let's just assume this is a person who's a lifelong cardio rat, right? So they love to run. They run two marathons a year. They've been running forever. They've got some nagging injuries, though, right? As you know, a runner, especially a female runner, the probability that her proximal hamstring isn't just torn up is pretty low, especially if she's had kids, right? So now her pelvis is tilted a little bit. How do you make the case to her? Because she's lean, right? Doesn't need to lose weight, as though that's the thing that matters. But what, how you make in the case to her, that this muscle centric approach matters? Well, she's kind of want to be active her whole life. And the healthy her, her skeletal muscle mass is, you know, there seems to be some one of a disconnect people talk about strength and then dissociate it from mass. But I believe, you know, and I have patients like this in the practice that are very lean, have always been runners, but we'll see their glucose creep up. We will see an increase in visceral fat. That can be course corrected by addressing skeletal muscle mass. And, you know, when you just think about if this woman and I, I'm thinking about one patient in particular, she's actually in her, she's around 60, she runs a hundred miles. She's an ultra. Oh, she runs, she does. She does. She does ultra. Her body composition was not nearly as good as it is now, just by adding in two days of week of resistance training. We added in two days a week, we pulled back on some of the mileage. She's able to move more away. I mean, in this girl, she is, you know what? Hey Sharon, she listens to your podcast is a matter of fact. She is incredible by pulling back her training and increasing her weights and being very specific about obviously I don't program, but we work with coaches that program by changing up the movement patterns. She's able to really increase her lower body strength, but also improve her labs, improve her fasting insulin, her glucose, and that and her triglycerides. And so, you know, do you think that that's purely a function of having a larger reservoir to put the glucose into? Or do you think that it also speaks to the insulin sensitivity? I mean, is it, does it even make sense to try to disentangle those two? It's a great question. I think that the larger reservoir is important for a number of reasons. The metabolic component of muscle, the, you know, as we all know, muscles, the primary cypher glucose metabolism, also free fatty acids at rest. However, it enables her to have more dietary flexibility because when we think about nutritional sciences and we think about triglycerides in sling glucose, what we're really looking at is the health of skeletal muscle, metabolic syndrome, the markers of metabolic syndrome are the markers of healthy skeletal muscle. Does it her activity improve insulin sensitivity? Yes, but her running is she's going to be very insensitive as is, but it's really that metabolic component of having healthy skeletal muscle mass from what I believe. So Jeff, you're working with people a lot of times at the opposite end of the spectrum, right? You're looking, people are coming to you often because they want to have 7% body fat. I mean, they, and it might be that they're, you know, they're an actor. And like, they're about to do a role where they kind of have to look a certain way. Alternatively, it might be an athlete who probably doesn't need to be at 7% body fat, but might want to be at some extent. So you're kind of dealing with the other end of the spectrum. Is it safe to say that these people that are coming to you are so long on motivation, that that's not really an issue anymore? Yeah, when your goal starts to become 7% body fat, I'm assuming that you're probably not 35 or 40, you know, with aspirations to be there. These guys are usually coming in 12, 13, 14, 15% body fat with one desires to want to get leaner for whatever those reasons, like you said, whether it be a role or I always tell like the athletes say have to be very conscientious if not falling in love with what they see in the mirror because ultimately they're not getting paid to look that way unless they're, I mentioned sometimes we work with WWE athletes who do get paid to look a certain way and perform a certain level. But, you know, the people that have to be conscientious of the level that they are, you know, what level of life out there are said they have a certain role. I mean, they are usually pretty good at being able to dial in. They've often times done this multiple times before too. So they've done this and had a history being able to get down and they still have a ability to sustain it. I think that it's always going to be achieved through nutrition. That level of look is a nutritional consistency. It does not has nothing to do with training, has nothing to do with exercise you're doing, doesn't matter what split your following, it doesn't matter any of the, any of that. All you have to do is be able to remain very consistent with nutrition. And the level that you're able to get down to is just a reflection of how many sacrifices you're willing to make. You know, you want to still drink a couple of times a week? That's fine. Just you're going to have to bump it up a notch or two because you really need to be able to make some cuts. Now, I do not believe. I don't do it myself. I do not make sacrifices to the point where I'm eating poil chicken and broccoli. Steam broccoli. I don't do that. I eat meals that are good meals. I eat, you sell it. I eat. I can eat a meal that anybody else can eat. But I'm very disappointed and not strained from those meals. And so your ability to kind of stay that way is going to determine how low you're able to get and how low you're able to stay. I always say if you're eating, let's say five times a day and that's a seven day week, it's 35 meals. If you can stay 90% of our above, you don't have to be perfect. If you can stay 90% of our above on those meals, you're looking at three meals in a week that aren't perfect. Now, I'm not saying to go hog wild and go down to buffalo wild wings and start eating everything you can. Saying that they just aren't perfect meals. Your body almost completely ignores those. It just overlooks it. You keep going and your consistency overrides that and you're able to get to levels that you weren't able to achieve before. But people can't sustain it because either they make it too difficult. Or as I said, it is actually difficult because getting yourself to the gym for one hour, five times a week, two times a week, whatever that might be, even the 36 minutes. That's one level of commitment. It's what you do in the other 23 hours of the day that determines your look because that is an nutritional responsibility that'll allow us to have the ability to manage well. How well do you think that's understood? I'd say that for all of you. This is a question for everyone. When someone looks at a person and says, look at that man, look at that woman, look at how jack they are, do you think that the average person appreciates the role of nutrition in that? Or do you think most of them assume, I mean, that person must be spending 12 hours a week lifting weights? No. I'm sorry to jump in, but it's such a source spot for me. People always think exercise first. In my experience, they always think exercise first. To the point where I have people that will say to me, if they see my abs or something, they'll say, oh, what exercise did you do for that? You know, they pat there. Usually in big belly that they're patting, it's not exercise. You know, they're less of this. If you were to get the reverse circle, if you were to set up that more of these, pushing yourself away from the table, I mean, no, I don't think they have an appreciation for it at all. And their instinct tells them it's exercise movement. Would you guys share that sentiment? I would totally agree. And what's so fascinating is the data supports also the synergistic effect of resistance training activity and a calorie control diet, which if people could connect the dots that it is not simply training, but to be fair, training is the most potent stimulus to muscle. But you cannot, what do they say? You cannot out train about dieting? I mean, that's true. I feel like you could when you were 14. Like when I was 14, I did train six hours a day. I mean, I was running 13, 15 miles every morning before the day. You know, before my workouts, they're like, it was just and all I did was eat. But I was like a garbage disposal. Breakfast was a bowl of a not a bowl, a box of fruit loops and a large supper wearable. You could put the whole box in the bowl. You just didn't matter, but but something changes when you're 20 and you can't do that anymore. When you're 13 and and younger, you're very anabolic muscle, the balance between what drives muscle changes as we age. When you're young, you're very driven by insulin. For example, my daughter, who is five, she could have five grams of protein. She doesn't need to have a meal threshold of 30 to get an animal response. Because when you are younger and you are still growing, you're very anabolic. After you are done growing, you want to shift from that the insulin usage to the stimulus, which then now exercise becomes much more important. Oh, I want to talk about that. But I want, so I'm going to come right back to that, but I want to hear Mike's point on nutrition and then come back to that because that's actually a very interesting question. But well, think about it. I think about it in a simpler sense. We go from being extremely active to extremely sedentary. Suddenly you get into your 20s and you get a job and you're commuting and maybe eight hours or 10 hours, you might be sitting on your last 10 hours a week, or 10 hours a day every day. And then you might go to a bar with your friends after. And I don't think people, they don't sense the shift. I think our problem is that the shift is happening and then people don't pick up on it until it's too late. Suddenly you look down and you soften, think, oh my God, what happened? I gained 40 pounds and I'm in horrible shape and I'm completely sedentary and then then they think, oh, I have to do something about this. But then they tend to revert back to whatever information they might have had and think about what's your relationship with exercise in high school. If you're not an athlete, you have a terrible relationship with exercise in high school because it's something that you may to do. It's not fun. You probably don't understand strength training. So you go to the gym. I saw a great presentation one time at a seminar. I figured someone did it in New York and they brought in. They said I'm going to bring in the most important person in fitness and they brought in a woman who was a member and how to do a half hour talk. And she talked about not, you know, just having the money to join the gym and learning how to train. She said, I followed this pretty girl who seems to know all the machines around. She said, now I would stay like two machines behind her. So she didn't realize that I was following her, but I would watch what she did and then she'd moved to more machines and then I do what she did. And then you just realize like this is how people are learning. Like we all learned to exercise, somewhere along the way, somebody created kind of that initial imprint on us and most people's initial imprint is really bad. What I learned to do when I was in my teens was just more on it in terms of the way I would look at it now. I would tell everybody and that's what I say the reason I say the things that I say is because I've done everything conceivably wrong that you can do. And I have all the orthopedic maladies to show for it. What do you guys do? Do you guys have nutritionists in your in your business that also help people when they're also trying to lose weight in addition to improved strength and other metrics? We've tried a whole bunch of different ideas and none of them have ever really stuck to be honest. We still have another one going right now. One of the guys that works for us is trying to do nutritional consults and truthfully we've never found one that we felt really was sticky that a lot of people would do it. But we deal in the most basic nutritional information that we can with people in terms of hey and we want you to hydrate better. We want you to eat more protein. That's why I said that's why your message is great. Like your book is perfect. It's like okay if we can just get people to eat not even more protein than my eat protein. We still have people say what's protein. It adults you don't really even understand the the most. Again we're we're so sometimes up here and then realizing that our consumer is somewhere even our intelligent consumer is weighed down here with these incredible you said disconnect by a disconnect written down incredible disconnects, incredible misconceptions. I have women well I don't want to start lifting because I don't want to get too big and I'm kind of like trust me buddy that's that is not what we're worried about right now but they're still trying they're right exactly you're trying like hell and you're you know whatever 125 pounds is something like 100 or 10. 100. 100. You're killing you but you're in your case. Often the gym to build muscle it's not it's not easy to do it's not easy to do for anybody so easy to do for males but we see too much there were use right and then we see too much responders like you look at NFL guys I mean I think there's people that are that are way higher responder levels to another people and I think we look at responders or we look at like when I was a kid coming up I was looking at people taking drugs but I didn't know they were taking drugs I thought I thought I could look like I can remember I'd go to body building shows I can remember looking at boy or co you know and thinking you know I can look like that in Frank's scene I can look like that and then you know suddenly in my 20s realizing that these guys were taking drugs and that was why they look like that but I spent years frustrated why don't I why don't I look that good I'm doing all the right stuff so I think this the that's why these things are good because trying to get people to see reality I guess Jeff you talked a minute ago about five meals a day so let's double click on that a little bit most people think I thought I'm supposed to have three meals a day or sometimes just one if I'm intermittently fasting so talk about the five meals per day yeah I mean I actually I know a lot of people that intermittent fast and I actually do well with that the thing that I think why more more people do better with more frequent meals is simply because they tend to get hungry throughout the day and they don't have good management of hunger and then they're for portion control and they don't have willpower to sort of wait to that next meal so if they are hungry in the mid morning and they have nothing sort of pre-planned or prepared for a snack they'll just go into the kitchen at work and just start picking and grazing and that's where a lot of the calories throughout the day are consumed not in those three main meals but in the grazing that happens because they can't make it to the next meal so I just found it it's been easier especially from the athletic world these guys want to fuel more often so they want something in between their main meals but in the world of just the regular individual who wants to be more disciplined with an nutrition it's easier to actually program in to additional snacks nothing big but just snacks in between that I always think should still focus and center around a protein because again I believe that protein it should be the cornerstone of every one of our meals and snacks because we don't get enough that's enough just to keep somebody a probably more metabolically stable to get to the next meal but also it starts to teach them the willpower to do it so if you're sitting there you eight breakfast is eight o'clock and then now your next meal is let's say 12 or 12 30 when it's 10 o'clock if you get hungry and you have a snack there you don't have to get through four hours of willpower that you don't have right now to get to that lunchtime you only have to get through two hours and of those two hours you weren't hungry the whole time anyway only the last half hour so you're teaching yourself willpower over the course of an hour and a half and then you know I actually have dropped back a little bit to where I'm not necessarily doing five meals in a day now maybe do four but I have you walk me through a day in in the life for you so if you're not not on a day when you're here and traveling so you're at home you your first meal is what time it depends on you know weekend or not but usually 7 30 to clock and what does that meal and usually it's oatmeal egg whites but again not like my oatmeal I we call pumpkin oatmeal like it's oatmeal it's it's walnuts it's a splendid brown sugar or a sore brown sugar if you don't care about you know the the calorie the the calories in it whipped cream but whipped cream on top pumpkin I mix inside it like it's good like it tastes good and it's something that I actually enjoy if it wasn't I could never just eat boiled oatmeal for the rest of my life and then egg whites because you're just trying to cut the calories no you want the protein without the total calorie the egg yeah although I'll mix in I would like just the hotel here all the eggs I just the prepared eggs here because they're there because I have my egg whites and I keep them you know you know frozen egg whites so I can use I don't have like I don't want to start cracking full eggs to put into a little bit simplistic when it comes to my nutrition because I know what works for me but I have no problem with mixing one or two full eggs I think you should people should and then I'll have milk with that or I'll have even a protein shake along with that so they're not small meals either okay that will take me through now I'll actually go to lunchtime in the past I would have had like another small snack I'd have some pretzels and jerky or something like just to look at some protein and then some carbohydrates then I'll go to lunchtime at lunch I'll have either funny because I'll either have a chicken or a grilled chicken wrap with vegetables and yogurt that would be my preferred meat some fruit that would be my preferred meal or I'll have cereal because I am still a cereal addict and we have lots of cereal choices but I try not to choose the cinnamon toast crunch that might sound for furs and I'll have something else but I'll have cereal and yogurt just how much protein are you getting in that meal then? From I'll have usually protein shake there too so I have my protein shake that's 30 grams plus the the yogurt another 8 to 12 grams and then in the cereal a little bit more milk too so I get an up protein from the meal it's just a little bit less preferential in terms of the where the carbs come from I don't really get crazy about the carbs I just try to pick lower sugar carbs I try not to be I try to be a little bit more selective when it comes to that but and then you do an afternoon snack around that then after an snack would be the same would be the same type of thing as whatever the first snack was in terms of I like jerky so I'll have some jerky just pick at it and again some some type of crunchy food just like a like a pretzel be easy for me to have a handful of pretzel then I will have my dinner which actually well actually before that I have another protein shake after I train so if I train it will you train in the afternoon typically randomly I'll train at five before I finish up work randomly but most often than that I wind up have my shake and then I'll go train it night like late late late so my whole thing is not I think we have an input into the sleep issue we do have input this sleep issue but I'm not having I could fall right asleep after my dinner the issue for me is that when I get home my kids have been waiting to see me all day and I make myself available to them we play we run we go on the pool whatever it might be and then they go to bed a little bit late you know we have a busy house holds so four dogs it gets a lot to put everybody down but they go to bed around nine nine thirty and then when I finally get to the gym it could be ten thirty so now I'll go and I'll train I don't like to train on full stomach I hate the feeling so I'll opt to have my dinner afterwards but that does mean that the dinner could come at eleven thirty sometimes you can 12 o'clock at night and that is not recommended for everybody listening but like that I also I do thing I could dispel the myth though I do not believe in the don't need after six at all I don't your body especially if you're carrying a good amount of muscle which is why we want to can utilize those calories can utilize that protein can you like those carbs throughout the day provide you know whenever they do come in and I don't think that just magically eating after six is the death melt that having low body fat so that's not part of my equation the only part of the equation for me is I could get like it's a little late in the day to be it might be impacting your sleep more than anything else it's clearly not impacting you know your fuel partitioning no and I've been blessed to have the ability to hit the pillow and fall asleep within minutes and stay asleep because I don't sleep very long I sleep five to six hours five to six hours but my quality is sleep is usually very high I don't wake up I don't wake up when the time to wake up in the morning so I want to kind of go back to what you were talking about a second ago because it opened the door towards protein in kids but before we do that maybe just for people listening who have been maybe not paying attention to some of the stuff we've we've all been talking about elsewhere around protein consumption what type of guidance are you giving your patients on on protein is there any difference between men and women and are you differentiating it based on age age yes men and women no when we talk about protein typically we talk about one thing but it's 20 different amino acids nine of which are essential we actually eat for those nine essentials there is a lot of nuance around protein in general and what it does each of those amino acids do something different for example losing which is I know our favorite amino acid is critical for muscle for muscle protein synthesis but something like three-ning is important for mucin production in the gut when you are eating a lower protein diet the organs well I suppose I should start with why we eating protein we need about 250 grams a day we recycle much of that we don't eat that a portion of that probably the largest portion maybe 75% of that goes towards this real tissue for turnover and maintenance maybe 25% of that goes to muscle but we have to continue to get these essential amino acids so that we can maintain rebuilding and repairing which the efficiency of that changes as we age anabolic resistance protein efficiency decreases those are or that is one reason why we need dietary protein just to maintain the tissue integrity and the structure women and men do not need at this time from what we know in the literature a different amount of protein is not sex specific it's body weight specific the minimum amount of protein I would ever recommend would be a hundred grams at a minimum men or women that would be the starting place because if you are say 115 pound woman and you are following the RDA at pointy grams per kg what is that 45 grams of protein or so that's that's not enough part of the failure there is that we have to recognize protein is different amino acids and so when we talk about muscle health we need to get enough Lucy to support muscle health and that is probably the recommendations to the three grams a day it's probably for optimal health around 8 or 9 and how do you get folks to think about that right which is because now all of a sudden you get into dramatic differences in terms of protein source so if you I don't really think we should go down the PDCAS pathway necessarily for everybody today but but just in terms of understanding that foods are created different right so you can look at an ingredient label of something that says 30 grams of protein you can look at another thing that says 30 grams of protein but they don't list out the amino acids they don't tell you that this one has more Lucy or more methionine and this one doesn't but there are certain themes that we know right we know that dairy derived protein beef derived protein and egg derived protein seem to have the highest amount of the right amino acids or let's just say the more important amino acids so when you're saying to that person hey I want you to eat a minimum of 100 grams per day does it come with the caveat of assuming you're getting your protein sources here and what you're pointing out is protein quality the there are plant sources of protein and our animal sources of protein and just from hard fast biological numbers we consider a high quality protein to be eggs and dairy fish chicken any of the animal source proteins the lower quality proteins would come from plants when we educate our patients in the practice we have them choose and we really don't focus on plant proteins as a source of protein while they do have amino acids and certainly a combination is wonderful we like to focus on plant foods for fiber and let's say we take out soy but we really want to focus on high quality animal source foods because listen it makes up let's say it makes up 30% of our diet nearly 100% of our calcium are bio-available iron and zinc selenium come from these animal base foods and while we talk about protein we should also talk about nutrient quality whether someone decides to get their protein from plants or animals it isn't just about protein it is also about those nutrients of concern for women like bio-available iron for kids bio-available iron nutrients that primarily come from animal sources I just think are really important and again nothing wrong with plant-based proteins but we plant for fiber and fight on nutrients and so presumably you have some patients as I do who are vegetarians in some cases it's ethical religious whatever the reason is what are some of the things that you and let's go one step further and let's go because at least veg most vegetarians will at least be able to consume the dairy portion but when you if you have someone who's vegan and who is purely looking at animal sources of protein how much of an upil battle is that well it's the challenge is the carbohydrate consumption so I was listening to what Jeff was saying and who's absolutely right he could have you were saying that you have maybe a hundred grams of carbs and you have no problem with it and me on did you say that well I mean you probably calculated it in your head but yeah that's that I can do that for some of my him who is super active he is able to dispose of those carbohydrates but a normal person our carbohydrate threshold if you calculate the disposal from skeletal muscle organ systems it is not much it is about 40 grams in a two-hour period anything above say 40 or 50 grams in a non exercising adult will result in a robust insulin response we do not want that we do not want to be utilizing insulin to help support glucose we want to use activity or have the health of our skeletal muscle be able to balance that and I suppose what we're talking about is carbohydrates and unless you are highly active like you are then we also have to think about the carb portion of this and designing a diet typically for us we think a lot about a one-to-one ratio of protein to carbs at amel depending let me think about that in myself that's pretty tough you have to be pretty deliberate about withholding carbohydrates and I mean I'm probably eating a gram of protein per pound of body weight so it's not like I'm skipping on protein yeah maybe I maybe I I don't know I would I would you're not a ballically healthy and that goes back to this hierarchy of how we do you think I think I think that's a longer leash if you're active absolutely when we make protein decisions and the practice when we're designing a diet it's age it's activity and it's metabolic health if you are metabolically healthy then you can tolerate there's no problem right carbs aren't the enemy but once we find out someone is metabolically unhealthy which you can see from blood work then you have to begin you know you don't change your protein amount because as your restrict calories you keep protein the same or higher because you must protect lean tissue and also it's it's better I mean we've seen this in the data for a lot of people. What about overweight patients so if you let's say you're a patient who's let's say it's a man 250 pounds and I know we're going to talk about body fat because I'm actually super interested in what you what you have to say about that but let's just assume you did a dex on this guy you don't need to do a dex it by the way you can look at it you can look at them you know you know this guy's carrying way too much fat but the dex it just gives you some numbers the guys 40 percent body fat okay so when you're trying to tell him how much protein to eat are you doing it based on an ideal body weight or are you doing it based on his 250 pounds that he's carrying around. It's target body weight okay so you're going to say I'm targeting for you 16 percent body fat let's calculate how much lean tissue you have it what would be your ideal body weight at 16 percent body fat and that's what we're going to target you have. Yeah. Okay. I want to totally pivot and talk about something that you already brought up Mike and in this speaks to how these round tables get totally messy because I have not done with nutrition I want to come back but I don't I don't I don't want to forget this idea of you in a lateral lower extremity training. So this is a topic that's near and dear to my heart so I grew up in apologies for people in the audience who've heard me talk about this but this is just context for you. I grew up powerlifting was one of the things I did on this side it actually wasn't a sport I mean boxing was my life but I became hooked on being in the gym and the gym I belonged to was a dungeon it was an old man dungeon two stories underground with no windows and I didn't realize how lucky I was at the time but this happened to be like the power training the power lifting epicenter right so you basically just had a bunch of middle-aged men who were machines like you know these are even the guys that weighed like you know everybody could bench press two times their body weight squat three times their body weight deadlift four times their body weight so that's what I grew up doing I was like we bench we squat we deadlift and we do it really really heavy and not surprisingly over time like I started to get injured right I injured my back by the time I was in medical school and kind of decided like I don't know if this is worth the risk anymore like I don't really see that I need to have four plates on my back squatting anymore and almost through necessity had to discover single leg training so I want you to say more about that experience and help somebody because I have patience who really can't believe that you can achieve optimal lower body hypertrophy without a barbell on your back or without picking a barbell up off the floor yeah which is amazing I had same background as you I got into competitive power lifting in college just because I was no longer an athlete and I was looking for an outlet and it was like okay I'm good at lifting weights so I started competing in power lifting started hurting myself back problem shoulder surgery and athletic training background get to college as a strength coach start to see the same things I've got athletes with back problems everybody's back problems seems to come down to one thing back squatting every kid because we weren't we didn't run deadlift we were the old school like squat pants power cleaning because that was the football mentality at that time but the people with back pain had it always related right back to back squat we started to look at that and think okay if we're doing something that we know is hurting 20% of our population should be continue to do that for a while we had to because the football coaches mandated it but when I got to the point where I was kind of fully in control I said one we're not gonna do this anymore and then we went the unilateral route sorry when you say football coaches are you saying even at the level of the NFL at every level the football coaches you know they want to know how many guys can bench press 400 pounds how many guys can squad 500 pounds how many guys can you know there it's it's still a very old school mentality it's getting better and if the level is getting much better because it's still in the combine for any of the quarterback yeah everybody's still venturing and still benching in 225 as a strength test they do an endurance test for strength we could talk about the the foolishness of the combine too but that's another the same combine that you know the balance and I helped people for yes it is not I always tell people it's like getting the copy of the SAT and all you gotta do is cheat you just gotta practice the event practice the questions you know the test you know the answers practice you'll get good at it we developed that thought process but so we started going just down this sort of you lateral rabbit hole and then we've but then you start getting into the biggest thing that people have done is just when you get into the bilateral deficit research you're stronger on one leg you have more strength capability on one leg than you do want to because you body there's and there's really so interesting sorry to interrupt you Mike it's so interesting how difficult it is to appreciate that when you're not doing unilateral exercises and people don't try it and then it's very dogma oriented because we we've all grown up around kind of the squat poems and all these things about you know king of all lifts and all this bullshit that people spout and I'm always kind of spouting the anti of that but the reality is we started seeing when we first started testing is what happened was one of my assistants this guy Jeff Oliver who's been in early cross for 25 years said to me if we could test you one leg it's strength would you stop squatting and I was like yes so then we said okay let's try to figure out how we test so we started making up these sort of half-assed one leg squat test you know doing red max is in different split squat variations and things but when we did it the results blew us away in terms of the difference between the sides blew you away uh no the the ability to be stronger than we were or as strong as we were bi-ladderly blew us away so we had guys the first year I did it with my hockey team 2006 or 7 somewhere in there and everybody could split squat what they could front squat same amount so if I did a back split squat test everybody could back split squat 300 pounds was a 300 pound front squat everybody that could back split squat you know predicts a project out to a 400 pound max was a 400 front squat right across the board it was exactly dead even one leg to two legs and then people would say that's because they're using their back like they were trying to cope with all these rationales for why it wasn't but the numbers were just glaring you know then we went to a split squat test and we had one kid who did uh did 240 pounds for 20 reps which you know if you'd buy ladder old it out it's 480 for 20 he's a 200 pound hockey player 190 pound hockey player they just the numbers started to smack us in the face a little bit and I started to look and then you start looking at the bi-ladder like you look at the grip strength research bi-ladder deficit right hand plus left hand will be more than combined two hand you look at you know they've done it with leg extension they've done it with a bunch different things and what they realized I think this is my own theory but we neurologically know that we are unilateral if I said to you try to dunk a basketball I'm going to guarantee you right now I'm going to jump off one foot you're going to jump off your left foot you're going to hold ball in your right hand everybody here's going to do it except 10% of us are lefty so 10% of us are going to grab it in our left hand but everybody knows if I say to you throw a baseball I always say to somebody if I say throw a baseball everyone has to throw it if I say throw two baseballs somebody would think I'm not really sure I'm supposed to do this right now we understand neurology and then we deny it when we start strengthening because we wanted to deny it and I think it's actually limiting I think I've said to people I think I think I spent a lot of time probably making people less athletic at the higher levels one of the things that you you you think that you did that in the past and the past yeah because we had some of our really some of our super elite like and I felt wide receiver type guys would be very resistant to really heavy backsquats and deadlifts and things like that and they would always they were like cats it like I don't I don't like it it don't like it it makes my backs so I don't feel right I don't want you realize is you are probably dampening their nervous system a little bit because the analogy I always use if you think like the mountain the guy from game with drones he was a nice landing basketball player decent mid level i's landing basketball player when he became one of the world's strongest men he was a worse basketball player and I can remember I went to used to go to powerlifting meets and I'd look at the powerlifting meets and I would be like nobody here looks at let no one and then I'd go to Olympic lifting meet and I'd be like these cats are athletic like these guys can they can jump and they can sprint and they've got big traps and big asses they look so they looked more like what I wanted my athletes to look like whereas powerlifting it was sort of like a semi-mobile refrigerator imitation you know just people lumbering and even little people lumbering around a little people lumbering just as bad as the big people and then you go to attract me and go watch the sprints and the jumps and you're like wait that's what I want that's what I'm trying to get everybody too so I became a big Charlie Francis guy in the 90s you know you start looking at this and saying okay let's look at how the fastest people in the world the people at jump the highest in the world what are they doing for training and again you started to see more unilateral work you know lateral plier working lateral strength work so it was sort of this this rabbit hole that I just I went down and never came back from you know it's interesting Charlie Francis of course a lot of people will sort of just have a sort of negative thought associated with him because the association with Ben Johnson but I but I don't think a lot of people realize his coaching genius can you say a little bit more about Charlie who sadly passed away I think due to cancer kind of young right yeah kind of young I never luckily one of the guys I said someone said you know anybody you never met in the field that you would have liked to have met and I said yeah I wish I had met him at that time but when you think about he developed world class printers in Canada almost all of them from Toronto great at Toronto area the probability of doing that is really really low and so you think and he was so far ahead of his time if you read Charlie Francis training system right now is originally published as Charlie Francis training system then after he got in trouble they've republished it as training for speed so it's the same book you can just get it on the internet but he's talking about recovery regeneration massage now this book is written in the 80s you would read it right now and think my god this thing was written a month ago by guy I mean he was using words that I had not seen yet it was the first time I encountered even the word so I started to think that's we started to do massage work with our athletes we started to form rolling because we realized we can't get massage done for every single athlete but we can get everybody to form roll and he was always talking about tissue quality and tissue resets and the therapist that they'd bring the heralds excuse me they would bring therapists to training camps that they were doing and it was so forward thinking I mean imagine now 45 years ago right I guess you know 35 years ago whatever it was it was a long time ago and he was so far ahead of the field frighteningly and to the point where it's still really I still encourage people to read this stuff now I started reading I read everything he wrote I even they had I read speed trap which was more about what had happened to them in the process and then I read this Angelissa Jango who's one of his apprentice wrote a book I read that book I you're just read every thing I could consume about Charlie Francis to see with you know is there another little nugget of something that I'm missing and I guess from the track and field thing I never looked back I never looked and said you know I don't care what power left is doing I don't really I care what Olympic lift is doing I really athletically and then we started to look at rehab and we realized that from a rehab standpoint it was all unilateral and it was all what they were calling functional and it was all what they were calling closed chains suddenly it just to meet all it all made sense it all kind of it all came together for me at that point in time so and we've been doing that for like said 30 years so Jeff in your world training people the way you are what are the exceptions to those rules for you when are the times when you're saying or are you saying now I still see that the risk reward tradeoff for someone in a certain position is there for you know a backs what barbell backsquat or you know a sumo dead lift or something like that how do you how do you think about that I think that if there's there's always the argument of can you train see a lot of times and especially in Mike's world too when when people come to him they've already learned bad mechanics for squats so they're bad squatters when they come to him so they're already demonstrating habits that are going to totally break down their body by continuing to just pile more and more I think when you can intervene with somebody in early age and teach them by a mechanically how to squat better which Mike and I have discussed before at length like it's not it's not easy to really dissect that lift it's a complicated lift there's a lot of moving parts so you have to be willing to spend a lot of time with that person to teach them from the ground up in those instances when you can I think you could probably teach somebody how to squat more safely that doesn't take away the fact that if you can do it and not have to load that way and especially as we talk about the aging population then the benefits might still right away the risks in terms of this is better than single egg squat but I think that you can probably teach that lift but you have to be willing to teach that person to either unlearn the bad things that they've already learned or if they're starting out early learn how to do it more properly and you could do it in stages two you can by squatting two a box you can buy a mechanically fix a lot of people's issues because having the target or the safety net behind them is enough to sort of get them to actually move in a better way but you don't want to train that way you know I without ultimately going to a freestanding squat if they're going to be ultimately you know playing sports and needing to do something like let's say an offensive lineman coming off the line but again I'm actually in Mike's camp in terms of the value of of single egg training we do so much single egg training with athletes and acts because I believe that it's not just the unloading that we get from the single egg squat it's just as Mike said how we're wired how we're actually preferred to move and I get I took some shit along the way because anytime you pick up a leg from the ground it's functional training and then all of a sudden that has was a cool thing at one time it's not a cool thing anymore but you do pick up your leg and yes that's functional for a reason so I think doing lunging and step ups we did we built a whole program and with the mats around step ups and lunging because we knew how important that was and again we did other forms of bilateral lifting we would do trap bar deadlifting to to clean up some of the issues that people had I always say that if you want to learn how to squat take a dumbbell hold it between your hands or kettlebell and just let the ball let the dumbbell the weight go straight down to the ground it will put you by a mechanic you know most of the perfect position because you're just letting the the weight drop straight down your center of mass that's a great tool for teaching what people was supposed to feel like but when you then go put the bar in their back as soon as the but they don't have thoracic mobility all the things that they're lacking start to change that that dramatically from just you think it's the same exercise because you're going straight up and down but it's a very different exercise because now when your hands are up and again thoracic extension is more required they don't have that and the whole system gets thrown out of whack so it's it's done it's still done in certain circumstances and you're always going to still encounter people who I don't know Mike might just tell them to go to a different gym but like you know there's going to be people who will insist that they still have the squat and they want to learn how to do it and do it more safely and I think having you know the the the willingness or the ability to still coach them through that is important but because of guys like Mike and because hopefully stuff that I talk about like there people are less reliant on those as the as the only things that they can do yeah I you know I'm a little conflicted less less so now but I think up until up until about 18 months ago I was still squatting and deadlifting regularly though with much less weight right I wasn't I was never going below five reps and frankly targeting eight to twelve most of the time and my rationale for it was the following I viewed it as an amazing audit of my chain so I filmed every set so I have a tripod in the gym my phone would sit on it I would from the warm-up set to the last set every set was filmed and my recovery was watching the video and the truth of the matter is despite that about one in every eight workouts I just screwed something up and I would spend the next four days in pain and I'd be sitting in the shower running hot water on my back was it anything catastrophic no not at all I got my erector's just flared up it wasn't the end of the world but what it said to me was I mean people watching us might be offended by the statement but I'm getting old I'm getting old you look great for 25 and as I think all of us would agree the name of the game when you're old is never getting out of the game like there's nothing more devastating it's one thing to get injured when you're 20 you're gonna be back but if a 55 year old never mind a 70 year old the 55 year old has to take a year off because of some devastating injury it's really difficult to come back and so I very sadly decided that the risk that I was going to do something dumb and actually I'll tell you the straw that broke the camel's back I used to have a lot of tire flipping so I used to have this 450 pound tire and my absolute favorite activity was how many there were different games you would play so you would love the gamification of it right it's like how many times could you flip how long you'd take you to flip it 25 times or something like that and so when I moved to Austin I didn't have my tire because it was out in San Diego so of course I had my assistant call and find a guy who could find the closest tire to 450 pounds we found one that was 407 pounds the guy deliver he's like what the hell do you want this thing for? I start flipping it again and my friend who's a really awesome PT was watching me and he goes have you ever hurt yourself doing that and I said never because you are you are in a remarkable amount of of of Lumbar flexion right now and I would just be careful like you know that the Lumbar spine does not like to be in this position when it is that loaded and I was like you know he's right like I can absolutely see how under fatigue I could just you know do something too much so anyway it's sorry for the ramble but the point was I basically decided as much as I love this exercise as much as it's a great audit I you know this I'm learning I'm I love the idea of critiquing my form between sets I just sort of decided the risk reward tradeoff wasn't there for me do you think that sort of a do you think that's a mistake do you think that I should have stuck with it and made other modifications? No I don't I think because you have these options I don't think there's a compromise in the benefits you're getting from a single way train like I said there's probably more benefits that you're getting from that I will I'm right in that same boat with you I spent probably from 35 to 45 wanting so badly to get a why have bad knees and I end that probably comes from my flat feet but I I want things so badly to not have to squat because every time I did it would it was just it would kill my my knees the next day would be horrifying we paint in pain and my love back with ultimately why not taking on that same run I know exactly the same spot you're talking about but yeah I kept telling myself but you have to squat you have to squat like it's just what we do we have to squat like so I would try to get past the point of the things that were bothering me and I would ultimately go back onto the bar and squat again until I you know through what I'm liking others said like no you know it really doesn't it's not a requirement to get what I'm trying to get out of it I'm trying to have virtue for my legs I'm trying to get stronger hips I'm trying to try to get a stay injury free and so my favorite exercise at that point became a reverse lunge so I'll do it with a barbell or I'll do it with dumbbells and honestly it's a little easier with the barbell because I'm not the word about the grip of holden's dumbbells and so reverse lunge meaning you're starting in a standing position and you're doing a step back step back and you I've seen a great video on this where you emphasize how wide you're stepping out yeah you need because you don't want that's the thing and this is where some of the functional training stuff comes up like oh it's a balance exercise that's the best not a strength exercise the balance exercise it's not a balance exercise if you can't keep your feet wide enough you can all you have to do is just step back and out you'll maintain a wide enough base for you still have support and then it's a strength exercise if you're looking a lot away I remember where I was when I watched that video of you and I went to the gym that day and I was like I've never thought about taking a wider stance I mean I added 40 pounds right and I think it's also my second big tip on that exercises as you go down I taught I call like screwing yourself in the place but you know you're really not you just take a little bit of a rotation towards the front leg so you're just taking a tour so you take a little bit over the front leg it will basically stabilize that front leg a little bit more and then get with with enough contact I think what do we when we doing those reverse split like situations is about 75% on the front leg or so yeah about yeah so you're still got 25% going back on that back leg and that's enough to support you and and make sure that you're not falling all over the place but that that is my favorite way and I recommend people all the time to do that lunging forward is fine but people that have knee issues like myself and that doesn't feel too good either so it's like why not do it this way because this is a safer way that it has less orthopedic issues for people and it's still great you can go pretty heavy if you're going to use a barbell there too so that's my favorite stuff too and since I learned that there were other things I can do and not compromise whatever it was that I was chasing at the time I have since sort of backed away from that and you can ask Jesse every now and then I'll go back and try again and inevitably in a few days I start things start you know clicking in my hip or things that didn't pop or click before and I do believe that there's a path away from that so you're really for you before I want to talk about your patience but personally because we're all telling personal stories what have you changed in your training resistance training specifically as you've aged as you've increased wisdom whatever whatever the case might be I wish I could say I get less hurt before we started the podcast I said that I had a right torn hamstring and a proxmole it is proxmole and quad fem which is very unusual glute meat and glute men that I love to overachieve I thought it was a great idea about eight years ago to keep up with my husband who my husband was a former seal who's now at bailer I thought we would do a 50 hour event and I was not physically capable or prepared to do that it's just another Tuesday for him and I tore my left hamstring on a sprint since that time I think that it changed my ability to squat I kept going back to this quad I am not able to do that at all now but that changed probably I don't know six months ago I stopped squatting six months ago I also found out that I hip dysplasia all of these injuries all of these patterns you know as I think is someone who is listening or watching this if something doesn't feel right you talk about taking that white step back if someone is doing something that people will say okay this is this squat pattern but it doesn't feel right to you I had been squatting in a much two-nero position for someone that has hip dysplasia and so I ground out my hip and but I'm somewhat stubborn for those people that know me I just kept doing it because I believe that we should squat needless to say I'm now in a position where I am doing only single leg movements and really trying to pull back probably be doing some PRP for this now new injury and I say that all about someone in a roundabout way that as we age like you said Peter the worst thing that you can do is stop you know and I think about dug pattern Jones's work the catabolic crisis model this isn't a catabolic crisis but a catabolic crisis model is when you're off the table you lose muscle mass and strength rapidly over 40 year and that continues per decade so my training has changed dramatically I do more high intensity on say the bike or the air down air-dine versus any kind of long slow steady state which I would love to get back into and then also the lifts are all so you're able to do high intensity stuff on a bike with a high hamstring tear well this is new this new tear just happened I got my MRI back two days ago got it so I won't be able to turn when you're recovered so let's just say we're we're sitting here in nine months which I'll be recovered before then all right very well when you're recovered how is it going to change what you do going forward and how will that impact what you modify in terms of your patience because I think all of us are practitioners here and therefore we're kind of we're students we do a lot of self experimenting we make a lot of mistakes on ourselves that gets us curious about you know okay what's the lesson here how do I make sure that my client my patient doesn't make the same mistakes so what's what are you going to change and how is it going to impact what you tell patients definitely it doesn't have to be these big lifts we don't all have to squat and for me personally having to deal with that I prior to injuring my hamstring just recently I was starting to do more you know a lot of work and I will go back and also just being much more particular about form I think as a lifelong exercises we can compensate a lot people that are somewhat athletic compensate very well I think I have to hold myself to a much higher standard otherwise I know I will continue to get injured and also I want to how did more zone two. By the way it's so funny you say that I remember a trainer and I can't remember who it was but he was showing me videos of some incredible athletes doing workouts and he was just pointing out all of the horrible mistakes they were making and he goes they're not great athletes because of how they're training they can get away with training that way because they are such great athletes how much did you see that Mike when you were training pros I literally just wrote down the better the athlete the better the compensator that was a note that was a compensation is what we used to get I used to look at these guys and think like my god it's amazing what they can get away with at that level but I want to go back to the adults it's really funny to the squat thing because I wrote an article one time and I forget what I called it but it was basically about slamming your hand in a car door said if you substitute slamming your hand in a car door for squatting and then had the same conversation with yourself saying hey I just hurt my hand I slammed it in the car door and I can't wait till my fingers heal up because I'm going to go back and swim my hand in the car door right that's what you be saying me in the shower every eight eight times. That's why I wrote the article because people do it all time and you just realize that if you just and that's where being rational and substituting something really stupid although in fairness the analogy is more like this the analogy is I love slamming the car door because I love the noise but I like to also reach in the car when I'm doing it. And normally it's fine but on every eight slam I might edit the article for that and say I even if it was only every eighth time you did it would you go back and slam the car door eight more times and you wouldn't you would be like now that's absolutely stupid the risk reward doesn't work but for some reason squatting has such kind of a I don't know if this rural attachment didn't strengthen conditioning that's why I mean people you should go go look at some of the old YouTube comments about me people the things people were saying about me were unbleed you know now it's kind of like just it's religious right it's religious it's absolutely religious but like an exercise like the clean doesn't have that type of religion because I think functionally again everyone can relate to the squat the squat is something we do every day every time I get out of a chair every time I go to the bathroom so I think there's that's the attachment Jeff sorry interrupt is a very good one which is people are confusing a goblet squat or effectively a sumo deadlift with a goblet which is it's all the same hip hinge they're confusing that with this this is the unnatural part I think we teach everybody to go up a squat we teach everybody to sumo deadlift but I always tell everybody in people like well you know you got to be able go to the bathroom I won't use the inductive disc shit and I said yes but no you're not going to piggyback someone in and take shit like that's not how it's going to work like so you don't have to be able to do that like in order to be able to use the bathroom you only need to be able to body weights squat so once you can body weights squat you're good let's do unilateral stuff for loading because in this is where we get into adults versus athletes like I was people say what's an adult what's an athlete I'm like an adult as a job that does not involve playing sports so and I was doing this presentation for perform better I was writing it up one of things you know pickleball players are an athletes okay like people that are adult recreation athletes are not athletes because if they get hurt like you said you get hurt at 50 or 60 it's really debilitating you don't heal even the rate of healing you're seeing that now the rate of healing is totally different I look at my son and they'll get hurt and two days later they'll be like fine and I look at them and think I'd be six months crippled if I did what you did and people don't see I always say life is this gradual transition of flaming you on to beef jerky right and I'm in the beef jerky stage of life firmly in the beef jerky I'm thinking I'm going to New York yeah getting a life in the summer but you know you think like you're getting crustier and a little bit more salinated and just you're you're not you're not what you used to be and I actually posted the thing about it's going to say the number one cause of injury and old men is thinking they are young men and that's why when you get into should they squat should it do I always say no because I wrote down ego the problem with that is when you start letting people do these things you then have to become the ringmaster in the circus so for us we just eliminate the the events like nope we're not doing those events because I'm not gonna be able to figure out well you can squat and that lift you can't squat and that lift you can't like no if nobody squats and deadlifts in our adult program then we're just better off and again our right professional athletes I'd won guy in the red socks who's quad it insisted to me after I really fought with everybody about it every single guy except one position picture a picture and a but a real like a real real be don't you John Lester he was a I mean looks like a lieback or he looked like Brian or a lacquer but he was like no I have to do this the rest of the guys were like oh look I'll do the whatever I'll do split squats I'll do whatever you do and but in that situation I was like okay our college kids we have to squat squats so if you came in someone came in and they'd jump at the end like it's squat and they were like look at my go out like so you know is it the factor in in our midst here now I think oh yes to squat he's gonna go back to college he's got to go to his college weight room in his college program those kids squat because we want them to be able to to go back to school and be able to participate in the program the way they're supposed to participate I feel like people don't appreciate the nuance of what you're saying I think I feel like it can easily be sort of turned into Mike thinks no one should squat and what you're saying is no there's a threshold there's a risk reward trade off and it I completely agree with you this idea like if you're not getting paid to play a sport you have to reconsider how you're treating that sport it it's also not as if that the all alternatives are sacrifices in terms of what they're delivering right that is the problem like I always talk about people get on me because I have what I call the iron graveyard right there's a few extra sizes that just belong in there and one of them for me is the upright row it's a garbage exercise it's in and you could tell me no there's no bad exercises that's a bad exercise and talk about it well it's not that I was what it is you know done the way that people you know old school taught how to do the lift you hold the barbell and you lift it up here up under your chain your elbows are much higher and then your wrists are you've got lots of weight usually on the exercise so more fully pushing your arms down to the internal rotation the funny thing about that is that that that position is literally the test as a physical therapist that we put somebody into try to see if they have impingement in their shoulder we put them in this position push down if it gets a lot of pain in there likely something is getting pinched super speed is tended to something why am I doing that exercise when not because I dislike the exercise I never got hurt on it I never did I've did it for years I've done it for 40 years there's always the outliers like we talked about before but when I can just simply tell you I just want you to drop your elbows lower than your wrists I want you to just call the high pole once you go this way but doing that now instead of intently rotating the shoulder I'm externally rotating the shoulder I'm still working my delts I'm still working my traps I get zero sacrifice of what I'm trying to do the exercise for in the first place and I eliminate the part that I don't like that I don't care if you haven't gotten hurt this time but ultimately doing it over and over and over again can potentially cause a problem down the road even just a potential of it not saying that you can't get injured on any exercise you can but on this exercise I'm lowering the risk and not sacrifice in the benefit I think when when Mike talks about squatting the fact is if you can do something that's giving you a better or even equal benefit and it takes away some of those downsides to the exercise especially as the population who's performing it is less appropriate to be performing exercise and more appropriate to be doing the alternative what's the whole point you know it makes me think about how do we re-educate people because we've all suffered from these narratives of you have to squat you have to deadlift and it's just similar to nutrition do you think that there's a way if I can ask you think there's a way that we re-educate getting to our youth potentially so the younger that we can educate the less likely we're going to have adults in their 50s having to have serious injuries and then Mike you wouldn't have to have this conversation about no more I think we're doing it right now actually I mean these things are really the ability to mass-produce this and to have people hear it and see it is something that we weren't really able to do before I talk about the fact when I was a kid coming up I had to wait for the new strengthen health to come out to the new stand and I mean I waited I visited the new state by these mags love the absolutely strife I waited for strengthen health and I mean I would walk into the store and I would say to those mags in the guy I was like nope then I didn't yet because that was our only connection to the training world and now you think you know you've got 14 million subscribers or something like that on YouTube and I had someone asked me to see what's the greatest thing you've seen the greatest change in strength of condition and I was like the computer and they were like what do you mean I was like there was no computer such a good point and so you start thinking we've got disability now podcasts YouTube we can educate people but our problem is that we copy dumb people there's too many dummies on the internet and not enough people I've taken a little bit more in my old age that kind of calling out the bullshit sometimes I'll just say on Twitter that's a bad that's a bad take because if you don't then people get to establish themselves as experts because this is the loudest voice situation now in terms of who's going to who's going to influence and now there's a lot AI like if you look at Twitter's got all these AI things going that are showing people and sometimes I'll just write total garbage and I'll just click and send the reply because I'm like it's total garbage this is shit like it shouldn't be on the internet shouldn't be anywhere and so what I'm going to be that I guess I'm going to probably we need that I'm going to close to the ground field man states like when you grandfather would say inappropriate things at meals I'm like I'm anxious away um do you have give us a couple more things in the graveyard oh what else do I have in the graveyard um cuban press for the same reason which is when the elbows can you know that arms come down and then press from there it's kind of a necessary adaptation that we don't need um what else do I have in the graveyard um it's not a drawing a blank I had at least five or six in the... oh the chest fly I put the unsupported bench fly in the graveyard simply because probably because of my history working with with pictures and knowing how susceptible the the shoulder caps that can become from chronic overstretching and then we apply a load in that position at the same time and even our as a slime machine would be safer because you're not safer you're much safer and and um and or we'll do like us we'll do a floor fly so in the floor fly we're getting the eccentric over the matter fact the benefit of a floor fly is that you're going to have the safety net of about here on the floor and I could use a heavier weight so if I'm I'm I'm doing the exercise because I like the eccentric overload I get on it um I can actually apply a little bit more weight a little bit more eccentric stress to the chest because the benefit of the exercise is the stretch of the exercise so I can apply a heavier load but in a much safer and again my shoulders aren't going to be vulnerable there too um but again that's because it's an Arnold favorite and it's an Arnold classic and I believe he tore his pack once on on the fly so it's like you know it was his favorite but he did have repercussions for him too it's just not a it's not something that I believe you can't reproduce the benefits of in other ways again but I did nothing is in my graveyard that doesn't have an alternative that's equally good the only reason I would ever throw an exercise into that category is because there's something that could be done that just eliminate some of that risk that's just as good in terms of delivering what it's supposed to deliver so um yeah I mean it's not an extensive graveyard but people are very vocal about their favorites when one finds their way into that graveyard and you have to sort of explain your way out of it or talk a little bit about kids so um I've three kids they all love playing sports um but one of them in particular has has taken a real love of baseball the youngest so you just turned eight about a month ago and I grew up never playing baseball it's not is just wasn't a sport that was particularly popular where I grew up I have to say I have become obsessed with baseball I can really fully understand how people can get obsessed with this sport it's not just the numbers in the data there's just there's so much art in nuance in like learning about all these different pitches and how they hold the ball and I'll tell you what I said okay but you know we live in we live in a world now it seems where coaches want kids to specialize earlier and earlier and I was a little bit surprised at the end of his seven year old seat like you know they're playing three seasons a year by the way in baseball right now right so you've got fall ball spring ball and then like there's this like little summer ball tournament and the kids are playing one position now and most of the kids have a coach and a coach outside of like a position coach outside of the team now my intuition is that just doesn't make sense so so what tell me what you guys think of that do you have a soap box available for me to jump up on abs one I always say follow the money right if you look at most of these people that are telling you that kids need year-round sports or people who are making their living from year-round sports if you look at what most professionals athletes are doing they're not doing that with their kids if you look at what most coaches are doing they're not doing that with their kids what you usually find is some entrepreneur who has developed Joe's baseball and he needs income year-round because he doesn't have Joe's baseball and lacrosse he just says Joe's baseball so as a result they're they start telling you they start giving you that really specialization myth like hey you got to get started early and if you get started early you do better and if you get senior age so somebody Twitter the other day somebody said that you know scouting starts now at ten you this was a woman who runs a softball development program and I just I'd literally I typed these I said no that's absolutely bad information it's they start using words like development and exposure the reality is if you said I have an eight year old who really likes baseball the number one thing I would tell you is make him do something else besides baseball my daughter was a full scholarship I saw you play a very good play a year in the women's professional league you had a scholarship when she was 15 years old I didn't let her play in a summer tournament until she was 13 and people would say all the time can we can we can we can we play in this tournament can you play in that tournament like nope you look what is what she doing so she's gonna go the lake she's gonna water ski she's gonna be on swim team she took up diving one summer because they needed a diver and she became the U12 diver because she the guy started throwing herself off the diving board and said oh she's fearless I'll teach you to dive and I'll say how many hours we take her for and he's like a couple hours a week I was like awesome but so I we made or do that we made her play soccer she did judo she was state judo champion when she was 12 the kids that are better athletes do better in the long run you end up with his whole early sixth cedar phenomenon that we deal with in early sixth cedar's generally they won the the genetic Olympics they generally tend to be from from groups that that develop earlier and they will tend to be ahead when they for us from in my years it was the Greeks and the time kids they always mature they they were the ones that were shaving in junior high school and they were much better in junior high football than the rest of us were because they weighed 190 pounds and we weighed 130 pounds and he just looked at that and think that's not going to have any bearing on the and you have to look this is the literal marathon versus sprint argument in terms of you've got to look at this and think no this is a this is a developmental marathon and the kids who sample tend to do better like your kid loves baseball now but you don't necessarily know that that will be my son love talk he's playing calls across he was playing baseball and across at the same time and eventually we were at us and you feel this way even if the kid is themselves wanting to play all the time would you sort of force I forced my daughter my daughter was hockey only she was that's all I want to do and I said I don't care she was not thrilled about the idea that you weren't letting her play in a summer tournament yeah angry at times with me fights about why can't I do this because she knew she could go and be the best player and I said I don't care for the best player when you're 12 I care for the best player when you're 18 and so being the best player at 12 I'm not getting any ego gratification by going to this tournament and realizing that you made the 12 year old all stars or something like that so yeah we had fights we had fights about soccer I made a player you 14 year soccer and I did but the specialization thing I always think up to 12 broadest sampling possible the more things they can possibly do the better the more because what we're trying to develop general athletic attributes you'll see the kids in hockey that played soccer because their kids can pick up pucks in their feet my son picked up lacrosse really fast because he played baseball and he played hockey and he understood the whole idea oh we score this and that I can catch things extended all that stuff made perfect sense to him when he went to lacrosse and lacrosse ended up coming together but if you weren't sampling you don't know you just think I always say this is a terrible analogy but I'm going to use it anyway I said if you're sun came to you instead I really like cocaine at this point it's the only thing that I want to do you would be like no we're not going to do that right but suddenly because you have to do a little hero right because you're a little man I mean I like it a drug I just don't want you to be but you know you mean if you're just because they want to do it right if you substitute that for baseball you think you think you say I like I like absurd analogies but I think you see the absurdity of that and you think yeah you love baseball that's great but you really should you know you should learn to swim and you really should learn to do some sort of you know sport that involves your feet you know you should play soccer you should I think you know kids should do I think some sort of combat of sport is really good for kids because you should learn what it's like like it's really funny I took my daughter the instructors when my daughter was doing judo were Ronda Rousey and Kayla Harrison which like what are the odds that you go to the best judo school in America that is 15 minutes from your house and that's who's teaching the classes in judo so my daughter can still say that you know she was taught by Ronda Rousey and Kayla Harrison but having to go out in a mat and fight another kid and you fight the word I guess right is really good for a 12 year old girl and that feeling I remember looking at me the first time like you know and I'm like sorry I can't come out like you're on your own you better figure it out and she did so I just you're sampling is the key and specialist specialization if we can think of the worst possible thing you can do for your kid it is to let them specialize even if it gets to the point where they think that I don't like you you're mean you're you're not a good person because you're not letting me do what I want to do you've got to look at them and think that's why I'm the parent that's why I'm in charge sorry soapboxa soapbox down now let's go stuff I will say that our kids are both in gymnastics and judo my daughter hates judo and she sells in gymnastics and we chose gymnastics because it allows for her fine motor skills all of this development very young and also the development of her musculature she's and again she loves it and we know that the healthier fitter and more active these kids are the greater their metabolic health as adults is but to your point what we see is I think in the US we see a lot more injuries than in other places because of this always having a season and from a standpoint of longevity definitely again make our kids do the same thing I don't know why we haven't stopped in question to a little bit sooner because it's not like injury rates are going down so we're playing more and getting injured more like that's what we've seen across all levels of sport Mike and I were discussing the Achilles tendons and the rash of Achilles tendon injuries are at least it seems to be in prominent players but a lot of it has to go back to just the the repetitions in the mileage and one thing that Mike brought up that I thought was really interesting was the way the style of the game is played let's say basketball there's so much more because it's really come down chuckle up a three you go down chuckle up a three you come down chuckle up a three you come down chuckle up a lot less of that inside game going on the game is faster and they run more and there's a lot more mileage how many miles extra was it 200 more miles a year per team right just because of the way the style of the game is played and they're not all linear miles or start stop start stop start stop so there's a lot of cumulative stress on the Achilles tendon doing that that can you know again on top of the fact that as as as as teenagers they're playing all year long too not like it used to be when Larry Burb was playing when he played his season and he probably went home and it did something completely different um I or just just shot around a little bit so the we need to start looking at these extensive seasons in these multiple seasons per year because it's not changing it's not helping if it we wouldn't have all these athletes being injured things are worse now than they've ever been same more about the Achilles that that is the injury I've personally fear the most at this point because um when you're you know I play with my kids at tongue right so uh it's usually soccer and baseball that we're playing um and especially with soccer I'm always worried like is this going to be the day when despite all of the training I do despite all the jumping despite all the multilateral training I'm always doing I don't know what it is I think I've just seen so many of them it's the injury that keeps me up at night is like I'm just literally diving for a soccer ball and it's the beef jerky injury right I mean that's what what is the position of how do you how do you think about maximizing the odds of survival um rolling and stretching one I'm a huge farm roll and stretch person I think everybody should be rolling everybody should be stretching everybody should be doing so specifically talking about the roleiest you're talking about rolling all the way down onto the tendon yep okay so you're talking about calf calf and then doing you know just ankle mobility work basic ankle rocks and then now the it's really interesting because this we talk about dogma right all of a sudden the fun foot elevated stuff is becoming popular and when you think about from a preventive standpoint it makes perfect sense we were always told that you have to have your whole foot on the ground like that's the correct technique if you're on you say foot on it do you mean like toe on it like to play yeah yeah yeah but but initially when I first thought that was like I don't get it and then a physical therapist friend of mine David Gray was like yeah well if you want to get your foot engaged and you want to get your gastroach engaged it just makes sense to put your foot on there and that's where some of the stuff it always goes back to I when I wrote functional training for sports and they asked me to define it I said functional training is training that makes sense when you think about things so that's why when you're talking about flies like flies don't make any sense to me I said unless you're a professional face slapper I don't know why you would do flies so like we don't do stuff like better on the pack that yeah we don't we don't do that like I look at think I don't know why you would do that maybe if you were like you know if you went to a university of Florida like if there was certain things where you might be required to perform that action but you have to look at stuff from a high-perature feast standpoint there's a lot of reasons to do it right I mean it adds it there's a there's a there's something you must be getting out of that movement but you can't get out of just that movement correct yeah well I mean you look at the the amount of adoption that you're getting so any press any dip any push-up it's all limited to about this range of motion but if I can actually open it up even further and get more stretch we know the benefit high-perchery wise of of applying stretch to a muscle but that's that's an exercise where you are also entertaining and range shoulder mobility and then again excess stress on the anterior capsule so like it's like if your body builder if you're a if you're a if you're a rest like if you're in certain sports where the aesthetic matters right it could be a difference between first and second place if you're competitive body builder but that's not that's not my world and and I think that at least educating people about what those risks might be is at least an important first step to have an discussion of whether they should do it or not and again if I if I can provide an alternative for them where I think you could get additional benefits without the risk then why do it what what else do you think is important in the playbook of minimizing the risk of the Achilles injury I was when I said mobility I think ankle mobility is something that we don't no in pay attention to their ankles we don't we don't try to mobilize our ankles at all I think that um tight calves are are common in people and they don't really ever address them and it all starts at the ground everything starts at the ground if you have any compensation if you lack ankle mobility um your knee is going to pay the price for sure because the knee I always said a knee is like that consequential joint in between the hip and the foot and it's just reacting to what's happening above and below and the poor knee might need in in in particular like they got beat up and they never really worked a blame all they were trying to do is just hinge back and forth and they couldn't do a good job because they were being betrayed by flat feet and weak hips but I think if people pay more attention to strength and their hips and to mobilizing their ankles you can feed that chain up and down and if your calf isn't tight or if your your ankle is more mobile then there's less of that tension being put placed down through the tendon itself you're already doing a big as the thing is that forward in terms of decreasing your risk of actually snapping that thing and in terms of strengthening the calf do we think the solius for the gastrocclesa greater role do you need both do you need to have both knee bent and knee straight we always we always focus on both and like a lot of people will always talk about the gastrocc specific strength thing with the knee straight it's just because it's like the one that gives you the the the the better contraction right but I think we don't I don't care about that I care about making sure that all the muscles in the body are strengthened so we'll do equal amounts of seated versus standing cap raises so if you're doing three sets in a day of standing you're doing three sets seated as well so every time we program calf training it's seated and standing together but I don't think one versus the other is more responsible for for the tears I think as a group together the our ankles are lack of mobility and because the ankles are a lack of we if we've talked about like in sleeping and sleeping at night you know your feet are down and especially if you have like if you keep those those those blankets tight at the end of your bed they're down quite a bit and you're spending six seven eight hours in that position like you're not doing yourself any favor in terms of you know encouraging mobility of the ankle and mobility and flexibility through your calves so it just needs to have we need to be much more aware of those of those areas and do more work towards that and again that's part that's more work that people have to do and when you're talking about from the very beginning when we're saying what do I have to do to be in shape or what I have to do sometimes you have to own little many parts of your program because specific to you they're they're important so for you this big fear of that Achilles 10 and tear which I I'm right there with you I think it's it's just a devastating injury that will take you out for quite a while that would be part of your program that you have to add another five minutes of mobility work for your ankle and and do that three four times a week to make sure that you're you're you're doing something about it that starts to add up and people start making choices and their choices are kind of cutting all the little stuff because that's not going to really know I'm going to see my ankle development so they're going to want to see my my arms or my chest or something so I'm going to do more work there but when you make those decisions to cut those little parts of the program those are ones that usually keep you injury free this speaking of single leg you know the difference between doing uh calf raises with two feet versus single leg that that was one of the most profound i-opinners for me was the the difference in in strength and how much less weight you could do one leg at a time it's not half the weight like there's some sort of interesting compensation when you're doing it two legs at a time and we find we've just started adding that back into our adult program we never put calf work in and then suddenly we started thinking I remember trying to do some calf raises I was so sore I thought my god but again you realize it's kind of a use it or use it or lose it scenario where if you're no longer sprinting and jumping then that the flexibility that you know the mobility of that complex and the ability of that thing to absorb force but the other two things one if you avoid doing it if your calves are sore because if you look at both Tateum and Helbert and had previous calf strains that they were playing with and ended up with a killies tendon tears and I think sometimes um again I'm a meme guy that was in a great meme yesterday and the guy said the doctor was like how much does that hurt and he said oh the usual amount and Dr said the usual amount is zero so you've got to be able to look at that and realize that I could shouldn't hurt it all if you're thinking oh my my calves my shins their sore that's indicating to you that you were doing something that wasn't kind and that now you've got to give that enough time to recover so that that's not sore anymore and I think sometimes we get into the kind of I don't know the hard guy stuff in terms of you got it like I never I tell everybody I wrote an article in time called does it hurt and I said it's all about the idea it doesn't hurt to say yes no question if I ask you does it hurt you can only answer yes or no and any equivocation is yes when you well after I warm up yes or only yes and I always do if you when they start qualifying like yeah that's yes so how it's does it hurt you know people bounce press after I warm up doesn't hurt at all I like that means it hurts it's you can't and so we're like for us we don't like you're using that then as a sign that says I need to understand why it hurts it's not you don't train it's we need to figure out what's going wrong which movement and figure out what you know Jeff was a looting to like you know I bright rose and rotate it like what is it that's making your shoulders sore what's the movement that's aggravating and for some people like we find that standing you know people it's functional standing cable pressing is the one thing that everybody can do that doesn't hurt so if we have people which you'll look at and they stand in cable press because it's the one thing they can do that doesn't hurt and I don't care whether people think functional non-functionally you can label it anyway you want to label it but I just know I can get you to press pain free and my goal that's my goal all time I want to be able you can look at me and say I can do that and it doesn't hurt at all then I think okay we can build off that well people don't understand too is that it's okay to go through periods of restriction to a single movement like that right standing cable press to actually allow the shoulder to heal to a point where you actually could get back to doing other variants of the press if that was your desire I told you a story myself where I had a I have a laborum terron I had an inability to do any type of pressing I had to restrict myself simply to a variation of a of a crossover that wasn't even a pure crossover but just something that I could do where I can actually pull in a little bit and then crossover my body because that was going to happen to do pain free but I could still work my chest in a way that you know allow me to do to do something I also knew that I could do something completely different like I could I could horizontal row by doing that I'm getting shoulder movement in a way that was different right someone's like the specialization in sport and not just doing all chest stuff but trying to actually attack the chest through a different way by still looking at the shoulder joint and I would do a lot a lot of rowing which probably was good just post really the balance out some of the imbalance I had in the shoulder but also to just give me more joint range of motion in the shoulder can get all this extension through combination of those two things got me to a point where my shoulder doesn't like I'm not going to not go with now but my shoulder doesn't hurt I can actually be able to go and go back to pressing again in a smart way with dumbbells I don't I don't part of our bench press but I do with dumbbells and I have none of the pain that I had years ago when that was going on so it's okay to to understand that this is a long game and you might want to take a step back and stay with the exercises that don't cause pain and allow yourself a chance to be actively mobile to still recover at the same time instead of sitting on the sidelines like you said it was just not a preferred choice that's not going to turn out well so I pivot and talk a little bit about strength training women across kind of the transition from Perry menopause and to menopause do you have any experience with that I'm guessing you do and Mike you must just by the fact that they're coming in your so start with you get real what do you what are you noticing is the most important things as women are making the transition from Perry menopause straight on into menopause. The first thing is to don't don't wait until they start to feel that their body composition is changing the bitter they are going into Perry menopause and menopause the better they're going to be both metabolically and just activities of daily life everything those women seem to suffer much less when hormones are changing I think what I end up seeing is that maybe sleep is poor their tendons you know one of the signs of menopause is frozen shoulder so if someone is a candidate for HRT we do certainly believe in that or menopause therapy when it comes to training in the literature I haven't seen huge evidence or a variation evidence that good training doesn't include it's not sex specific there is not something specific for women that needs to happen rather than following good foundational principles of strength training hypertrophy and cardiovascular activity so you don't say hey now that you're making this transition we have to alter your periodization or change the way change the amount of time you're spending doing one form of training say cardio versus resistance or even the number of reps you would do we're not changing any of that stuff I don't one of the things that we do look at though is if they are at risk for injury for tendons or joints because we do see that that changes but then once we treat them I do not see a reason to change good programming is good programming progressive stimulus is progressive stimulus no it was great because when I read your book there was very reinforcing for me because we're getting that question more and more now from our female clients just because because of people like you were talking about it more people are more comfortable than talking to us about it and it's exactly that it's the whole thing I always come back it always comes back to strength and conditioning get stronger getting better shape get them to challenge themselves more with weights and not be content the females are very I always think there's there's an ego component that's absent in females it is very present in males like males will look at you know if I look at what Jeff did I might think I'm going to try that females just don't have that it they're just very internally driven and sometimes that will cause them to underachieve in the weight room because they're not they're not worried about being top dog and not worried about who lifted most weight it just isn't make some better snipers you know I believe it makes them better clients trust me if I could I would do nothing I have with a lot of really elite females like that are great hockey players and the crossplay and stuff and they're the best people to train by far because they don't have a lot of the kind of extra baggage sometimes that the guys have they're just way more compliant they just listen to what you say they don't argue with you they don't begin they don't worry about what Jeff is doing but just encouraging them to continually get stronger and encouraging them to continue to and we would look at it as conditioning versus cardiovascular work I guess kind of how we always use the term but pushing them to do more intervals pushing them to do I want more aggressive intervals so you know you have a lot of you two max work out but I want to get that like I love the end of yelping idea like Andy Galpens thing was like hey you just want to get your heart rate up really high once a week I think that's a really good concept and starting to just get people to think hey get your heart rate up where heart rate monitor don't be afraid to push your heart rate to to acts you know whatever that is and don't be afraid to be you know out of breath or get off the bike and feel like you want to land the floor kind of thing because we're big assault bike airdine people because it's just them I think it's the most efficient way to to hit your cardiovascular system with what I would code no orthopedic costs like I can kill you on the bike and nothing bad is going even like you sing with the hamstring I'm going to bet you can't be able to bite back I'm trying to hit her today and then you'll be perfectly fine because you're not you're not weight bearing and you're not getting a lot of aggressive hip extension and a lot of aggressive hip flexion and you can probably torture yourself on there for a long time without having any negative effects but the biggest thing like said with women is just getting them over that I'm going to get big so I don't push myself kind of thing and so it's funny I film a lot of my and ask them to talk about how much they weigh and how much weight they've haven't gained because I've two of the best lacrosse attackers on our US team that are in their mid 20s now and they've been here for five years and they've gained no weight they're stronger they're faster but females gaining lean masses really difficult you have to really be a super responder and usually I always say apples end up like apples oranges end up like oranges it's not like suddenly just one day the apple is going to wake up in the next day going to be an orange like you're going to be if you're an acto morph you're an acto morph you will get the occasional really mesomorphic female way you do think oh wow she really does respond to weights but they're rare they're super rare so Jeff what about you what are you seeing in women specifically the training especially during that transition through menopause I think as Gabby appointed out like the training specifics are pretty much the same what applies and what is good smart training for for men is equally applicable to women the only thing that I would say from a PT standpoint by on the can't leave there are some differences in terms of something called a Q angle right the the angle of the hip of the femur coming down to the knee it does create a lot more valgus at the knee for for women then then then it does for for men so I think you just have to be aware of those things so what you're doing certain activities you want to be able to coach better in terms of being aware positioning so like the tendency for a lot of women when they jump is to land in a much more valgus knee state which could put more and more stress and even if it's not like we're not fearful of them blowing out in a training session but as we talked about before that cumulative stress of every time you land you're getting more and more stressed on the MCL or the ACL that would be something that you'd want to coach around and make them aware of because you could strengthen that you could work on biomechanically improving those things you know you put a band around their knees and have them jump that way and land that way they're learning how to activate their abductors and their hip that is probably something that isn't even really a required it would be all men could benefit from that but it's not an additional requirement because we're not dealing with the same biomechanical angles also because of hormones women will have more laxity of hormones at different times of the month that will be make them susceptible to different stresses so I think you just have to be aware of the education side of it and coaching through that but as far as the exercise is the programming we also found that you know women just tend to be much stronger than men in terms of their their output pound for pound and and given the differences in sex they're able to proportionally push more weight especially with the lower body the men can so interesting yeah very strong much much stronger have you found that to like the women are incredibly strong in terms of their their their output in strength comparative to to men we really thought about it in terms of pound for pound the one thing we found is that they're much stronger in their upper body than they think they are that's the one thing that we've seen is that we've got women doing weighted gyms with set you know 45 pounds for five and what oh yeah our best one is that 45 for seven is the best I've seen 45 pounds wrapped around her waist and she's doing seven and up sales carpenter how many men can do that every in our gym we we really emphasize it like most of ours wow my sons did 90 for two the other day he weighs 180 a bunch of kids in his team we really push we push pulling that doesn't sound right but we have emphasized we like push pulling yeah that I'm leading the league in redundancy I want to come back to something you said at the outset Mike you're talking about kids the youngest you train is 11 you drew a hard line in the sand how come I always said I don't want to be in the childhood stealing business and I think there's some people in our industry that are in the childhood stealing business I want I think kids should be kids and they don't need a strength and conditioning coach when they're seven eight nine ten years old they probably need a playground and a bike and swing said and slide there's a lot of things that kids could be doing that are way more fun than being in my gym so we we actually drew the line at 12 initially but the sports brackets are 11 12 so when we realize that we drew the line at 12 people then started coming and wanted to bring a team and suddenly it was kind of like well yeah Jeff can't come because he's 11 so eventually we kind of bumped it down and then we just resisted bumping it down more because I don't want to run a a kind of a gender gym kind of program I don't want people to run around I don't want birthday parties that's not what I'm looking to do so we just said 11 I think at 11 you're going into middle school you can start to understand that there may be some commitment involved in terms of hey if I want to make a team I'm going to probably have to learn to work at this thing and I'm going to have to learn to train and it's a very good if you kind of look at the long-term athletic development models that 11 12 is a good learn to train age to get kids in and get them kind of oriented to today here so I do the exercises and we're very learned to train oriented at that stage I tell coaches all time I don't care if any of these kids get stronger I could kill us I really care that they're good lifters if they've been here 10 weeks and by the end I can look at them and think wow they can gobble it's squad and they can zoom out deadlift and they can do a clean and they can do a chin up and they can do a push up then. I mean all of that is fantastic right and again it still flies in the face of what many people would think which is oh my god an 11 year old lifting weights it's going to stun their growth Mike aren't you crazy and that's the that's what that really I love it wrote that down it's funny that I was in my notes in the beginning but the misconception the stuff we're still dealing with this done to grow thing and you'd brought up New York Times but New York Times did an article where they tried to pull the string on that where did this done to grow thing come from and it actually came from a study the only study they could find was on Japanese forced child labor the kids who were forced into child labor tended to be smaller than their age matched peers who were not nourished right exactly well nourished and not working at eight in a factory and as result but that was sort of but yeah you still have doctors people say I don't you know they talk about growth plates stuff there's no growth plate damage evidence there's none of those things are there and then you talk about gymnastics here we all I always tell people figure skating in gymnastics are 10,000 times more aggressive than anything that we would do in the gym I look at and I'll get myself in trouble but I always say organized child abuse right I mean it's not even good for kids when you look at what they're trying to do with these young bodies because you need I always think you need little people to rotate right I mean that's the key to those sports and you look at that and then you think what we're doing in the gym okay hold 10 pounds squat up and down and that's going to be bad for you but it's been around three times and land is okay that's just that's physics and I science and I in where you look and think now I can show you the physics of that is way way worse so what are the things and this is a question for all of you because you all have kids so my we haven't pushed our boys and we even pushed any of our kids our daughter just decided at some point she wanted to start lifting weights so that was great but our boys kind of like to come in the gym with us and we just sort of play goofy games with them so you're I know your friends with Jaco and life and they have this fun little card game that they play where you you get the if you see this game so it's basically like you designate what you know what is what's displayed what's a heart what's a diamond it's a diamond you think it is like this is push up this is a burpy this is a setup and then obviously if you flip it and you get a 10 of that thing you do 10 of the jiff you get a 7 of the 7 of the 7 of them and then move on so well this usually they'll just come in the gym with us and play that game they really see they this is the problem with boys they want to want to be each other so you know once one of them goblet squats this amount of weight the next guy wants to go to the heavier kettlebell and the next one wants to go to heavy kettlebell and actually I do get a little worried because I see their form deteriorate right they go into what I call turtle back right so they go from lumber extension they start getting into lumber flexion and I'm like guys enough so so what advice would you have for trying to help little boys who want to start lifting but just you just want them to develop the form I think it's really funny because if you were to ask them to do to jump onto something or to or to even to do like to to walk up stairs two steps at a time their form usually is going to look quite good when it's just a naturally occurring activity that they're doing in their life when you then say hey let's do this as an exercise let's do something call they step up where we step up onto a box so let's even do a push up right the push up if they already get themselves on the floor probably look a lot prettier than it does when the ask them to do a push up they're it passes up in the air their shoulders are wide they're kind of moving in all different kinds of segments so to me it's this disconnect it's not that they lack the athletic skills or the strength to do what it is you're asking them to do they lack the awareness of what it is you're asking them to do so they don't like when it's packaged as an exercise they're sort of like not really sure what that is so it's it's our responsibility to kind of make it seem isn't understand and tell them where they're supposed to be feeling it you know the number one question that people ask when they are we're starting out an exercise program not just kids anybody when they do an exercise surprisingly because this is what we all do when we are so passionate about it what am I supposed to work what am I feeling here what am I supposed to feel this and to be like well where do you feel it you know but that's it they want to know because they want to know where okay because if I'm not feeling it there what do I have to do to get it to feel to feel it there kids need to learn the proper the proper form and by my care somehow do the exercise again I think they possess a lot more athletic skill and natural abilities and we give them credit for and when we just have them start doing exercises it breaks down so take the time do the exercises right who cares about the way that's in their hand first start with body weight and then have them learn the mechanics of that as I said before that little drop squat the drop squat will actually isn't where they can actually add weight and learn better than it could be if they were trying to learn a body weight squat in this case that that actual implement would insist them and learning how to do it properly because it's going to take their their center mastery down so the form is everything when it comes to kids when we work for kids in in 11 and 12 year old bracket that's what we try to focus on is learn the movement go slow right don't speed through it go slow speed is something that usually breaks down any good any attempt at good form so learn the movements and then we could always speed them up and we could always add weight but if you don't learn the form you're going to basically set up a foundation that's going to ultimately crack especially if they get away with that for their teen years and other and their 20s and then that really now that competition starts to kick in and competing with your buddies and then things get really ugly and are either of you guys doing sports specific training for these 12 year olds for example if you got a 12 year old who's a pitcher versus a 12 year old who's a basketball player are you having them do different exercises? No nothing I don't play I think sports specific trials I always say sports specific training is bullshit it's absolutely nonsense baseball is sports specific training like if you want to go get better at baseball then go play baseball if you come to the weight room I mean I've trained guys in every major professional sport and it's at most 80 20 probably 90 10 like 90 percent of what we do is the same 10 percent of what we do is different and that 10 percent is totally irrelevant to a 8 9 10 11 12 year old it makes absolutely no difference it could it. That's really counterintuitive I would thought that I mean God if you're a pitcher you've got to be taking more care of the rotator cuff then maybe the guy who's you know then you know the hockey player for example right and that's not in the chat that would be the 10 percent you know like the 10 percent with baseball would be that be shoulder care stuff that you might not really worry about with your hockey players or football players so there's going to be that's where your difference in program would be like that one spot um rotator cuff but with kids like I always look at I think you shouldn't be a pitcher you not a pitcher your baseball player and you might end up being a catcher you might end up being a shortstop because again I've had so many no my Garcia par no my Garcia par went to Georgia Tech and tried to kick on the football team and and he we yeah and he glove soccer he married me a ham he's a huge soccer fan he told me one time I used to train me said I would absolutely be playing soccer if I didn't live in the United States he said but I realized the best kind of the best use use of my athleticism was Major League Baseball and that playing in the MLS would never have that you know given me the type of career that I would have had Major League Baseball but most every great athlete that I've seen was a great multi-sport athlete but we've got this self-fulfilling prophecy now of specialization where people can now point and they'll deal point to tiger woods of somebody and say oh tiger woods specializing it's like yeah you can find me one specialist I can find you a thousand generalists who all have achieved and but you'll continue to use the specialist as the example because that's what you want to believe we as achievement oriented people like for you to be a great doctor for you to be a great doctor for you to be great at YouTube that's what you got to do kids is the polar opposite for them to be great at something down the road they probably need this super broad based skill set that's kind of eventually allow them you know the the base of the pyramid versus the height of the pyramid the bigger the base the larger the height you know if you build an obelisk out of the gate you're probably not going to accomplish much so you mentioned Carl Crawford like he didn't he didn't get those scholarship offers for three different sports because he started playing a 18 or 17 he obviously was playing all those sports at a young age and getting in developing all those athletic skills to where he could select the one that was most appropriate for him either financially or and he was just the best some of this is genetic lottery Carl Crawford could do a standing back flip at 230 pounds we you may have never seen he's still in all the most athletic person I've ever seen but he would have been that in any number of sports I don't think you know it's just the fact that he chose baseball and that's what's interesting in terms of people say oh you look at did your pens you know they specialize in soccer and it's like yeah because they don't have the choices that we have over here we've got a lot of opportunities that maybe aren't present in in other countries so people will kind of people cherry pick because they want to support their their thesis but to me the more important thing is like virtually no kid is going to be a professional athlete right so so you know my interest is in how do you use the interest in sports first to fuel the spark that says lifelong activity is an important pillar of health second how do I make sure that when you are done playing sports which for most people is the end of high school then there's a narrow subset that'll say well actually it's the end of college and then it's virtually nobody who's playing sports after that because to your point pickleball with your buddies on Sunday that ain't sports so we all stopped playing sports pretty young and yet we are going to need to train for the rest of our lives and I think that's the thing that I'm still trying to better understand is how do we use youth sports as a tool to set you up to be an athlete for life where the sport changes to life and I think that's the difference in terms of using it to teach life lessons you know they say sports can build character can build characters you have to use it to build the kids character and sometimes that may be saying you're not just going to get you know I get it that you just like baseball but we're going to play soccer in the spring because we think you need to be exposed to more things and the kids learn that lesson like because sometimes they they just learn this kind of micro focus really early on and then later on when they don't achieve they think oh if I wish I'd done more things I wish I'd sampled more I wish I'd explored more I think it's just it's looking at the real body of evidence versus looking at the evidence that's presented to you by the person who's trying to get your money which is what usually happens now is that the issue I think though is that where we're going off track is that the coaches and the parents of these children are over emphasizing the importance of what it is or actually competing and to the point where they why do you think we have you said because of money they have all these additional leaks throughout the year but it's also because everyone thinks their kids can be a pro when they're not and they don't want their kid to be left behind that too and it's is all these social pressures behind this you know and I think that is what's feeding that is what's feeding the problems that we've seen also taking away from the fact that this is introducing lifelong habits to them to the point where is is degenerating something that should be very positive into something that becomes at worst destructive because you're you're you're over you're over doing something and you're actually a lot of times also making a lot of these kids hate athletics by the time they were 17 18 19 yeah that's another issue which is I can't tell you the number of people I met who grew up collegiate swimming who cannot stand swimming and it's such a shame because swimming is I mean while it's not good for bone density it's pretty much good for everything else so by itself I would say it's not the only exercise you should do but boy if I think about if there's one exercise I could insert into everybody's life it would be some amount of swimming and yeah somebody who swam through high school in college they'll they're like I just I could never do it again it was my best sport I went to the first swimming meeting at Springfield College and the coach I still remember Red Sylvia famous division three coach the first words out of his mouth were the first practice is at and I was thinking he's talking per day here right now they practice their swimming twice today they're swimming for school and after school and I sat politely through the whole meeting like this and nodded and went to the football meeting and tried out for freshman football because I was like there is no way I'm going in the pool twice a day it was the end of my swimming career and I now terrible shoulders I don't even I can't stand swimming because hurts you know I think when you're talking about becoming a lifelong athlete that for us so again our kids are four and five they train with us they might not be doing the same lifts but we let them play with a you know kettlebell pick things up put them down and we let them run we let them do things that they would physically be able to do without a lot of queuing and as I just think about some of the data on tendon health we know that the earlier people start the better and more resilient those tendons are because they're not starting later in life not getting injured and I just think again it's just a great place to start the earlier the better which is a bit counterintuitive because we've heard all of this information how kids shouldn't lift weights or train and maybe it's not a standardized training program but they're in there they're doing stuff with us like every day so I want to ask you guys each the same question if you think back to the last five years you're obviously all in a constant state of learning is there something you have changed your mind on something significant that you've changed your mind on and not just changed your mind on but it's changed the way you behave the way you help other people I'll start with you get real this is a big one I don't think body fat percentage is nearly as important as we think it is I think that is going to be somewhat of an outdated metric I believe that in termoscular out of post tissue this I'm at is going to be much more predictive of disease and this came from I interviewed on my podcast malniquery and we're talking about PCOS and I'm thinking metabolic PCOS what is the body fat percentage that's going to change the outcome and to the conclusion is because Gabrielle has nothing to do with body fat percent it had to do with their intermuscular out of post tissue and that I think is going to be an upcoming theme it's much more specific to insulin resistance and these metabolic outcomes that we care about and commercially obviously it can be measured quite easily with CT scans and with MRIs to my knowledge it's very difficult for Dexa to approximate it so that's right so how it is ultrasound viable I may see you wouldn't be able to get whole body but you could sample the quads which is where it would be most that would probably be the canary in the coal mine is if you're accumulating muscle in your quads yes and I think it's also very different yes very difficult to test MRI seems to be where a lot of the data is we're not there to measure it but this is something and I think we are going to see so much more of and you know it we're all focused on a muscle son drug approach and for the last 50 years it's been all about obesity and this is the same thing it's almost that we're looking where it's obvious but it doesn't mean that that's where it's effective I really agree with you actually and I think pharmacologically for what it's worth I think that's the next frontier right so I think what the GLP1 Agnes have done over the past five years with the introduction of the third and fourth generations of those drugs the first two were largely failures but because of how successful the third and fourth generations were it were really at a point where I think people can see that you can address the crisis of over abundance from a nutrition standpoint but what people realize the new problem that is yet to be addressed to sarcopenia and when I'm looking at what's at the leading edge in the frontier of biotech right now it's all around anti-sarcopenia drugs now of course we have another great drug that works again sarcopenia it involves holding iron and eating certain types of foods but you know if if if if if if where billions of dollars are being invested is any indication of what people realize is the next frontier I think people are waking up to the idea that it's not enough to solve the adiposity problem you must address the sarcopenic problem yes I couldn't agree more what about you Mike what have you changed your mind on and what's the idea this one I glad you gave me a head start to think about this you know some digestive health I had a bowel resection done nine months ago so they took a foot of my colonel and and I realized I actually did a really good presentation for our staff called you don't know shit and because I think that's the most neglected area of health right now because we don't talk about it and people it's uncomfortable and until you experience it firsthand you don't realize how important fiber is how important water is how badly like most of us are chronic dehydration seems like a it's a big deal but it's really not a big deal but it suddenly is a big deal I mean I liken it to it's like you have a dumpster your whole life that's out in the back of your house and it just gets emptied all the time and then suddenly one day you realize they can't empty the dumpster anymore like I'm in trouble and that's us like we we're worried about our musculosystem we're worried about our nervous system we're worried about our endocrine system and our digestive system is just this thing that's supposed to be this dependable system that's just gonna take care of us forever and then suddenly in our 50s and 60s it starts to fail and we don't want to talk about it and I mean I ended up I was in like I was in the hospital I like I was sick and the guy was like yeah we got it and this is amazing surgery we got to take foot of your colon out and put you back together again I won't go into the the real gory specifics but it made me realize it I mean I take a fiber self-manaltime I put fiber self you know fiber in my shakes all the time now I look at how much fiber is in everything that I eat now be used to our protein numbers look at the fiber numbers our people are way more fiber deficient than protein deficient but they're not they're gonna suffer the effects way down the road and it'll be too late for them to realize so if I would say to anybody I'd be like drink more water eat more fiber and it because you don't want a ballerys section. What about you Jeff? I'm breaking the rules now a couple but personally I think I have to twin nine-year-old boys and so in the last five years they've gone from four to nine which for a dad is sort of where the phase where the where mom was definitely the favorite for the first four years and then you know I sort of stepped in and become the fun guy so I've realized through their interactivity with me number one to appreciate things I didn't appreciate before I think in a in the first half of my adult life I was so focused on professionally achieving whatever I could whether it be working for the meds or then starting this business and really going you know all hours of the night to try to build a business not that I just still don't do that but I really have learned to better prioritize my time with my kids to the point where it's difficult for me to make travels out to do podcasts because I really try to be around them and and I've learned to appreciate because of they they're on the spectrum I learned to appreciate their their their wins every day right so it's like wow that you know I I don't take anything for granted that's a thing that I am so grateful for that being able to benefit from because if I if I don't think if it the situation was different I probably would just continue to work work the way I did but I think from a professional standpoint kind of oddly one of the things that I think is really overlooked is balance training and I think that it's an area that people are going to probably have to spend a little bit more time focusing on because it's like like we just talked about that's just of health like it's it's another one of those things that's going to get worse as you get older for a number of reasons number one your reaction times will get worse number two your proprioceptive sense is going to get worse which is essentially your sense of body position number three your strength is going to get worse as we talked about inevitably decade by decade when we consider what all that leads to ultimately falling we talked about these fears I don't have the fear of falling right now I'm sure if you don't have the fear of falling right now we have the Achilles tendon stage right now but 20 years from now 30 years from now our biggest fear should be falling because when you do you're likely going to live a pretty difficult end of your life and it might lead lead to a much faster end of life and I think that actually training balance is another one of those things is going to have to get kind of sectioned into that five minutes of extra work that you're going to want to have to do for yourself and the most important thing when you're training your balance even if it's just simple standing on one leg and drawing an alphabet with your other foot is to close your eyes because I think that when you don't close your eyes you're actually you know like just one dimensionally create creating an environment that's not actually what we're going to face most people fall in the dark because they don't have that visual feedback to correct by the time you send that signal down to your ankle to make an adaptation is too late you know and again our our reaction times are delayed too it's going to be even worse so it's just the thing that I think people that are already older should start working on because as a skill you can improve it and as somebody who is looking down the line here and seeing things change including my eyesight which used to be so perfect up close you know that that changes I know all these things are happening under the hood and making a dedicated effort is something that I think people should probably invest some time and took it as well worth the investment for that long range safety yeah I mean I think I think the theme here is I think we would all agree in the gravitational pull of aging I just despite the fact of you know what what some of the popular bio hackers might have you believe we're not none of us are getting out of this alive and I think I would bet each of us can remember what it was like what it was like to be 10 years younger what regardless of whatever age we are today but this idea if I could take what you're all saying and impart one thing to a listener it would be you do have a choice at the rate at which this glider is going to come down the glider will come down gravity always wins but you can train to reduce the rate of decline you can train to reduce the rate of decline it won't happen by accident the the training you have to do has to be specific right it's not obvious or intuitive that you should do some of these exercises a lot of the things that you guys have talked about today are exercises I just love the the front foot on a plate on a 45 pound plate putting the front foot up there going into a a lunge taking a plate and doing little twists the amount of stress that that puts on the proprioceptive capacity that front foot is insane what a dumb looking unsexy exercise that never shows up in the mirror and yet what a phenomenal exercise I'm with you 100% on all of these sorts of balance drills with eyes shut and they're frustrating it is frustrating to be on one foot with your eyes shut trying and then add the third layer is turn your head you're doing that oh my god I mean you the the you know the way you feel and and you don't want to do things you suck at but you kind of have to do this and and I I guess I don't know I just hope that people realize that ignoring it won't make it less likely and there is it's a relatively small price to pay you're not asking people to be in the gym 12 hours a week right I lost I checked yeah some of us choose to be in gym or exercise 12 hours a week but that's probably because we're weird and we do that just like other people might enjoy watching TV but yeah if someone could give two great hours a week it breaks my heart they that there are people who don't do it for whatever reason for whatever belief system that says it's too late or it's too hard or I'll do it tomorrow so guys I really really appreciate this I don't know where the time went because we didn't actually cover a single thing I had written which is okay because you know I had good stuff written down but I thought we talked about good stuff so I'm incredibly grateful for all of you making the trip out here and I only wish we had another three hours although we'd have to take another bathroom break or something so thank you all for coming thank you this is the pleasure honestly pleasure to get to meet you guys this guy already knew but I could do this all day thanks guys thank you

We're spending $1 trillion on K-12 education, but our ROI is quite low. Why are we doing so poorly? The standards just keep going down. If you're a B student, you are from three years behind to seven years behind. Where did this virus infect us? The best analogies we always use the parents totally understand is sports. Everybody in sports is like if you're not doing well, go back and do the basics. You think it's the current material, but it's your pre-rex. It's your foundation. It's your foundation. It's so easy to fix. When you use these learning science-based AI tutors and the apps that we have, kids can learn 10 times faster. You would still say that 95% of all eighth graders in the United States could be what today is considered top 10% performance. The most important part of education is a motivated student. Two-hour learning is motivational for every kid on the planet. Our competition is Fortnite and TikTok. And we need to use things like Gen AI to create such compelling content for kids. They've created a narrative that says I can't do math. Once it becomes a mastery-based system, it's a decision not an inherent capability. And there's this mental view of, oh, I guess I am a smart kid. It's like the kindling that leads to the fire. What's the simplest unlock to fix education in America? It would be this. Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host, Peter Atia. Joe, thank you so much for making time to come over today. It's nice once in a while to have a guest who is local and doesn't have to travel so far. Now it's great, I super appreciate it. You know, look, people are probably wondering, like, you know, how does this sort of tie into health and medicine? And this is a topic that's a little bit about outside of that. But really, it's not because it's where we're ultimately going to go is education. And you can't have a great system of health and medicine if you're not educating. Kids today, right, the people that, you know, are learning today are going to be the ones taking care of us. So I think everybody should have a vested interest in this in this process. Of course, also many people listening have kids across various spectrums of learning. But I think before I get into that, your story is just so interesting. And I know you don't really like telling your story. Because I know this because I know you so well. And all you want to do is talk about the work. But I'm going to force you to tell your story a little bit. So where did you grow up? So I moved around, I was born in Minnesota and I moved around every couple years. And I'm mostly up and down these coasts. My dad worked for general electric and wherever they had a factory. Whatever town we'd we'd move there. Yeah, I mean, he did very well in high school and you wound up at Stanford. So what would you, what would you major in? I majored in Econ. I did not graduate. I dropped out. But I would have been in Econ major. I mostly picked it because it was easy in the in the Stanford curriculum. So what year were you when you dropped out? So I would have been class in 1990. I would have been and I dropped out between junior and senior year. I was I'm sure my junior year professors were like he's not really engaged. And probably miss as too many classes. And you know for me and just a little bit on the background was, you know when I was in high school, I wrote a paper on AI. And you know one of the parts of the paper was about expert systems in old school AI. Now what we know today and there was a part like one paragraph called Neural Nats which is sort of today's AI. It was like this is decades away. And so I then went to Stanford and literally I was in a class with Professor Vigabong who's considered one of the fathers of expert systems in old school AI. And he's just talking about how this is you know you can build these incredible systems. And they'd be worth you know millions of dollars, you know if you could figure it out. And so you know if some classmates and I we dropped out, you know and started trilogy. And the story around that was just it was the first AI company we didn't call it AI back then because it had a bad rap in the 90s to sell a billion dollars way of products. And so that's how we got our start and eventually leads to you know today's story. Yeah so so again you it's I always find that amazing when people are dropping out like with one year to go right it's sort of like why didn't you finish it but you must have a strong conviction if you're saying I'm gonna forego my Stanford degree to go and start this company that can't it can't wait a year to do this right. Sure well there's and so back to this story because I I had you know my dad there's a famous Forbes headline that's like you're more on because my dad was very clear what a more I was being by dropping out and you know it's the the issue as I felt there was a time to market issue is a race right and I was just like I I'm sitting in Spanish class I don't care right and my market's gonna run away without me and there's a huge opportunity to go build this company and it's just it's that tension where you thought now with 2020 hindsight it took us over three years to build the product and we thought we could do it much quicker and so there was an time to market issue and with with hindsight I could have stayed but back to that pressure I just felt it I didn't want to miss it I had to go do it and so that's what actually led to the job. Did you guys come and set up shopping Austin right away? Yeah well not right away so we dropped out and did the whole you know we couldn't raise funding still can value back in the late eight eighties was not given money to dropouts like us and but we literally lived in a garage you know we had classmates who had like have a house and we're like can we rent your garage to live at it but then in 92 we moved down to Austin actually John Lynch who is one of the co-founders was like look you know if we're gonna be poor Austin back then Austin was cheap it's like it's a lot cheaper than Palo Alto so let's go move down there and so that's actually what led us down here. Austin. When did this idea of finding your next you know as I guess is it is it David Brooks who wrote that book the second mountain right so if you're if your first mountain was was trilogy this incredible business which really we're not gonna say much more about other than the fact that it basically created an an unlimited essentially word chest of capital that you were then able to go and deploy to your second mountain which is this passion around education yes you always had an interest in AI but when did these two become the next to front to you come together. So back to education so 10 years ago 11 years ago now McKinsey Price started Alpha in Austin and you know it's just still radical idea back that you know and one of the things I've learned is principal of Alpha is that parents want their kids education to be however they were educated and I was the same way I went to Catholic school my kids are in Catholic school you know and McKinsey's like look look at this great new school I got it's gonna be awesome you know and I was like McKinsey I'm it's weird like when she started it's literally in some guys garage I'm like you know her co-founder and like I'm not going to the weird school sorry and it took her two years to actually convince me to move my daughters over and you know they sampled it one time and literally loved it you know and they came back and said it was they did it after their Catholic school got out before they went to summer camp and they came back and they're like that we don't want to go to summer camp we want to still go to Alpha and I didn't like school enough to want to you were gonna miss summer for school that's how it crazy me so anyway I was like okay that's actually really good time I should move over and that was 10 years ago then how I but my discussion with McKinsey always was like this is awesome but it's not scalable and yeah just what did Alpha look like 11 years ago when you first appeared behind the curtain the other co-founder Brian right and he had this philosophy he had these rules like when so when I sent moved my kid over to Alpha I said Brian what are the two things I don't believe about education that I need to understand he's like first kids must love school they must love school and I'm like sort of spinach sometimes dude like no I he's like you're wrong and you'll figure it out and I was like okay and then his second is your kids can do so much more than you expect and I'm like I'm I sort of have really high expectations he's like they're gonna blow you away and what they can do and your expectations are too low and so you know he was you know setting it up it really it was 20 kids right they weren't in the garage after two years but you know it is alternative they would use a set of apps right to do academics but you know they'd have you know the teachers right would help academically if needed and then they would have all these life skills they checked charts and life skills so it was some academics and then workshops and life skills and that was you know 10 to 20 kids that are in there are what grade slash age range yeah they're gonna be from there probably second grade to fifth grade was probably the range sixth grade somewhere around there and you know and they're clustered it's sort of like the one room school house right and you know you go in and it is crazy like he's like oh they're doing spelling these and like they're walking on their hands you know they're doing handstands across the room and he's like yeah watch how they do it and literally they would you know have to buy try they try to walk across the room and handstands but recite all the words on their spelling v is doing it right and could they make it all across and the kids would just have it in a ton of fun right and I was always like are they really learning and sort of all the academics are high but you know testing showed they were and what was the state of technology what what you referred to some apps but what was the state of educational apps 11 years ago yeah there were um there were things like dreambox and uh Khan Academy was out okay so they were static I mean static in the sense that um they weren't adaptive I guess as maybe one of them or there the the the the prom with old ones and they actually even a bunch of them today is you know now we know with learning science you know all these much better ways to do it there's standards of mastery were too low their their implementation of learning science was too little you know if if you look at them but they were good enough that you could you know get your way through but back to some of the problems like when my oldest you know first took her seventh grade test um you know standardized test she failed at all you know and so sorry this is after being in the alpha program this was she had been in the alpha program and with with those apps got it and so the apps were you know janky and not all there um this is before I got involved except as a parent and you know she failed her seventh grade you know test and standardized test state standardized testing like oh wow so something there's a mismatch and there's mismatch they just you know you can use apps you know and people say how does alpha get all these results because there's a lot of people try to use these apps and you're like these apps have gaps and holes and you know figuring out how to change that was a lot of what how I got involved and you know what I've been doing the last three years so you're for a into this is obviously then in this logical way through the experience of your own kids I want to just take a step way back and talk more about education in general so I I don't think anybody listening to us now is unfamiliar with the idea although this is it's not particularly popular at the moment we have enough other things that are going on in the world that have people up and arms but it's it's sort of sickleck when people sort of look at the data and realize that the United States is not doing well in primary and secondary education um or I don't know if those are the right terms but whatever it is up to K to 12 I don't know if secondary is considered college but we start to do pretty well in college right relative to the world but but getting to college we're not doing well and it's it's it's this is further I think the the point is it's further made when you look at the dollars in to results out so I think we're spending what one billion dollars are pretty one trillion dollars on K through 12 education which is about one seventh of what the world spends and of course we don't have one seventh of the population so there's a huge mismatch there but our ROI is quite low so it's actually kind of parallels the healthcare spending thing right where we on a per capita basis we spend more in healthcare than anybody else and yet we're actually not producing the best life expectancy so let's do well on that for a moment why does the United States spend so much money on K through 12 education and maybe more importantly why are we not getting the results at least if we believe we're measuring the results correctly if the results are to be determined by these tests that all the OECD nations take yeah why are we doing so poorly that's a really complex answer but there's there's a set of which it is it is true right our academic performance continues to go down across it as an example there's this test uh NWA map test it's a nationwide test you know when I was a kid I took an Iowa test this is equivalent one you know millions of kids take it and they just updated their 2025 norm table you know the last one they did it's it's 2020 you know every five years they update the benchmark and America knows less now so your average eighth grader in 2025 knows less than the average eighth grader in 2020 which is no less than the average in 2015 yep so you can't you just blame COVID on that no like this it's going to be a new trend it's a continuing trend it's continuing going down there is one actually anomaly which is uh in both the 2021 from 15 to 20 and 20 to 25 there's one one group who actually goes up and that's your 99th percentile so the top one percent academically in America in K through 12 continues to increase right those are your Ivy League bound kids continue to go up um now but everybody else is is going down things are getting easier in tests you know the the AP tests in high school that you take you know they re-normed them in the last couple years and they normal begins college kids because it's like okay if you take an AP test that's like a college class right and so they say well what would a college kids know and they're like oh college kids no less so now our AP test is easier right and so it used to be at alpha if you were going to be the honors track you had to get a four or five on an AP now we're like oh you just need a five because the fours are too easy right just the the standards just keep going down and you know I'll give some more data just you know I just gave the academic talk we had hundreds of families at alpha across the country of campus now everywhere and you know start last couple weeks and so they all come in they take a placement test you know and I got up in front of all the parrots and I was like here's the message and it's going to worry you but you should take away that your you know 40 thousand dollar private school they've been lying to you which is if your student has an AP and you've been getting straight days on your transcript that student in our tests right is anywhere from one year ahead that's great two three years behind this is an AP student who's three years behind and when we talk about three years behind if they're seventh grader that means they're missing a significant number of questions on the fourth grade test if you're a B student you are from three years behind two seven years behind so you've been paying your title let's give an example of what this means I have a great sense of this because you know you and I have been through this together but I want the I want the listener to understand tangibly what that means let's put that in terms of something mathematical okay so let's talk about what that implies for a B student in seventh grade mathematics what concept could they be possibly missing yeah yeah well I they don't know their multiplication tables or division tables so one of the things that's happened in sort of K through 12 education is they've decided that memorization is bad and that memorizing you don't need to memorize multiplication tables any more you're just going to use a calculator you know that's not what learning science says that is not you if you're going to do higher level math you need fact fluency and if you think of cognitive load theory right you have a certain number of working memory slots and the level of complexity of the math problem you can solve is going to be based on how many slots you have and right how you're using them and you know one of the few places in in in brain chemistry is if you have memorized something to fluency it doesn't use a slot it doesn't use it and so you can do higher level math but if you have to use your slots to say seven times eight is 56 you're now trying to do higher level math and you're using it up on the wrong things so if you want to do higher level math memorize your math tables right and your division tables it's a fluency and that's like the most simple obvious thing we could do in this country is just change that right just go back to what we used to do and you're like scores keep going down and you know if you even get in and even this and this is like the most extreme example is you know we had a student who had a 740 math SAT so again just for listeners who might not be familiar with that the score is 800 so 740 would be a very good score it's very good score centile is that I'd have top 10 percent okay yeah 90 percent yeah 770 is like the top 1 percent okay maybe in top 5 percent I'd have to and so great score yeah she cannot get above it and when we we we do game well we call game film right you review why you miss the test why you miss the questions on the test right one thing as an example that's common in sports right game film people don't do this in academics for some reason so they she would just go through it she's like I know what that is you you decide was it a careless error yep did you not know the material yeah she's like after the test she could get them all done right given time and what happened was is she was overloaded and made careless mistakes when you're right working memory slots are overloaded it reflects actually in careless mistakes so if your students making careless mistakes you're like grit and discipline you're like hmm you probably don't have a fact fluency some are earlier that if you just go fix that also those carosam stakes go away so she literally went back to third grade learned her multiplication and division tables right and back to convincing parents that's really hard convincing students and parents that your 740 baths due to the third grade material she then got a 790 map after she memorized it because she stopped making the careless errors she knew all the material before she was overloading or working memory right and the learning science is like that's that's our issue and in our system we can identify that and fix it and seemingly crazy you know that you can go back and and memorize your tables and get up there and I remember another story Jo that we kind of bonded over a couple of years ago which was the student that was really struggling in uh in entry level chemistry yeah and I mean I can I I think anybody who's been through chemistry can empathize with that the first time you're doing you're going through physical chemistry and you're trying to balance the chemical equations and this this kid is dying and they think the problem is I'll never it's chemistry they problem is chemistry and you came in and said no actually the problem is fractions you didn't master fractions in third grade or fourth grade or whatever fractions are introduced and your failing chemistry because you did you for this exact reason we're going to go back and fill the gap in in fractions and this will become easy for you and of course that's what happened and math science knowledge is hierarchical right and this is back to mastery which is we've why we do poorly we've given up mastery in this country why um we're a time-based system right at the end of third grade you're moving to fourth grade and at the end of fourth grade you move to fifth grade and we don't hold kids back we don't we just we've said we're just going to move kids through no matter what um because it's time because there's all these other social issues right and you know oh my god I can't have my kid hold back the pressure on the school to relax the standards you know 80% of kids at Harvard get an A now you know it's just grade inflation you know grades look like this yeah look at these test floors look like that yeah right and it's just we've just got and for whatever reasons we've done it but in a time-based system you know and here's part just even grading you know there's this concept that you know okay you got a 70 you know you can pass and 80s a B right that's great okay my kids would be student 80 the problem is you know if you only have 80% you know knowledge you're creating all these holes and it all compounds were eventually and it starts to when you had algebra or chemistry right that you're you think it's the current material but it's your pre-rex your foundation it's your foundation and you know we talk a lot about parents because a lot of this is you know we all grew up in this time-based system and just the old system and so this new way is very different but the best analogies we always use the parents totally understand is sports right just like game film we're like have you your test figure out what's wrong master is the same one you know which is if you're the point card and you lose the ball 20% of the time going down the court the coaches and like let's the work on the advanced stuff like kids let's learn how to drip all right we don't need to worry about dunking yet correct no dunking like let's focus on right get up to 99% get to mastery that you know how to do the basics everybody in sports is like if you're not doing well go back and do the basics well academics is the same way and if you apply that same logic right but in a time-based system with a teacher in front of a classroom right you can't get every kid to mastery right and that's when we get into like the new solutions and why we get these crazy you know kids can learn tendons faster it's because we're able to get out of a non-mastery non-time-based system or a non-mastery time-based system that has a teacher in front of a classroom right teachers are great teacher in front of a classroom's bad you know that that dynamic and so but into your point hierarchical you know chemistry is just algebra with advanced word problems right physics is literally calculus with advanced word problems you know algebra is basically advanced fraction manipulation you can give kids a fraction test and predict their algebra score right and then fractions are how's your division of multiplication tables do you memorize them to fluency and so it just keeps going down the whole track you know all the way down and so part of what you have to do to fix the system right is figure out age grade oh wait I'm an eighth grader in algebra and knowledge grade wait I don't know my fractions are different and so you know what a teacher in the front of a classroom though it's not their fault right I'm a teacher I'm an eighth grade teacher what do you teach eighth grade material yeah and I have kids who don't who don't who don't know some third fourth fifth sixth seventh material what do I do right and this is why you know and so many people hire tutors you know after school at private schools right there's you know it's crazy we have all these people go to private schools and higher after school tutors because the school doesn't teach them and you know the tutors just like okay I'm gonna go give you the earlier grade level material that's it when we talk about kids all these hundreds of kids coming in who are you know three years behind seven years behind the second part of what I tell the parents is that's freaking you out because nobody wants their kid this far behind but it's so easy to fix the remediation of this stuff is no time at all that when you use these you know learning science based AI tutors and the apps that we have kids can learn ten times faster ten times faster so when you actually look at material there's 180 school days right hour a day plus homework so a couple hundred hours most of grade that one subject right per grade level takes our alpha kids between 20 and 30 hours to finish an entire grade level two mastery so you can take fourth grade math and be like you got 26 hours kid you do an hour day homework your 26 days away right 22 hours is 7th grade and 6th grade 22 each right for math and Joe would this work if and again as just as a thought experiment if each student had one teacher the private tutor if you could put a private tutor in front of a student for 22 hours over the course of you know whatever two months or one hour day for 26 days are you confident that that individual and of course we'll talk about why that's not practical but that that that individual if skilled enough could navigate and weave that child through if you give me a few more hours then what I just gave you because the AI can do a little bit better then then then most tutors but yes fundamentally the paper that was written when I was in high school about education like so learning science and we didn't you know learning science has been around for 40 years they've been writing papers there's 10,000 papers published by all the schools of education you know Stanford and you know all over the place that is we know kids can learn two five or ten times faster right we've known it in you know blues two sick blooms two sigmas as a seminal paper and he just said if everybody got a personalized tutor was his first point and second they did it to mastery they worked to master so mastery based not ten year based correct just you have to know the material before you advance yep and there's an individual tutor to coach you you will get two sigma better performance which is right your leftmost part of your curve your worst students are going to be what today is considered the top 10 percent and I have two sigma performance you said to me once four five years ago something and I'm curious if you still stand by it which is at least through the end of eighth grade there is not a single student in the United States that cannot achieve complete mastery in mathematics to score above the 90 youth or 99th percent dial in the national test yes so I think I said that to you three years ago and I would hesitate just for arguments sake take out the bottom five percent just to stop all the all right so 95 you would still say that 95 percent of all eighth graders in the United States could be what today is considered top 10 percent performance yeah they can get to mass in mathematics in mathematics yeah so just let that settle in for a moment right like that just that seems to fly in the face of everything I want to go back and close the loop on something before we continue this discussion which is I still don't have a sense of what's changing right because we've always had a time-based system not a mastery-based system so what has gone on in the last 25 years because that's not the change right what is why are why are white or scores the fundamental answer standards are lowering and part of it is parents right here's so I'll give you you know three years ago when I became principal you know I would sit down with parents and I'm like we have this cool engine it's going to teach your kid twice as much in the two hour block twice as much now they have to use the apps right and engage with it and you know your your students not using it right so they're not learning to X the parents are like yeah stop don't pressure my kid to learn to X don't pressure you know I'd be in a parent meeting it would literally be you know mom dad and Johnny and I'm like look when you know when this is a question he doesn't watch the video right or he's scrolling and just guessing if he just watched the video he'd learn twice as much and the parents is say we're not interested in that now so why are the hundreds hundreds hundreds well the rest of the things parents want life skills community a school is a bundle of which academics is one piece and for the most part in America except for less fewer than 10% like less than 10% market share less than 10% of the parents right fewer than 10% parents really care about academics that 90% of parents are like oh well and so that was an eye opener to me and hundreds of parents I mean later I literally we switched our pitch which was two hour learning the same engine because you flip the you're like it's two hour learning and look we're trying to get Johnny out of here in two hours so we can do these cool workshops and do what he loves right and that flip parents are like then all so they're like Johnny which wrong with you why don't you want to get out of here do the cool stuff and so it's it's back to you know the most important part of education is a motivated student and you know for us two X learning is not a motivating idea except for you know sort of the top kids but two hour learning is motivational for every kid on the planet right and that's if you had to say are my biggest unlock was that realization and you know the product became codename time back give the kids their time back because that is the most precious right that for 12 years we waste kids time we know that kids sitting in a lecture base classroom right retain maybe five percent that is bad it's that bad it's that bad and so like being ten times better you're like I need to remember 50 percent right it's just I there's still you know it's it's that bad we know it's that bad right it's not personalized to them it's not to a master's all these bad things and so we're wasting their 12 years and you wonder why kids don't like academics and they're in a disengage and all these things is we're wasting their time and so for this it's like great just they're gonna learn two in two hours now they're still learning two X right that's just not the part we pitch and so they're learning two X in two hours and then you free up the rest of the day and so we get all our kids right our scores at our Alpha School we're all top one percent right academically our our classes are top one percent of the country there's no school academically who's as good as Alpha you know in the country and the reason is is using this model right and we were just implementing all these concepts that were in these learning science papers for 40 years is there is there a challenge to the intensity that's required in those two hours so I give you an analogy so I get asked all the time hey Peter look I've read that you know I could just do one set to failure once a week for each body part and get most of the benefits of you know grinding it out for you know 10 to 20 sets per body part and I say luckily that's a little bit of an exaggeration but there's some truth to this right like if you could truly do one to two sets to absolute failure per exercise yeah you're gonna get great results and they're like well Peter why don't you do that and I and I say look to be honest with you it's really freaking hard to bring that level of intensity to every single set of every single workout every time you do it and there are a bunch of other reasons that I actually kind of like being in the gym or whatever but but the point is it's true you can get great results in much less time but for many people the intensity is not something they're willing to rise to right and and so I guess the similar question is if for two hours a day a kid can learn what a traditional kid is learning in six to seven hours a day and actually do it better um is there something that they have to be able to bring from an attention span perspective that is very difficult or not something that is you know yeah yeah and so the answer is it's not difficult but they have to want to do it so motivation so if you know if you talk to an educator there's two things you need you need a motivated student and you need to put them in lessons of the correct difficulty not too easy not too hard right that's back to an ed tech and why you know taking this little bit why doesn't ed tech work right back to these apps and yeah you know test scores keep going down but everybody keeps buying ed tech and the answer is ed tech does that second piece that 10% piece of put them in the right you know lessons very well our AI tutors do it even better it can figure out very easily what a kid knows and doesn't know and say age grade eighth grade knowledge grade fourth given fourth grade lessons right and so that parts great now the second part is to the point of my parent meeting how do I get them to engage with the app right because I'm spinning in the chair I'm not paying attention I'm talking to my friend it's called TikTok right I'm doing anything except focusing on it and so what is their motivation is 90 of the solution and for us that's why time back is so valuable which is the kid has to engage with the apps for those two hours or they don't get the rest of the day they don't get their time back right they'll just sit there wasting their time I mean we literally in our app have a waste meter and it just coaches the kid right the AI like what we can get in the AI's and stuff and chat bots are terrible like chat GBT rolled out to America students they 90% of kids use it is a cheap bot it's all cheating that we don't have a chat interface and ours but one of the things our AI does is it watches the kid's screen and coaches them up and is like look you're scrolling the article and guessing not gonna learn that way right you're skipping this right and it's gonna coach them of how to learn better and if you have a motivation for the students to actually learn better and be effective they're very happy to do that right we have a sports academy that we just we'd still been 10 out of around Texas and these are middle schools right D1 bound athletes you know kind of and they come in and they do the two hours in the apps right and then once they hit it you know and they go green where they've done the lessons right they get to do sports all afternoon and so you can take kids who are like I hate school I skip school you know absenteeism is huge and when they get to do that all of a sudden they're like I'm totally motivated right we it's only been a couple weeks that we've been open but you get notes from all the parents who are like my kid always was sick never wanted to go everything now he's waking me up and it's like let's not be late right and it's because they have the motivation to actually learn and so now now so that's the most important you can do that for everybody right and motivation really really does matter and it alphas designed around how do we motivate kids and the biggest motivators time back we also use a lot of other ones but that's that's the biggest thing that makes our system work and when then when you talk just is there also extra juice of the intensity right we measure do kids get through our apps 90 or 95 percent first time right right we're not making the lesson hard enough we're we want to make sure the lessons not too hard where you don't have to have too much intensity yep right now we also have what is the sweet spot is it 90 percent we 90 and 95 it's not where first time right yeah okay actually a little bit there's a thing called the zone approximation development which is what an individual student should be and you want to keep a student in 80 to 85 percent correct questions which is different than first time right I'm getting through the whole lesson you want to be in the zone approximation development which is you know if you're at 99 percent it's too easy you're not learning right if you're getting 99 percent of the questions right you're just regurgitating what you already know if you're missing and half the time or two thirds you know you're only at 50 or 60 right you get disengagement right it's too frustrating or go home out right we literally video game developers the world experts on this on engagement of how do you engage and you know they'll tell you you know always winning always learning you know and that concept in 80 to 85 percent is where that is so we're measuring you know the way to maximize learning is an unending stream of content right both educational questions right and learning content that is at 80 to 85 percent accuracy you know and and this gets into stuff that we're building is you know if you sit in a Stanford lecture you're going to retain one to five facts ideas and concepts per hour our current learning engines depending on what the subject we're at 20 to 40 you know we have stuff that we're working on where when in Gen A I is the driver of this we'll get to a hundred facts ideas and concepts in that or right think of an endlessly scroll tick-tock list except engaging and good content so the the poison that that is and so the learning science part is we know how to get knowledge into kids head 10 times better than the current educational system but it takes a whole rebuild and back to kids when they love school they're going to engage in the app because the whole day is great so let's go back and talk a little bit about education science right you've alluded to it a couple of times tell me what is what 90 percent of people would agree with right there's nothing that I was going to say tell me something that is unambiguously true about education science but but let's let's soften that a little bit and say tell me something that 90 percent of people who study education study the science of learning would agree with 90 percent would agree that individualized tutoring and a mastery based standard is the best way to teach kids right it's dramatically more effective than a time-based system that the concepts in learning science zone approximate development spaced repetition right you would get the testing effect right that actually asking kids active learning is better than passive learning right that retention of sitting passively in a classroom is the worst way to teach a kid they're going to all of those things would also really well-normed you know cognitive load theory is a new area of learning science that's you know sort of developed in the start of the 90s and this is the how many working memory slots do you have and then how many reps does it take to move from working memory slot you know short term memory based working memory slot to long term they're all going to by the way so interesting to me that this is that there's any disputor on that when you see the effects in sports like the sports illustrates that I think more than anything else um you look at the difference between like a Tom Brady versus an exceptional quarterback who's a very good quarterback and it's the it's the it's the processing speed right it's not I mean it's not how fast or how far he can throw the ball it's his processing speed that sets him apart it's it's the cognitive bandwidth of what he's doing and it's this this is I mean it's actually the same in formula one right if you look at what separates the very best in the world from very good it's it's cognitive bandwidth it's the guy who actually doesn't have to think at all about driving and can still drive at the limit while he can use all of his cognitive reserve for strategic decision making and an overtake so yeah and so like that fluency stuff just there's no there's nobody in learning science who's like it's better if they don't memorize their multiplication tables even though our school system you know has a band of that and that's that's you know private private it's not like oh these private schools are you know the private schools are bailing on it too it's not just why was that decision made back pressure you know there's parental pressure again my kid is not happy like one one of the so I there's three things I still this is another one of the sort of coddling of the yeah this is just and there's three thing to come to an alpha school now I have a conversation with parents I'm sort of fry it you know what he'd give you those two things but I've had a third a third one to it which is you know first your kid must love school right really love school and we measure literally measure would you rather go to school or go on vacation like super high standard right we should have kids love school for 12 years right and they're gonna be there your childhood why why do we not have that standard the second is your kid can learn in two hours right twice as much as sitting in class for six right your your kid can crush academics in just two hours day crush it that's the second thing you have to believe to come to alpha and the third and this is where the controversy parts but it's true you know is the key to your kids happiness is high standards right and that's the one that a lot of people do not believe that they think the key to my kids happiness is low standards and the problem with low standards I can't where did this virus come from where did where did this virus in fact well part of it is if you actually you know the parents want to protect their kids right it comes from parents from a good place which is I don't want to see my kids struggle and fail on their road to success they don't want to see that like I talk about you know the cycle as a as a principle I can tell you kids struggle fail sometimes cry on their road to success if they're supported by a caring loving adult right that loop if you ask any child development expert in the planet right you can type that all in chat to be to is the key to kids development the key to their self confidence the key to their resilience right the key to their growth that they go through a the cycle of struggle fail right on the way to success journey it's a here it's it's it's woven into every and back to your point out sports everybody why do you 50% America's like you know where my kid learns life skills and when you talk about life skills teamwork leadership grid hard work it's an actual school sports because that's what the coach does my kids going to go through that struggle and I went through it when I was playing sports and my kids going to go through that and that's where you learn it and they have this view of that's the only place you learn we do that's such an an excuse and the reason it doesn't happen in schools is because in a time-based system everybody thinks good grades equals high IQ and so it's fundamentally that IQ is what determines grades and so I don't want to pressure my kid because you know as if he's really this right it's not fair right and so I don't want to put that pressure on you know one of the magic on locks we have right back to everybody can get to you know that not higher performance right is a mastery based system you know if you take the best kids you know you like who are the kids who do get in the Ivy League right they're basically the high IQ kids who also have high conscientious and it's big five conscientiousness right they're grinders right they just they just cranked through it naturally um and those are the kids who do well and so if we're rebuilding education to fix it we have to take those two constraints away right and so a mastery based system takes away IQ which is every kid you know just the conceptual leaps that are required to get through K through eight actually by the design of common core just aren't that big that does not mean everybody can go be a nuclear physicist at Stanford and design all these things right I'm not gonna that's that's there is areas where you do need more cognitive everybody in math there's a point they reach yep just I can't do the processing but I'm poor K through eight it's designed that everybody everyone will do it everybody can do it so if you went and yet just reflect on that for a moment Joe think of all the kids that are in six seventh and eighth grade who are good students in other domains they're doing well in English they're doing well in history they're conscientious they work hard but they they've created a narrative that says I can't do math and let's I'll we'll dive into that and we'll get into the the second thing of how we on we also use our motivation model to undo the conscientious limitation you you have to use more extrinsic motivators to let people who aren't high conscientiousness still perform like somebody who does so those are sort of magic on locks on those two things that we think can fix education but you're math thing I got I got to give these examples so you know it's an epidemic of kids who come into middle school you know predominantly girls I have two daughters right who come in and they're like I'm not a math science girl and there's just like societies like accepting that and okay let's go read all the learning science papers about how middle school girls can't do math science okay there are not there's not that doesn't exist right there's no such thing but it's this total meme that they they believe and so part of what our job in middle or when they transfer in high school is to fix that right that there's this concept of oh I'm an art girl I'm an English girl or whatever it is and it doesn't grow boy there's just there's no difference and so like our we have some seniors this year you know the first one she's her big project that she does at Alphay Alphay to these big Alphayx projects she is doing the first all teen produced created musical for Broadway right she sourced all the song and song writers off TikTok she can fill a thousand person venue you know she's trying to raise it up so she can do it so she'd be you know I'm an arts theater girl right 790 math as a team we have another girl right see these are seniors she's you know trying out to be misteen USA right 790 math SAT right third girl who is doing uh this is my daughter right she has a you know uh i call her TikTok girl you know she's got millions likes on TikTok and tons of followers she's building a uh app to teach teen boys how to ask girls out on dates because teen boys are terrible dad um right top one percent at 18 math right that there's this concept that these people can't learn it you're like they all can right there's just no now what do you have to do when they come into middle school they do they don't know the milk patient tables right they don't know the pre-rex they are gonna struggle an algebra right and so you're like okay let's go back let's fill them up and all of a sudden once you fill the holes all of a sudden they can do it and then once you know algebra right you're like oh I can do chemistry right and I can move from you know it's because you can through a science there's no math actually it's all just memorizing facts you know igneous rocks and you know the planets and stuff um once you get to high school that's where you know a biology still more memorization less math but then chemistry and physics are all math based calculus and algebra and so you have to get these kids the pre-rex but then all of a sudden they're like oh chemistry is pretty fun right oh now they're in a calculus and I can crush cowpeasy all our kids in high school right if you want to be on the honest track it's five on cowpeasy right and totally doable right for everybody and so this whole thing you know our freshman coming in by the end of the freshman year they're 14 10 on the SAT right which you know 13 50's top 10 percent right these are freshman these are freshman like in most school's don't I mean that's better than most juniors seniors most don't publish their freshman results right and and we can get freshman there you know and you and and once it becomes a mastery based system how high you go becomes a decision back to your effort it's a decision not an inherent capability and so when you break that link like elf kids are just like in a mastery based system they're like oh it's just more work it's not I'm not smart enough right and that is the unlock that we have to have and why we have to move to a mastery based system because you just need kids to be like oh so if you want to be in the non honor if you're in normal alpha high right 13 50 is the minimum SAT right you gotta get to a top 10 percent if you want to be in the honest track it's 15 50 and we're just like 15 50 and that's top one percent yeah oh yeah and but it's it's just a decision do you want to do the work to get to 15 50 right from 13 50 right and so so it's just that look I'm willing to put in this many more hours this year yeah no so back to my my youngest daughter who's just took the SAT you know it's she's top one percent but she's not perfect 800 and she's like she literally was in she's asking the AI she's like how much time will it take for me to get up to the top to a perfect 800 and you know at that level it doesn't really matter for getting into college but she's like just out of curiosity she's like oh no she's like you know dad you know all those stemboys you know they think I'm this dumb ticked a girl and you know if I get an 800 I get to mow down on the rest of their life and I think it's totally worth it and so she's literally but it's just a decision she's trying to side it'll come back it'll probably be 20 hours probably I don't know some some manageable number of hours and she'll just be making a decision am I going to put the reps in right the practice in to get there right so that I can have this ego boost face that you get as you really love it or no okay you know I'm going to do something else with my time but that's where you know in these mastery based models you know versus you know in a teacher in front of a classroom model where you're a time based system you're like I don't know how to get there right there's no path up and you know when we when you log in to our system it literally tells you you know in two hours a day you know you're three years behind so you first come in you're like your three years behind it's you're like oh my god that seems insurmountable you're 20 to 30 hours per grade level so you could be 60 hours behind if you're three years behind 60 hours that's it you're 60 hours away and you're like so if I do an hour homework so then some there I'm caught up yeah I'm caught up and now back to incentives there's some kids are like do I care that I'm caught up but it's easy to incentive to want to catch up right and you can figure out okay what do we have to do you know one of the things we one of the things else is don't for whether infimously or not is we use extrinsic motivators right to drive yeah use money you pay a good time back is the most important one it's more important than money is you know sort of the you know the West Lake track we got to do you know honors track where it's you know six hours day and eight zillion homework hours I don't think you can pay a kid enough to like love school by going through that versus you know we're two hour actually and just because we're two hours a day for a non-honors track we're three hours a day for honors back at the 1550 it does take more time but we will take middle school kids like this is there's a middle school active program kids come in and we will pay them $1,000 to get to top one percent and you know there's a lot of stories right around this where kids view look I can't do that it's not okay I'm not the smart kid I'm like the math science girl I can whatever it is and well if you get there and do these lessons and we're just going to keep giving lessons and you do the work you're going to get $1,000 you know you're the will pay kids right coming in middle school $1,000 to get to top one percent and the point of this is you know what's even more important than the academic knowledge it's their internal view of themselves that changes that kids come in and say I'm not a math science girl I can't be a top one percent I can't do this whatever limits they have and a lot of education when you talk about it is you know holistically you're trying to take limits in kids and release them right have them understand your limitless you can do all this and this is the best way academically we've found to do it and so they come in and the AI is going to say here's all the lessons you need to do to get top one percent and just go through them and that motivation will get all these kids to top one percent and the number of stories we have you know I have one my own daughter but all you know the alpha families where their student is like they come back and they're like I didn't realize I could be top one percent and my personal self confidence in view of myself that I had to do hard work right you had to do the work right now I'm you know I and then once you take a middle school kid just top one percent as they go into high school they're not going to give it up because and there's this mental view of oh I guess I am a smart kid right or I'm a capable kid right and that unlock is so valuable and so for us that's when you know we think you know juicing it with money I mean we spent 20 grand a kid in this country per student right and you're like in middle school give a kid a thousand dollars in order to have them realize there is that the height there's no limit why does why would most people I assume listening to us have sort of an uneasy feeling about that like they can't reconcile what you just said which is well-weighted and on the one hand I know we're spending twenty thousand dollars per year per kid on these kids and we're getting nothing for it and you're proposing we give them a couple of those thousands of dollars strategically to incentivize half of the equation which is them having the motivation to do this and yet that's going to make a lot of people feel uneasy why so there's a view that there needs to be an intrinsic love of learning for it to be pure and that if you it has to be intrinsic not extrinsic and that if you're buying it it's solid and not good right it's just it's wrong it's fundamentally wrong and you know and that is a common view are there any data that would support one view being favorable to the other how would that be tied there there is a set of papers that have been written that show that you know if somebody is not intrinsically motivated or is intrinsically motivated and you pay them they lose intrinsic motivation now that's not the case that we're sitting with we're have kids who aren't motivated who aren't intrinsically going through it right they need the boost and if you actually ask alphacids and maybe we'll do a study someday no parent who has their kids at alphacix my kids lost their intrinsic motivation if anything it's the opposite because now they think they're and those papers don't talk about is how much of the issue was I didn't think I was capable I now realize I am and I get this crazy intrinsic boost around it right I my younger star or again would be this example which is you know she came in to middle school you know at that she hit top 10 percent and to write the end of eighth grade sorry this was before this is going in seventh grade okay she was top 10 percent coming in so she'd been there but she's like that I'm not like my older sister I'm not top one percent right that's just not who I am right I'm ticked off girl you know if we're gonna and I was like you know you know what I know you know love more than anything it's shopping and all bet you $1,000 that you can't get to top 1 percent and so she literally would fill her a Amazon cart with $1,000 stuff and in the morning she'd then look and look at the lessons she had to go through and she'd do it right she just grind through it now back to this thing it's you know we had a lot of family discussions around this because my wife she was like wait there's two things and this is most parents are or like this there's two things you're one you're setting one percent top one percent and most parents like that's too hard right and you know why are you putting that pressure you know for on on the kid and number two it doesn't feel right to pay a thousand bucks to get this this is just we're all brought up that there's something wrong and so and but back to the thing so she does it she has top one percent I really buy his but then she sits down right with my wife and she's like mom I know you didn't like us doing this but you need to understand what this is done for me which is I never thought I was as smart as my older sister and now I realize I can do everything right that she can do and it's totally changed my internal view right and that element there of right her and now back she's also the one now it was top one percent on the SAT tried to decide if she wants to do the extorque to get perfect score right that there that change in their view of their capability that unlock is so valuable and I believe we should do this for every kid in America right that but that's the dynamics of why people don't like it and it's you then just have to decide if you can use extrinsic motivation whatever it is I'm concert ticket by right go shopping whatever whatever mode of screen time video game time whatever it takes to get the kid to realize I can go be and learn all this and be top one percent when I previously didn't think that right and I go through that struggle fail sometimes cry I have the road to success loop that then unlocks my human potential and right the point education beyond academic right you're trying to unlock human potential and this is just a great easy way to do it and it's not failed in times the system yeah that's the thing you know it does is not necessarily something that has to happen indefinitely it's it's what I when I think makes sense here is that it's it's an unlock that then creates a new state of awareness that therefore becomes self-perpetuating right in many ways it's like the kindling that leads to the fire you don't need kindling indefinitely sometimes you need kindling exactly that I think that's I'm gonna steal that from you because that's a great way to think about it which is I'm not paying her to decide to go get a perfect score on RSAT I don't need the extra right it's intrinsic right it's her decision to her capability she just needed that kindling to jump started and whatever block was in the month right you're all right good coaches like how do I unblock them and that's what this does you know and since we're on this of paying I'll give you my my second one which if I um the Secretary of Education's coming down next week to meet with Kenzie around Alpha stuff and if there's one thing to fix education in America just the what's the simplest unlock it would be this which is and it's all around wholefilling and paying kids which is so when I first started um I wanted kids to go back and wholefill right we call wholefill I go back and do your pre-rex and so I'm sitting down with seven graders the boys and I my guys you could get a hundred percent before that I'm sitting down with them and you know it does not motivate us to a seventh grader doing fourth grade no kid wants to do that right no one wants to be going back and the only people who want it less than the kid are their parents yeah their parents are like every parent America has been trained my kidneys be a great level right which once again the learning science is right that is not right get your kid to master the basics and if it's previous material give it to him and so I and I tried to convince parents look you kid these wholefill we're going to get this thing whole thing working and stuff and I base again it up giving up on the parents and so then I went to the seventh graders and I was just like okay here we go guys you could get a hundred on the Texas star you know our state test they're like no way Mr. Lee what I'm like no no all in Sanctuary I'll give you a hundred dollars bill for a hundred on the test they're like that's still impossible I'm like no no there's a catch any grade level they're like I can take a kindergarten Texas star and you're giving me a hundred bucks I was like well it starts in the third grade they're like I'm in they take the third grade Texas star they get a hundred I give a hundred dollar bill they're like a fourth grade I'm like absolutely same thing hundred get a hundred by fifth grade they're running and take out 75 85 right they get 75 85 they're the schools and I'm like well do you want the AI tutor to generate the lessons you missed and they're like well let me see how many of it it's they're like I can do that in a week they're in right get the hundred then you know on the way six and then seventh grade and for four hundred dollars four hundred dollars and you can get up to grade level up to grade level but more importantly they all think they can get and know they can get a hundred on the state test which used to be only the GT kids and smart kids get it like if you survey incoming alpha parents and say can your kid get a hundred on the Texas star fewer than 10 percent say yes they can after you've been at alpha year 90 percent of kids are like I can totally get a hundred on Texas star because they've done it right our building you know over there you know gets more hundreds on the Texas star than a school district of a hundred thousand kids right and it's just because we have a mastery based system where you tell them so our advancement now in this built-in door system is we'll actually advance a kid if they get over 90 right what is our mastery standard it's in the 90s so you have to score in the state test above the 90 to move on to the next grade level material but we also have a hundred for a hundred and so the kids are like okay well I guess I'm just gonna get the hundred because I want to get the hundred dollar bill and so you have this concept where and it just changes and where I could advance that's an interesting experiment in and of itself it's it's sort of what we would call a natural experiment because it's not randomized which is if the kid is motivated basically just to do the bare minimum right they're going to just take the 90 right and so you so and if you make it a hundred it's just back to there's a little reality of bringing your parents and everybody along with you on the crazy journey we're on and so that hundred it lets us out of it which is you know when you get to the higher material and you've done 90 our apps still couldn't go back and fill those 10 percent because it's the best way to learn but it just get them advanced let them go and and do that but the hundred the kids all just do it because they know they can and it just gets the right mindset going which is why our kids literally for the SAT everything you know oh you can't get perfect scores they're like it's just some extra work right I five's on apes people like that seems impossible like oh how many hours is it right it takes 75 hours to go through like ap world history or ap uh u.s history it's 75 hours and they're like oh I got you know 15 hours left to get a five and so you just change the concept that these you know now there's some upper bound where there is you know conceptual understanding and everybody can't get there but k through a curriculum what would change education in America we can totally do this so let's now talk about the the AI piece which we haven't really explicitly talked about and then you you you you said something to me once that I think was actually remarkable which you you compare to medicine right you compare education to medicine in terms of an unlocks so so talk a little bit about that you know if you go back you know to um the sciences right and whether it's biology or medicine chemistry physics all of these had periods in the wilderness I'm sure doctors bloodlighting and things like this but there was the invention of an instrument right in each of those that allowed more precise measurement that unlocked and inflected the science right and medicine had theirs I don't know which one you thought I think I yeah when when I've heard you discuss this I think it's the light microscope if you were going to talk about one instrument that took us from what would what I described as the dark ages of medicine 1.0 into medicine 2.0 which is where we are today that inflection point came primarily around without the light microscope it couldn't have happened some of crg wrote very eloquently about this in his most recent book The Cell but basically until we could actually start to see microscopic organisms we couldn't really handle germ theory right and until we could eradicate germ theory we couldn't really live past about 40 on average right there were just too many people dying too young and so that one piece of technology unleashed an entire change in the way medicine has been practiced which of course has spread out far beyond infectious diseases but but that's I think it's impossible for me to imagine a scenario whereby we are alive today in the way we are without that right so and so when you when you look at AI that learning science these papers have been written for 40 years but they all start with this doesn't work with the teacher in front of a classroom time-based model right you need to change it up so you had the solution you had the conceptual solution for the last 40 years on how to fix education right but there's been no technology to make it up you can't you have a microscope you haven't had a microscope and AI is finally that microscope because of a couple things the first is you know before you know your effect size when you put an experiment you know into a classroom you're like well is the teacher teaching it correctly you know is it you know using space repetition correctly are the students engaged you know do they have the pre-reacts you just don't know and so your environmental variables dominate your effect size and with AI right you get two things you get absolutely precise teaching you know exactly what is being told to the kid and then second you have this closed loop measurement you can measure what do they know and what they don't know and so you know the pre-react you know all of it and then you can create you can do science you can create this closed loop so our system right we rolled out our new system time back you know to the student to to all our all our students this year a couple weeks ago and like our math curriculum we believe this year is going to be uh better kids will learn more in 20 percent less time and we know that because we've been measuring it and we looked on last year's math and we're able to say okay we have this idea okay the kids what percent learned were they 95 percent right how long did it take each kid to go through the lesson what do we need to change what learning science concept can we put in the lesson right that's going to then allow them to learn better and faster and what's going to change the scheme of their brain you know not cramming but really understanding this and then okay they took the standardized test oh look it did work right and you can just create this closed loop system where you're able to do science right and that but nobody else has that and that's the that's the problem right is we need to create that system but to do that you have to give up like the most treasured notion in the world which is the key to good education is a teacher in front of a classroom right one of the things that's true about education you know 200 years ago before there was tutors right yeah you know soccer teams and play it on Aristotle and Alexander the Gray and all the lead had tutors right and then 200 years ago like we have to educate everybody the only way cost effectively to do that is teacher in front of a classroom and that is all any of us know our parents know our grandparents know we've all been in that and it did great things because at scale we have educated people that never would have been educated before because what fracked I mean I would have I wouldn't have been one of the two dirt ones correct right and it is and you can go to the poor school district in India and there's a teacher in front of a classroom not very nice building you can go down to whatever private school that started in your $50,000 teacher in front of a classroom in a very nice building but that model is all we know and we think and great teachers matter and this is always the part with our new model and AI tutors that I I want to take a second here because people get freaked out adults 20 years from now parents are gonna drop their kids off at a building and in that building are gonna be other kids and adults and those adults even call them teachers guide coaches whatever you want you know we think the day will be very different but that concept of a school with teachers and other students that's not going away we're not moving to this AI robot terminator you know whatever that's not that's not what's coming kids are gonna you're gonna drop the kids off at a school and it's gonna now if we do our job right you don't sit in class for six hours a day and have this miserable experience it kids love it and all of those but back to the the science of it we now with AI right can have a one-on-one relationship the AI knows what is the kid know what are they not know how do I give them this lesson and if you look and if you want to talk just about where we're headed the futures even you know gen AI is changing everything that was the the part for me that I saw which is I can craft personalized lessons for every kid that takes into account you know what goes into the L.A.L.A.M. sort of on the technology side you have what what are you trying to teach them what's the curriculum what is their knowledge graph what do they know and what do they not know what is their interest graph right what do they interested it because actually if I know your interest I can engage it oh you want to learn baseball I mean you love baseball and you want to learn stats I'm an internment and that and kids are gonna get engaged to it oh you're the fashionista who's you know I'm gonna teach you fraction is the app already able to do what you just describe so where we are today in 2025 we generate static content with human review because we still have too many hallucinations okay and so we're not we're not there now in 2022 we expect we'll be able to do it there is one meaning just to make sure I'm putting this in perspective so my eight-year-old who is that kid who loves baseball yeah and all he does is talk baseball stats he's a literal he is a walking baseball statistic do you know so and so hit 326 that the this many homeruns and do you know he was able to hit 477 feet above above so he will be able to get to know his AI tutor they will figure out in short order that the way to his heart is baseball and anything that you can teach in baseball terms he's fixated exactly and AI will be able to give him a lesson to pursue mastery but under the guhyes of baseball under baseball amazing and it's just and we all know this which is you're always that's what teachers are always trying to do is how do I get what the kids like and associate with it but at scale you don't have 30 kids who like all the same thing you know etc so here's an example what you can actually do today there's if you we have so static you know you have hallucinations and so you don't you don't want to release those yet but we have a dynamic reading generates called teach tales and the goal of this is to get kids to love to read so if you take a third grade boy it's like I hate books right I hate books I'm not book guy and you're like what's your favorite movie the Avengers who your soccer buddies okay and you create the AI generates a choose your own adventure where you're saving the world with your soccer buddies and you know they have to keep the key to age be an Avenger and each be one and literally in the lexile level right the difficulty goes up it knows right so it's keeping you in the zone approximate development within 10% of you know what you know your lexile level kids will sit there and click for an hour right just totally in game non-stop reading non-stop and just all of a sudden you know because we do have a reading problem in this country people don't read books and all the things this is the kind of thing where Gen AI is going to be able to suck kids in right and you know our competition is fortnight in TikTok right and we need to use things like Gen AI to create such compelling content for kids that's related to what they care about that also teaches okay I gotta teach your fractions but we're doing this baseball thing so you're fine right you love that you know there's a whole program that a lot of people in finance where you know and there's actually program where they have a mother daughter thing back to a different way to try to solve it without an AI tutor where there's all these finance moms who teach their daughters poker in middle school and they're like I'm gonna get them into poker to teach all these skills and the math skills and all the things that aren't being taught in my school but with us we can get that engagement level where the kids are interested in it and to give you a couple of examples and I'll use some of our high school kids so you know when you transfer into you know alpha high your knowledge of history is very limited which is if it's in the musical Hamilton you know it occurred and if it didn't occur you know it's not in a song in Hamilton you don't know it you know because we don't teach history very much anymore and but all the kids know Hamilton they'll sing songs so our our US history AP world history they literally used AI they did this on their own it wasn't our stuff they used AI to generate here's all the facts you know there's nine units in US history for each unit they created a song and they said give me all the facts that I need to know for this unit and they pumped into sumo which is an available you know song generator and they got they created just their own album of songs and they all would just sit around and sing the songs and you know learn the facts that way and do it in a way they all were very interested in right and they all got five's on their AP because you can do it to mastery and and so Jenny I is going to allow us to create this awesome dynamic content that's relatable you know and focused on what or applicable to what kids want the other part is you know there's learning science concept also bells event frameworks of you know the fastest way to learn is basically analogy and so do you have a knowledge graph right this is the A in the ABC so so Dean Schwartz's book which I guess people were going to link to that in the show notes goes through A to Z everything that learning science has come up with exactly right so he has so Dean Schwartz from Stanford right school education one of the leaders in the field right his written a book and he's like here it is you know um and every letter has a different one but this one A is analogies and other ones are remember and analogies right where that's the fastest way to learn and so if you know what a kid knows like part of we have a content team when I talk about those hundred facts ideas and concepts for our what they're using as reference is they're using TikTok memes as because kids know TikTok right and they know what's on TikTok you know like well let's take what we're trying to teach them and use something they already know and that's actually the fastest way to have kids learn concepts and so those are all coming then even when you talk even further the part we don't have in yet but you know our our team's working on it is we also take into account we will be taking into account the cognitive load right of the brain which is we know we're going to be able to create a lesson that where we know how many working memory slots you have we know what you know to fluency and what you don't and we're not going to give you a question that's going to overload your working memory or we also know how many reps you need right and GT kids need fewer reps and so we're not going to bore you by giving you too many reps to memorize it conversely we're going to make sure you have enough reps if you need them and so this personalized learning where you're generating the content dynamically um I is going to be just as crazy unlock for these kids um and you know five years from now I was going to look back and be like okay obviously you know kids can learn 10 times faster you know it's we're we wake up every day and they're just like you know it's like neo in the matrix right where that's a physical upload ours is right using learning science concepts kids can learn 10 times faster and when you think about that you have 12 years right you've 12 years to fill your kids head with cool stuff knowledge right because they have to hang out in that right in their brain for the necessary life and we've allocated 12 years to fill it up we just need two hours a day a 10 times faster and all the kids can have more stuff and more cool stuff about stuff they like in their heads to mastery level levels none of us is as parents could ever imagine right and still give the kids their time back for the rest of the day to do all other things about three years ago you sort of decided like the you know you got to step out of trilogy right like it's this incredible company you've built um or any of your co-founders still there I think it's your you're you're sort of are they no so I people who've been so three years ago sort of the transition was when Gen A I came out right which three years ago neural nets are here yeah finally and you know that was an unlock for me where I had seen the kids he's great school and seen you know my kids in there and there were issues like my daughter failing or seventh grade tests and stuff where the apps are good enough you know and all those issues and I'm like Gen A I will allow us to take the magic of alpha make it better and scale it to a billion kids right because there's lots of good educational things that just don't scale yep and so what this was was my realization this was your white microscope this was it light microscopes here okay I've been doing software so I went to my team who've been there for 25 years so my guys for 25 years you've been telling me you're better than me we'll see I'm gonna go be a principal and so they run it you know I'm now you know chairman and I am now literally the worst shareholder you've ever seen because I'm like guys I need more cash flow I need more dividends to fund this whole thing you know the kids you need through a million dollars to open up all these schools you know where we're gonna you know get it for or so so how much of your money have you spent on this now so I took on three years ago I took a billion dollars out of trilogy sort of as my first lump sum and said I'm gonna go use this billion dollars to figure out what I can with education and fix as much as I can now what's crazy about that is a billion dollars is not enough to fix education it's a trillion dollar industry and we obviously have made incredible headway but we have to go back to building schools right back to McKinsey she's opening up you know 25 schools 25 alphas around the country right she needs hundreds of millions of dollars for that we're opening up these sports academies which needs hundreds of billions we're opening up 500 gifted talented schools right so you know the total capex that's gonna be required the second part is I'm gonna do this the next 20 years right I got 20 years in this right my job is to go fix education right and make get it to a billion kids and give kids their time back right change change use the light microscope use AI to totally change the first 12 years of you know a billion kid now at what point jode of the two systems have to merge because one of the reasons that you're having to deploy such insane amounts of capital is because you're basically rebuilding things that are technically already there and we have buildings we have schools we have guides they're called teachers we have all those things but you're creating a new system of infrastructure but I assume you don't want to scale you don't want to have to build the scale to a billion at some point this way has to merge with the existing way that's what point does that merger take place well my view is there's a point of if I had perfect randomized controlled trials with you know back to a billion kids I don't know I do any 10 million kids going through it for everybody be like okay this looks like it works but the bar is so low I mean I guess that's the thing that's amazing to me right when I think about places in medicine right where massive clinical trials are necessary to to change the direction of something usually when the state of play is so bad so let's let's talk about an example which again I don't use this example to be offensive to people that are within education but like let's look at HIV in the 80s and early 90s it was a death sense like the bar was pretty darn low when heart therapy highly active anti-retroviral therapy came out in 95 or 96 and that I mean that's it like boom which changed the protocol now of course pharma is easier than education in the sense that it's you know a simple intervention it's a you know but who's pushing back right when you say hey guys what if we just prove this out in a million kids right like why do I need 10 million kids well especially if they're spread out over abroad enough socio-economic background exactly and so back to that's my sort of our next phase right and why I'm doing my first podcast in 20 you know years is that uh there's a lot of there's a lot of impediments to it let's go back to that discussion of parents don't care about academics so we'll start there and I will do that second believability there's been a tech pitches right everybody every five years Ed Tech's gonna solve the world and you know technology's always gonna solve the world and it doesn't solve it and so there is good well our natural skepticism yeah so let's just go let's just take it right evil billionaire tech guys trying to fix education are the right to meme no it's a meme like a make a movie and so the skepticism should be super high right and it is and so that's part of what the job is and why it takes a billion dollars to we have to go prove it across every right across everybody and in a broad way so completely agree with that but let's talk about some of the problems with it which is you know let's talk about academics right here in Austin right there's there's been three failing middle schools in Austin right and you know I look if I was a super intended of a school or principal of a public school I mean like I want to be really clear that's like a hundred times harder job than mine because you know I'm a product guy people who come to my school are aligned with what I'm building in my offering because it's you get selection effects yeah people come to out for like I know I'm gonna have a screen time for two hours because you don't come right but at public school you know you get what your schools are F's for five years they're not educating the kids and the superintendent you know you made his first proposal whatever months ago he's like well I want to shut these schools and we have these A's better schools right by the kids just go to the school or the kids are learning you know and literally the protests that have been from parents you know and it's you know and you listen to them you know and you know it's the mom who's just like look I know that seventh grade math teacher she'd probably not teaching math very well but my older daughter had her and that she changed her life and so you know what and my kids can walk to school and it's community and so if they don't learn seventh grade math so much so what and so the you know the superintendent you know he's you know you if you take into account community feedback which is supposed to all of a sudden your parents are like I care about other things because schools are bundle and so that makes this hard so there's one just do they even want it the second is obviously just skepticism of this doesn't really work and you know why don't we do randomized control tiles or pharmaceutical caliber stuff with education because there's all these ideas of work we we have a lot of ideas that we're rolling out like no multiplication tables that somebody should have done it's control tile to realize that's a really bad idea right and so all these fads in education because it's not science right the learning science is not if you actually ask one of the scariest data points if you want this go there's three million teachers in the world they're not taught learning science they're not taught learning science and so you know these concepts will be new to them and so back to how do we fix it we have to go teach all the all the teachers about learning science do you get push back on that point do you get I mean how much time do you spend talking with the teachers that are in the trenches right now um I'll give you an analogy for my world right so you know I talk about this idea of medicine three point out right so we're do medicine two point I was been amazing like it's an amazing run you and I wouldn't be alive without it literally we would be dead by now but I would argue like it's time to move on we've plateaued like we gotta do medicine three point out right we have to unlock the next thing um but when I say that I'm not being critical of the doctors who practice medicine two point out because I haven't met many of them who wouldn't in a heartbeat say look I wish I could do medicine three point out but the system I'm in doesn't allow it I can't get reimbursed to practice medicine three point out the entire system of billing and coding and diagnostics and prescribing it's all predicated on this system it's predicated on make the diagnosis for the disease treat there's no prevention I don't get paid to nor do I have the education to learn about nutrition exercise all these other things that are necessary medicine three point out but if I could wave a magic wand my bet is 80% of them would be like if there's a way to fix the system in the structure such that I can be balancing my practice between two point out and three point out I do in a heartbeat do you have a sense have you got enough reps with teachers to understand if you had the that proverbial magic wand how many of the superintendents in the teachers would say oh my god I'd love to be to transition from being a front of the classroom teacher to an in the classroom guide who's helping the student with the AI with their personal AI tutor correct so the answer is it is at least 80% of the same example which is you're on the same tree no no because we have you know our guides right they're ex teachers right I mean and we got into this whole name naming thing but you know do you call them teachers if they're not doing academics and and what whatnot but fundamentally you know when they tell their story of what they do all day and let's just talk about teachers specifically right teachers are great and critical and teacher in front of the classroom is bad right that's and it's the but you're a point it's the system that's not very huge analogy it's the same thing where you know teachers right they got into teaching to transform kids lives they did not become a teacher to grade the seventh grade science test right and so let the AI do the seventh grade lesson in the science test and you connect with your kids right your students so during our two hour blocks we do 25 minute pulmetoros right our guides ex teachers who don't they're not in front of the class lecturing they literally take the kids one on one you know and say hey don't you you know your language today comes sit down and talk to me for 25 minutes how was your weekend how the softball turned ago hey you don't see them is motivated lately what's going on and they connect with them right and there are the ones right our guides do to right they provide motivation and emotional support they set high standards and high support they're the ones guiding these kids right through the journey and that's why teachers became teachers right they didn't I want to write a lesson plan nobody woke up and said that's why I'm becoming a teacher they did it because they want to transform kids lives and that's what this new model does right and so when they see it they love it right so that's what you know we you want to pay more but also the teachers see our model and once they really understand it and talk to our existing ones they're like this is awesome I love this and so there isn't resistance now at the systems level you know so I've talked to a lot of superintendents and they're like what do you want me to do with this what might be supposed to do they're like to our what are the kids do the rest of the day right this is the problem this when you talk about it this is a rebuild around the school day yep it's not six hours a day in class right with teachers right it's been classroom hours a day of learning in the screen and four hours a day of life skills and we're short and all the sorts of other things that are going to be imperative to create well balanced kids right and your life skills curriculum is leadership teamwork storytelling public speaking right relationship building socialization right grit and hard work entrepreneurship financial literacy right those things and they're doing workshops in the afternoon right they're you know this is if you go to McKinsey's Instagram it's you know kids climbing rock walls you know in kindergarten or they're running five k's in second grade or the fifth graders launched a food truck you know and so there's all these different things run in tough mutters eighth or eighth graders you know do that stuff and so you're like if you're a superintendent like okay my system's not set up for this it's right there's just there's no end right now there's no demand from the parents because it's it's not true for obvious yeah and even and let's even get out of public school okay let's go just talk about super high-end private schools right you can go down the street and try to get convinced the super high-end private school and say you have all the flexibility you want there's no vote there's nothing you should transform and they're like oh my this seems like a bridge too far right and so that's why my my view of my job so is that why essentially alpha exists as an independent school at the moment is you just need to get the scale of holy owned alpha's that that build this out and at some point the others probably the private schools have an easier time joining the model yeah and and and and eventually the hope is of course the the public schools do so as well it's everybody yeah so I got 20 years and I got to get a billion kids so you got to you know 89% of kids are in public school you got to get it to public school and provide it to everything but what is the current cost to you could I'm sure you're hemorrhaging and losing money at the moment what is the current cost to deliver the education to a to a child and does it vary by their grade like a middle school period and so for alpha our job is and that's why we're opening across country in every city there's going to be this alpha exemplar at the high-end where you're like this is what's possible now it's also one where it's money no object it's really expensive and back to the things today my AI I'm using the latest models is you know we're real time streaming video to coach kids you know it's 10,000 bucks kid and so it's $1 per kid per year in just AI just in the AI cost so just your day so much now I absolutely believe in our our teams going to deliver it where you know sometime in the next three years maybe five you know everybody on the planet will have a tablet that's less than a thousand dollars that will teach them everything they need to know in two hours a day or less and the compute will be what do you think it'll be local it'll be local yeah so you'll be on device like a lot of our stuff right now is vision models yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah there's on device and the all the hardware manufacturers are putting their AI chips on device where we'll hit that wow and so you know and I'm sure there's still be some stuff in the cloud for higher-end stuff but you what the common core curriculum through eighth grade on device less than a thousand dollars that's absolutely coming and then and then then the second part is you know in part of what alpha is is because it's this high-end expensive stuff you like let's re-invision what a school is from the ground up right so we set around you know I'm a product I'm like what makes what would make a school ten times better than you know old school that we went to you know and so we we sort of have five dimensions that we do when the first is kids must love school and we literally measure more than vacation like that has to be it and we get 50-ish percent of kids depends on the vacation depends on the workshop it's really good 50% of kids were like yeah I want to go to school instead of vacation I plenty parent who will my highlight as a principal was you know in in May this year two thirds of the high school kids sent me a note and they're like can we keep alpha high open this summer because we don't want to take a summer break as we love what we're doing right the girl doing it or you know Broadway music she's like this is I want to keep on just going doing it right and so you know we're you know back to my world where I was not in school it was you know shirking and my dad you know I'm like make a place where kids love school and vacation is good standard number two kids need to learn 10 times faster we just we need an engine that teaches kids 10 times faster and so our AI tutor based on learning science teach just kids 10 times faster right and between five and ten we'll get it up and you know so that's the second part so that you can then that gives you the chance to give the time back the third dimension of a school is what are if you academics isn't everything right to developing kids everybody knows that what are the life skills that every parents has that is what I wish I knew and some are you know traits behavioral traits I hope they they are love learning in our self-driven learner right you want things like that and I want somebody who uplift others in his classroom and behavioral is an independent person others are like those ones I talked about where you're like no I want entrepreneurs and is them in financial literacy or I want storytelling public speaking those those type skills and so the third is have that curriculum of skills the suite of skills that every parent wants so we actually have spent you know the last three years developing life core right the common core curriculum for life skills that because I have four hours of data fill right with all this awesome stuff the kids can do and it's just amazing what they do like if you take atomic habits right that book of one percent better most people don't read that till after college right and then they're like oh this is the way I can really develop last year you know our guide face second grade you know she sat down and she was working on her her workshops you know in her life skills she's like you know what I want to teach atomic habits called the second graders because the concepts they all can understand and she's like you know how I'm going to do it I'm like she's like I'm going to have all our second graders run a 5k in under 35 minutes and that interest I'm like oh no okay the parents are not going to like that right that's too hard back to high standards they don't want struggle fail it where's that road just success part and what percent are going to make it and so I was she's like don't worry it's told I can do this she was a UT athlete and she's like we totally can do it she was like a head cheerleader whatever she's like everybody can do this and so she sits down with the second graders first day and is like who who can run a 5k and they're like that's impossible miss fate the parents all are like that's a possible it's face she's like why sign you all up for the jingle 5k you know what to do me and so she goes out to the track in the first day they walk it and they walk 5k she's like okay so we all will stab but she's going to finish the race right and then the next time they ran a quarter lap walk the rest next time half a lap walk the rest and buy December right all the kids are running the race right and you know when they cross the finish line just that achievement back to the key to kids happiness is high standards that's a really high standard but they loved it and they did have to struggle and go through and learn this but they also learned that life skill of 1% better right and so the second graders like dad I can do anything I can do 50 pushups I'll do one today and two tomorrow and you know build up and that skill that life skill we don't teach kids in school it's a great life skill to have and if you have half the day you can do that so that's the third element of like how do you build a great a great school the fourth element in this gets to the teachers what would make a teacher 10 times better than what it is today and the answer is well not grading science test all day and you know writing lesson plans but instead connecting it's meant to be the kids right and so we ask here's the questions we ask you know the students and the parents which is to kids you know you know kindergarten really do you love your guide right and but you know as you get older it's every adult had one or two teachers who transform their life right back to that is your guide that for you right and that is what our guides right that is the expectation that they are the ones that the students are like you are helping me achieve things that I didn't think is possible miss Faith you told me taught me how to do the impossible right and so that right that level and actually then you know at the parent side this gets into you know doctor Yager you know has a book 10 to 25 right child psychologist development expert and it's you know from kids how to what matters for kids right from 10 to from 10 years old to 25 right and his whole theory mentor mindset you know high standards high support the the heart most parents are not high standards and high support which is what really matters to develop kids they're either low standards high support that's what happened all our expectations or they're the inverse high standards no support you know this would be your classic you know Tiger mom would be you know good luck figured out right in the real answer for child development you need both high standards high support and so that's our guide but the question we asked parents in middle and high school right back to having what's a school re-invisioning it it's like do you trust your alpha guide to hold high standards for your kid so you as the parent can provide the unconditional love and support right which transforms for those who have lessons it transforms your relationship where you don't have to be the naggy parent for the high the high standards you know my daughter my oldest daughter you know she's writing her college essay and I'm like you want to let me read it and she's like no right no interest in that yeah she's got she's got a taken care of and got someone else and for me I was super relaxed because I was like I know Chloe right back to our guide right she's a Harvard grad I know she was totally high standards for for my daughter and I know it's going to be fine and I don't have to get a fight about it or whatever I'm just like okay yeah I can get my daughter a hug and be like good luck right and so that transforms what teachers can be right versus I'm delivering those seventh grade lessons and so you know and then the fifth dimension that we talk about is the seas character community classmates and culture and these are also the hardest parts to measure but at the end they're what parents care about the most right which is at the end of the day all those other you don't character right is do I have a good kid did I raise a good kid right and is the school helping me make right raise a good kid and so those elements are what we looked at and said now that you want to re-invision school right from the ground up here's the dimensions and so alpha's trying to be the exemplar you know for for all of it and then the question is okay how do we get the price point down right so we have opened a whole set of different schools right a half the price of alpha right so alpha depends on its location is between forty and seventy five thousand dollars right but we've opened other scholarship programs tons oh so tons so we have a huge scholarship so you know we have a school down in Brownsville right where it's a second poor school district we have in Texas Brownsville's a second poor school district in the country you know and at that school it's you know SpaceX is there it's so star bay so you have much space ex kids and then we scholarship all the locals to come in and it's we're sixty forty fifty fifty between that make up and to be clear they all learn to exit two hours you're right there's not a right back to where we we tested it out it works with all kids so I want to read you something that is fits right into this so this is I think I read this in New York times before kindergarten the children of the affluent are much more likely to be in preschool by sixth grade students in the richest school districts are four grade levels above children in the poorest school districts that's just by sixth grade by high school richer kids average reading skills are five years ahead of poorer kids by college according to a 2017 study by Raj Chetty children from the richest one percent of earners are seventy seven times more likely to go to Ivy League schools then children from families making thirty thousand dollars a year or less um the academic gap between the affluent and less affluent is greater today than the achievement gap between white American and black American kids in the final days of Jim Crow in other words might read of this is that there is no greater predictor of academic success and failure than the wealth of your parents so are you really suggesting that that could be wiped out wiped out I there's always relative versus absolute and I believe we can raise the absolute standard right and maybe it's always an arms race and you know that and so but if you said today can we take we're people this right years behind instead of the gap being seventy seven x could that gap be twenty point two x you know what 100 percent and the back to that issue because here's what what happens right you're in a rich school district right and I was up in New York and you know these are seventy five thousand dollar private schools teacher in front of a classroom but every one of those parents also is spending seven hundred and fifty dollars an hour on a tutor after school because the school was in teaching them back to that problem but an extra seventy five grand tutoring them hundred and fifty grand a year right and you're right yeah you need the tutor who's going to go back and fill the holes and stuff and know if I am in a school district right and I'm a poor school district I'm not I'm not I don't have the tutor I don't have the access to that right you know if you look in after covid right the number one intervention you know a lot of government funding was spent this was high dosage tutoring everything knows this right it's not a secret it's just it's expensive to get if you know individualized tutoring and there was a study that came out a few weeks ago or a month ago that was like it was really working and then sometimes it they did some you know as it expanded out it did less well and the difference was what it was really working as one on one and then they started to say the same money that six to one and tutoring six to one is not it's not individualized it becomes class because it's just cost driven right it just that's the issue with you know if you have thirty kids you can't generate an unending stream of content eighty five percent accuracy based out with the kid learned it has to be one on one it's just and it just that is the delta it's for each kid it's personalized learning a personalized lesson plan is what every kid needs and so and and I believe that if you get all the learning scientists together and say yes AI is the life microscope don't you agree and can we create a program right that's available to everybody right then and I think they'd all say yes yes we can and that that the the the software is not insurmountable right I believe we could do you know I was actually talking to Stanford has their Stanford Accelerator for learning which is you know how and Dean Schwartz runs it and I was like you know we create an X-Price right for an open source available to everybody right you need you also need better credible people than me you don't mean me saying this you need Dean Schwartz and Stanford and the Ivy League right the people that everybody looks up to an education in america and saying we know this we know this learning science we can run right we can take Stanford CS and AI department with the learning science right and put that together and create this project right for not that much money that we can then get to every right and get it into every public school right they have the relationships with all the teachers we're you know they don't need the randomized controlled trial or the skepticism you know obviously get from talking to me so I this is all very doable you know that's that is this mission what is the biggest risk right now is it the equivalent of what we call market risk where let's just adoption it's just it's the leap of faith that yeah we can somehow abandon the only model any of us or is there still technology risk embedded within the AI that says I mean there he is still some technology risk but that's literally like you can ratchet down and you don't have to be 10 times learner but could we get him three times five times today with more static versus some of the cool dynamic stuff that yes you could right but it's are you willing to change the motivational model for the kids are you willing to tell the kid use this app and I'll give you your time back are you willing to say you don't have sitting class for six hours a right it's it's the rebuild that's the problem right when we if you take our software or magic AI tutor right whatever it is and you put it in a standard classroom and the kid has to sit there for six hours a day I can promise you won't work it will not work and so that's the issue is are you really willing back to what Brian told me a decade ago are you really willing to say kids must love school are you really willing and then go rebuild your school system around that because if they do they're going to engage in the app right they're going to you're going to give them their time backs to do stuff they love is that all are you going to make those changes because it isn't an ed tech solution it's not go build this ed tech drop it and it's going to work that's just we have that those apps do generally work right and to get the real revolution you need to say are we going to rebuild what we think k through 12 the first 12 years of the kids lives are and if that's true then the sky is the limit and what we're obviously doing is trying to say look at this look at these examples right because parents parents need I've learned as a principal they need two things to want to change the school remember I was skeptical for two years right I'm I'm the average parent you know was they need a reference from an adult they trust how's it working for your kid did it work for your kid and second they need to see the kid do something at the school that their kid can't do right and if you have that that's actually the magic that unlocks you know a parent saying okay I'm going to go I'm going to move to this new model and you know what what it is that the kid can't oh he loves school I'm like I can wake up in the morning he's you know he's waking me up so he's not late and he used to cry on the way to school or oh wow some parents are like I love the academic performance right or those life skills I really care about or he connects with his teacher so much more as guide you know because it is different and back to the choices like why we're opening all these different schools we have a gifted talented school right we have a sports academy school we have a wilderness school right where you're fishing an archery and you know farming you know we're going to be opening arts theater music parents want different things and kids want different things and so it's showing these things that is going to be the connection that causes parents to say I you know I want this and if you do and you know a good example of motivation you know if you put the GT moms you know McKinsey has you know her roundtables the GT moms with sports academy gifted and talented and talented and talented and then the sports academy moms you know and they just look at each other like the other parent is you know off the rocker where you know the sports academy moms like you know my kid was just you know comes home just sweating for just running around all day and I literally throw him in the shower with their clothes on you know in the GT moms okay they were having a chest tournament in the afternoon and then we came home and continue it right and it depends on the motivation each kid's different right and all your kids are different and you everybody knows that and you know like when we ask like I sat down with at the guides we're like okay how do we make these all better so on you know staff days you know because we have all the guides from all the different schools and I'm like okay what's going to make kids really love school how do we get it from 50 to 60 to 70 on love school the GT guides are like more they want a third power hour of academics and they want math Olympia and all the other guides are grown in because right now our students do not want more academics they want sports or let's do a better workshop or you know what what it's going to be and so the key on all of this is saying how do we you know focus school on making it awesome for kids right making it great have a culture where it is high standards high support where you have this magic on lock of they can learn 10 times faster which then enables you to give them the time back to do all these other things but that's a big lift right that's why it's it's going to take 20 years right but I do believe that you know everybody every parent right the most important thing is raising your kids it's the same at a societal level right the most important thing a society does is raise this next generation and everybody cares about it and one thing I we spend enough money in this country or globally right that there's enough money to actually rearrange this and build an education system that's great for the kids you know 5% of G&P right I mean $7 trillion right that there is recognition at both the societal or parent level right that this is where we should spend money and we do so it's kind of amazing to think back you in the spring of 1989 you drop out of college to go start a software company obviously there's no way you could have imagined both the success you would have in that company you know creating a multi-billion dollar company and and along with it a fortune for yourself but then somehow deciding right it's your peak that you were going to completely walk away from that take that fortune and pour it into another endeavor that seems as far from anything as possible relative to what you what you what you what you started with like I feel really fortunate to that you're starting this that you started this in Austin for the listener I think maybe I probably should have said this at the outset you know my daughter spent two years at alpha it was an absolutely exceptional experience for her really kind of experienced all the things you talk about right so showed up in what did she show up she showed up in seventh grade shows up in seventh grade with the absolute negative story of you know I love reading I love arts I love these things I'm a musician I'm not I just don't do math in science like that's I know you did dad that's not me I can't do math I never want to do math I made the awful mistake of spending the past you're trying to help her do math that was a disaster that only resulted in tears but it really I think what would appeal to me when we made that switch was it just seemed so entirely logical that the reason she was struggling was because there were things in third and fourth grade she never mastered and I really appreciated the compounding nature of that gap and and it just made sense it really clicked and so it wasn't a big leap of faith to say oh okay yeah and I feel very fortunate that as just as you predicted by the end of eighth grade I mean she was asing math and that has continued all through high school she did go back to public high school I think you know that's probably something you you do encounter is that are there are kids that ultimately just want to be back in the big public high school they want to play sports on the public you know in the public high school they want to be you know and of course she's at a high school with a billion kids and she's very happy there but I don't think there's a chance I don't think there's a snowball's chance in hell she would be doing as well as she is if not for the fact that she had that two year sabbatical to alpha where she really got to academically create a solid foundation and I will share one last anecdote here which is at her eighth grade graduation she was in tears saying goodbye to her guides to your point it's think of what the impact of those guides were on her life she loved those people and you know it's not that she doesn't like her teachers in high school but she doesn't have that kind of relationship with them right and back to you know you guys were I came in actually you know right then and Andy M who runs our academics you know since you're such a broader up wants to give her a call out because she spent hours with him going through lessons helping figure out why is this not working or what is it and you know one of the things when you're you're starting these new schools you need the this concept of a founding family right and you know your family was one of the most important and your support where you got it but your daughter you know Andy wanted to say you know thank you to her because she did go above and beyond where our lessons and all this learning science in this close loop you know he's like I'm way better because of the feedback and the time she spent with us and so you know it is it is transformative to kids and to your point of high school you're not if you want to be the quarterback on the West Lake team and run track we don't have those in our high school and so we can get you prepared you know we say our middle school prepares kids for any high school right and so all our kids in middle school can get get their pick of high school that they want to go and someone alpha you know of a high which is that but someone you know the traditional play but we hopefully have a quick term where they know they're a self-driven learning and can do it on their own yeah I'll tell you that maybe the last story I'll I'll share Joe which is no surprise to you is it really doesn't matter what corner and I mean this literally what corner of this planet I am standing on when education comes up your name always comes up and this is these are people who don't know that I know you right they don't know that we are friends and I'll be I will be literally on the opposite side of this planet and if if I'm talking with anybody about a education it's like what do you know about AI and education? Have you heard of this guy Joe Leem on at Alpha and it it's it comes up so often which tells me that it is getting out there it is this is no longer just that little niche school downtown Austin I mean it's hard to believe what has happened in five years it went from one building one place to how many now right so we have we're now we open 12 campuses this will be a 25 alpha campuses we also have 25 non-alpha campuses where back to lower price points you know we have we have campuses open where you know it's charter so it's free for kids we have ones where it's five thousand dollar pay for the parents five hundred dollars a month you know some of twenty thousand so we're trying to figure up back to innovating we're like what are the right price points and everything but yes you know we expect 12 months from now there to be hundreds and hundreds of schools that use this model you know you know the demand for the sports academy is through the roof and we think that's going to explode for sure well Joe I appreciate you taking your time to come out today but of course more than anything I just appreciate what you're doing and again I know this is you know not something that is really fits into what we talk about in this podcast but again I don't think you can care about medicine science health and not care about the foundation upon which it's built and it all starts with education so you're if you're working on such an important problem and if there's one last thing I can do since I've had a great career obviously before this in three years ago moved education if there's other people out there and one of the things if you're listening to this and you're excited part of my job is let's go get more talent into education and I can tell you the last three years have been awesome and my next twenty years is going to be better than my last twenty years and so you know if I can if I can convince you to come on in the water it's the best way for because I guarantee you there's a million people listening to us there's going to be a non-zero number of them are going to want to reach out to you what's the best way to get a whole of you great literally my email which is Joe dot lee mont at alfa dot school and send it to me and you know I am overloaded right up to your point the hype has gotten very high about alfa what should they what could someone who wants to get your attention put in the subject line heard you on the purge on the dive podcast or something like that. on the drive podcast right and you know we're looking for you know all sorts of people want you want product people you want engineers you want everybody every week come in we have to go build you know we're building a eyes right there's back to expansion we need entrepreneurs where you know G.T. school needs 500 schools we need entrepreneurs who are going to expand it like it's you know a Chipotle chain right we need a I guys right I'm going out Silicon Valley where we we have to you know current chat bots aren't good we have to make the L.L.M. better we need people we need educators right people who are like okay I want to do this new thing if you're one of the learning scientists that we don't have on our team right come do it right that is we're a sound if you're back to capital we're going to need a lot of capital as well to expand this if back to philanthropy right it's we need to be giving scholarships we're funding a lot of it but we need to make this available to everybody right we have to your problem it can't just be for the elite it's got to be for a billion kids so education touches everything and if you're just in we're like that description where of what they're building I'm in then come aboard because it's awesome Joe dot leem on at alpha.com will alpha dot school alpha dot school okay we'll put that in the show notes just so that people can click directly on it. Joe thanks again thank you for as always this is great

Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Welcome to a special episode of the Drive Everyone. If you've been following the headlines recently, you may have seen, of course, stories linking a seat of men offend or Tylenol use during pregnancy to autism. And not surprisingly, those headlines have generated a lot of questions, a lot of controversy and a lot of confusion. I've heard about this a lot from every direction. My patients, listeners of the podcast, friends, family members, people writing in through the website. Basically, it's, I mean, like I'm sure many people in this space, we've all been inundated by it. And you know, the more I thought about it, the more I realized, this was a great opportunity to, I think, maybe put forth a framework for how to think about these things critically. And while we initially thought we would just do this in the newsletter last week, once we got into it, we realized, now this doesn't really lend itself to an article, or even a short video. It really commands effectively the discipline of what we do in the AMA's, the ask me. Any things, of course, unlike the normal AMA's, this is going to be made available to everybody. So, for we dive in though, I want to kind of lay out some groundwork. We're going to unpack some of the points in more detail that I'm going to lay out below. But I also want to make sure we're starting from a place of reference. I want to start out with a few important observations. Okay. So, the first is autism rates have risen dramatically over the past generation. Now, we're going to talk about why that might be. But it's very important to stay up front that there is unlikely to be a single cause. Why? Because complex conditions usually don't have simple explanations. This is true of obesity. Despite what some people would have you believe that it's just this one thing or just this one thing or whatever. But the reality of it is complex conditions require multiple things typically. So, anytime we look at a possible contributing factor, we need to kind of resist the temptation to assume it's this sole cause. Now, that doesn't diminish the interest in identifying a bunch of potential causes. Okay. Second point I want to make here and it's kind of weird that I have to make it, but I do science is supposed to be a political. Unfortunately, that's not the case. And for reasons that I don't think I'm smart enough to understand autism happens to be one of those examples. But so, are many other topics we've discussed like nutrition or protein, which has become remarkably political. My goal here is not to have a political debate, but rather to examine the evidence as carefully and objectively as I can. Third, we do need to realize something that I think is very hard to accept. And that is that as humans, we are not wired to think scientifically. I want to restate that because it sounds condescending, but it's simply an observation of how we have evolved. We are not wired for critical and scientific thought. This is something I've written about and we're going to actually link to a piece I wrote over 10 years ago that I think synthesizes that point really well. But again, it really comes down to the fact that we should understand that the scientific method and critical thought are human inventions. They're wonderful inventions. And I would argue they are the single most important invention our species has ever put forth. And without this, nothing else would exist. We'd still be living in caves. But that doesn't mean that it comes naturally and it doesn't mean we're wired to do it. Just keep that in mind as you catch yourself as I catch myself falling into non-scientific thought. We're going to rely on a framework at some point during this discussion, which is very helpful when considering epidemiology, which is the branch of science. We're going to be talking primarily about today. It's called the Bradford Hill Criteria. These are nine principles that were laid out in the mid 60s to help us determine whether an observed observation is likely to be causal. So this framework looks at things like strength of association, consistency across multiple studies, biologic plausibility, temporality, and things like that. They're not a checklist per se. But they provide a disciplined way to try to make sense of correlations and interpret which ones have a higher probability of being causal from those that don't. Another thing I want to point out is we're going to be talking about medications. We're going to be talking about pregnancy. And I think it should be obvious and I'm sure anyone listening to this or watching this who has gone through pregnancy will understand that the bar is very high when we are talking about medications to be used during pregnancy. Most physicians, myself included, though I don't treat very many pregnant women. Think about drugs and supplements very differently in the setting of pregnancy. Of course, because we are typically not treating patients with life-threatening conditions, our mantra is during pregnancy women should basically stop all medications and supplements beyond the obvious ones, such as prenatal vitamins or hormones such as thyroid hormone, which can be essential. But anything that's even in a gray area or probably okay, we tend to just avoid. Now, since the late 70s, the FDA has used a very simple letter system to classify drugs by their risk during pregnancy. These categories go by A, B, C, D, and X. And basically, each letter refers to a level of evidence, mostly from animal and human studies, about the potential harm of the drug to the fetus. So, for more than, I don't know, 35 years or so, this was the framework physicians relied on, about 10 years ago, the FDA replaced it by a framework that is called the pregnancy and lactation labeling rule or the PLLR. The idea was to move away from single letters and instead provide a more descriptive guidance. An infuri, that's an improvement, but in practice, it's been kind of slow to roll out. And frankly, I'm a little guilty of generally thinking about it in the A, B, C, D, X category. And that's kind of what I'm going to refer to a little bit. So, I'm going to stick with that older category. And while it's imperfect, it's widely understood. It is still a clear framework. And I just want to share with you as we begin this, so you have a broad sense of how drugs fit into this. Okay. So, category A means that there is no demonstrated risk in well-controlled human studies. Again, that's pretty unusual because that's a hard thing to do. And that's reflected in the proportion of total drugs and supplements out there that fit in this category and it's somewhere between two and five percent. Okay. So, what does that mean? That means that is completely safe. We have definitive evidence that women can take these things during pregnancy. And obviously, is reflected by the numbers virtually nothing fits in that category. By the way, the examples I gave earlier of thyroid hormone and prenatal vitamins do fit in that category. Then you have category B, which says there's no evidence of risk in humans, but animal data might show signals in some studies. And so, these are generally thought of as safe, but exercise caution. Basically, and this is 15 to 25 percent. Then you have category C. This is the biggest one. This says risk can't be ruled out. We don't have evidence that there's risk, but we don't have evidence that it's safe. And most drugs sit here. Some big range somewhere between 60 and 75 percent. Category D says, actually, we do have some positive evidence of human fetal risk. And the drugs that sit in this category, and I'm going to come back to this and give you examples of each of the drugs. The drugs that sit in this category, you might say, well, why would a woman ever take a drug if there's some evidence of risk to the fetus? And that is only if the risk to the mother not taking it is greater. So, the classic example here are seizure medications. So, if you have a woman who is going to be debilitated by seizures, and this is the only treatment she can have, then a physician will take a typically make that that decision. And again, very few drugs fit in this category. It's typically five to eight percent. And you have category X, which are drugs that have definitively been proven as much as you can prove anything in biology to cause significant harm to the fetus. Regardless of benefit to the mother. And again, these are these are pretty rare, and this is sort of one to three percent. So again, just keep in mind. Now, where does Tylenol or acetaminophen fit into that? Well, it fits into Category B. And to be clear, for the last 10 years, there has been some concern about does Tylenol-Blong and Category B should it belong in Category C? Um, the other thing to keep in mind with Tylenol is you always have to ask yourself about the the switching cost or the alternative choices. And of course, a very common alternative choice for Tylenol would be something like ibuprofen or an N said. Now, ibuprofen, uh, Advil, a leave for example are considered Category B in the first two trimesters, but bump to Category D in the third trimester for reasons I don't necessarily need to get into, but for those who are interested, it has to do with the premature closing closure of a very small blood vessel that connects the Aorta and the pulmonary artery. And if that closes prematurely, it leads to premature delivery and all sorts of things like that. So anyway, I just want you to kind of keep in mind why these categories exist. And the reason we're walking through all of this now is to just sort of set this stage, um, uh, to, for this discussion. So the goal today is not just to look, um, at the potential link between a C to benefit an autism, but also to put it in context so that we can hopefully end with, I think the question that at least some of you are asking, which is, okay, science aside, Peter, what's the bottom line if a woman is pregnant? Should she be taking Tylenol? And I'm going to resist the urge to just give you that answer right now, because I think it undermines the process of thought. So of course to answer that question, you have to not only take into account the possible effective Tylenol exposure on the baby, but also the health and the well-being of the mother, and also the possible effects of going without Tylenol in the case of fever or inflammation, which is also associated with negative health outcomes for babies that are exposed to those conditions in utero. Um, we're going to take the same structured approach, um, that I basically try to recommend and utilize any time I've confronted with an association between exposure, X and condition Y, and that's true if condition Y is positive or negative, good or bad. So I want to lay this out right now so that you know what we're going to do and how we're going to land this point. The first thing you want to be able to do is confirm that there is indeed an association, statistically, okay? So, you know, a lot of times people say there's an association, but there might actually not be. So you actually want to document that statistically, there is an exposure. So you want to verify that. The second question you're asking is, and of course this is the hardest one is, because that one, the first one's pretty easy. Um, if there is a statistical association, you want to determine the likelihood that the association is causal. Uh, now included in this would be sensitivity analyses, falsification tests and things of that nature. Now notice I said, you're not trying to prove if the association is causal. Why? Because as I'm sure many of you have heard me say before, there are no proofs in biology. It's not, it's not like mathematics. You don't get to write QED at the end of your work here. What we're really dealing with here is probabilities. And we're trying to determine the likelihood of causality. Now, if the association is believed to be more likely causal than not, then we have to ask the final question which factors into what do you do, which is we have to understand the effect size. So you could have things that are causal, but the effect size is so small that it doesn't matter, in which case, you know, your your behavior is going to be quite different. Um, so final point before kind of jumping into this, it's a very important to remember that we, um, we're discussing the state of science today. And science is not about being right or wrong in an absolute sense. It's really about constantly updating our priors, understanding the probability of something as new evidence becomes, uh, becomes emergent. And that's how we should really work. So as more and more data, come online, we might have to revise whatever views and conclusions I've come to here. Doing so is not a weakness. Although tragically, it has become viewed as a weakness, right? You know, certainly if politicians change their mind about things, that's viewed as waffling. But as as as scientists or as communicators of science, we shouldn't be afraid of that. We should be open and acknowledge that as of today, this might be how we view things. And in the presence of new information, we should be very receptive to changing that mind. So I know that was a lot of background. Normally far more than I would at the outset of a podcast, but I think it's really important to have a shared foundation of knowledge, um, in an understanding of the framework before we wait into a that is not only scientifically complex, but obviously very emotionally and politically charged. That's the lens I'm hoping to use for this discussion. Um, now with all of that said, I thought rather than just continue a monologue, it would be great to have, uh, my co-host, Nick Stenson, from the AMA's, join me. Um, and basically lay out this discussion with me in the form of a Q&A, such that it really reflects questions we're hearing and, um, creates a bit of a storyline through this. So Nick, thanks very much for joining me on very short notice. Peter, I think as we get started, it would be helpful first to just even look at and we have the foundation of what exactly are the claims being made about a cinematophane and autism. So the basic just of the scientific claim is that maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of autism, uh, in the exposed child. And this has prompted the government to respond by asking the FDA to issue warnings to physicians and change the labels on acetaminophen products with obviously time and all being the most common and the most familiar to reflect the possible risk during pregnancy. But it's important to note that both the FDA and the scientific community agree that we don't yet have evidence to assert that the apparent correlations between prenatal acetaminophen exposure not to some risk reflect a causal relationship. In other words, no authoritative sources are claiming that we can conclude from the existing body of evidence that acetaminophen actually causes an increase in autism risk. Though some argue that a causal relationship is plausible and others argue that a causal relationship is very likely and that acetamin should therefore be avoided during pregnancy or used at most with strong precaution. And you mentioned at the offset that there could be a lot of reasons why we're seeing autism rates increase and not just a single thing. What do we know about why there are so many things being linked to autism these days? So actually there's two parts to your question, Nick, um, because on the one hand, you're asking me why are autism rates going up because that's, uh, we we can't deny that. Like that, that's, you know, that's sort of like saying, is the sun coming up every morning. Um, but your second question is, uh, why are there so many things being linked to it these days? So I'm going to answer that question first because I think that's the more jugular question at the moment. And I promise I will get to that second question. So why are so many things being linked to the enormous uptick and autism these days? And it really comes down to a very, very understandable, rational and logical desire, which is a very strong motivation to look for the triggers of autism. We are looking for culprits. Okay. So autism rates have risen dramatically, um, both nationally and even globally over the past few decades. So according to the CDC, the prevalence of autism increased from 6.7 cases per thousand children in the year 2000, just 25 years ago, to 32.2 cases per thousand children just three years ago. That's a five fold increase. And again, while some of that increase is due to an expanding diagnostic, uh, definition and increase to awareness, which we'll get into more later, as I said, um, there is no doubt that some residual increase, even after accounting for these changes, uh, is out there. And therefore, in an effort to find these potential causes, a lot of research has been done to find potential associations between autism and countless other variables. Now, all of that sounds great and all of that makes sense, but it poses a significant statistical problem. And this is known as the multiple comparisons problem. If you look at enough variables, you are bound to find statistically significant associations. Again, this is, this is the first example that I'm going to pull forth from what I stated at the outset, which is we are not wired to think scientifically. If anybody out there thinks they are smart enough that they can understand p values out of the womb, more power to you. And, you know, I majored in mathematics. I spent my life doing math and stats. This idea is not that intuitive until it is explained to you. So it's understandable why what I'm about to say doesn't necessarily jump to your mind as the explanation for this. Now, let me use an example. Imagine if you're trying to detect if someone has psychic powers by having them guess the outcome of coin flips. So you, you, you, you, you, you, you, you create the rules such that if they guess correctly on at least seven out of ten flips, which by the way, that's a five percent chance, somebody would do that based on pure luck with a fair coin. Right? So if I had a fair coin and I flipped it 10 times, each of those has a 50 50 shot of heads or tails. But if you can guess correctly seven out of ten eight out of ten nine out of ten or ten out of ten, there's only a five percent chance of doing that. I'm going to declare you a psychic. So that, that game is basically like a single hypothesis test with a significance level of zero point five. So you see where I'm going with this, right? This is now I'm setting this up like a single hypothesis test with a significance level of zero point zero five or a p value of point oh five. Now, suppose instead of just testing one person, I'm going to test a hundred random people all with fair coins. And let's of course just assume for the purpose of illustration. There are no real psychics. I realize there's going to be a little hatred directed toward me from people who believe their psychics. Well, by chance alone, I'm going to identify five people out of a hundred who are going to pass the psychic test. And they're going to look like psychics. But the probability that at least one person passes the test isn't just five percent, it's much higher because randomness can hit anywhere across that group. So if you keep scaling this up to thousands of tests like scanning genes for diseases and links and running marketing experiments, I mean, anytime you're running massive amounts of experiments, the odds of finding at least one false hit approach near certainty. So you're essentially trolling through noise until patterns emerged by accident, like seeing faces in clouds or winning a lottery if you buy enough tickets. There's a great website called Spurious Coralations. I've been playing with this website for a long time and went back to it recently. That shares examples of how easy it is to find significant correlations. Even very strong correlations between variables that clearly have nothing to do with each other. Provided you're willing to look at enough different combinations of variables. So for example, one very silly one is a 98.5 percent correlation between the per capita consumption of margarine and the divorce rate in Maine. One of my personal favorites, if you look at the number of physicists in the state of California and the ranking of Michael Schumacher when he was driving in F1 between the year 2003 and 2012, the correlation was 0.97197.1 percent. But what's most interesting about this is that the site also demonstrates how easy it is to come up with plausible sounding stories for why two clearly unrelated variables might be related. So they ask AI to come up with a train of logic linking the variables. So if you consider the example of the California physicists and Michael Schumacher's success, AI explains that by saying that the rising number of physicists in California drive innovation in the automotive industry which leads to faster and more effective race cars that propelled Michael Schumacher to higher rankings, which of course is ridiculous. And so Peter, what do we know about why these ideas about associations with autism tend to persist even if the evidence can be shaky? I think it comes down to the fact that it is literally impossible to disprove the link between any variable and autism the way that you can disprove other things such as the earth being flat or even things that are really complicated like risk-vera troll extending the melee in life where you have the luxury of doing randomized controlled experiment, after randomized controlled experiment, after randomized controlled experiment, all of which fail, you have such a high degree of probability that you've effectively disproved it. But we can't do that in epidemiology and I think that's why these ideas persist. Peter, kind of going back to the recent news, what do we know about? Was anything in particular that triggered the recent concern around a sedimentaphine and autism? Not really other than a publication that we'll talk about, but the idea that autism might be linked to prenatal acetaminophenic exposure isn't new. A handful of studies have reported very small associations between that exposure and outcome over the past decade, more or less. But the recent alarm was triggered by a systematic review of earlier research, which was published in late August in a journal called BMC Environmental Health. Now importantly, and I was a little surprised to see this, this publication was not a meta-analysis, so they didn't pool the data from the studies to reevaluate the overall association or perform any new statistical tests. The authors of this paper just collected all the relevant studies they could find on the relationship between prenatal acetaminophenic exposure and the risk of autism. They also looked at ADHD and some other neurodevelopmental disorders in non-overlapping human cohorts, and they shared the basic study details and results in one place and added some additional commentary. So basically, you can think of it a sort of a review article. And so I think now it would be just helpful to just break down this paper and more detail for people. So let's start with what did the paper show? Yeah, so in the case of autism, there were six observational studies that met their criteria for inclusion, and the authors reported that these six studies, quote, consistently reported a positive association between prenatal acetaminophenice and ASD, autism spectrum disorder, with an exposure response relationship observed in four of the five studies that evaluated the relationship. But this isn't actually true. In actuality, two of the six studies showed no significant association between use of acetaminophenice during pregnancy and the risk of autism in the offspring. And only three of the included studies directly examined the potential dose response relationship well the fourth by authors G and others attempted to assess dose dividing the participants into hertiles, groups of thirds based on acetaminophenice detected in a single blood test. This method, you know, kind of had the advantage of using a quantitative biomarker instead of potentially biased patient questionnaires that tried to get it recall. But since the measurement was based on just one sample taken during birth, it's a very poor indicator of overall exposure during pregnancy. Acidaminophenice is almost completely eliminated from the body within 24 hours. So all the blood tests from the G study really tell us is whether or not a woman happened to take Tylenol in the 24 hours leading up to delivery. Of course a woman who had none before delivery might have taken Tylenol for weeks on end earlier in her pregnancy or a woman could have taken Tylenol with delivery, could have had none up until that point. So again, it's an interesting study the G study which we're going to look at all of them in a moment. But I just want to point out that most of these studies rely on questionnaires and this study attempted to look at this biomarker but obviously it has significant limitations. Another point I'd say is that in the largest study examining a dose response relationship this was a study by lead author, Alkfest who the senior author on that was Lee and I'm going to come back to that in a second because Dr. Lee was interviewed this week by Jama. The dose response was only present in a partially adjusted statistical model where it disappeared in what was called the fully adjusted model. And I'll talk about this in a little bit more in a moment so you can understand what I mean. But this suggests that the dose dependent association between a seat of benefit and autism which is actually very important was actually due to confounding variables that weren't accounted for in the partially adjusted model but were accounted for in the fully adjusted model. So to take a look at this I want you to look at the figure sitting next to my head here which is an analysis that my team pulled together by plotting the risk ratios from the studies included in this analysis. Now this paper I was I was surprised that this figure was not in the paper because almost all review articles would do this and certainly a meta analysis would have. But nevertheless they didn't and so we've done this and you can feel free to check us if you like but we've taken all of the data out of their tables and simply put them into a pooled table and then the one thing we did at the end was pool it so that's what's shown in red here. So let me just orient you to this figure. So you've got all the names of the studies here so you've got by the way the alchrist study is referred to as the Swedish study. So you've got at the very top you've got the pooled or sorry the sibling controlled version of the Swedish study followed by the full cohort of the Swedish study followed by a set of other studies and then the G you're seeing two versions of this you're seeing the third total compared to the first total and the second total compared to the first total. You then have a couple of these other studies and then you can see the summary and red is where we're showing the pooled data. Now let me remind you how to interpret these lines and bars and things like that. The unity line represents absolutely no risk anything to the right of the unity line would represent an increase in risk anything to the left of the unity line line would represent a decrease in risk and the bars represent the 95% confidence intervals. In an idyllic road you're looking to see dots that would be quite far from the unity line one way or the other. Peter can you walk people through what this chart is showing us because one lot of people haven't looked at or interpreted charts like this before and two we also have people listening not watching. So for those people this will be in the show notes which will be available to all as well but can you walk through what the big insights that you and the team had from this chart. In this chart you can see that the overall association between a C to benefit use and autism is very small corresponding to just a 5% increase in relative risk between exposed and unexposed children. But there are a few other details that jump out at you when you're looking at this. So the most obvious feature, please to me, is that there is a very strong association coming from one very small study. In fact the smallest study here which is the G study from 2020. But as discussed a minute ago this study was done very different from the others. So instead of comparing the risk between children who were versus were not exposed to a C to benefit during gestation. So they then just divided the participants into three groups or turtles based on the concentration of a C to benefit. It was detected in the samples of umbilical cord blood. So then you could compare the risk in the first to the second and the first to the third turtles respectively. So again this might eliminate the issue of recall bias which of course is a real issue as well where you have to ask a woman after she has the baby, you know how much time on all that you take during your pregnancy when etc. But again it still has a pretty big issue which is the C to benefit does not stick around very long in the blood. And therefore we don't really know how much the C to benefit levels identified in cord blood at the time of delivery really tell us anything about the amount of a C to benefit that the woman took during pregnancy. Now some have pointed out that this isn't a concern. Since the study published this past January by another group reported a positive correlation between three levels of self reported acedamentifin use throughout pregnancy. So they called it non-use less than 14 days or more than 14 days and the level of acedamentifin detected in cord blood at birth. However the correlation was not that great. It was 72% and involved a completely distinct cohort. So there's certainly a lot of room for error based on that. Additionally the G study mentions that all cord blood samples contained detectable levels of acedamentifin but they don't actually report how those levels differed across the turtles, either averages or thresholds. So we have no idea how much acedamentifin we're actually talking about here. However they do report that 70% of the samples had no detectable levels of acedament metabolites which would strongly suggest that the majority of participants had very minimal levels of acedamentifin exposure, such as what you might see you know through drinking water. The essentially means that the comparison between the second and first turtles was comparing sub-theraputic exposure to sub-theraputic exposure, telling us virtually nothing. And as further evidence of this that paper I just reference that looked at comparing cord blood levels to recall number divided them into nothing up to 14 days more than 14 days. It found a seat of metafin in all cord blood samples. Yet it showed that turtles won in two were statistically identical. Again the suggestion here is there's some low level of hermetic Tylenol or Tylenol metabolite that we're probably all exposed to that doesn't really constitute an exposure. Another issue and actually think this is the single biggest issue by the way seems to be the biased participant inclusion. So the participants in the G study were enrolled in 1998 and followed for another 20 years. And anybody who dropped out before the end of that 20 year mark was excluded. But think about that for a moment. People are more likely to stay in an extended longitudinal study if they have a personal interest in the results. For instance if they find their child has autism. This is likely to affect the studies on this subject but it seems especially pronounced in the G paper. As this study which was based in the U.S. reported rates of autism in the participants at roughly 11%. So meaning when you look at all the participants who completed that study 11% of the kids had autism. But for context the general population currently at that 5x increase is 3% and at the time of enrollment it was 0.7% the enrollment was between 98 and 2004. The cohort used by the G study was called the Boston Birth cohort which originally enrolled nearly 9,000 mother child pairs. But among them preterm births were quite overrepresented over 35%. By 2018 approximately 3000 diets remained in the active follow up cohort presumably due to loss on follow up. And of those eligible diets slightly less than a thousand had available umbilical cord plasma samples and complete outcome data. So again we have kind of a concentration it would seem of cases due to all the reasons I just stated. But one of the most important things to take away from this graph is the fact that the risk estimate summarized from all the studies what we're sort of calling the pooled one here in red is virtually identical to the risk estimate derived solely from the 2024 alchist study which was done in Sweden and so it's commonly referred to and you've probably heard of it referred to this way as the Swedish cohort study. And the reason there essentially identical is that that Swedish study included more than 10 times the number of participants than all other studies combined. I don't know that's a lot there. I think it's actually worth just summarizing that again before we move on to the Swedish study because if you looked at this graph that we put together you could very easily come to the conclusion that the the G study is indeed the smoking gun but again you have to remember the limitations of this and there are several right one is the sample sizes incredibly small relative to the others too. You have the concentration effect where based on the nature of the study you concentrated and disproportionately counted cases of autism versus non and then of course you have the collection methods where using this single sample of cord blood which may have some association with maternal use during pregnancy but is very unlikely to account for the actual nuanced differences in dose and exposure during pregnancy. Again think about that through the lens of any other thing. If I could only measure how many donuts you ate on your birthday it would be very difficult for me to impute how many donuts you eat over the course of a year would it have a correlation probably but it wouldn't be strong enough to take to the bank if I was trying to use donut consumption as a marker of predicting heart disease. So again it's very tempting when you look at these meta analyses or in this case even just to review article to think more is better but remember a thousand southeers makes not a pearl necklace quoting the great James Yang who used to be one of my mentors in the lab. Given how big this Swedish cohorts study was I do think it's worth spending some time to really break that down so can you walk people through that study and what it found in more detail. Yeah the Swedish study was a very large pro-spective cohorts study and the general results indicate a small correlation between a metacetamentifin use in by the mother during pregnancy and later life ASD in the offspring. So there were just under two and a half million Swedish children included in the full cohort and the primary exposure metric was ever use of acedamentifin in pregnancy with dose serving as a secondary metric. So again the primary outcome is binary either you ever used acedamentifin or you did not. So acedamentifin used was determined through a combination of prescriptions because again single healthcare systems so they have access to all the prescriptions and also through maternal interview with midwife or physician throughout the pregnancy. They don't specify the number of interviews and it probably vary across participants. So over a median follow-up of about 13 and a half years the general cohort showed a very small but statistically significant positive association between prenatal acedamentifin exposure and autism. The hazard ratio is 1.05 and the confidence interval was 1.02 to 1.08. So what does that mean? That means it showed a 5% increase in relative risk and the confidence interval of 95% confidence was significant because it did not cross the unity line. So anytime the error bars do not cross the unity line it's statistically significant. Remember just going back to the studying study stuff we talk about we always like to calculate an absolute risk exposure if we can. So the relative risk was a 5% increase the absolute risk increase was 0.09% increase at 10 years. So that's a very small absolute risk increase less than 1 tenth of 1%. So the researchers then examined risk specifically in a cohort subset that was composed of matched sets of full biologic siblings. So the authors examined sibling pairs that were discordant in acedamentifin exposure and found no significant difference in risk for autism between exposure and lack of exposure. So why do this? The logic here is similar to any matched cohort study. But instead of merely matching based on general characteristics like age or sex each exposed individual is matched to an unexposed sibling. This means that exposed and unexposed groups on the whole should be relatively evenly matched in terms of several confounding variables related to home environment and even many genetic factors each person in one group could be mirrored by somebody in the control group. So there shouldn't be any systematic differences between the groups. Can you walk people through what happened when they did the more detailed sibling analysis? Yeah. So when they did that concordant discordant analysis, the correlation was entirely abolished when they compared and controlled for family environment and genetics as best as you could remember. This was not an identical twin comparison. It was just siblings. But obviously this is the best control you could get. And this suggests that the apparent link observed in the full cohort was likely due to confounding factors. Given these results, the authors of the Swedish study came to the same conclusion. And they stated, quote, results of this study indicate that the association between acedimenofenus during pregnancy and neurodevelopmental disorders is a non-causal association. Association's observed in models without sibling control may be attributable to confounding. Now it's important to note that the review article that came out in August in their analysis, they state that the Swedish study only included siblings that were disquadent for both exposure and outcome. But this was not the case according to the Swedish studies senior author. And such a design would introduce what's known as a collider bias, where the selection criteria create a situation where the exposure and outcome are already related in some way. To illustrate why this double discordant selection doesn't work, consider a very extreme example. Imagine autism can only occur with the cdimenofenus exposure. But the cdimenofenus exposure does not guarantee autism. So in biological parlance, we would say acedimenofenus necessary, but not sufficient. If you select only pairs that are discordant for both the exposure and the outcome, you would exclude all cases in which a cdimenofenus exposure did not result in autism. Even if those sibling pairs accounted for the majority of sibling pairs discord for the exposure. In other words, you would falsely conclude 100% risk. Therefore, I believe that Lee, the senior author of the Swedish study, is correct in his assessment, which is that once you correct for genetics and home environmental exposures, the risk of autism as it pertains to a cdimenofenus exposure is not causal. Stateed another way. Cdimenofenus exposure prenatally in the Swedish cohort does not appear to be causally related to autism. Looking at what you just looked at, is there any reason to question those results in question? What that study said? Another way to think about it is do people who argue in favor of a potential link between a cdimenofen and autism have anything to say about those results? Yes, you should question everything. I would say that the one of the criticisms that's been leveled against the Swedish study is that the overall rates of acedimenofenus in that study were much lower than or observed here in the US or elsewhere in the world. Only about 7.5% of the participating mothers in the Swedish study were consumers of acedimenofen, whereas some studies have reported up to 50% of mothers using acedimenofen during pregnancy. And again, given this discrepancy, some have argued that the generalisability of the Swedish study is limited. Which is interesting. And as it happens, you couldn't make this up. Another large cohort study with a similar nested sibling analysis was just published a couple of weeks ago. This was after the August publication of the review article. And it supports the findings of the Swedish study. The new study was conducted in a nationwide Japanese population and consisted of almost 220,000 children, of which almost 40% were exposed to acedimenofen during gestations. So very similar to the rates we see in the United States and in some of the other high exposure studies. The associations reported from this Japanese cohort were similar to those in the Swedish study. In the general cohort, so unadjusting for siblings, prenatal exposure to acedimenofen was associated with a 6% uptick in autism rates, recalling the Swedish study was 5%. But in the Japanese study, this did not reach the testicle significance. So the confidence interval, the 95% confidence interval crossed the unity line. It was 0.98 to 1.15. But when they did the sibling analysis, even this small trend towards an increased risk was completely abolished. So when you take this Japanese study of nearly 220,000 children and parent with the Swedish study of 2.5 million children, and both of them when done by this method abolish any causality, it's very difficult to make a strong case for causality. We've talked about this before, but I think anytime we're this deep in a science, it's good for people to kind of step back. And so can you walk people through why it's so hard to make assumptions about causality based on just observational data? Yes, I mean, again, I think you can think back to the sort of spurious correlation site that I was talking about earlier. It really comes down to the potential influence of confounding variables that we are blind to. That's basically what it comes down to. Dr. Lee, the senior author of the Swedish paper was interviewed by Jam of this week. It's a great interview. I think it's worth reading. We'll link to it. He talks about a great example that I'm sure many people have heard. I'd certainly heard it before in a statistics class, but it's worth repeating. It's the example of the strong correlation between ice cream consumption and drowning. So as we see rates of ice cream consumption go up, we see drowning deaths go up and as one falls the other falls. And obviously, if you were being, you know, sort of cheeky, you would say somehow eating ice cream is causing people to drown. But of course, there's a confounding variable and the confounding variable is heat. The warmer it gets, the more people are likely to eat ice cream and separately, the more people are likely to swim. And therefore, it's this confounding variable that isn't immediately obvious that explains both of these things. And I think that's really the challenge of epidemiology. And I don't say that as a knock on epidemiology. I say it's the legitimate challenge. It's that you can never ever, ever identify all of the confounders. And therefore, you are always at the mercy of wondering, is there something I'm not seeing here that is what is actually explaining the causality. So like the only way to show causation. Unfortunately, is through randomized trials. That's the only way you can really be as close to 100% sure that you've established causality by doing a well-controlled randomized control trial. But unfortunately, some questions do not lend themselves to that for either ethical or logistical reasons. And clearly this question, the use of acedamentifin and autism is one of those tricky questions. So we're not going to get an RCT to do this. And instead, we're going to have to glean what we can as best we can from epidemiology. And that's where I think we get to this set of guidelines that I talked about at the top of the show here called the Bradford Hill Criteria. So the Bradford Hill Criteria, or a set of nine principles used to assess whether an observed association is likely to reflect a true causal relationship. So Sir Austin Bradford Hill, in 1965, put forth these criteria to help epidemiologic researchers examine their data when RCTs were not available. So they consider factors like strength, consistency, specificity, temporality, biological gradient, biological plausibility, coherence, experimental evidence, and analogy. So Peter, I think what would be helpful now is let's just go through the state of the evidence for each of those criteria. So looking at acedamentifin and autism, what's first on the list? Yeah, so let's just start with strength. How large is the effect? And the larger the effect, the more likely it is to be causal. Again, we can talk about a few obvious and famous examples. The example of smoking is perhaps most notable, right? I mean, I'm not a, I've never met a person who doesn't understand or disputes the exposure relationship between cigarette smoke and lung cancer. Like that's, there's nobody out there making the case that we need an RCT to determine that. We don't have an RCT. And why is it? It's because if you run the smoking through the smoking lung cancer data through the Bradford Hill Criteria, it pops on many levels, but effect size is probably the biggest. We're talking about an effect size of 10x, right? So 10x is, is just a magnitude beyond what we normally would find in most biological associations. By comparison, the effect size here is 1.05x. That's what a 5% relative risk increase is. So this is smaller than associations that have been reported for many other things that we actually know are probably almost assuredly not causal based on more well-to-do data, such as the association between red meat consumption and type 2 diabetes, which is a 1.10% relative risk increase per 100 gram per day increase in red meat. Of course, we've argued at nauseam that those associations are almost assuredly picking up a confounder, which is healthy user bias, or even poultry consumption in the risk of type 2 diabetes, 1.08. Again, both of these are stronger associations here. Even clearer example would be the meta-analysis of observational studies that reported that a higher leisure time physical activity was linked to a 5% higher increase in prostate cancer. Again, we know that that is completely nonsensical, but that is what you get when you go trolling for signal in a sea of noise. You will eventually find it. In other words, for this, the effect size is very weak. When the effect size is weak, and here we're defining weak as a subset of the type of epidemiology we're looking at. In this case, we're looking at pharmacoepidemiology versus say nutritional epidemiology or toxicology epidemiology. Week is generally regarded as 1.5 for pharmacoepidemiology. And the reason for it is just based on the pervasiveness of bias throughout these studies. So when you're showing up at 1.05 and the threshold for interesting is 1.5, you're well below it. I would say that we don't do very well in the strength here. Moving on to the next piece of the criteria consistency. How consistent are the data linking autism and the CMLM benefit? I would say actually there reasonably consistent. So consistency obviously just means how often does this show up across multiple studies and maybe even across multiple populations and different methodologies. And I would say a handful of prospective cohorts studies have reported this positive association. But remember, these associations tend to go away when you control for family environment or genetics, as we've seen in the two largest studies here that we've talked about. So in general population studies, IE no sibling control, the reported associations have varied somewhat in magnitude. But you know, some have shown little to no association. I would say more often there is some association. Moving on to specificity. What do we know about specificity? Yeah, so specificity is asking the question basically how specific is the cause effect relationships. So if an exposure is associated with only one outcome or an outcome associated with only one exposure, causal relationship is more likely. So here it's very non-specific, right? Because there are many variables that have been linked to autism risk. Many with much stronger lines of evidence than a Cdamentifent, for example, advanced paternal age, premature birth, air pollution exposure and heavy metal exposures. So these are all variables that have much stronger associations with autism. So we're not dealing with a one versus one. And some lack of specificity also exists in the other direction. Right? There's observational studies that have also reported associations between a Cdamentifent use and ADHD and language development. So again, what you really want to look for if you want to check the specificity box is a one to one mapping. Again, it's not a deal breaker not to have it, right? Cigarette smoking can cause lung cancer and other cancer and heart disease. And that doesn't necessarily by itself at all diminish the fact that it causes lung cancer. Peter moving next on the list, we have temporality. Does the exposure proceed the report affects in this case? It does. And certainly to a first order, it does, meaning a Cdamentifent use comes before autism. But there really hasn't been a consensus on the impact of timing of exposure or critical, you know, windows in which gestational exposure might be more problematic than others. And if you look at the two researchers, most known for their belief that a Cdamentifent raises the risk of ASD are Andrea Bakarelli and William Parker actually have conflicting views on the critical window of a Cdamentifent exposure. Backarelli, who is the author by the way of the paper in the came out in August that we've been talking about. He believes that maternal use during any part of pregnancy increases the risk to the fetus. While Parker believes that prenatal exposure carries relatively little risk provided the mother has a healthy liver to process the drug. Parker, instead, argues that the greatest risk comes with exposure in the neonatal period or even during birth itself, basically starting from the time the umbilical cord is clamped and onward. And what do we know about dose dependency in this case? Yes, so dose dependency, which you could also think of as biological gradient, says the more you have the exposure, the more you should see the outcome. And some studies have reported modest dose dependency based on the amount of time over which the mother was taking a Cdamentifent during pregnancy. But the results again have been pretty inconsistent. Is there a plausible biological mechanism for exposure that might cause an effect? The mechanism of action for a Cdamentifent is generally pretty poorly understood. It's kind of amazing that we don't understand how such a ubiquitous drug actually lowers temperature and alleviates pain. So therefore we don't really have a much clarity on how it might ultimately lead to autism. That said, um, it's effects are mediated at least in part through inhibition of the synthesis of prostaglandins, which are molecules that contribute to pain and the inflammatory response. And since prostaglandins also play a role in neurodevelopment, some researchers have argued that a Cdamentifent leads to autism by disrupting neurodevelopmental pathways. So again, there's no clear evidence of this. But there is at least what we would call biological plausibility, even if at best it might be a little bit hand-wavey. This of course also leads to another criteria, the next one, which is analogy, where we compare the current body of evidence to another similar intervention with a more established effect. And I think here we can look at the effect of another prostaglandin inhibitor in the CNS, which is aspirin, which is shown to have modest protective effects against autism like symptoms in animal studies. So this potential protective effect was also seen in the Swedish cohort study that we talked about earlier in which sibling analyses showed a small, but statistically significant reduction in autism risk with prenatal aspirin exposure. This was about a 13% relative risk reduction. In other words, the analogy criteria would actually argue against it based on the dual inhibition of prostaglandins between both of these drugs. And then wrapping this section, looking at the Bradford Hellcretary, do you want to cover the last two? Yeah, the last two don't really help us much here because one of them is on whether or not we have intervention-based evidence to support these conclusions. But obviously we don't, we don't have randomized control trials that can point to sub-analyses here. As an example of where we would be able to use this, if you're looking at exercise epidemiology or nutrition epidemiology, you might not be able to answer the meta question with epidemiology, but you could do short-term well-controlled studies to show that, for example, six months of exercise, improve blood pressure, then you'd be more likely to believe that exercise could reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease if that's what the large epi showed. But again, we can't do the short-term studies here. And then of course, the final metric here is called coherence, which is how do we tie the observational data with the in vitro and in vivo testing? And while we have some data here, they're very inconsistent to the question. So, you know, there are some studies that involve pre or perinatalist sedimentaphin exposure in mice and rats that have reported a few neurodevelopmental abnormalities, but they've been very inconsistent in the nature of the effect. And many have aligned quite poorly with the characteristics of autism. For example, one study showed minor alterations in spatial learning and locomotor activity, which aren't typically associated with ASD, but not anxiety like behaviors which often do accompany ASD. Additionally, some of the studies have used extreme doses for exceeding the therapeutic doses used in humans as adults or children at all. What I think might be helpful is if you could just quickly summarize all the information we just talked about as it relates to sedimentaphin and autism in looking at the Bradford Hill criteria. Okay, so let's go through them one by one. Strength definitely weak, consistency, moderate, specificity, weak, temporality. I would say modest and probably even strong. Biological gradient. I would say moderate, plausibility. I would say weak. Analogy actually provides evidence against this effect. And then obviously experiment and coherence. We don't really have meaningful data, but if we do, I would classify coherence as probably somewhat weak. Based on that kind of word you land on looking at autism in the sedimentaphin. Well, again, to the first question I posed, which is is there even a statistical association? I would say possibly, again, obviously there is in an uncorrected or unadjusted analysis, but I'm really trying to refer to these adjusted analyses. So I would say, yes, there's probably some association between acetaminophen and Tylenol. It's not particularly large, but let's assume it is there. The important question and the only question that really matters here is, what is the probability that that association is causal? And based on everything, we've just talked about and inclusive of the running of the Bradford Hill criteria, I would say the probability that the association between acetaminophen use by a mother and the development of autism of her child is a very low probability event to be causal. Again, let me restate that. What that means is I think the probability that if a woman takes Tylenol during pregnancy, it's going to increase the probability that her child has autism is very low. And I'm sorry for using the word probability twice in one sentence, but that's the challenge of trying to talk about this thing technically and accurately. I hope that makes sense. I'll clarify if it doesn't. Now, I think it does. And I think what we helpful now is kind of stepping back. So early on, you mentioned that one of the things we do know is that there is an increase in cases of autism. Let's assume there is causality here. Is it enough to explain what we opened with, which is a fivefold increase in the prevalence of autism today? And I think the answer is unquestionably no. That's a much more confident thing that we can say. That there is essentially zero chance that maternal Tylenol use is the thing, quote, unquote, the thing in quotes, responsible for the rise in autism. So if it plays a role, it would be a very small role, and it would have to be in the setting of another susceptibility. Again, I still would argue that it is not playing a measurable role based on everything we've discussed. And so Peter, I think now would be a good time to take a look at some of those important risk factors. So if you look at autism, what are some of the most important risk factors when it comes to that? Well, this is something I started looking into probably three or four years ago. So it was kind of actually nice to kind of go back and brush up on this literature and see what had been updated. But the the long and short of it is genetics play a much larger role in autism risk than all other variables combined. And account for an estimated 80 to 90 percent of the inter-individual variability in autism risk. The term for that is heritability. So the heritability of a trait can be assessed through studies that compare mono zygotic twins. So identical twins and die zygotic twins. So these are fraternal twins. This can also be done comparing what are called concordant discord identical twins or mono does a got a twins where you take identical twins that are raised in different environments. So there's lots of elegant ways to do this. So what do we know? We know that mono zygotic twins are obviously genetically identical whereas die zygotic twins are genetically no more closely related than any other pair of siblings. However, all twins are exposed to the same in utero environment. And in most cases, also raised in the same environment. Again, I mentioned that there are some studies that do look at identical twins raised apart. But let's put that off to the side. So this means that you can assume that die zygotic twins differ mostly in genetics, whereas mono zygotic twins don't really differ at all. So again, you have very elegant what we call natural experiment. So if we see that a given trait is highly correlated between mono zygotic twins, but is often discord between die zygotic twins, it must have a very significant impact from genes. So I just want to pause before I go any further because so much of what I'm about to say hinges on that. So Nick, did that make sense? Do you want me to explain this beautiful natural experimental tool that we have? Yeah, I think in this case, it is worth double checking and just reconfirming things. So people understand because it is such an important point. And it's come up on so many podcasts we've done in the past. I can think of the top of my head at three guests we've had on the drive over the past five or six years where we have talked about the heritability of various things. They're almost always neuropsychiatric. So the heritability of bipolar disorder gets a friendia major depressive disorder. Okay. So how are they figuring this stuff out? If you have identical twins, they are in the mother at the same time, therefore they are exposed to all of the same things while the mother is carrying them. And let's just to limit this to all twins that are raised together, which most are, then they come out and they're also exposed to the same environment. If you have diysygotic twins, they're just siblings. They're genetically, you know, obviously similar, but not identical, but they were exposed to the exact same environment inside the mother. But then once they're born, they're exposed to comparable things outside. So if we see that trait is highly correlated only in the monosygotic twins, but the correlation is nowhere near as strong in the diysygotic twins, then we know that genetics are playing the role. So let's talk about two things that everyone will appreciate. Hight and body weight. Hight has approximately an 80% heritability. Again, this shouldn't be surprising to people, right? We understand that on average, tall parents have tall kids and short parents have short kids, is it perfect? Not at all, but it's 80% heritable. Body weight also quite heritable, though not as much. It's about 60% heritable. So that's what we mean by heritability. Now, in one of the studies that was included in the August paper, the review paper, and this was the leopard paper, the primary study actually focused on how acetaminophen used during pregnancy correlated with the mother's genetic predisposition for autism. And they didn't find any significant association, but if they had, it might suggest that a woman's genetic predisposition towards autism might be the real variable behind the apparent association between a cdaminophen and autism within the offspring. If the mother is predisposed towards autism, then the child is also likely at a higher than average risk of autism based solely on genetics. But if the genetic predisposition also increases the likelihood that the mother might use Tylenol during pregnancy, which is entirely possible given that autism is related to sensory perception, which is in turn related to pain sensing, then it would appear as if acedaminophen use and the child's risk of autism were related, even though both associations might actually be explained by genetics. And this is what I referred to above when I talked about a sort of middle confounding variable. The example I gave earlier about the temperature being the thing that relates ice cream consumption and drowning. In other words, genetics would constitute a confounding variable that influences both autism risk and acedaminophen use, just as temperature is the confounding variable that influences both ice cream consumption and drowning. If so much of autism risk is genetics, what can we say about genetics explaining the increase and autism rates over the past few decades? They definitely don't because genetics do not shift enough over those kinds of timescales to explain this five, six, or potentially even seven fold increase in autism diagnoses that we've seen over basically let's just call it two generations if you want to go back enough. Now some cases of autism do involve denove mutations, but the majority of this increase seems to be explained by the increased awareness and expanded diagnostic definitions. So let's review a little bit of history here. There has been a progressive expansion of the diagnostic criteria for autism over the last 40 years. In 1987, the DSM3 made a revision which expanded from a strict infantile autism diagnosis or definition where the symptoms must occur between 30 months of age to something called autistic disorder, which was defined by a checklist of symptoms that could manifest well beyond infancy. Then in the 1990s and into the 2000s, a series of revisions in the DSM4 and the ICD 10 created something called the pervasive developmental disorder family, the PDD family, which encompassed autistic disorder, asperger's disorder. Something called PDD not otherwise specified, which I talked about on the podcast with Trenna where you know, it sort of became the all else bucket, RETS disorder, and then something called childhood disintegrative disorder where kids actually go on to lose and already acquired skills. So if they acquire language skill, but then go on to lose it. So further expands this recognition, but with very inconsistent boundaries between the subtypes. The age of onset was typically before three years of age. Then in 2013, the DSM5 collapsed all the PDD subtypes into a single diagnosis called autism spectrum disorder or ASD. It also relaxed the before age three requirement to symptoms in the early developmental period and it introduced certain specifiers with or without intellectual or language impairment. And the severity levels were based on needed support. Other changes that were also made to some of the checklist criteria, but the main issue is that an array of disorders are now lumped together under this ASD umbrella, which has vastly increased the number of individuals who fall under that umbrella. Now the estimates for how much this dramatically increasing diagnostic aperture has contributed to the increase in prevalence vary. But the analyses that have looked and attempted to assess this directly report that the expanded criteria account for 40 to 60% of the increase. And furthermore, increased awareness accounts for 20 to 30% of the increase in diagnoses. A 2009 study found that roughly 26% of the increase in autism diagnoses in California between 92 and 2005 were attributable specifically to cases in which children had previously been diagnosed with mental retardation. And were then subsequently screened for autism. So again, when I hear people say, oh yes, but even the cases of severe autism are increasing, not necessarily. It could be that kids that we now think have severe autism, for example, being nonverbal, were actually previously diagnosed as something else. You know, racial and socioeconomic disparities in autism diagnoses have narrowed or reversed over the last 30 years, which the CDC and others suggest is evidence of more widespread awareness and screening. So take those two together, Nick, 40 to 60% to 20 to 30%. That's really kind of the lion's share of what explains this increase. But that also still leaves room for other factors. And so do we know what else might be accounting for the increase? Not what we just covered. Yeah, I think the next clearest contributor is advancing parental age. Both in mothers and fathers, although the paternal age probably seems to play a greater role. This is seen mostly in the US and other high income countries. And various studies have put this at about five to 15% of the increase in autism prevalence. So paternal age has advanced in the US from 27.6 years when I was born to 31.1 years, 10 years ago, and that proportion, that number seems to be going up to proportion of fathers with more advanced paternal age has also increased. So fathers over 40 at the time of offspring birth has more than doubled and going from 4.1% to 8.9% and fathers over 50 has also doubled going from 0.5% to 0.9%. Trends in maternal age have also increased during the same average period by about three years. And the CDC reports that between 2016 and 23, the proportion of births, the proportion of births in women aged 35 and over has increased from 10 to 12 and a half percent. Furthermore, there are other factors such as maternal obesity, metabolic preterm birth and air pollution that are also widely recognized to contribute to the remaining 15% of unattributable factors. So let's talk about these just briefly right maternal health, including metabolic health is an important factor and there's no question that obesity rates among women at the time of conception have risen steadily. A meta analysis of global data reports obesity rates in pregnancy have more than tripled in the last three decades from a pre-1990 rate of 4.7% to 16.3% in the decade from 2010 to 2020 and rates in the United States are even higher than those averages. According to a 2024 CDC report rates of preterm so under 37 weeks and early term 37 to 38 week births rose during that period as well. So preterm births rose from 7.74% of all singletons in 2014 to 8.67% in 2020. Well early term birth rates rose from 24.31 to 29.07%. Sources that track earlier years indicate a steady rise in preterm birth from at least 1980 to 2005 after which rates dips slightly before beginning to rise again in the 2010s. Some of this of course could be attributed to advanced maternal age which is in and of itself a risk factor for preterm birth. Finally I would say globally air pollution has been increasing. We've talked about this a lot on the podcast. We talk a lot about the PM2.5s. Truthfully we've always talked about it more through the risk of all cause mortality and cancer mortality. But here is yet another issue. So we've seen a 38% increase in PM2.5s again just for folks maybe not familiar with those that content. These are particles that are sub 2.5 microns in the air. Obviously you can't see these things. You don't feel these things. But because of how small they are, when inhaled these particles can go all the way into the bloodstream because of their ability to go straight down into the most distal part of the air sex of the lung and cross the diffusion barrier where oxygen and CO2 are transmitted. And so seeing this enormous increase in pollution driven largely by the industrialization of China and India is another part of this. And while air pollution in the US has been coming down we've seen in the last decade and uptick in this mostly attributed to wildfires. As a Peter looking at what you just covered and those three buckets in that last bucket of environmental factors is it possible that a sedimentaphim could be in that bucket as well? Yes, it is possible. Nothing I have discussed today. None of the analysis we've done or anybody has done has shown dispositively that we can disprove the role, the causal role between acedimenophen and pregnancy in the elevated autism risk. Yes, it is possible. Again, as I've stated a couple of times, it is impossible to disprove anything. It's we can't disprove anything here. That's the nature of what we're doing epidemiologically. But the point here is look at how many other variables we have that have a either demonstrated by eugenetically or much, much stronger associations that even if acedimenophen plays some causal role, it is going to be very, very low. Think back to what we talked about on the absolute risk increase. This was a 0.09 absolute risk increase with a 5% relative increase. Even if you assume that to be causal, which again, I don't because when the twin analysis was done, all of that vanished in addition to everything else we've talked about, this would be a very, very, very small contributor relative to other modifiable things, such as maternal obesity, metabolic health, air pollution, paternal, and maternal age. I think there are many things we should be looking at before this. In sapita, kind of as we finish this podcast, I think one thing you mentioned early on, which I think is really helpful and ultimately what a lot of people are curious about is based on everything we just talked about. What advice would you give to women who are pregnant about the use of acedimenophen? As a general rule, I would advise women to stop taking medications when they get pregnant, but the medications aren't the only potential threat to the unborn child. The health of the mother is also important to the unborn child. The medical conditions that these medications are intended to treat can sometimes also create problems in directly or directly, but we have to balance that against the use of the medication and what's already being addressed. So let's take an example. If a woman has an elevated apob, she should be taking a lipid lowering medication, but does she need to take that during pregnancy? I would argue no. Why? Because nine more months of additional apob exposure are not a meaningful threat to a young woman's life, whereas there may be some downside in suppressing her cholesterol synthesis if we're talking about a statin. Now, conversely, when we think about something like thyroid hormone, where we've established actually quite safe use during pregnancy, if a woman is requiring thyroid hormone because she has hypothyroid to withhold that from her during pregnancy would pose enormous risk to her and by extension to the child. Now, it gets interesting when we talk about other classes of drugs. So for example, example, GLP1 drugs, they're very common. And of course, the question is, should women stop these during pregnancy? Well, I don't think I have enough data to comment, but I can tell you how one would have to think about this, right? If a woman's taking a GLP1 receptor agonist is the difference between her having gestational diabetes and not, maybe it's considered. Of course, we would typically turn to something like metformin as a first line therapy there where we have much more ongoing safety data. But the point here is you have to be able to consider this in a nuanced way, which is the single most important thing for the healthy development of a fetus is a healthy environment in utero, and sometimes that may actually require the mother taking a medication. With that kind of background, might be worth going back to the historical FDA risk categories and just kind of walking through what they are again. And then even highlighting a few different medications, that are included in each category. So people just have a much better idea of how this is done in practice. Yeah, again, the good news is you don't have to guess here. You should be talking about this with your doctor. So again, that FDA category category A, which is, again, pretty small, right? We only got about two to five percent of drugs here. We have controlled studies in humans, that demonstrate no risk to the fetus in any trimester. So again, the two most obvious here are T3, T4, prenatal vitamins. That kind of stuff. Then you have category B. So animal studies that for the most part show no risk or animal risk not confirmed adequate, you know, human epidemiology that generally shows safety. Again, 15 to 25 percent of risk. We see a number of antibiotics in here, things like benadrill, as I mentioned, Tylenol is in here as is metformin. Then you go to category see. We have animal studies that show some adverse effects, but no real adequate human studies. And here these are drugs that are supposed to be used provided there's, you know, enough benefit for the mother to justify it. Again, this is most drugs fit in this category 60 to 70 percent. So you have something like gabapenten, I'm low to pain, which is a blood pressure medication trasodone for sleep, GLP1 agonists are in here, certain SSRIs or antidepressants, and even very short-term use of narcotic pain medication. So then you have category D. So we have positive human fetal risk data, but in some cases the benefits might outweigh it. So for example, a couple of seizure medications, Valproic acid and phenytoin also lithium, which would be used to treat bipolar disorder, NSAIDs, which in a third trimester should be discontinued for the reasons I talked about earlier, and even long-term use of narcotics. And then finally we have category X, right? We have drugs where there's simply no reason for women to take these during pregnancy. And again, statins would be in this category, methotrexate, and drugs that also are known to cause tratogenic defects in the child. One of the other things you talked about early on in the beginning was not only do you have to look at the risk of taking the medication, but you also have to balance that in terms of what else could be going on during pregnancy. And so how do you think about the use of a cinnamon effect in terms of balancing the benefits that it can also cause for people who are yeah, I think we need to look at the other side of the equation. What's the risk of not taking Tylenol during pregnancy? In many cases, maybe the trade-off is just an annoying headache or some other discomfort that the mother can sort of power through. And in those instances, maybe she's just better off skipping the Tylenol and trying to get to bed. But you know, again, we can't discount the mother's well-being and the importance of that as well, not just for herself, but her well-being in the context of how important it is for the unborn child. And we certainly shouldn't trivialize the likelihood and presence of more intense debilitating pain with pregnancy. If the pain is bad enough that she's unable to get out of bed for several days on end, that in and of itself poses a risk to the child. Let's not forget Tylenol is also used to reduce fever. And for this purpose, current evidence would suggest that the scales clearly tip in favor of using Tylenol since exposure to fever itself carries a number of known risk factors to a developing fetus. So for example, children born to mothers who experience fever during pregnancy, especially during the first trimester, are at a significantly higher risk of certain birth defects than children who weren't exposed to fever in in-eudero. For example, various analyses have reported anywhere from 25 to 200 percent higher risk for cleft palate or neural tube defects. In fact, prenatal exposure to fever and maternal infection are also separate risk factors for autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders. So several studies have reported that exposure to maternal infection is associated with an increase in autism risk by 25 to 40 percent while exposure to maternal fever is typically associated with an even greater risk up to 200 percent across most analyses. So for some research has reported that these risks are attenuated when the mothers actually take a fever reducing medicine like Tylenol. All of these associations between infection and fever exposure and autism may actually be contributing to the apparent correlation that we see between autism and autism risk. Given that a C-domenifin is by far the safest option for reducing fever and pain relief during pregnancy, because remember, NSAIDs and opioids are category D. So if a woman does have an infection during pregnancy, there's a good chance she might try to ease the fever or the aches with Tylenol. In other words, it could be that it's the infection that is the issue and the signal we're picking up and measuring is the acid aminifinus. As we finish and wrap this podcast, is there anything else based on what we covered? You want to share with listeners and viewers. Look, there are some people who might be wondering why did you just take so long to explain all this to us? Why don't you just give us the answer? Like, I just want the soundbite man and it's like if you just want soundbites, you're never going to learn. And honestly, if you just want soundbites, this isn't the podcast for you. But if you actually want to be able to learn to think for yourself, then that's what we're here to do. And that's the reason we killed ourselves over the past week to put together the most thorough gathering of all the data we could find and the most intense night weekend analysis possible. It's because we want to help you think about this stuff because this is not going away. Right? This is going to be a forever game of whack-a-mole. There is always going to be a bad guy. And I'm not going to be here every time to do a two-hour podcast on helping you think through why exposure X leads to disease Y. So, you know, I don't want to sound like a scolding teacher, but the truth of the matter is we live in a world today where people don't want to think. Right? People use stupid vehicles like social media to get their information and they don't want to read the fine print. And even if they do read the fine print, they just want to outsource thinking to somebody else. So, I appreciate that those of you who are still watching this have outsourced your thinking for the past couple of hours to me. But honestly, like we're never going to get out of this rut of people not knowing how to think critically unless everybody starts taking steps to try practicing this on their own. We're going to include amazing show notes to this podcast like we do for every podcast although for this episode, it'll be not behind a paywall and normally our show notes are only there for our subscribers. But I would encourage you to go through this and follow the logic as I've laid it out here with the help of my team. And when the next thing comes up, because it will come up, right? Whether it's, you know, this drug or that drug or this intervention item, it's just going to keep happening over and over again. But you've got to be able to kind of go through this type of thinking. And if you don't want to, that's fine. It is hard. But then I think you've sort of forfitted your right to have an opinion on it. So again, I don't mean to sound like a crotchity old man, but honestly, I think on a day like today, I kind of feel like it. Let me just put a bow on this and let's land this plane. I think the upshot here is that any one potential risk for autism can't be considered in isolation. You have to look at the full picture, the risk of a given intervention like Tylenol as well as the potential risks of not taking Tylenol as well as the nature and magnitude of those risks. For minor aches and pains, maybe it's best to just err on the side of caution and skip the acedaminophen whereas when the pain becomes really a nuisance and it might interfere with you doing things that are otherwise going to help you provide the best environment for your fetus than judicious use of acedaminophen can help with the oversight of your physician. I think for maternal fever, the balance is clearly leaning towards the use of acedaminophen. But I want people to understand that the strength of these associations is very small and in many cases vanishes all together when you apply some rigorous statistical corrections that look at the most important variables that we should be considering here which is genetic and environmental. So I hope that this exercise has indeed provided benefit to all of you not just as we consider this particular question but as we consider the onslaught of questions that we're going to see in the future.

Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Hey David, thanks for coming back. This was probably the shortest trip you've made here, right? You got a new home? Yeah, I got a great new gig and at the Children Nutrition Research Center in Houston, Texas and Baylor College of Medicine and Texas Children's Hospital, I'm having a great time. So it was just a nice easy car right over here. Very well. Well, we're going to actually start by talking about something that believe it or not, I don't want to talk about because I'm kind of sick and tired of talking about it and I'm going to apologize and advance to all the listeners because if they've been listening at all, they're probably sick and tired of hearing about this. But unfortunately, this is a topic that has gone from being what I would consider pretty straightforward to somewhat contentious. And I'm going to do my best to refrain from speculating on the reasons why it's become contentious. Although I have many views on that and many views on the people who choose to make it contentious, which I'll also refrain from. But let's just try to dive into the arguments around the macronutrient that is more in the crosshairs than any other today, which is protein. And that's kind of interesting when you consider the arc of your career, right? It was certainly easy to understand how people demonized fat and then they demonized carbs. And here we are today, common full circle, we're demonizing protein. Where do you place that in the arc of the historical lens of nutrition? Well, I think it shows, you know, many things, but at some level, it's almost perfectly predictable, which is we all eat. We eat every day, eating is part of our food, I've heard of our sustenance, but it's part of culture, family, certainly part of economics, identity, social class, religion, and so on. And so it's fun to talk about and there's lots of motivations. Motivations people recognize and motivations they may not recognize. And that leads always to this attention on it. That attention drives a big economic engine of food sales. So there's lots of interest in this and lots of stakes in this if you're part in the pond. And so yes, people shift and it's not even just the macronutrients, you know, it's, you know, this week at sea doils and next week it's fight of estrogen and soybean, feminizing youth. And you know, it's one thing after another where people look for the villains and the heroes and the angels and the demons in food. Only three macronutrients, so they keep looping around. Protein has become in the last few years, almost a fever pitch of enthusiasm and excitement from one part of the community and it's driving sales and it's, it's driving behavior and some people like me or have fun with it. And then I think there's always that group that sees other people having fun or making money or and heaven forbid doing something that might be seen as the easy way out or the construct, contract or constructed way out as opposed to the so-called natural way out of doing something and then that that upsets them that offends them. You're not being prudent. You're not taking the natural course. You're not taking the old fashion course. You're having too much fun. You're trying too hard to achieve big things and we don't like that. So we're going to try to poo it or shut it down or minimize it and I think that's where things are. Presumably at some point this will no longer be relevant and no one will talk about it and we'll move back to fats being the bad thing. Although I guess we're kind of there with sea doils to your point. But let's talk a little bit about protein. So a lot of the the consternation stems, I think from a debate around the RDA and the recommendation of 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight. So do you want to tell folks a little bit about where that came from? Where does this ubiquitous recommendation that we consume? 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. So again, just to put that in perspective, I weigh 180 pounds. So that is 82 kilos. So I should be eating about 60 65, 60 to 60 times grams of protein according to the RDA. It's the middle of the day. I've had 60 grams of protein today. So I'm almost there. I can basically stop eating protein for the rest of the day now, right? Some people would say that. Okay. Now others, I don't know if I would go so far to say at the other extreme, but a more active proponent of the importance of not only greater amounts of protein, but particular types and distributions. And so on would be somebody like Don Laman. And he might say, I hope I'm not inappropriate with putting words in his mouth, but I think he might say, Peter, you actually need to be eating protein at least three or four times a day. Yeah, because that 60 was in one sitting by. Right. And at each of those settings, you probably want to hit about 30. And I emphasize that word about, it's not like there's some mathematical proof that there's some hard threshold and certainly not that for you who is 20% bigger than me, that you're a hard threshold, with the same as my hard threshold. But in the neighborhood of 30, right off the bat, if you follow that advice, you'd need to be having double that amount of protein. And you'd have to have it distributed differently. And if you have a distributed way or you'd currently did, be more than double. So I think there are a lot of people who disagree with that. The history is, you know, people at some point recognized that we needed protein to live. The key indicator that was nitrogen. And people looked at nitrogen balance. How much did you take in? How much did you excrete? And they found that people could achieve nitrogen balance, or at least sort of ordinary normal people of the time, at about that level. Right. No one ever proved demonstrated, or I think even claimed, that that was the best amount, or the upper limit, or it was just that's probably enough to maintain nitrogen balance, which probably means it's compatible with survival. And if you think about the early days, that was pretty important. Europe couldn't reliably feed its population until two things were entered into Europe. One was guano, back poop fertilizer, and the other was potatoes. And when after the, Columbus hit his banyola, and eventually what came back was among other things, guano, and potatoes, suddenly Europe could feed its population. But it took a while for the potatoes to catch on, Louis XV actually were a potato boot and ear to get people to think they were kind of safe. And a Polish group of two Polish scientists in 1928 published a paper in which they had two young people. They never said they were the young people, but I kind of suspected perhaps they were, a one-man, one-woman. And for six months, they fed them nothing but potatoes. A little bit of fat to cook the potatoes in, and a little bit of fruit to avoid deficiencies. So the only source of protein for practical purposes was the potato, and what they showed was nitrogen balance was perfectly fine. And despite sort of this quote unquote bad carbohydrate, at least some people think it's a bad carbohydrate. No one got diabetes, they didn't get, they didn't gain weight, they didn't get calories, did they eat a day? I don't remember that, but they were sort of, you know, roughly normal weight than, you know, people of the time. So probably, you know, I would guess a little more than 2,000, 2,000, 2,500, somewhere in that neighborhood. And as I said, they did nitrogen balance studies, and they were perfectly fine. But that's entirely different than saying, what if they were older people? Or what if they were pregnant? Or what if they were recovering from a bicep tendentare? Or what if they were bodybuilding? Those were all very, what if they were active? Yeah. Yeah. So when we go back and look at some of the USDA-based studies on this topic, we end we wrote about this. So the subjects for this study were, if my memory serves correctly, lean inactive, sedentary young men. Where I think you said about 150 pounds of alcohol. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe even a bit lighter, but yeah, about that. So these are guys that weighed 65 to 70 kilos, very inactive. And nitrogen balance was demonstrated in them. That you could achieve it at 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram. So again, let's just do the math, make it easy. Say, you know, 50 grams of protein was able to keep these folks in nitrogen balance. And it's, it's interesting that everything you said, you have to be careful. Like, this is true of, I think, clinical research, you have to look at the population that is studied and ask the question, how do I differ from that population? Am I bigger? Am I training? Do I have a more ambitious goal than not dying? Or not wasting away? And I don't want to minimize those goals because you alluded to the fact that for the vast majority of human history, not dying was an amazing goal. Uh, living to the next day to the next harvest to the next season was essential for 99.99% of human history. So this idea that being optimal or thriving, it's a very, very modern luxury we have, right? It's both modern and ancient all at once. So yes, you are correct. But also the idea that there are different kinds of goals that we optimize is actually the very nature of evolution, right? What's being selected? And Steve Simpson, David Robynheimer, from Down Under, from Australia, study something called the protein leverage hypothesis. We may want to come back to it some point. And what, what they've shown is that what at least some animals do in experimental settings, they're able to set up is they consume enough protein to optimize their genetic fitness, meaning how many of their genes they transfer, they're able to transmit to the next generation, which is if you want to win the evolutionary game, that's your goal, which is different than living a lot longer, right? Yep. That's that's winning the personal game, but not the species. So yes, it matters. And it may be that that we now want to shift a little from one toward the other and it may even change during the course of life, right? It may be that at one point in life, my goal is to be as perhaps big and strong as I can, maybe at another point in life, it's too slow aging and that I may have different strategies for those two different things. Before we go any further, I should have done this at the outset, but I realize that some people are going to be watching us on video and they won't hear the introduction where I'll have made this point, but we should both disclose that we're involved with a company called David Protein that makes protein bars. So because we're going to be talking about protein today and unrelated, but related, we're also going to talk about processed food, which I think is a very interesting topic. This is a company that makes high protein bars, which are by definition processed. And so I just want to make sure we're listening, understand that I'm involved in that company, you're an advisor as well. And I'd like to hear your thoughts to the argument that says, well, Peter and David, you guys can't really have been open on his discussion about this topic because you have this conflict of interest. What, I mean, I have my own thoughts on an argument like that, but I'd like to hear yours. First, just a couple of factual points of clarification. So yes, I have a grant from and have been a paid advisor to the David Protein Company. Second, the David David Protein is not my David. I don't own the company. Every time I like the bars, I eat them and every time I take one out at a meeting or something, someone will look at me and say, how vain are you? You have the own personalized bars, David printed in big, I say, no, it's not me, it's me because I'm just going to lose David. The idea is you eat the bar, you look like that, David. But I've also we had a protein conference we ran about six months ago, it was amazingly successful. The degree of interest from academia and industry and others are tremendous. We must have had somewhere on the order of 50 different companies contribute. So I'll disclose that as well. So I've a lot of interest in this. I've had funding from National Calamans, beef association, pork producers and other groups with interest in protein. In terms of the idea of does that make us trustworthy or not, I distinguish that from trusted. Whether it makes us trusted, that somebody else is judging me, trust me, you don't trust me or however much you want, that's up to you. Trust worthy I think has to do with the processes. And my colleagues and I, we have a saying, we've sort of coined them, we like to use a lot and we say, in science, three things matter. The data, the methods used to collect the data, which given their probative value, it shows what they mean and the logic connecting the data to conclusions. And everything else is tangential. And so some people who don't have, quote, unquote, the goods on an argument will resort to other things. They'll resort to adhamanamattacks, they'll resort to enuendo, they'll resort to quips. Quips are great, enuendo and adhamanamattacks not so great in my view, but none of those are dispositive. And you mean think about things that really, where we really have, we can really declare things known or not known, no one needs to to argue about your conflicts of interest. If you say that, you know, I can prove that there's a greatest prime number. And people say, well, no, you could prove there isn't. And I don't have to say, maybe you're paid for by the prime number company or something, I can just say, here's the proof and you're wrong and there's no point in discussing anything else. That's trying to number company. So, you know, I think of the value David of prime numbers if they were finite. Can you imagine how much the value of three, five, seven, eleven, thirteen, like these, those numbers would increase in value so much more if they became finite? I think today, like Bitcoin decoding and encoding Bitcoin. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, that's actually, that's a very elegant explanation. And I think it's worth reiterating that point, right, which is, at the end of the day, the three things that matter are what are the data? How were the data collected, what were the methods used to collect them? And then what is the string of logic that connects those data to their conclusions? And all of these things should be quite transparent. Now, you've chosen a career, a field of inquiry in which it can be more difficult to do all of the above than, in, say, genetics or biochemistry or particle physics, where one of those steps is, in your case, particularly difficult. And that is the manner in which data are collected. In other words, I don't think nutrition scientists are at a loss for logic, but where I think they struggle if they're studying humans at least is collecting these data can be really challenging, really expensive. The species of interest is not amenable to close quarters for long periods of time, which is how you would obviously run a controlled experiment in a biological setting. So, this is maybe more of a philosophical question, but what is the future of nutrition science? I'm going to come back to the main topic, but this is just such an interesting tangent. What is the future of nutrition science? Why is it that, well, let me reframe it as a question, do you believe that there is a much brighter future, a step function and improvement in the quality of nutrition science that lies ahead with AI synthetic data collection or creation rather, is there something that could fundamentally change nutrition science in terms of how we go about gathering data so that we could be potentially less reliant on epidemiology, which I'm sure we will discuss the shortfalls of today. I think the answer is things will get better whether it's a step function or not, I'm not so sure. I want to expand or add to the branch you've thrown in and add a parallel branch, which is I think there are two reasons why nutrition science is so fraught. One you've pointed out is the methodologic challenge. Can we collect the kind of data we really want, with the kind of methods we really want? The other part is the social aspect, which you've hinted out until we've gotten to this point, which is why is it so emotional, why do people attack each other, you know, why do people go beyond the data? And I think we see, I see that in any area, the more that area of inquiry is related to economics, religion, social values, personal experiences, the more you get the emotion and the deviation from logic and so on. And you know, we've seen in, you know, whatever people study, childrearing, same-sex marriage, anything that has that emotional valence that every day experience and so on leads to more bringing in of non-scientific points of view. As so I think that's something we have very strongly. And then I think the other we have is the methodologic challenge of collecting the data. I see benefits on both fronts, but I think both will be slow. I don't think in many cases it's going to be a simple thing. If we could just fix that, if we could just figure out how to measure food intake and free-living people well and we're on the horizon and everything will be okay. That's important. I hope we do figure out how to measure food intake well and free-living people, but that alone will not be a solution, a sufficient solution. What I think on the front of the emotional piece is it's going to come slow. When you look at the arc of history of much of human endeavor, for at least from my point of view, in the point of view, if I think people like Stephen Levitt and so on, you look over the long haul. Things are always getting better. Right? You smooth the functional a little bit. Murder rates are way down, violence rates are way down, education rates are way lifespan is up, etc. etc. Freedom is up, but there are lots of have been flow. So we may be in a little bit of an have been flow now, but I do hope that things will get better as they always have in terms of more and more rationality. And that's something that is a scientist. I feel very strongly about. We as scientists we focus too much on immediate trust in science and we're saying we need to get more trust in science and on immediate issues. How do we get trust in this issue about vaccines or drugs or what have you instead of saying how do we get trust in the scientific process? How do we maybe risk losing a battle? Maybe I'm not going to convince people today that what I think about food additives or vaccines or protein or something is quote unquote the right answer. And I have to live with that, but if I can convince them that I'm an honest broker and here's how science works and we can work together through science in the long run I think that's better. And I think that's coming and something we need to focus on. In terms of the nutrition per se we have so many challenges, but as a methodologist I like challenges, right? Job security and it's fun. I like figuring things out. So it's we can't randomize to everything. So how do we get causal inference? We can't blind every aspect of diet. And if we could we be missing some of what we're trying to study because some of the effects of diet are involved the effects of perceiving what you're eating. Some of the effects of this drink I'm drinking is how it tastes. And if you blind me to it then you've taken away that potential effect. There are issues of measurement. How do you know what I really ate? There are issues of adherence. If you tell me to drink one of these every day, do I actually do it? Do I drink one and only one as you've instructed? There are issues of duration. Could you get me to drink it now and measure something in me 15 minutes later? Sure. Could you get me to drink one every day for the next 20 years and measure stuff? Difficult. There are issues of the model organism. One thing is we're going to talk about longevity a little bit. Somebody once said to me you never want to study longevity and an organism that lives as long as you do. It's a bit of a challenge. If you and I at our age were to start, especially mine, I'm a little older than you, were to start a big study and say I want to study 20 year olds and give them different nutrition and see who lives longer. And that'll help me figure out from myself what I'll be dead long before the study is in and not be able to benefit from it. And also not be able to find the answer and maybe we want answers before 60 years from now. So those are just a few and I could go on and on. Those are just a few of the many challenges we have in nutrition and I think we're going to chip away at them but a lot of it's going to have to be sort of settling for various rough inferences to say this information I need to recognize its limits and I need to be honest with the public about the limits. I need to say I haven't shown this unequivocally but it looks like this is the most reasonable answer now or the most supported answer now and I'm only to accept that but let's be honest. It's not demonstrated. Great example that you're using the feud and the literature now between Kevin Hall and David Ludwig on the use of crossover designs as an example and crossover designs in which you give personal say diet A followed by DIP and you give other people a randomized to DIP followed by diet A they have an Achilles heel that is not there for let's say parallel groups where it's just some get day diet A and some get diabetes and that is you can have what's called carry over effects and it turns out I've started to study this I had to tip my hat to David Ludwig who pointed the issues out to me and I had a fully company hand to them before that there's almost no way around it even with a washout between the crossover not an absolute way you get into what I call argument land you can say come on David it's it was a blinded drug I gave and I know the kinetics of it and I know it's out of the system by this date how could it possibly be having this and I could say you know Peter you're probably right it's a good argument but the validity still depends on your argument it's not an absolute apriotic proof and if I said well maybe what the drug did is it permanently changed something in that person and and we should just explain for listeners why this is an important discussion in science especially in human trials and especially in human trials with nutrition because there's a real statistical power and I don't use that in the beta sense of the word but a statistical gift that comes from being able to do a crossover in that you can now leverage a student t-test for example as a very powerful statistical tool that allows you to use fewer subjects and therefore a fraction of the cost so I'm guessing that if Kevin I don't know I don't follow this debate by the way but I'm going to guess that you're going to say Kevin Hall favors across over and I would not to speak for Kevin but I would bet the reason Kevin favors it is because the type of work Kevin does is insanely expensive he's putting patience in metabolic chambers and therefore the fewer patients that he needs to do that with the easier he can do his work is that basically the argument you're absolutely correct and when you said statistics in the power rather in the beta sense you actually that is what it is it is statistical power the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis if the null hypothesis is false which is one minus beta type two error rate there's actually a little bit more but I think 90 90 plus percent of the motivation is what you've described the other as actually Kevin pointed out to me as dialogue we were having was sometimes it's just throughput even if I had infinite money I can't put people through the procedure fast enough because you know there's only so many chambers yeah someone else pointed out to me it could be patient availability if you said I'm studying this in this rare population I can't get a thousand people even if I had the money because they don't exist I can only get 10 or 20 people so all of those things strongly favor the crossover which in almost all circumstances will be much more statistically powerful meaning you can get the same amount of precision per out of small and any fewer subjects but the problem is that you have this carryover and so that the difference between the two groups who get treatment A and treatment B in the second period could be a function of the true effective treatment A versus treatment B in the second period or could be in effect of what treatment A and treatment B did in the first period carrying over and now you don't have a clean estimate of the effect of treatment A or treatment B anymore now what you can do is what you said is a washout if you said I understand how this thing works and it's it's a molecular effect it's not a social effect it's not learning it's not a surgical thing and cut a piece of their anatomy out you know that doesn't reverse this thing is completely reversible it's completely blinded I gave a long enough washout then you know buy that argument you can say I rule it out but you can never say absolutely rule it out if you're dealing with things other than that we can't have a long enough washout or it might be a psychosocial effect or learning effect or some permanent effect right anything from bariatric surgery to something like an allergen which you know may permanently sensitize the body I know people say mRNA vaccines say maybe the mRNA hangs around for a while is that a permanent effect or a vaccine itself is a you know we hope in some cases this is a permanent effect like a measles vaccine all of those things you do not get a washout so those are things where the crossover has a limit and the question is does that mean you try to do what David Ludevig is I think arguing again I hope I'm not net appropriately putting words in his mouth is saying they're just in the hell just you know either don't use them at all or you can only use them in this way and if you get what looks like it might be a period by treatment interaction then discard the study it's invalid you know someone or do you say which I think Kevin would say and and I would side with is accept the limitations of the study it doesn't mean it's a flawed or incorrect study it means it's a limited study and as long as you point those limitations out you may or may not want accepted in the same sense if you have an observational epidemiologic study I think most of us again there are exceptions but most of us would not say never do one again they have zero value what we'd say is they're not invalid studies in and of themselves what they do is they leave open alternative explanations for findings other than causation could be some bias of measure could be some bias of sampling it could be some reporting bias it could be some confounding etc etc and we say as long as you acknowledge those then the study shows what its study shows it's weak inference but it's not nothing and I think the same thing is with crossover and we may have to accept that with lots of stuff that's the whole the idea of nutrition we may have to accept there are these limitations or our knowledge so for example if you do a study of cheddar cheese made and Wisconsin and versus some appropriate control and you say look this is what the effects I get of this and so therefore cheese consumption has this effect I think some will Peter are you sure it's cheese consumption in general or is it just cheddar cheese is it just cheddar cheese made in Wisconsin or is it any cheddar cheese is it only cheddar cheese when eaten with these other things or these and I think that's something which's so hard to control in nutrition that will wind up with these statements of saying it looks like it's cheddar cheese in general and maybe we can do some other studies to suck it out or it looks like it's cheese in general but we'll always have this sort of saying this looks like what it is here's a good recommendation but it's not absolute knowledge well with that let's go back to where we started which is the RDA for protein consumption now many folks don't laymen and others have argued that the RDA is insufficient if you're actually trying to optimize health and if you're actually in pursuit of another agenda which might be avoiding sarcopenial later in life achieving your peak in physical performance right that's not the peak of physical performance right but if your if your objective is beyond survival you might want to have more and the numbers for what more tends to be seem to converge in the ballpark of 1.2 to 1.6 grams per kilogram if you're trying to go for a minimum effective dose but easily up to 2 right so what is your best aggregation of the data on where you start to reach diminishing returns you know again the the I hesitate to talk this way because it's the way I think but I know it's not the way others do I always think about the concavity of a curve right so the more concave down it is the more negative the second derivative the quicker you get to that point of diminishing return it just means the curve is shaped that way and so most things in biology work that way right they they don't have they're not positive second derivatives where the more you do the better it gets and the rate at which it gets better goes up that that's very rare so what what is your guest halt on the optimal zone based on all of the above yeah I think it's important to distinguish between concave downward or you know sort of inverted you uh a curve that doesn't keep accelerating a decelerating curve curve with the negative second derivative versus non-monotonic those can be non-monotonic but it's not the same thing so one is the diminishing returns right it keeps going up but it goes all this goes slow yeah and there may be a point at which it never reaches and that point that it never reaches may not be 100% of whatever it is you're sort of thinking about that's different than saying an else you actually goes down at some point so a lot of things go down it's right right to a little will kill you too much will kill you and that's actually more common in biology right so too much thyroid hormone to little thyroid hormone a very bad to a few calories too many calories that's right so yeah in the case of protein if we're thinking about it not in an absolute sense but as a percent of calories let's just say and what's assuming your calories are at an appropriate level for whatever it is you you want to your life what I think we can say with pretty good confidence is there's some level that's too low I think we can also say with pretty good confidence that there's some level above the RDA that with very very rare exceptions perhaps is at most not worse than and then the vast majority of cases likely better than the RDA level so you know you might think of it as like the real base level like you know economy rental and then there's the higher and good rental and then there's something further out there where I would say there's less certainty and that's where probably a little more of the debate is so there's not no debate between the base level and what I'm saying is closer to the you know perhaps I don't want to use the word optimal because that implies a dip yeah but superior known superior level little debate in between but not not so much in my view and then there's more debate about beyond the known superior level and a lot of uncertainty there I think the evidence is very clear that when you go from the RDA level of point fourish grams per pound or a point eightish grams per kilogram up into roughly double or even a little bit more that roughly two I know no evidence of harm in any group other than perhaps again the very rare folks and even that would typically not be protein in general it would be specific type so if you said to me phenyl ketinuric can't have phenylalanine okay fine uh someone who's got you know an allergy to way protein can't have way protein but that doesn't mean protein in general I know of no evidence for harm even in people with chronic kidney disease or anything else I think there's lots and lots of evidence for benefit in at least medium term observable phenomena like body weight like appetite control like bone strength muscle and so on for people to be consuming more and I think it's especially true and people who are recovering from injury bodybuilding looking for performance in athletics looking for strength who are older who are growing all of those things I mean sometimes David I think it's easier to flip it and just say why don't we just identify all the people who don't benefit from a higher amount of protein than the RDA because I worry that when we start to carve out a bunch of categories and say if you're in one of these categories you should be consuming more you're always going to kind of miss something or someone might not identify so for example you've used the term bodybuilder most people would never identify themselves as a bodybuilder because when they think bodybuilder they think of the character church type bodybuilder we see in the you know on a magazine cover when you're at the airport that doesn't actually you know look anything like what you want to look like right but the truth of the matter is it's hard for me to imagine I don't know that I can think of one of my patients let me just start with that as a sample size one of my patients who doesn't need to add a minimum work hard to maintaining their muscle mass and many of my patients are working hard to add muscle mass and so what differentiates them from a bodybuilder right the difference is the bodybuilder of course has the benefit of using super physiologic doses of and regions consuming you know basically training all day and doing nothing but optimizing around that and all of the same but but the reality of it is we're all sort of bodybuilders right like everybody's a bodybuilder if they're really thinking about it in the lens of what are we on this earth for we're on this earth to create the most robust body we can have and it doesn't have to look like it's bulging with muscles first of all most of us couldn't achieve that if we wanted to so not not with anything the most of us could never achieve it anyway let's think through who should be consuming the RDA yeah I would say with rare exceptions the answer is probably no one okay I mean that's a very important statement your hardware exception let's go back to goals you know you might say you might find people in fact not might able I'm a think you almost certainly would who say I don't care about any of those things you just mentioned the only thing I care about is saving the planet and my thing is I should eat as little as possible and as little protein as possible and as little animal product as possible for that somebody else could say my goal is to be nearer to God and this gets me nearer to my God in my way someone else in my goals in a static I want to look like a heroin addict in a doorway in Manhattan in 1970 that's your aesthetic but those people are rare it's I think it's really important for people to understand that this argument around the RDA is adequate and that's what you need to eat and anybody who is suggesting you eat more than that is wrong we we have to actually flip the question and say okay who is best served by eating at the RDA versus say two x the RDA at 1.6 grams which for me would put me at I don't know 150 to 160 grams of protein per day instead of 60 I think here's where we get into that issue of recognizing the limits of our knowledge and then being able to wrangle with them rationally as opposed to irrationally state the limits of our knowledge so I put up a LinkedIn post I put up many about protein in the last 12 or more months yeah we'll link to them all in the show notes here so that people can kind of I mean again I don't want to make this a discussion where we're plowing through papers because that's already been done and we'll link to all those things but yes so we'll we'll make sure that everyone goes back to them so feel free to reference specific ones so they'll have access to them immediately and one of them I included a quotation was from one of my old mentors and graduate school Harold Eucer who famously said I'm a data not here this students came a t-shirt that's had that and he would say show me the data it was a time I think of that Jerry McGuire movie being popular show me the money it was like show me the data and so what I sort of said is you know people keep raising these questions of harms I said show me the data can anybody send me and it was sincere I said this is an open call and I sent it says like some of the top people in the world including those who are a little bit hesitant not protein intake were denigrated and I said can anybody send me one or more papers that are intervention studies not observational ones that are in humans ideally randomized but I'll take an intervention even if it's not randomized but it's got to be controlled controlled intervention study in humans feeding different levels of protein in which the different levels of protein intake are separable from other effects that show deleterious effects on a clinically or intrinsically meaningful endpoint right don't show me that this molecule change so this gut microbiota change and what do I do with that would it why do I care that that gut microbiota changed nobody cares about those things intrinsically we care about them only and so far as if they give us heart attacks or strokes or earlier or later death or greater strength or make us better looking right we want to we care about how long we live how good we look how we feel our strength what we can do we don't it intrinsically care about whether this molecule on a body is higher than that molecule or this gut microbi and I said can anybody send me one nobody now I was on part of that thread David and wasn't there one paper that did surface that was a TPN trial total parental nutrition in patients in the ICU am I I think there were some I think that doubly lambing sent the and doubly is a great scientist and a good friend who studies protein mainly in mice and other things but also urban humans I think he cited a couple of references and I think they were from Luigi Fontana, fire call correctly and there was some short-term trials in patients with cancer and I don't remember all the details but I really see those you know yes but I just I'm I'm working my hardest to given honest look to because I think what you did is the right thing to do which is look guys we're we're having religious debates on social media where people are using their Twitter platforms to like lamb asked people they disagree with and you know call them names and do all this sort of nasty stuff why don't we just do this like grown ups and show me the data right and so the data is show me human clinical trial intervention studies the demonstrate the deuterious effects of quote unquote high protein and yeah the only thing that I saw was you took these patients who were very very sick in the ICU so sick that they can't consume an enteral nutrition which means they can't eat because they're probably ventilated and their guts aren't even working so you can't actually put feeding tubes in them so you use a central line you put a intravenous catheter into one of the major central veins in their body and you give them all of their nutrition through that conduit which is called parantral nutrition and with total parantral nutrition you are chemically crafting the exact composition of what they consume exactly how much glucose exactly how much fat what type of fat how much protein what type of protein what micro nutrients etc etc and again I don't remember the exact study but it showed that there was no benefit to a higher protein diet and this was counterintuitive and now that I'm remembering it I believe the study sought to ask the question wouldn't patients in the intensive care unit benefit from a higher protein diet because they're very catabolic right the body is incredibly catabolic in that setting and so I think the surprising outcome of that study was that the patients on the higher dose of protein did no better but my if my memory serves me correctly they didn't do worse am I remembering that correctly if my memory also serves me correctly there was no statistically significant effect on what I would call an intrinsically clinically important outcome right it it wasn't statistically significant effect on lifespan and and that's a portion population death mortality is the most important outcome right there are other things days in the ICU days on the ventilator those things all matter tremendously but it it's you're looking at such a such a sick population that's on the precipice of death they when you look at ACM or all cause mortality you're going to get some interesting and valuable insights and we're also going to have to really dig into this idea of when we've got different sources of data and none of which are the data we really want right what we really want is the randomized controlled trial in tens of thousands of people so we can look at subgroups and we have a lot of power we want perfect adherence we want it free living we want it in people eating foods under the circumstances about which we're going to make claims right most of us are not asking well if I am on TPN and unconscious and being tube fed by a surgeon then what most of us are saying when I go to the grocery store and decide what I want to bring home for dinner tonight then what and those are not the same thing yeah so we won't have that we'll have lousy epidemiologic studies with lousy self reported data followed people large groups for long periods of time and causal inference will be fraught we'll have mouse studies in which we're not sure we can generalize from the mouse to the human we'll have short term studies of people being tube fed we want to talk about long term studies of people eating quote unquote ordinary foods in ordinary ways and we're going to have to sort of think about if they all line up perfectly right smoking is an example that we're almost everything lines up you know you may not have the perfect study want but the the cell stuff the mouse stuff the animal stuff the epidemiology the clinical trials we get people stop smoking they all line up to say smoky's really bad don't smoke if they all line up great then it's easy if they don't all line up we also have to start to talk about how strong is each piece of evidence both in terms of its generalizability to what we really want as well as in and of itself is it strong and I think those studies are that we've just described are not especially despositive yeah I think another type of inquiry that can be misinterpreted but there's a great analogy for it is around the dose response curve for muscle protein synthesis as protein dose increases and so there was a study that that was that was referenced that looked at as you went from point eight to one point two to one point four to one point six grams of protein per kilogram of body weight what did the rate of muscle protein synthesis do in other words where did you start to achieve the plateau and beyond which you were not going to get more and what I think this study demonstrated was that in less trained individuals you will achieve higher levels of MPS for lower amounts of amino acids but again two things stand out here the first is be careful what patient population you're looking out in the study and make sure it applies to you so you know in an individual who's training an hour a day I don't think they can compare themselves to someone who went from sitting on a couch to training 90 minutes a week very different the other place I would say that there's a perfect parallel there and I want to make sure everybody who's trying to figure out what bucket they belong and can sort of do the the mental gymnastics here if you take an untrained individual a person who is 100% sedentary which sadly is the majority of people in the United States and you put them on a fitness regimen of three thirty minute whole body workouts a week so I take that sedentary person I take them into a gym and I get them to push around weights 30 minutes three times a week not to failure not to profound exhaustion there is no desire to name them or make it such that they can't get out of bed the next day will they achieve a training benefit will they will they achieve some benefit an answer is unbelievably right unbelievable benefit David if you put me into their workouts would I achieve any benefit maybe I would argue virtually none right why why the difference of course you're already sort of on the asymptote right it's like anything else you know you take someone who's never had any value of it and you get a big benefit give a mouse that has no left in just a tiny little bit of left in and an immediately starts to slim down quite a lot give a mouse that has a normal amount of left in a little bit more you're going to observe all's nothing uh give a kid who's been studying algebra for an hour a day vigorously and diligently uh an extra 10 minutes of studying algebra you're probably not going to get that much benefit give a kid who's never been exposed to algebra at all 10 minutes a day of tutoring algebra you probably start to get some real benefits so so so my and by the way that's a that's a beautiful example and when I hear people say you don't need much more protein than point eight because of that study you know it makes me think that's like telling a kid they only need to study algebra 10 minutes a day if they want to master it absolutely you know one of the things that hurts me about the field of nutrition and I don't know the solution to this goes back a little bit to the challenges we have but this is really an economic challenge not an intrinsic challenge look at the sample sizes of studies in nutrition in general uh randomized controlled trials of nutrition in general especially of things like protein intake and then look at the sample sizes of studies of statins randomized control statins glp1 agonists vaccines etc they're different by multiple orders of magnitude it's not a common to really study say well we took uh we were interested in the effects of protein consumption on you know African American women over age 50 with diabetes and without so it's six in each group you know six in each group you know it's 60,000 over there and in that you know farma study and so we have really sort of weak data on this and so it's not surprising that often we don't show these big effects well this is important David I'm sorry to interrupt but I I want to tie this back to the discussion we had around disclosures there's sort of a reason that virtually everybody in nutrition science is taking some money from food industry now there are you know someone who works at the NIA she was funded entirely at the NIH by like Kevin obviously doesn't need is Kevin back at the NIH by the way not to my knowledge okay anyway Kevin was at the NIH but but most everybody who's at a university is cobbling together money from both the government and industry and that's as demonstrated by the the sort of belt and suspenders bootstrapping approach that comes into nutrition science studies which are you know not well funny so maybe just explain why is it that it's it's easy to fund a farma study with 60,000 people in it and it's hard to get the funding to study 600 people in nutrition study the first question is very simple it's the economic model of it pharmaceuticals are patentable and the way our country works is in general you cannot market a pharmaceutical without the FDA's approval and the FDA will generally not give approval unless you've met their bar for having demonstrated as the act of Congress for the FDA's you know structure mandates they must have a reasonable basis for concluding that the benefits outweigh the harms under proposed conditions of use and so the FDA says this is what is going to take to convince us and it's going to be these big randomized control trials as well as a few other things and so the company said we've got to do it then there's the economic model that makes it feasible for them to do it in most cases sometimes the reason we don't have certain drugs is not because they can't be made is because the farmer companies say it's not worth it for us because we won't make enough money to offset the development platform that's a problem there but in any case in other situations like a GLP one agnistice does so they develop them they spend hundreds of millions of dollars they do them to the utmost rigor they're probably the most rigorous human health studies done on the planet these days so to your point if you're willing to spend let's say it's two billion today three billion whatever the number is ten years and a couple billion dollars is an enormous investment but if you can recoup it it's worth it so how how do you recoup that in nutrition science so you don't they're margins in the food industry a much lower they often can't patent stuff quite so easily you know it's hard to patent the grapefruit right so if you're the grapefruit sellers you know and you want to do some study you know I got a patent grapefruit even though you may have some you know benefit from it so that creates a problem which sometimes leads to why people want supplements and things so they maybe they can get some patent protection but even that can be limited at times you don't have the economic model for it and so they just don't I don't have the numbers out my fingertips I don't know if anybody does but if you said to me we're gonna take all the money spent on research looking at the effects of food not how do you make food not how do you make a better chocolate bar a better macaroni and cheese or something but what are the effects of eating that chocolate bar or macaroni and cheese um and you added it up across every single commodity group the dairy council the eggboard every single food company every dietary supplement company and you added all of what they spend on research I would be very surprised if it exceeds a billion dollars crossing entire country so there's very little money relatively speaking there they don't have the economic wherewithal to do it they also don't the mandate to do it my group 20 plus years ago we did the first randomized controlled trial ever commissioned of their products by the Fuddle-A company um and my gosh what they scared about this is it just didn't know what they're getting into it for now this study we compared chips fried and corn oil to low fat chips and cookies and crackers and things to traditional chips and cookies and crackers that had more saturated fat trans fat and the idea was is low fat better than corn oil and the answer was no um you know assuming you can control your calories you're better off eating the full fat corn oil chips we're about the saturated the high saturated fat and the trans fat are they really worst yeah and and what were you what were the outcomes oh a CVT type out comes so biomarkers yeah with the exception I think of triglycerides my recollection is you know the traditional trans fat fat fat we're worse I think the low fat high carb was worse for triglycerides and the high fat corn oil type stuff was better for everything and that's published in A.J.C. and Malmy P.S. on tholunch was the first off through that and it was interesting the criticism we got again it was uh Marianne Nessel was one of the few critics uh and it was typical never touch the science you know and ever said well the design was wrong or the measurements were wrong it was like well they were funded by industry and I call this this is her words I call this a calorie distractor you know if you have something to say about the science why don't you stick to the science and do that instead of quips and add home and attacks but that's all we got anyhow so the food industry traditionally has not done a lot of this these studies are expensive that study we did aren't remember the exact number but it's probably in the neighborhood especially if we inflated it today's cost you might be getting close to a million dollars or something but that's nothing compared to what we talked about with form the other issue is uh the other big funder is NIH and NIH I think both have seen often these things as something the industry should fund well I mean if it's they're selling it let them fund it that's one sometimes it's not seen as really deep big science yes it's practically interesting doctor Allison but where's the big deep scientific hypothesis and then the last thing is the the in my opinion here's clearly an opinion the misprayaritization of funding and this is something that you now we see the NIH addressing very vigorously again I would agree with some of what they're doing it disagree with some of what they're doing but you know I know Jay bought a charioteal real smart guy and he with others are trying to say let's repurpose some of the funding less here more here and I look at the observation epidemiology which can be very expensive in nutrition and I think the new information yield and I underlying that phrase new information is often very low right somebody else comes out with a new study tomorrow and says we did another one and it was a million subjects and we measured the food intake as carefully as we can with self report in this population we had a couple of biomarkers and there's something interesting about this and here's what we showed with protein intake and longevity I don't care what's directions and you show great longevity so less than longevity like I already knew it was a question you haven't answered the question for me you gave me a little thing to scratch my head about maybe but it didn't really move yeah let's let's talk a bit about the epidemiology in this in this space so again I think everybody listening to this podcast knows what epidemiology is and we talked a lot about the limitations of it and the you know what a healthy user bias is but what maybe give us the landscape of how epidemiology has looked specifically at this question of the relationship between protein intake and out comes of health and what are some of the near unique or particular circumstances of epidemiology that lend itself to confusion here yeah I think the most important thing that I want to say is a sort of maybe a little bit of a weird kind of left turn on this but is I think the greatest limit or problem with the nutrition epidemiology in a context like we're discussing now or this exact context of protein consumption things like longevity and long-term major health is the opportunity cost it's that we're spending the money and often a non-trivial and automatic these big epidemiology studies can be very expensive and we're not spending it therefore in the big randomized well-bund controlled clinical trials that's I think the biggest problem if you said to me well we did some epidemiologists something we can clean and it's interesting and fun and there was no cost okay but if say we did that but we could have done one really good or maybe 10 medium size randomized controlled trials that that was a bit loss now in and of themselves if we just stick to the epidemiology you and many others frequently and correctly point out the issue of confounding we all say correlations not necessarily causation the example of ice cream consumption and murder rates is trotted out and we say you know more ice cream consumption associated with more murder rates guess what it's he you know people eat more ice cream and top they murder more on the side all true right all fine but that's actually just a tiny piece of it there's so much more there's the measurement problem and that measurement is not random and even if it was random it's usually not taken into account if it was random and we knew it was random and we took it into counts statistically we could make the problem kind of go away but it's often not random and maybe correlated right people who eat more of this may systematically bias their reporting down than people eat less of that there's selection bias people may choose to be in the study or not choose to be in the study and that may affect things there's what's called collider bias you know I control for something and I think on doing a good thing by that but in fact I've created an inadvertent association I could go on almost statistical obscure what do you think are the three most important biases that impact this particular question when asked through an epidemiologic lens I think it's the confounding particularly but not only by culture and socioeconomic status and social class education second would be the measurement error in particular again the non-systemat then the non-random measurement error and then I would probably say some selection biases that are a little hard to specify Miguel Hernan at Harvard is perhaps one of the most thoughtful people on talking about the other ways these biases can creep in in terms of when people start the study who gets in the study and when we consider their exposure as occurring and he's he's does some ways to try to correct that he thinks that's more important than confounding so I think those are probably the three biggest ones and that's those are the intrinsic issues I think the other one which is very big but not intrinsic is I'm going to say honesty and maybe that's a little too strong but I think it's the honesty or maybe the sincerity perhaps is a better way of saying it this sincerity of reporting by the investigators I don't think many investigated are lying in explicit sense but I do think they are both intentional and unintentional efforts at distorting that is people want to tell a story and they emphasize some things in de-emphasize others they hide some things and don't hide others so it's not an explicit lie but there's a manipulation of the information and why do you think the editors at journals are unable to address that in the review process for the majority of editors it's lack of ability lack of resources and lack of courage for a minority of editors its limitations on the ability to really go in and sus it all out so the New England journals of the world the sciences of the world the jamas of the world they have the resources within reason and the sophistication and to sort of go after this but they can't get everything often when I think about the idea of peer reviewing but also to some extent the editorial review which has a little more teeth than the peer years themselves I look at it like restaurant reviews right if you know sag it or whoever goes into review a restaurant it's going to give a mission on stars they can tell you did they like the offerings on a menu was the food tasty did it look good was the service good they're not going back and doing a microbial count in the kitchen they're not checking how often the chef washed his or her hands those are things you need a health inspector who's got some authority who can do spot checking surprise visits it's got equipment and so on that's what you need there and I think peer reviewers are like restaurant critics now this a look good is an interesting you know as a peer review I can't go back and look at everybody's raw data in some cases we'll see something that looks funny and then through the journal we're doing a couple of these now we will get the raw data from people and then we often see things that are quite funny and we often get a lot of fights with review authors who don't want to let us look at their raw data and kind of tells you something where is AI in this process I mean why are we not or are we using LLMs to serve as peer editors short answers we are long answers we're at the stage of infancy and amateurishness with it so it's coming it'll get better and better but we can do some very simple things now people look for the so-called tortured phrases you know when you find these phrases that kind of look like a word salad that's sort of a hint often that you've got something plagiarized or just fabricated we can look in some circumstances for things that literally don't add up so some people made something called the grim test I forget what it's an acronym but it's basically when you know let's say you have a like or scale and you know you have a certain number of subjects then the mean of that scale can only have certain values and if you say hey it doesn't have that one of those values something must be wrong those are examples and do we know if these AI agents these peer review agents all call them are being trained on known fraudulent manuscripts because we certainly have an abundance of things that were demonstrated to be fraud so it would be I assume a reasonable thing to do to start training these AI agents on that to start identifying the patterns again the answer is yes but very much it's infancy okay who's leading the charge on this I don't know if this one person is leading it I think James Heathers who's now got a position you know part of the challenge with a lot of the so-called data slutes is it's hard to get paid to do that you know so I get paid to be I was a paid dean and and now I'm a paid center director and kind of in my spare time I do a little slew thing people like James Heathers where it's more his full-time gig it's hard to get paid but we traction watch said something up for him sees one Tracy Weisberger in over in Europe is is another there's a woman whose name I unfortunately am missing a miss pronounce but who's a Dutch scientist who came up with something called stat check and stat check if the statistics are poured in the format of the American psychological association which is very clear format has software that will specifically go and make sure those all check so those are some examples but there are many others and people working on what do you think is the most compelling piece of epidemiologic data against the idea of exceeding the RDA I don't think there are any compelling observation level epidemiologic data you know when I think of the things where you've got relatively hard endpoints relatively large sample sizes there usually they've not looked at hard big thresholds and even if they have they've looked more continuously at protein intake even if they have I can show you you know studies in either direction studies that make it look like it's more protein is beneficial and studies that look the other way and I don't think any of them are dispositive I think protein intake is highly confounded with social class as well as type of protein intake so what about the let's flip the question now again which is okay I'm gonna argue that lower protein is better because I've just demonstrated you were not gonna starve to death at let's just round up and call it one gram per kilogram of body weight Peter you should be eating 85 grams because I know that that is safe but I don't know that if you double that you're not gonna get cancer so you know what what can we say about quote unquote high protein diets and cancer or heart disease so I think we can say is absolute knowledge is beyond us in this context but we can have reasonable degrees of certainty certainty for practical purposes as long as we need to be open with them you know one of the things that I often get frustrated with the nutrition science and some other elements of scientific communities we say science is always evolving and the public needs to understand that it's not something wrong when we we in their view flip flop and we change our mind we change our mind when new data become available but that's true but then the the implication is we were honest with the public all along and saying this is what we think today it's not absolutely certain and I the the one like thing that I was just stands out in my mind is early 1990s Michael Jacobson, Dr. Michael Jacobson, PhD nutrition scientist director of something called Center for Science in the public interest somewhere in science and coming out on national TV and a camera holding a plate of feticiniopfredo outside an Italian restaurant after a new report of come out on composition of what people had Italian restaurants got huge press and as he holds it out to the camera he says this is a hard attack on a plate this is a heart attack on a plate is not a tempered statement that says this is what I think we know today but it could change later so I think we need to be more honest about that why the way what was he referring to that was causing the heart attack and that I think the implication was the saturated fat or maybe the saturated fat and sodium so in any case I think you know we need to do better with that I know of no compelling evidence for harm that doesn't mean there couldn't be any but I know of no compelling evidence for him I know of no studies showing that humans get more cancer with this I think we need to be skeptical of the mouse studies the epidemiologic studies for reasons I've indicated I think at some point we we need to recognize as people did when I put up that that linked in post and I said show me the data can anybody send me one many people responded with something akin to I can't show you that study David but can you show me the compliment or the opposite study that meets all your criteria and shows there isn't harm and the answer maybe no I'm not sure but what I can say is at some point when you've looked enough and you failed to see harm where is the burden of proof so if you don't have a really strong apprary rationale now we can argue about that that they probably is legitimate debate you know you might legitimately say I have a strong apprary shall there is an arm and Dudley's having might say I have a strong apprary rationale that is harm and you're entitled to your opinion those are opinions and then we can both look and say well neither one of you has the absolute definitive data at what point where's the burden of proof and I think right now the notion is the burden of proof is on those who want to argue for higher protein intake well the evidence is unclear enough to show that the RDA is too low to which I would reply well the evidence is unclear that it isn't now where is the needle point where is prudent's point and I don't think the status quo is necessarily what's always prudent right saying leave everything the way it is is always the best way sometimes it is but in this case I think we've left it a long long enough I think it's time to say you know we've looked and looked and looked if I look at a thousand swans and I cannot find a black swan does that mean that no black swans exist of course not but if I looked at 10,000 black swans if I sent a helicopter in the air and we scoured and we looked with binoculars if I sent teams of undergraduate students to walk around ponds and measure look for every black swan if I put drones with cameras out and I have failed time after time after time to find a black swan it wouldn't say maybe for practical purposes I can say black swans probably not something we need to worry about yeah I think that is probably the most logical way to frame this which is I do not believe we're ever going to get a dose toxicity to her study for protein the way we do for you know figuring out what the LD50 of a drug is right you know where you push the toxicity and you figure out okay this dose we will kill 50% of people so the real question becomes what would be the bracket you would put around for 90% of the population to exist within this range is an appropriate way to interact at the grocery store right to your point like what's the problem we're trying to solve here the people listening to us don't care about most of what we've said today I mean we had to say it but they actually just want to know look man I'm really confused because I'm reading people who have a lot of piss and vinegar and what they're saying on this topic how how much protein should I be eating what should my family be eating you know should my kids should I be you know avoiding protein in my kids should they not be eating snacks with protein whatever the argument is so you know our guidance to our patients is pretty straightforward and it varies based on their preference we have some patients who are vegetarians who have been lifelong vegetarians who can't stand the feel of meat right they're not this is not like a belief that they have that meat is bad for them they genuinely don't like meat we have other patients who won't eat any animal products so they're going to have a harder time reaching the upper limits of protein consumption and so you know with those people we're just trying to nudge them as high as we can get them and that's probably not going to get much higher than about 1.2 grams per per kilogram of but the guidance we're giving people is we really like to see you at about 1.6 to 2 it's an easy heuristic it's easy to remember too because you're basically consuming almost a pound a gram per pound of body weight so how would you advise people based on the just tell me the for all intents and purposes like you don't need to worry about black swans argument right so let's separate the idea of what I think people ought to do if they have these goals that most of us have like live longer be stronger be healthy etc and how do I think we should tell them to achieve that the latter one I'll loop back to in a minute but I'm not really the expert on that the former one what I would say is I think you and I are largely aligned on this I would say if you just want to survive stick to the or if you just want to survive the RDA is probably okay for most people but if you want to thrive in these goals that most of us share then I would aim for in the neighborhood of two grams per kilogram per day per person spaced out throughout the day so for example if you want to pass you should study this many hours per day and you will get a C right but if you want to have the best shot at getting into the best college you could get into because you want to study engineering you should probably study this much and you're probably going to need to try to get A's great analogy my my uncle my great uncle who was a professor and from the old country and the old school and a philosophy professor when his kids would come home in America from school he would say good now play times over now you sit down and we study Latin and math and logic and you do to real work and then there's probably at another example you may know that in South Korea they actually at the past some laws recently or chose to pass some laws recently that I forget the details of them but that students could only study so much because they're really starting to aware of students just going too far and I think those are good examples to me it's it's sort of like the RDA for protein intake is is like what my uncle saw the American schools as it's a yes it's just enough to get up you know to pass high school and do something the next level up is what my uncle did which was we're going to really do some work and get you to a closer to an optimal level maybe what some students do is maybe go too far but I also think it's interesting to see in what way were they going too far that is did anybody ever say or show that if you study algebra or anything else 12 hours a day instead of two hours a day that it directly causes harm and I don't know of anything like that now if you said to me if you study algebra or whatever for 12 hours a day if so facto you are not exercising you are not socializing you may be not sleeping enough etc then you have a problem it's not the direct effect of the studying it's once in a situation if so if I literally drank I handed you a drink when we came in one of my favorite you know play time things I love to play with these different protein products and have fun with them and this is a drink that has 20 grams of protein and 90 calories so it's almost pure protein and there are other things like that if you or I would say I just want as much protein as I can so I'm just going to live on that stuff there would be no to my knowledge no direct harm I'm not worried about my kidney shutting down or something but I would say well wait a minute you know did you have any vitamins and minerals did you did you have any pleasure from eating other foods did you have enough energy to work out hard by not having any carbohydrate maybe a little carbohydrate you would make you work able to work a little harder so I think there are other losses but beyond those other losses or did you get a fatty acid deficiency because you have an an angelinaic acid beyond the losses I don't know of any risk so to me I look at and say life support you know basic maintenance RDA strong evidence for thriving tuition above to probably more benefit but you're starting to hit the awesome tote I don't know that it's going to come down right and anything that says that it's not going to be monotonic it's going to turn around but diminishing benefit and then starting to get into more costs of economic costs of buying fancy products of the costs of that your time and attention on it the costs of not eating something else you might like I know you and I have both sort of out of struggle with is the right word but wrangled with fruit we both like fruit and we both play with diets at times that where we've minimized the consumption of fruit for other goals and yet both perhaps come back to it a little bit and said I don't want to give it a fruit and those are examples I think where you there's some optimization but I see no harm and I think the more refined your goals are then the more it's reasonable to push it a little bit if I wanted to win the Olympics I'm more motivated to push it for me if I can lift one more pound of weight on the bench press who cares but if I'm trying to win the Olympics it matters so let's pivot from here into kind of the extension the the logical extension I think of where we're going which is not just as it pertains to protein but to a broader discussion around process foods so this is also a very very hot topic today and so I want to just talk about it broadly and then we can talk about protein as a subset of this because obviously a lot of process foods are optimized around protein and not just pleasure but I will say I have read quite a bit on this topic and I've read some pretty compelling arguments on all sides that that that if you just took process and ultra processed foods off the market people would be better you know you would you would force a change in the system that would would lead to healthier outcomes and of course I've read other very compelling arguments that say look if you actually correct for caloric intake there's nothing per se that is wrong with a processed food that leads to the first order second order potentially so let's let's maybe start with just some of the definitional stuff what separates a processed food from an ultra processed food I don't know that there's in in fact I know that there's not a single accepted definition the most commonly used classification systems called Nova it's very controversial for many reasons some social some scientific some linguistic or definitional it has to do with the degrees of steps and the types of steps and so on involved these are very popular topics because they give us a new demon we talked earlier about the importance of demons Kelly Brown now who as much as anybody has been one of the leading thinkers in the field of obesity research in the last half of the 20th century see a else tell no no he he moved to do years ago and I think he may be semi retired now but anyway really good thinker and I can remember being in a meeting with Kelly he and I were both speakers the meeting was convened by leaders in the food industry and we're inviting him this is just as he was ramping up the rhetoric of toxic environment toxic food environment the epidemiologic environment the public health environment argument this was when it was just it had just begun emerging the n-haines three and then the later in haynest data was suddenly this wake up call for the country so yeah we knew there was obesity and we knew was getting worse we didn't realize how rapidly it had started to get worse in the last couple of decades and now there was this hype this panic and Kelly spoke and he said we need you know social movement here he said we can't do it on our own I've been the behavioral psychologist type he himself struggles with obesity it's not education the guys brilliant he's you know enormously educated but he's still struggle that just has did many other people of a similar degree of education and expertise and he said we're treating this too much as an individual problem he said you know you've got companies like McDonald's who have a goal of nobody should ever be more than X minutes away from McDonald's if they're driving in the United States and he said that's a problem you know and that's a problem and I'm driving down the street and I'm being assaulted by all the signage and so on and he said we need to change this we need a social movement and he's looking at all these executives from the food industry and he says and history shows us over and over that social change happens when there's a villain says we need a villain and he says guess who it is you so that was the start of this villainization for a year was on I remember exactly but I would say it was mid-90's all right and it was Michael Mud who was from craft at the time convened that meeting I was good meeting and he's like I invited this guy my clad courage and anyway so that was that start of it and now ultra-process is just a great way to demonize stuff it's just another demon right so you know we're off a soybean oil maybe fight-o-estrogens you know we dealt with that for a while we dealt with sugar for a while those are still floating let's get folks a couple of examples of processed versus ultra-process so like dried fruit is processed sure virtually everything we just processed yeah every almost everything you just processed but then how do you draw though how do you then cross the chasm to ultra-processed yeah again I don't know that even if you say there's a single definition like Nova I can't recite for you the exact criteria but it's the it's the number of steps it's the degrees of steps it's the types of steps but the most things that come in a package are now viewed as ultra-processed that's right it's it's there are more there are more number of ingredients and number of greens number of steps but you're right dried fruit even fruit that's cut-up is processed wine is processed cheese is processed milk is homogenized sometimes it's pasteurized hopefully you know almost everything we just processed and for that matter I don't want you to have a lot of certain on processed foods is lots of evidence that you know unprocessed dairy products cause a lot of farm so processing is good now let's talk about the state of the evidence because again a good a good story goes a long way right I mean our ancestors and to be clear I my view on this is that this story is much more nuanced than the one I'm about to lay out but but the one I'm about to lay out makes sense and I get it we didn't evolve eating ultra-processed foods level on processed foods and ultra-processed foods are engineered to be highly palatable and part of that engineering process also makes them calorie deaths because part of making things hyper palatable is putting in a lot of sugar and a lot of fat so it's not that the food companies who make these things are trying to make us fat they're not trying to hurt us they're I mean Marbro's not trying to hurt you with cigarettes they just want you to smoke him forever or so so it's an unfortunate consequence of the product right so so they really want to create something that tastes remarkable that you just want to keep buying over and over again and the problem is you're going to end up eating more of it in terms of calories because of the very nature of the product they're trying to sell you so clearly this is a problem right it's we can't have these foods around because we can't eat them in moderation we're going to overeat them and I don't think any but this is one thing we can agree on right is over consumption of calories always leads to bad things relative to what your needs are right so again that number is variable by by individual but for any given individual eating more than they require leads to physiologic harm so by that logic why are we having this discussion why don't we just get rid of ultra processed foods I've given me so much to work with one threat I just want to throw out quickly but we may or may not have time and interesting coming back to it is the idea that fewer calories are better at least two point two point is true but one of the things particularly with protein is you know when we look at some of these studies that people are citing I realize I'm sort of looping back to our prior conversation but these are from the mouse looking at longevity and it's interesting they're very dependent on ambient temperature so the studies of caloric restriction in general and protein restriction in particular which show benefit are much more present at 22 degrees Celsius which for mouse is a thermogenic challenge thermoregulatory challenge as opposed to thermonutral conditions roughly 27 to 30 degrees Celsius we don't live our own lives in the chronic cold so we'll leave that out there and say it depends on the conditions there's several threads you've allowed me to pick up here one has to do with the idea of categories all categories are social constructs we often hear that said about things like race and stroke races a social construct so is furniture so is vaccine so is medicine etc what you choose to use as a category and how you choose to define membership in that category is a judgment call and it's not intrinsically it's not written in stone what that should be they're useful or not useful for your purposes that's the first thing to point out so same this ultra process there's not a right there's not a correct definition of ultra process you can define it anywhere you want the words mean what they say we say they mean once you define it clearly then we can say what's its value what is it how can we use it what's its utility second thing I would say is as with any category if it permits a lot of variability in that category which ultra process certainly does it starts to get a little silly to talk about the overall category because you say so wait a minute you want me to consider a meal replacement shake and the same category is I consider a big goal in a 711 and the same category consider a chocolate bar and the same category I consider a TPN nutrition you know these are all arguably ultra process in very different things and I think we want to talk about the things the next thing I want to bring up is what are we trying to do with it and this is probably intellectually most important if you say to me David what I am looking for is a heuristic and this loops back to something I said we did dress later or earlier I mentioned I said we've come back to the distinction between how much protein do I think somebody ought to eat for a certain goal versus how would I tell them to eat it or what would I tell them about it? Those are two different things if you said David I just want something I can tell people so that when I tell the this it has a beneficial effect does telling them not to eat ultra process foods or to eat as few of them as possible defining ultra process in this way help the answer is might help a lot depends on how you you know might might a very little bit depending on how you said it we need more studies we need to figure out my guesses as with everything else it won't last long right so you could tell them not to drink sugar sweeten beverages you could tell them not to eat feduccine Alfredo because it's a heart attack on a plate all these things you know have a small effect for a while and usually not so much for a long term but might help we need to study that okay that says nothing however about the effects of a food per se she said no David my goal is to tell people about the foods they should eat if they actually ate them what the effects would be or my goals to determine the effects of foods then I would go back to a statement from a wonderful book called a fly in the women by someone named Joe Schwartz and Dr Schwartz whose a food scientist says something like there is a model repeat after me the effect of substances in the body depends on their molecular structure not their ancestry so if you give me this molecule or a concolexion of them do eat and you extracted that molecule from some berry and it's natural or you synthesize that molecule in a laboratory but in the end it's the same molecule we agree I mean you could try to synthesize it might have some slight difference but let's assume it's literally the same molecule and it's the same structure you know you give it to me and liquid form and liquid form or gas is forming or whatever it is if you say these are going to have different effects because of where they came from seems to me we're in homeyopathy now this makes no sense yeah and my favorite example of this is natural sugar versus processed sugar which is I don't know if the people who say this are ignorant of what fructose and glucose are or if it's deliberate sort of marketing shenanigans I think it's a mixture of deliberate marketing shenanigans but it's also the marketing of ideas not just food products by people with particular philosophical and other bends who are anywhere from you know it just makes themselves to push a philosophical thing to push an anti industry thing whatever it is but yes I agree with that or you know then and there's so many others natural vanilla versus synthetic vanilla if it's still vanilla and it's vanilla and there's a wonderful book by Alan Levinevitz called Natural in which he will blow away every common conception of what natural is and what its value is and he talks about the idea of you know lots of people want natural vanilla most of the vanilla flavoring we get in this country is not so called natural from the vanilla plant but if it was it would probably have a much worse environmental impact than the other sources so it's not always so simple in any case I think Schwartz is right it's not the ancestry so whether you give me the molecule and it was locally grown or not locally grown organic or not organic ultra processed or not ultra processed it's the molecules and their structure that matter conditional upon the molecules and the structure doesn't matter where it came from but in defense of the argument that ultra processed foods must be worse if you look at the ingredient list David the sheer number of molecules there would suggest we're playing Russian roulette here I don't recognize half the names of the things on the bag of Doritos like I don't know what they are making that up I haven't looked at a bag of Doritos in a while but but you know corn corn oil salt and spices well I don't know but maybe you could you could you could you could certainly find an ultra processed food of the grocery store in which you cannot comprehend 50% of what's in it that's right and you don't really know the dose either because the only thing that the FDA requires is that you list them in order of abundance but it could be that the first one represents 99% of it and the other 12 represent 1% of it and even amongst that there's an uneven distribution etc etc etc and it could be that these are just preservatives and color additives and they have no physical bear may be you just don't know so but but the point is when I eat an apple or even if I eat a processed apple in the sense that it's been pre-cut up or it's just a dried apple that's you know dried apple chips where I can look at the ingredient list and it says apples um I gotta be safer than if I'm eating come on 20 things of which I can't pronounce 13 of them if that's the logic of your thinking you have a great product I'd like to sell you it's gluten free it's uh cdoil free it's uh not all terprocessed it's free of any harmful thing it's chemical free has no chemicals in it I call it vacuum and I would like to sell you this vacuum and uh basically I mean nothing because we are chemicals as my friend for a Clydesdale who is the former head of the nutrition food science department that uh UMass Amherst used to say the whole purpose of eating is to get chemicals into the body to replace the chemicals the body loses through the process of living all food is chemicals we are chemicals when you eat that apple and you say I understand it that's apple unless you have a lot of chemical knowledge I don't have and most people don't have you don't understand that any better than you understand something else that says Benzoate phosphate or what have you and it you just think you do because you think you understand what an apple is at a chemical level you understand what is a fruit level maybe but not at a chemical level there is many chemical I should make there are many chemicals in an apple and an orange that you or I couldn't pronounce and that if someone wrote out what the chemicals are we would say what is that scary sounding thing and we also know that things that we think of as natural can be just as harmful right fox glove hemlock right soccer tease kill by being forced to drink all natural hemlock it was all natural very harmful so poisons drugs often come from natural things there's also a misperception that what we think of as natural is somehow has been around for thousands of years and in some cases it's true in many cases it's not so the oranges and the apples and the grains that you're eating today were largely not around years ago they've been bred even if it's not transgenic they've been bred by ordinary breeding things the cows the chickens the pigs have been bred to be different they are not indigenous species all the chicken all the cow all the pig that we eat in this country the soybeans none of that's indigenous they're all invasive species right turkey that's indigenous to North America pecans and black walnuts but not the other walnuts that they love so much in the Mediterranean diet over there they're not American so I think this is all silliness the only thing that's artificial here is our our creation of these categories and we should just recognize that we create the categories let's make them meaningful and useful so back to ultra process foods if you said to me I'm just looking to give my patients or my friends or my mom or myself a hint a heuristic there are lots of heuristics that don't don't require that classification right but there are lots of heuristics that work even though there may be some illogic embedded in them or some incompleteness or some variability if you said to me for example don't talk to people on the street who look like this you know if I was your kid and you said looking walking down the street you're in a big city you know someone comes up ask you have a match just keep walking it's probably good heuristic right they probably don't really want a match but some might and you might miss some but it's not a bad way to stay safe okay similarly if I said to you you know what don't eat anything from the center aisles the grocery store or a little as you can get as much as you can from the periphery you know the dairy the produce the meats the fish and so on you might be better off you will wind up eating less ultra process foods you'll wind up eating less energy dense foods in many cases etc etc but that doesn't mean there's something intrinsic about the periphery of the aisles doesn't mean if I took twinkies and put them in the periphery and I took fat free Greek yogurt I put it in the middle that suddenly it becomes bad and twinkies become good it's a heuristic and it might work for you right to extend you can stick to it and to the extent it's correlated with these things it might work but it says nothing about the causal effect of being in the periphery or the central aisle and I think as long as we take ultra process foods at that level I say hey more power to you in the same sense as if you know we were talking to that person back with the proteins and how do you explain it to them maybe you don't say to grams per kilogram because that's too hard you have to use the metric system in Americans hate the metric system and you have to do math and so on and you have to count stuff but if you just said make sure you have two servings of lean fish and per week and one serving of lean this and you know eat some egg whites and so on maybe that works right and we all have our own foods and you know during World War II they tried to get Margaret Mead to the hard Margaret Mead federal government to try to get people eat more organ meats because you know they want to send up stake in all to the soldiers overseas didn't work right even Margaret Mead couldn't get people eat a lot of more organ meats I have an 11 organ meats and some of my go to protein sources are chicken desserts you know fantastic protein to calorie ratio and I love them a lot of people look at that girl you know no we need to figure out the way to get people to do this but it's the food that matters not this now if we go back to those idea of wanting to understand the food the effects of the food then I think calling an ultra-proud or working with ultra-prostes food is just silly I think it's it's a not a meaningful category and I think any attempts to say let's find the right definition I wouldn't even bother I don't even think it's worth even discussing I would say is let's talk about the substances in the food and say let what is the effect of eating dried apples or what is the effect of eating things with these with this composition well what is the effect of eating bottled wine or dried dates or grilled chicken gizzards and that's I think with the knowledge so I want to continue on this point a little bit more from from a public health perspective so I think we could sit here and convince ourselves I think quite easily and everybody else that at the individual level this the heuristic of don't eat ultra-prostes foods is simply not helpful right it's it's it's too coarse a tool to parse out to nuanced of a subject is the bottom line right I'll I'll go 10% or or you know some percent of the way with you on that I would say it's a very suboptimal tool they're probably better tools this certainly could be better tools I don't think it would be very effective and I don't think it would be effective for the long term but you're talking at the level of the individual or it's society because I want to distinguish these either one I think at the heuristic level what I mean by that again is nothing to do with causation or really understanding the foods if you said just it give me a rule right and it's different for you you're very sophisticated you know you have a lot of knowledge if you were to say to my dad when he was alive who's a smart man but probably intentionally kept himself not too smart about nutrition so he could faint ignorance and then make the choices he wanted you know for him something like that might work a little bit it would only work a little until he got sick of it and board with it and until good marketers were smart and said will market you things that skirted the definition of ultra-process so we could say not an ultra-process food but that's still had the same degree of fat sugar calories and whatever David Kessler said this nicely and well and some of his work and he he makes the distinction between I think he says ultra-processed and ultra-formulated and he says ultra-processed waste of time. Ultra-format, I'm sorry, waste of time as a terminology or as a category. The thing we should focus our touch on for helping people. He says ultra-formulated is better because then it talks about what's in the food. Process talks at the process I don't care how you got there yeah I want to care where you got to and so that's one way of making the thinking a little better. So do you think that there are public health solutions to the metabolic situation we're in as a country? If you define public health solution as things that exclude things we really consider clinical usually like pharmaceuticals and surgery and you say things where there's palpable and demonstrable success at present I would say no. It's painful to say that but I would say that after depending on your point of view, after roughly 50 years of looking at this no I just put a bulletin post about a one of the latest papers that came out of this group I think was an Australian group that just said you know we looked at all the parent training type stuff with kids and obesity and you know a big metanalysis of study after study after study of year after year if there is nothing there. I guess I you could argue that the only area in which public health has changed the course of societal health in this country smoking cessation seems to be a success right there have been public health measures. I am I am now trying to talk about other areas there right so I'm saying so smoking cessation efforts at the policy level right so exercise taxes advertising laws rules for where you can smoke those have appeared to have a significant reduction in the number of yields yeah yeah great so we've got some wins in public health why do you think public health has been unsuccessful in this arena and it can't be for a lack of trying can't be for lack of trying at all it may be for lack of trying in a little more intelligent and unbiased manner. I think there's two really big reasons one is intrinsic to the problem one can never stop never start smoking for some people as difficult it is one can abandon it entirely one can't never start eating and one can't for practical purposes abandon it entirely so it's a different problem you've got a very strong intrinsic push there I mean it's so linked to our survival it's hard it's a hard goal to manipulate I think it's intrinsically just very very difficult we like our freedom we like our variety I want to give up my freedom and variety if somebody were to say if we eliminated all of these choices or we were only you only got to shop on Monday or you're only out the buy x calories it's like rationing in a war because some people horrible bees even though I myself have struggled with my weight I would say I don't want to live in that world I don't want to give up my freedom of choice even if it means I and some other people are going to struggle with our weight so I think there's some real intrinsic difficulties everything we do in the public health realm almost seems like either we can't get it to stick or we didn't think through enough that it really if it's stuck it would work or it's like whack a mole that as you get me to eat consume fewer calories here or expend more energy there and then I expend less here or consume more there so I think that's the intrinsic problem and then I think the the other problem is that we started off with the obvious stuff right we we looked for the keys under the lamp post because that's where the light was best we said our school based approaches farmers markets walking trails calories on the menu so on good ideas all good ideas nudge we try them none of them really seem to work meaningfully right and I think what we've then had at the beginning that was fine what I think we have is a failure of courage honesty and creativity to say we've shown that none of those things have large demonstrable meaning for effects we've not shown that none of them could ever have any effect under any circumstance but I think for practical purposes we've shown that those things don't have large demonstrable meaning for effects and I think it's time to start pretending that they might and proposing and funding the next study that's only a trivial variant on the many many such studies that went before and were shown to not be successful I think we need to start taking radically different views and say the next time someone comes and says I've got this parent based or school based or community based idea say tell us how it's radically different then what's gone before not changing all different do you have any radical ideas that if you ignore the challenges or issues around implementation you would you would want to implement yeah I think you asked me this once before and I'm gonna change my answer slightly but not that much I think before I said two things if you really want to decrease suffering now make some for some subset of the population for which we could afford it make bariatric surgery freely available and then from investing in research investing research on the effects of general quality of upbringing and general education especially but not only for women and girls I'm gonna stick with the second one say we still need that we need to look at what are the effects of general education not nutrition education general education general parent training general security financial and other kinds of security growing up on obesity levels that would be my research public health piece and what's the hypothesis there but hypothesis that general education security so that you're not constantly worried about can I pay the bills will I be able to get food at all general good parenting which delivers whatever psychological benefit it delivers there's I would say at minimum circumstance 11 that all those things lead to reductions in obesity and diabetes decades later the two best studies I know of this or it's called the moving to opportunity study funded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the uh a back-adherian study done by the ramian ramies Craig and Sharon ramie but of those three things is an education financial well-being higher today than it was 50 years ago I kept the other the third one parental support is probably less today there are probably more broken families today but two of those three are better today than 50 years ago aren't they? I don't know that I would say I'm not sure I don't want to say they're better but I think this tremendous disparity so the the quality of the education and security and so on that some people get very different than others and I think Confucius famously said we are not concerned about poverty we are concerned about differentials of wealth so it's possible that the public health solution to obesity is becoming a Marxist I'm not sure we all want to volunteer but uh I think some of these things are worth looking at we do see that there seem to be these long-term benefits in studies I said I mentioned when I think of the two best but they're not the only ones where they weren't meant to be primarily nutrition obesity studies but how does that explain what you see in the Middle East for example where you have countries that are remarkably wealthy there there is no poverty right? You know obviously there is disparity and wealth between the very affluent which is effectively everybody and then the ultra affluent families aren't broken everybody is educated and yet there'll be city and diabetes rates are greater than even in the US. Yeah I think there's at least two ways to look at that one way is the idea of interaction and how many of the golf nations I've seen that right? That the same causal effects may not be in one place or the same exposure may not have the same effects in one place or another for example we consistently see that in less developed countries poorer countries less industrialized countries greater wealth is associated with greater obesity we consistently see in more industrialized wealthy countries greater wealth and education especially among adult women tends to be associated with lesser obesity so there you have the interaction the other is you know as you and I had said earlier you know the strength of the evidence one of the things people frequent like says when you say well we think temperature is this effect they say but what about those people in Iceland they don't have well alcohol is this yes but those people over there they drink a lot and they don't have they're different it's the different in many ways we don't know that you know any one factor has to explain why Qatar has this you know versus Somalwa or something but I think it's good hypothesis so that that's what I would look at at the public health level in what we think that's traditional public health now with the GOP one agonist related drugs and some other drugs being as profoundly beneficial as they appear to be I think we're going to get to the point where it's going to be hard I think we're already asking the question and I think it's going to be hard not to take the question seriously of should it almost be the default that is just like we've asked the question and people give different answers but we asked the question should it be that the default is you get this vaccine when you're a kid that you get your T floor dated at the dentist that you know it's not maybe some people should get that are we going to be at the I think we are at the point where we're saying as these drugs continue to be tested and experienced if we continue to see the effects we're getting or we're getting to the point where we start should start to say you know what that idea of the poly pill that came up decades ago or you know young adults even if you don't have diabetes obesity hypertension etc you'd get a low dose diuretic a low dose metform and you know etc low dose statin or at the point where we probably still should do that and then say and everybody get a low dose GLP1 agonist related drug and we'll roll it out and we'll pay for it and anybody in the country who wants it can get it or almost anybody I think that may be the future David thank you for for making the trip down as always it's pleasure truly my pleasure Peter let's keep doing that thank you

Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Ronda, so great to see you and I didn't realize until a few minutes ago that the last time we spoke it was virtual. Yeah, good to see you. We go back a long way. You're still in the same art, same former neighborhood in San Diego. I know, and I'm thinking that, you know, you found the same feeling here in Austin. Yeah, we did. All right. Well, there's a lot. We want to chat about today. And I'm a little hesitant to say this, but I do feel like reluctantly. We need to have one more discussion about a particular macro nutrient that seems to get a lot of attention lately. And I don't necessarily want to talk about this because I think it's especially interesting. Or even to which there's some new study that we need to shed light on. But it does seem to remain somewhat surrounded in some controversy, which I will refrain from publicly speculating on why said controversy exists, although privately. I'm very happy to speculate on all the reasons for it. So with that said, let's talk about protein. Let's do it. I do think it's an important topic. You know, you and I have probably talked to all the world's experts on protein. And, you know, we were chatting a moment ago about this recommended daily allowance for protein. So called RDA. And really what it should be called is the minimal daily allowance. And all, I would say, it recommended all those sounds like optimal and away. Like I think people confuse that with the optimal amount of protein, right? So it's kind of tricky. And I think that's an important place to start because of that reason where this amount, which is 0.8 grams per kilogram, body weight per day, is the RDA for protein, right? And I know that you've probably had countless experts on talking about this. I've had experts on talking about this. Two Phillips being one. There's so many different publications that I mean, people can start off by reading one of them here by a two Phillips perspective. Protein requirements and optimal intakes in aging are we ready to recommend more than the recommended daily allowance. And there's several of these out there. Okay, then this is just one. And essentially, if you, if you have the time and the willingness to go into the scientific literature and actually read something for yourself or listen to the drive, or listen to my podcast and the actual experts talking about it, what you will hear or what you will learn is that a lot of the studies that were done to determine this RDA or flawed. They were called nitrogen balance studies. And for many reasons, they're flawed. I can't, I don't want to get into all the technical reasons, but for one, what they are doing is measuring the amount of nitrogen that is excreted in urine after you are metabolizing protein. Right? And some of the flaws that are, I would say the most important here are that different types of foods that have protein in them have different nitrogen to protein ratios. They're collecting urine in which, you know, the case is that it's incomplete collection. I mean, like when you pee in one of those cups, like you don't get all the urine, it's incomplete collection. And so essentially what's happened and we lose nitrogen through other means that is not true. Yes, exactly. We lose the nitrogen through other means. And so essentially the signal to noise ratio is pretty low. And ultimately what, like countless experts have now agreed upon is that the protein for the RDA has been underestimated because of those reasons. And there have been new studies that have been done. These have been like more stable isotope studies that major isotope that's used is the L13 carbon labeling phenolal alanine in which case these studies take a small cohort of people, give them a known amount of protein with that isotope tracer. And then that tracer is oxidized when it's metabolized. And that's measured through breath, the oxidation of phenol alanine. Right? And so now you're getting a quantification that's much more accurate in terms of your protein, you know, steady state and turnover. Right? And so the whole point here is that you're trying to figure out the minimal amount of protein you need to take in every day to make sure that you're not in the negative protein balance. Why is that important? Well, that's important because we don't store amino acids. Right? We don't store amino acids like we store fatty acids. That's triglycerides or we store glucose as glycogen. Right? The major source of our amino acid storage tank, so to speak, is our muscle, skeletal muscle tissue. And you don't want to be pulling from that skeletal muscle tissue to get amino acids every day. Why do we need amino acids every day? Because everything in our body requires proteins. Proteins are doing all the work in our body and proteins are made up of amino acids. And so we have to be giving ourselves an intake daily intake of amino acids to make sure we're able to do all those functions. Right? I want to state that again because I do think there's a very important and fundamental point here that is glossed over when we talk about it because we take it for granted like if we studied biochemistry and anybody who's, you know, studied biochemistry will know this, but we can store fat in unlimited quantities. Right? So if you deprive a person of fat calories for a period of time, they have a long reservoir that they can dig into. Not indefinitely, but they can. We can store carbohydrates now. We can't store them quite as much because, you know, we only have so much glycogen. We can store in the muscle and in the liver, but when we break down fat, we keep making the substrate to actually make glucose so we get into a nice little rhythm. But to your point, the only place that an amino acid sits in residence in our body is in the muscle. Therefore, if we even get near the edge where we are not getting sufficient intake of amino acids, we don't have a buffer. We don't have a rainy day fund that we can dip into. We immediately start to cannibalize or break down muscle. Now, I don't think we have to make the case that that's a bad idea, but for the sake of completeness, we should state there is not really a single scenario I can think of that is clinically relevant where it would be desirable to give up muscle mass. You know, maybe if you're Mr. Olympia, you can sacrifice muscle mass, but for you and me, and I think everybody listening to us, giving up muscle mass because we are falling short on our protein intake would be a strategic error and an unforester. Exactly. I mean, for short term and long-term health. So, I think that's pretty clear. And that's where, you know, it comes, this RDA not being enough is a very important point because if we look at the actual, so let me go back to this isotracer, isotope tracer studies, those multiple studies, okay, multiple studies, as you know, have shown that the minimum. I will link to these in the show notes, by the way, just so that people can go and actually look at the papers as opposed to reading about it on social media. Sounds good. Multiple of these papers have shown that, you know, really going up to more like 1.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day is what is needed to prevent people, us, adults from being in this negative protein balance. That's quite a bit more than the 0.8 grams per kilo. 50 percent more. So, like most of the studies done isotope tracer studies are between 30 to 50 percent more. So, that's really important because if we look at the actual protein intakes of adults, you know, these are nutritional surveys that are done. Of course, they're all flawed. We can talk about it. I mean, we all know the flaws of question areas, but let's just talk about what we think people are actually taking in. Adults are mostly taking in all adults are taking in about 0.9 grams per kilogram body weight per day of protein. So, pretty close to what that RDA is. Not what it should be, right? Older adults, if we look at the gender, male versus female, males are taking in about 0.9 grams per kilo on body weight, females are taking in pointy. So, they're really just hitting that what we call RDA, which now we have established is not enough. The RDA is not enough to not to basically be in a net protein balance. So, that's really important. And that's essentially telling us that most adults are walking around without being in a good, you know, in steady state protein balance, right? So, there's a- So, here's an interesting question round up. So, we know the rates at which muscle mass, skeletal mass, are declining by decade in an aging population. Is there any way we can estimate, I'm guessing the answer is no, but on the off chance you would know, through any way we can estimate what percent of that decay is simply being driven by insufficient amino acid consumption versus other factors, right? Other factors would be anabolic resistance associated with aging. Other factors would be anabolic resistance associated with sedentary behavior. Other factors would be lack of sufficient resistance training. Like there are many factors that explain clearly the fact that as a person goes from 50 to 60 to 70 on average they're losing muscle mass. But it would be interesting to consider how much of that is explained by the fact that they are also barely scurting the minimum amount of nitrogen that they need. And in many cases falling below it. Right. So, to answer your question, I don't know that there's a direct way to do that, but I do know that there are studies that have shown that when older adults so older adults that are really more susceptible to the things that you were saying, like anabolic resistance where people are basically where your muscle tissue is not as sensitive to amino acids because mostly because of physical inactivity which increases with age. But when older adults take in 1.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day of protein it nearly eliminates some of the age related muscle loss that happens. So, I think that is some evidence to sort of support what you were saying in that if you just increase your protein intake to 50 percent. Yeah, 50 percent to this minimum what the RDA should be 1.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day. I think that's pretty much what most all the experts agree is that like it's time to change that RDA to that number. Right. The minimal amount that you need per day. If we just if elder adults just do that they're actually preventing a lot of the age related loss in muscle that occurs. And we also know that older women if they take in that amount of 1.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day they're 30 percent less likely to have frailty in old age which is also very important. Right. So I think that's pretty good evidence that it's clear that just increasing your protein intake by 50 percent is really important for aging for our muscle, for our muscle health and also is getting us out of that net negative state that we're in. So I mean I know so step one is we should move the floor from 0.8 to 1.2. Yes. I think the floor being the minimal amount of protein that we need to take in per day. This is not optimal. We're going to get into optimal. This is just like the new RDA. Right. And and as you mentioned so you kind of hit on this antibiotic resistance and I think that's also really really important point because it does compound with the fact that we're already not getting enough protein to to to to to be in a positive state of protein balance. And then you compound that with antibiotic resistance. Right. Now antibiotic resistance is where your muscle to tissue becomes less sensitive to amino acids and so you're not making as much muscle protein synthesis as an occurring as much as it does when you're younger. I think it's pretty consensus now that a lot of antibiotic resistance is not necessarily aging the aging process per say. So much as connectivity. In that tip. Yeah. And the experiment that Luke von Lund shared when he was on the podcast. I think was a very elegant way to do this, which is they took young subjects. I don't remember if they were in their 20s but it was thereabouts. Maybe in their 30s. So Luke very young subjects and they put a cast on one leg, no cast on the other and they left them in this state for a period of time. Again, the details have now completely escaped me. But the point is has not escaped me, which is after whatever period of time the individuals were casted on one leg, not casted on the other. Let's just say it was two weeks, four weeks, something to that effect. They removed the cast. Of course, while the person was casted, the casted leg did nothing. The other leg continued to go through exercises. They were doing just single leg extensions, leg curls, things like that. They then ran the stable isotope experiment in these individuals and looked at muscle protein synthesis rates and low and behold, the individual, the leg that was uncasted perfectly normal, the other one significant antibiotic resistance. So to me, that's the clearest demonstration that in activity is the main culprit. There's probably an all things equal age-related component as well. But I suspect that in activity is playing a larger role than aging per se. Totally agreed. I think there was another study that was done in older adults. So first of all, if we look at maybe we should talk about... Can we explain about the substance? I think it's worth people understanding why this idea matters. Yeah, antibiotic resistance. So when we eat protein, we're breaking down amino acids. And the primary amino acid that is anabolic is elucine. So these amino acids like elucine are getting into the muscle tissue and that is instigating it's a signal to increase muscle protein synthesis. So you're making more protein in your muscle and that in turn increases muscle hypertrophy. The other major signal to do that is mechanical force. So that would be the resistance training, the working of the muscles. So as we get older, our muscles do become less sensitive to those amino acids. Like the elucine transporter being one of the major ways, but I think there's others as well. And so what happens is that for the same amount protein dose and the study has been done. And if you compare younger adults and older adults, 65 years age and older, you give them the same exact protein dose. The older adults are have, like so I guess let me say it the other way. The younger adults have twice as much muscle protein synthesis. And for the older adults to get the same amount of muscle protein synthesis, they're a double their amount of protein to get the same amount of muscle protein synthesis as the younger adults. That's a lot that it double that amount of protein. So that's because again, it's just your muscle tissue is not sensitive to the amino acids and sort of get more of them in. You have to increase your intake of the protein. Now to your point about physical activity being the major driver here, it's I think that's 100% I agree. I think it's totally true and there's so much evidence out there to prove that Luke Van Loone's study being one. But also older adults that do engage in resistance training have the same anabolic response to the same amount of protein as younger adults. So in other words, the activity makes up for it. It does. You don't have to as your aging as you if you're a 65, 70 year old male listening to this episode and your engaging resistance training, you're likely not experiencing much anabolic resistance, maybe a little, but not much. And so you don't necessarily have to experience it if you are physically active and training. And that's really the bottom line here. That's the most important thing. If there's a public health message in this episode, it really is you should be training. Yeah, and think about the impact that physical training has on insulin resistance as well. Completely different mechanism of action. Probably ties in more to fatty acid accumulation within muscles and all sorts of other things that lead to it. But again, the most effective remedy is physical activity. And again, this is, yeah, I mean, it's just, it's been demonstrated so conclusively that actually nobody really talks about it. It's just taken for granted. Yeah, it's a good point. But, you know, so, so the anabolic resistance, if we're talking about like general population and again, we're going back to these surveys that are done, looking at how physically active our people, because those numbers are out there, right? We know that generally speaking adults, including young and old adults, about 32% of them engage in resistance training. How much? 32. And both young and old. If you just look at older adults, it's 22% of the population. So, essentially, most older adults, most people are not engaging in resistance training. They're not, they're not doing resistance training, right? And physical activity kind of mirrors a little bit those numbers. But I think the bottom line here is that most people putting in the effort, it's harder for people. Putting in the effort is harder. It's easier for them to just increase putting something in their mouth. That's why pills are so popular, right? I mean, people always kind of gravitate towards the easier thing to do, which is like, I'm going to eat something. I'm going to put something in my mouth. First is like putting in the effort. It's unfortunate, but it's like, it's a reality. And so I think that even just going back to this RDA being too low, it's just so important. It's so important because people are out there thinking they're getting enough protein, older adults younger adults. It's really more important with older adults. You have a little bit of wiggle room when you're younger, right? But I mean, and then on top of that, first of all, it's not enough protein. And then this antibiotic resistance is setting in. And most people are not being active. They're not engaging a resistance training. So there's all these compounding factors that's really just digging into their muscle. It's taking away this like insidious sort of taking away each year, each year. And then the next thing you know, your frail, you have circopenia, you know. Yeah, my patients are obviously indoctrinated into this, but I'm a bit surprised that there aren't more people that talk about this. You do a lot. But the medical system doesn't seem to talk enough about frailty and sarcopenia. And I worry that even when I wrote out live, I didn't do enough of a job emphasizing it. I mean, I certainly talked about it. But when I talked about four horsemen, I talked about cardiovascular and cerebral vascular disease, cancer, neurodegenerative and demanding diseases and metabolic disease. Because of course, those are the things that are the main assault on your lifespan. And relative to those frailty is not as big as as big and assault on lifespan. It is, as you know, the risk of falls are enormous and the mortality is very high once you're north of 75. But relative to those four, it's, you know, I had to pick four horsemen. I didn't want to go with five. But when you think about quality of life, which most people care about at least as much, if not slightly more than length of life, I think frailty just kind of wins the day. I think along with cognitive health and minimizing too much cognitive decline, frailty is the thing that seems to determine the quality of your final decade on this earth. And here we have lots of great tools, both in terms of training and nutrition that can offset that. And yet it is surprising that despite the fact that most people have witnessed it, that's the part that's amazing to me. It's not like the people who are suffering from frailty and sarcopeney are out of sight because there are parents and our grandparents. We've watched it. We've been to the movie over and over and over again. We see how it goes. And yet somehow we either don't think it's going to happen to us or it somehow still seems abstract because it's so many years off. I mean, what would your take on this overall challenge? I mean, well, for one, I think that I completely agree with the frailty risk being as important if not more. And witnessing it with like family members, you know, what I think it is is that it's like this incremental thing, right? Where something happens to like maybe there's a fall or maybe there's just a surgery, a plant surgery, a hipproplacement or a knee replacement. And your parents or your grandparents are inactive for many weeks and they lose a lot of muscle mass, right? So this happens when you're, yeah, if this this is a younger person, it's much easier to gain back that muscle mass, right? It's not the same with an older adult. It's just not the same. Even if you're engaging in resistance training after it's you're not going to get the same amount of muscle mass back as you've lost. And these sorts of events kind of happen like in periods of time, right? Where like there's a plan surgery, and there's a fall, maybe there's another surgery, or maybe there's the co-vader of the flu, whatever it is, they keep hitting, right? And you reach this sort of what's called disability threshold, where all of a sudden your parents like they just can't walk much at all anymore. And it's like all of a sudden it's like when did this happen? Well, the evidence was like mounting over the last five years when they had these points of inactivity that that were occurring. And so I think people kind of just don't follow the timeline, you know, where it's like they see what's leading up to it, and before this sort of catabolic crisis occurs, where then they reach this point now where they've just lost so much muscle mass from these several events that have occurred, where they're just not mobile. And then of course, anabolic resistance is kicking in even more and more and more and everything is just compounding. And I don't think they've like observed the timeline and said, oh, a plus b plus c's getting me to this point, right? And so I think that's kind of what happens, whereas with Alzheimer's disease, I don't know, it's just like this disease that everyone knows about, and it's like, yeah, this one thing causes the problem. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, I think, and again, you know, Luke Van Loone made a really good point when we spoke, which was when we draw the curve for how people lose strength and how people lose muscle mass, we draw it in a curved smooth line, which gives us the incorrect impression that this is a gradual and imperceptible changing physiologic process. But he goes, that's because it's averaging everything. If you zoom in and look at it at the individual level, it looks like this exactly as you described, discrete periods of loss from which there is no recovery because at the later points in life, it becomes very difficult to make those recoveries. All of this, of course, points back to where we're going today, which is when you are young and young is 40, 50, even 60, you have to build up as much physiologic headroom as possible. You have to prepare for the rainy day, because the rainy day is coming. It's not a question of if it's simply a question of when and exactly in what fashion it will be delivered, but you must prepare for this. You must steal yourself for what is coming and you must build up as much muscle mass and strength and cardiovascular fitness as you can muster because the longer you can ride it out, the better you're going to be. The cliff is coming for sure. I mean, it's like your retirement fun, right? You have to, you have to put money in. There's one day you will retire and if you don't put any money in that fund, you're going to be screwed. And so with the muscle mass, you're right. You have to bank as much as you can while you're young and we haven't even talked about optimal. We've just talked about like, like, not going backwards, right? Yeah. We've talked about not going backwards, which is what most people are doing, right? Because this RDA is too low for one. I think that's the big, the big problem. But, but optimal is the whole other story, right? And that's again where it is hard to, it's hard to kind of wrap your head around why there's controversy around this, although coming from the field of aging, I do have somewhat of a, I think there's been a little bit of a nuanced, you know, there's a nuanced approach to looking at how protein affects the way we age and I think some of that data has biased researchers and, you know, people to think that protein is bad. I think some of it's coming from that evidence, which we didn't have about. Yeah. Yep. But, but again, aside from that, it's really hard to understand why someone would be so opposed to increasing protein intake when there's really just no evidence that it's harmful, is at least in healthy adults. Yeah. I mean, I'd like to talk about harm down the line as we get further up the chain, because we've now just, I like the way we're talking about this, where we're going from sort of the point eight up to one point two. And now let's talk about going from one point two to one point six and one point six to two. But as you continue this journey, and you let's say you look at the data of which there are some studies looking at three grams per kilogram per per day. Which I think anybody who looks at the data would argue, you're not really getting a benefit at three grams per day that you aren't getting it two grams per day. You're not like the curve is saturating, you know, you're hitting an asymptote of muscle protein synthesis at that point. So there may be other reasons a person would choose to consume that much protein, satiety, and things of that nature. But from a purely anabolic reason, under normal conditions. So let's leave bodybuilding out of it. You're sort of hit the saturation curve, but can't seem to find the evidence that it's causing any harm. Right. So this is experimental evidence, even epidemiologic evidence, just no evidence. So with that said, let's not get ahead of ourselves. Let's go back to we've established a new floor. Really, there is nobody that should be consuming less than 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram per day. What happens is we start to increase that from 1.2 to 1.6. Great question. And this is again, is where I turned to the experts like Stu Phillips. In fact, he did a really great meta analysis looking at about 49 different studies in adults that were undergoing these are controlled trials resistance training alone or resistance training plus supplemental protein. And the supplemental protein went up to 1.6. We actually went above that. But what was really found in that study was that even going from like 1.2 grams per kilogram bodyweight per day, obviously, to 1.6 grams per kilogram bodyweight, people gained about 27 percent more lean body mass and 10 percent more muscle strength compared to just training alone. Same training, just adding the protein. Right. That's pretty big. I was going to say that is bigger than I would expect, especially on the strength side. It's in the strength side. They're they're getting so the protein itself. But if you think about it in a way, we're talking about supply and demand. Right. So now we're talking about more optimal, a little more optimal. We're talking about people that are training. That's number one. You need to be training. If we're talking about optimal protein intake, you need to be training. And then, you know, what's happening when you're training is you're breaking down muscle. You need protein to support the repair of that muscle and the rebuilding of it. And so that makes sense in a way. Yeah. But yeah, I was surprised by the strength as well. And so really, once you went above 1.6 grams, there were still increases in muscle protein curve. It's slowing down. I like the analogy that's due. Philips uses. He says, like if you have like a wet wash cloth and you squeeze all your squeeze it to get all the water out, you know, like most of that water is coming out at 1.6 grams, particularly on body weight. But you can keep squeezing a little and you're getting, you're still getting some water out. It's just sort of marginal. And it's like most people don't care about that difference. Some people do. Now, let's say you're someone that's obsessed with banking muscle mass. You're going to care about that. Let's say you're a high level athlete definitely going to have to go above 1.6. That's when you get into the more two 2.2 grams, particularly on body weight. So people that are doing a high level of training, whether that's endurance or strength training resistance training, right? Because endurance athletes, I mean, they're there. You were battling Catabolic. So that would be, I think the evidence for more optimal, you're talking about 1.6 grams per kilogram body weight. And then you can, you can get marginal benefits above that, right? Up to like 2.2 grams per kilogram body weight. But again, that's again, people that are really training. Yeah, to me, there's an analogy here with apobian cardiovascular disease, right? So if you look at the, the three bodies of evidence. So if you look at all of the epidemiologic data, if you look at all of the clinical trial data, and if you look at all of the Mendelian randomization data, and you plot every single one of them on a graph. And there's a beautiful graph, which will include in the show notes that does this. So on the x-axis, you, and it's done in LDLC. But again, LDLC apobie is easy to sort of view them together. So you have, on the x-axis, you have LDLC going down, right? So from 160, 140, 120, you know, 180, 60. So descending, LDLC, and on the y-axis, you have mortality. Cardiovascular mortality. So not surprisingly, all of these point down as LDLC goes lower, cardiovascular mortality goes lower. What's interesting, though, is you can see that there are different points in the curve at which it starts to matter more. And at some point, it flattens out. You don't get as much benefit from reduction. And so we could use the same argument of, well, what is optimal? What is, so, so it because we're doing the reverse here. Here, lower is better as opposed to going up on protein. But peer-lipy has done an analysis that has demonstrated that you will continue to see a meaningful reduction in cardiovascular disease as apobie heads towards 30 milligrams per deciliter. 30 milligrams per deciliter is really low by most people's standards. For context, 60 milligrams per deciliter is about the fifth percentile to population level. 30 milligrams per deciliter is about what a child is. So, you know, we're born with relatively low levels of apobie. And as we age, they just keep going up and up and up. Which, of course, is one of the things that's driving cardiovascular disease is this rise in apobie. So the question then becomes, how low do you need to go? Should everybody be walking around at 30 milligrams per deciliter? Is that the solution to eliminating ASCVD? And the answer is is probably not. Right? It probably depends on your previous exposure, though. Right? So, if I have a patient who's already had two stance placed and has a significant burden of disease, you bet your bottom line there at 30 milligrams per deciliter of apobie, even if we have to put three drugs on them to make sure that's the case, because they're burden of disease and their lifetime exposure to apobie has been so high. But if I have an individual who's 40 years old who has perfectly pristine coronary arteries and is walking around with an apobie of 60 milligrams per deciliter, I don't think you need to do a thing. I think they're just fine. And again, it's, it's the inability I think for people to understand that level of nuance and understanding when it's worth the second squeeze versus when just the sloppy squeeze is good enough is is is is is is is is very frustrating for a person like me who craves nuance. Right. Agreed. I love that analogy. And I think it's perfect because again, I do think most people that are training probably are getting a great amount of benefit from 1.6 grams per kilogram of body weight. But that doesn't mean you can't go above that and still get a little more benefit. Right. And certainly when you start to get into that energy deficit phase as well, like so we were talking about elite endurance athletes, that's one way to be in an energy deficit. But there's also people that are actively trying to lose fat, gain muscle. If you want to lose fat and gain muscle at the same time, you're going to have to take in a lot of protein. Yeah. And so that's another very important point. Another point I want to make is you're still dealing with an asymmetric target. And so we tell our patients to be closer to two. Now I know that's just going to get a whole bunch of people on the anti-protein train just losing their mind. I can just see the phosphorylation going off right now as they're watching this clip. How is this guy so irresponsible to tell his patients to eat two grams of protein per kilogram of body weight? Didn't he just hear what Rhonda said 1.6 is good enough for most people? Well, my patients unfortunately don't live in labs. Unfortunately Rhonda, my patients live in this place. It's called the real world. And in the real world, you can't always hit your targets. Some days you do, some days you don't. Some days you're traveling, some days you're not. Some days you can figure it out. Some days you can't. So if I'm telling somebody to hit 1.6 and one day they're at 1.2, another day they're at 1.7, another day they're at 1.5, another day they're at 1.9, on average they might hit 1.6. But how many days were they below versus how many days were they above? Let's just say it's an equal split. But we've just established the shape of this curve is like this. So that means every day you're below the downside is much greater than the upside of being above. In other words, all the days you're above are not making up for all the days you're below. So what I'd really like to do is shift the range so that your low day is 1.6 and your high day is maybe 2.2 and then guess what? You don't have days where you are ever, ever amino acid restricted. And this is the difference between people who take care of people in the real world and bozos who write on substack who don't know the first thing about clinical medicine when it comes to managing athletes and people who have to defend for themselves every day with every meal. And this is why I'm so tired of talking about this, but I feel we need to talk about it. And so if you're sitting there listening to this and you're confused and you're asking, oh my god, should I be eating 2 grams per day? Yeah, more or less. And that way if you fall short at 1.6, you can be confident that you're okay. But if you're aiming at 1.6 and you have a bad day and you will, when you hit 1.2, you might be taking a step backwards and you won't make up for it the next day. I can just tell you from personal experience, it's actually smarter to aim higher because I'm constantly not meeting the one thing. I am not. This is the thing. People look at me like I'm a protein eating machine, which first of all, I'm not, but secondly, I have a hard time hitting my goals too. I'm busy, I miss meals. Sometimes we just have a low protein meal like for whatever reason my kids want to have pasta for dinner and they don't, and we literally have pasta and sauce. It's like there's no freaking protein in this anyway. So it's very difficult if you don't have a chef preparing your every meal and I never have a chef preparing any of my meals unless I'm out at a restaurant to hit these targets every day. Right. And also, I was thinking about this because we mentioned the 1.2 being this sort of the minimum buy-in. The 1.6 grams per kilogram buy isn't necessarily just for people training a little bit. It's also older adults that are not trained. Like because we talked about the animal like resistance, some needing twice as much protein as well. And so what you're talking about here is going up to 2 so that you can really have an average at least of 1.6. Right. You're getting that average. But again, it's just I never want to fall below that. That's really the point is I know because again, I'm training every single day. Right. Now, am I training like a madman? No. But seven days a week, I'm either doing some form of cardio or something in the gym. So it's just I know that I'm going to take steps backwards if I'm below 1.6. So I'm going to over shoot so that my down day is 1.6. Right. And if my up day is 2.5 once in a while, who cares? Because that gets to the next point. Show me the data. Show me the data that eating 2.5 grams of protein per kilogram per day is even remotely harmful. Still waiting for it. I'm still waiting for the data. David Allison wrote a piece on LinkedIn recently where it was basically a call to anyone. Just show me the data that meet these criteria. Human clinical trial of this duration, that are the like nothing but crickets. Yeah. I mean, I haven't seen any human data either for sure. I mean, the most negative data I saw recently was a study that looked at total parental nutrition in ICU patients where the question was, hey, should we be ramming high amounts of protein in these people? And the most negative thing you could say is it had no benefit. And that's interesting. Yeah. Yeah. So maybe we shouldn't be ramming high protein total parental nutrition into the central veins of critically ill ICU patients. But it didn't harm them. Right. And if anybody's going to be harmed, I would think it's the people that are in renal failure. Right. Yeah. Exactly. I haven't seen it either. We haven't spoken specifically about pregnancy or adolescence. What do we know about protein requirements? Because there are clearly women listening to us right now who are pregnant or who will be pregnant. And I don't think there are any adolescents listening to us, but I bet there are parents of adolescents. So what kind of guidance would we want to give you? I mean, it goes up with pregnancy and also adolescents. I mean, so they're formal recommendations. I don't pay an attention. Don't remember the exact, again, it's all about like going a little bit above what's the RDA. And we've already established that's not enough. Right. So I mean, honestly, I think of people listening to this episode just knowing that 0.8 grams per kilogram body weight per day is just not enough at all. So if we are complex, nothing else that's the single most important take on message here. I really think it is because everyone looks at those guidelines, you know? Yeah. It's really funny. The other day I was eating something and I forget how much protein it had in it, but it had like a percent of daily requirement, but it was obviously baked to a very low number. Because I remember my son was looking at it with me and he goes, is that really like, I forgot the number was it that really like 40 percent of your daily protein requirement? It was ever relatively, and I said, no. But I just didn't have the energy to explain the RDA to him. So I was like, no, this is just wrong. You can ignore this. Growing is also an important time for protein, right? Because these amino acids and the essential amino acids are activating IGF1 growth hormone and that's really important for growth. I know there were studies done in like infants and toddlers that were given egg versus like milk versus like some kind of vegan protein and it was like clear that the egg was the winner here. Like giving protein with a more essential amino acids was important for growing taller. And that's always something that I, as a mom, think about, right? I'm always trying to get protein and Mason plus the kids are more active. In a kids are more physically active. They're doing sports and things like that, right, adolescents. So it's really, it's really important to get the protein requirements. I don't I haven't dug into all the nuanced of that data. It's just kind of my the way I look at it is, it's got to be like a 1.2, even though that's in a get doll. It's more like a 1.2 gram per kilogram for an adolescent who's pretty close and body size to an adult generally speaking. They start growing pretty tall. Yeah, I mean, I would think for kids it should be at least the 1.2 to 1.6. Anything, I mean, again, I just look at the activity level of my kids is they make me look sedentary. Right. So, um, okay, anything else we want to say on the topic of protein to help with some of the confusion that is out there. I think we should talk a little bit about some of the misconstrued understanding of mechanisms of action around mTOR, cancer, and stuff like that. I would say the other thing would be the calorie restriction people doing intermittent fasting, people doing anything if they wanted to be body recomposition the gaining of muscle and, you know, lose fat. I think that is a very specific, you know, group of population of people where the high protein intake is critical, right? Because if you're in a caloric deficit, you really are battling your body pulling from your muscle reserve. If you're resistance training that helps somewhat, but you're certainly not going to gain muscle. And we just talked about wanting to bank as much muscle as possible as we're younger while we can, right? Because we need that reserve because we're going to start pulling from it eventually. And so I think that that's where you start to get really high numbers, 2.2, even higher. I mean, you've confined study, the studies out there. It's like three grams per kilogram per body weight. Going above the 1.6 in this scenario seems to be key as well. You're getting up to that 2.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day because it does give you a little bit more edge over gaining muscle, muscle protein synthesis in combination with resistance training as well as it's like you mentioned. It's, you know, satiating, it's a little bit thermogenic. I don't know that that's the big, the big mechanism here. But I think the big mechanism here is just that like you're, you're really wanting to prevent this metabolism, right? So I think that's just another important point. Because there are a lot of people that do intermittent fasting, time-scripted eating, you know, they're trying to do body recomb, gain muscle, lose that. I think a lot of people are interested in that. There was one period in my life. Over the course of a year, I made a very dedicated goal to lose body weight and gain muscle. So I wanted to see like, could this be done? And it did require quite a bit of intermittent fasting or time-scripted eating. I suppose to be more accurate. But the amount of attention I had to pay to protein intake was pretty incredible. And what I did that seems counterintuitive, because I wasn't intermittent fasting because I believed that a fasted state was producing some benefit. So, you know, there's some people who think that, well, if I don't eat breakfast, I'm kicking off some atophagee or something. No, no, it wasn't. It was purely a caloric restriction play. So my fasting window did not prevent consuming liquid protein. In other words, if I wasn't eating breakfast or lunch, which I wasn't, I was only having a meal a day, which was dinner, that I would still consume protein shakes outside of those windows. Otherwise, I could never hit the protein target. So I was in a caloric deficit, but in a amino acid excess. And again, you can actually do that with liquid protein pretty easily, because basically all you're getting is, you know, you're getting relatively few calories, because you're just consuming way protein. Did you have any like GI, like problems you're consuming so many shakes? No, really? I get. No, but I did a lot of experimentation, right? So ultimately, I set a lot of brand. I'm blanking on the name of it now. I have no affiliation with these guys, and I'm blanking on their name. A scent? Maybe? Does that ring about? Yeah, I really like them. I got out. I'll give them a shout out because one, it was the only protein I found I could mix directly in water and not have it be lumpy. I didn't even need a blender. This was a sound silly, but the hassle of me having to like wash a blender twice a day was sometimes an impediment to not making a shake. So just be able to put the scoop or two scoops, I would usually put into a glass with water and mix it with a fork and actually drink it and have it be totally fine and not, you know, lumpy. I don't know how they do this, but it was amazing. It actually tasted fine. I don't like sweet drinks that much, but it was not too sweet. And absolutely no GI issues at all. Whereas sometimes the pure egg proteins, I didn't like the feeling on my gut. So for whatever reason that worked for me, but to your point, it is it's another level of challenge if you're trying to recomp in that way. Right, or people on GLP1, right? We're stepping out of this. Right? I mean, like, and I don't know how how difficult it is to eat a meal versus like take a protein shake. So I know you're like, you don't have a real, you're associated pretty much all the time. You don't have a real appetite, but also digestion is slow. So if you're like consuming more protein, like I don't know how that all affects. We've seen in our patients. So again, I would say, I get asked this all the time. I would say 15 to 20% of our patients are on triseptotide. And unlike five years ago, when we started using some of GLU-tied in patients, and we're just watching muscle fall off these people. And frankly, my point of view five years ago was, I don't know about these drugs. I think, you know, I think there's some benefit in some people, but I think there's a lot of downside. I today think that virtually anybody can use these drugs safely, but and by safely, I don't just mean in the obvious sense of the word. I mean, safely for long term muscle health as well, right? But it requires a ton of deliberate attention. So I'm glad you brought it up. That's this is exactly the group of people who you want to be using easy to digest protein sources. And if you're on triseptotide, you don't really want to stake. You don't really want to have a big chicken breast. You might not want to even have an omelet. But if we have to make sure you're hitting that 1.6, you might be doing a bunch of liquid shakes. And yeah, we can sit here and poop who processed food and say, how disgusting is it that people have to resort to eating shakes? Okay, fine. But if the alternative is they're not getting enough protein and they're on a drug that is making them anorexic, I mean, we know we also know the downside of that. Well, the answer is clear, right? You don't want to be losing muscle mass for sure. My point is, you know, we do dexib before and after, we're not seeing the type of muscle loss we saw with our v1 approach to this. Right. What kind of dose are they on like a higher dose? No, I mean, I think for look for, you know, triseptotide starts at 2.5. Some people are getting enough benefit there. I mean, the other thing that I think our approach has been is that slow and steady wins the race. Right. So we've seen anecdotally, some data. I've seen, I've heard from, from others and we've seen it as well that yo-yoing on and off these drugs is probably a bad idea. So I always tell a patient, look, I'd probably rather you were on 2.5 milligrams until there was a new drug that we thought was even better, then you're on 10 milligrams. You lose a ton of weight. You come off. You gain. You go back on. You lose like this, the idea of being on a saw is probably a bad idea. I think the data suggest you're getting most of the value by about 10 milligrams. So once you go to 12.5 and 15, which are the two highest doses, you're still getting a benefit. But it's, you know, it's like most drugs. You're getting most of the benefit at the lowest dose. So five to seven point five milligrams of triseptotide is probably where you're getting the majority of the dose. And again, I, I'd much rather a patient be sort of slow and steady on it and as opposed to try to go for maximum and rapid weight loss. What do you think about some of that data on like heart issues or bone loss? Do you think, it is that concern you at all? Sure. I think it all does. I mean, I think all of the stuff has to be paid attention to. And I think the question again comes back to how much of that is occurring due to, due to training, right? How much of that is happening due to the loss of amino acid intake and the loss of training? Well, the neuropsychiatric, I mean, like that's another one on the eyes. What I'm interested in is, you know, we have these GLP when receptors like so many different tissues. So what, systemically, like, how is it beneficial? Was it not beneficial? Like, I don't know that we really know. We have data where there's obviously positive effects. You see, like, reduced Alzheimer's disease incidents with people taking this GLP one receptor agonist. But is that how much is that due to weight loss, right? Yeah, we've looked into this a lot because I do remain, you know, it's funny. We did a podcast on this somewhat recently where I went through this particular question, which is will GLP one receptor agonist ultimately prove to be geo-protective? And I defined, I came up with a very obscure way to define that, which is independent of weight loss, right? Because obviously, at the macro level, they're going to be geo-protective because if you apply them to people with type 2 diabetes and significant obesity and you correct the metabolic dysfunction, you're going to live longer. So by that regard, it's a geo-protective agent. But the real question is, if you take a person who is of normal weight, who does not have type 2 diabetes, but maybe has a higher risk for Alzheimer's disease and you microdose them. So you're giving them 2.5 milligrams per day, which, by the way, we are doing in some patients for metabolic, for obscure metabolic condition without obesity, right? So we have patients who have, um, who have diabetes, but are already at very low body weight. We have two patients actually in our practice, in this regard. And after lots of detailed back and forth, machination with Ralph DeFranza, who's a previous guest on the podcast, you know, we sort of realized that at least one component of the drug regimen for these patients was going to be a GLP one agonist. Now, it seemed very counterintuitive to give Trezzepatide to people who have a BMI of 23. But we've been able to do it without them losing weight. So again, very careful strategies around nutrition and the effect on their diabetes is profound. So they're looking more metabolically healthy. Oh my god, totally. I mean, these are really interesting cases that, you know, maybe at some point, obviously, a D identified away, it would be interesting to talk about, where, you know, you have OGTTs that are unrecognizable. You simply cannot believe the degree of metabolic dysfunction in a person who otherwise looks the way they look. And in one case, in particular, it was so confusing that even after all the genetic testing we did, like we simply couldn't figure out an answer for this. We couldn't understand where the beta cell fatigue was coming from absent a formal diagnosis of type one diabetes. And within three months of being on 2.5 milligrams of Trezzepatide, this individuals, OGTT had almost normalized and I suspect by about six months it will. That's fascinating. And we've managed to do this without any weight loss. So this to me is the interesting question, right, which is when you look at some of the Alzheimer's biomarkers, which are improving, improving significantly, it begs the question, should this be part of the playbook for an individual who's at high risk? Especially given that we now, I think really understand how to make sure people don't lose weight and don't lose lean mass and therefore, I suspect, don't lose bone density and all these other things that matter. Or like you said, you know, if you're doing this microdose, like maybe you're not going to be as issued. Like you're just still have somewhat of an appetite because you're on such a low dose. Maybe you're going to have a little bit of an effect. We've also seen some other weird things anecdotally. Patients have told us that when they inject in the abdomen, so when you inject in the fat, in the subcufat of the abdomen, the anti, basically the anorexic effects are greater than if you inject in the leg or butt. And we looked into this and there was some, some mechanistic data to suggest that maybe you're getting more vagal tone when you inject in the abdomen. Again, I just don't know if any of these things are correct, they would need to be studied. But again, that would be a very important piece of data, right? If there's a way that if there's a location you can inject this, where you minimize the anorexic effect of the drug. Again, for some people, that would be a feature, right above. For some people that would be a bug as opposed to a feature. So you have to understand how to, how to, how to use the tool. Yeah. Um, and this just reminded me of something that we should have pointed out. Like talking about the protein requirements, grams, per kilogram bodyweight. I do think it's important like because we're talking about, we were just talking about obese people. Yes, is that why do you brought this up? And yeah, exactly. Where it's like, you know, most people aren't going to do a dexist key on to see what their lean body mass is. But like, ultimately, I think, you know, and I've talked to a variety of experts, Brad Schoenfields, two Phillips, they agree that really, if you're someone that's overweight or obese, you shouldn't be calculating it based on your actual weight because you're protein required. It's more like your target weight, right? Or that would be, I mean, if you empirically could measure your lean body mass, that would be better. But yeah, I just wanted to point that out. Yep. And I'm glad you did. So that's right. For most people, probably not much of an issue. But if you're, if you're at 300 pounds right now, and your ideal bodyweight is 220. Um, and again, I don't, you don't need a dexist to figure that out. A dexic can help. But most people who are 300 pounds remember, you know, gosh, you know, at the end of high school, I was 220. That was my good weight. Or maybe, you know, at the end of high school, I was 200 pounds, which is I'll probably never get back into those jeans again. But, you know, by the end of my freshman year of college, I was 220. That was kind of a good weight for me. And then it's just kind of gone downhill from there. You know, I had this orthopedic. There's the story of how you've got to be 300 pounds. Yeah. Most people can figure out 220 is probably my goal. And that's what I should be targeting. Yeah. Um, but yeah. So should we get back into like, yeah. So it's a great point, right? Which is, how do we reconcile the following? So caloric restriction as an intervention, as a geopolitic intervention is the oldest one in the book. I'm not really aware of an intervention where a non-genetic intervention that has from from a longer standing perspective produced a more consistent outcome in terms of laboratory animals, where you restrict the mercaliaries, and they're going to live longer. So again, to my knowledge, there are only two interventions that have extended life across all four models of organisms from yeast, worms, flies, and mammals, rooms. And that is caloric restriction and rapomison. And they have something in common, which is they both result in the downregulation of M. Tour. Right. So we also know that in Amino acid, you just mentioned a moment ago called Lucine is the single most important of all the Amino acids at turning up M. Tour. So how can we reconcile the idea that protein seems to be good for you, but M. Tour going down seems to be good for you, at least in another way. Well, for one, I'm being very fesic. I know. I know. I know. I know the answer to this question. And it's like, oh gosh, where do we start? I mean, you know, because let's ignore the worm and the fly and all that because we care. I mean, even the rodents is like, or we're getting to, like, it's a stretch, right? But obviously, you know what else turns on M. Tour, exercise. This is a collectivity of mechanical force, turns it on in our muscle. And we know exercises like one of the best things that we can do for our health. I think here, I think, simplicity, the best way to think about this is that you want M. Tour active in your skeletal muscle. You want it active in your skeletal muscle. You don't necessarily always want it active systemically, but if you are exercising, if you're moving around and you're taking your protein, it's going your muscle. Actually, we know that for a fact. I just, I talked about antibiotic resistance and how exercise can counter that while it's increasing the loosening transporter, the expression of loosening transporter. It's causing loosening and other branch chain amino acids to go up into skeletal muscle. Multiple human studies have shown this. These are, you know, tracer studies, beautiful data, no argument. Exercise causes loosening and other branch chain amino acids to be taken up into skeletal muscle, where you want it to be, so that it activates M. Tour increases muscle protein synthesis. When it comes to deactivating M. Tour, whether that's through protein restriction or rapomias, that would be like an hours long podcast talking about all the nuanced data there because there's all sorts of differences with the different genus. Sex differences in the rodents, everything, you're aware of all this data. My biggest thing here with the protein restriction, we'll talk about one. I did spend six years in grad school working with mice. I did a lot of animal studies. Okay, these mice are in a small cage. They are not physically active. They're not running around. They're, I mean, they move a little bit, but they're ultimately not under threat. They're not under threat. They're being fed, they're adlhythm. They're just being fed up, you know, as much protein as they want, but perfectly thermoregulated. Totally, no, they're not being exposed to influenza or COVID or whatever viruses, anything that's going to take them out for period of a couple of weeks. They're in a sterile environment. And so, they're happy. They're happy, and that's it, right? People are not mice, right? We talked about earlier as we get older, we're being exposed to infectious diseases. Things are going to make us immobile for a period of weeks. And that is devastating to us, especially when you add them up. And they happen this year. And then the next year it happens again. And then you're just losing that muscle mass, right? And then you reach that disability threshold. You talked about Luke Van Loone, talking about those curves. It's very clear. I mean, you can see the data where there's a disability threshold. You get enough of these like catabolic crisis events, right? Where you're just immobile first or in period of time because you've had a surgery or you've had the flu or whatever, kept you inactive. That doesn't happen to these mice, right? So protein is much more important to humans because we, of course, need that muscle mass. And we need to bank it early. We've established that. And I think that's a really important difference here is that, you know, we can't just look at the data in mice and go, oh, you can restrict them from protein and they live longer and they're fine. Well, they're not going through these catabolic crises. They're not going through these you know, points of, you know, not moving for a period of time for like, you know, losing all this muscle mass, then that happening and they reach this disability threshold. And then, you know, it's very different. So I think that's first and foremost important to point out. The second thing is that if we're talking about protein intake, I think that you and I agree, the optimal scenario here isn't a sedentary person just sitting there eating as much protein as they want. No, they need to be moving physically active. Like, that's the whole point. You're supporting your physical activity by increasing your protein intake. And so in that scenario, again, the amino acids that are activating M2 are going to skeletal muscle. Like, that's been shown. Lucine is going into skeletal muscle. So who cares if you're intakeing and more? Yeah. In fact, I think that's such an important point, Rhonda, that I would even go one step further, which is if you told me come up with the optimal nutrition strategy for the individual who is active and then come up with the optimal nutrition strategy for a person who is going to be sedentary, they would be very different. I'm going to try to talk that sedentary person into not being sedentary, but if at the end of the day, I can't. If that individual says, I just, I don't want to do anything. I just want to sit in front of my computer. You know what? It probably makes sense to be a little bit caloric or stricted. Right. Because at least I want to make sure I can't solve your metabolic challenge through activity, but what if I could at least solve it through nutrition restriction? And again, I think it's the inability of people to understand that those are very different states. Right. You can't not treat those two people the same way. Right. And it's really, it's, there's even, there was a study by, um, falter long ago of all people. Like years ago, came out as a large cohort study looking at dietary protein intake from vegetable versus meat sources, right? And we all know that meat sources have higher levels of essential amino acids like lucine. And all cause mortality was looked at and, you know, the same, you know, statement that you've heard millions of times from other studies about, okay, if you, you know, vegans have a lower all cause mortality than meat eaters. Well, turns out when you actually start to analyze like the data and and correct for a lot of confounding factors, meat eaters that were that were physically active, not obese or overweight, didn't smoke, didn't drink excessive alcohol. So in other words, they didn't have all these unhealthy lifestyle factors. They had the same mortality rate as the, you know, vegans. So I think that also is a good, is a good point here where it's like, okay, if you're going to be a sedentary person that's smoking and if you have unhealthy lifestyle factors, you know, maybe you don't need to be so obsessed. You definitely want to make sure you're at least getting the minimal amount of protein because you don't want to be in the deficit. But, you know, you don't want to necessarily just be constantly activating M2R if you're just going to sit around and smoke and be overweight and not do anything with that protein, right? Yeah. And the other thing I think that is, is missing from this discussion is, and this is where I think inflammation serves as a great analogy, right? So I think most people on the surface understand that a constant on state of the inflammatory system would be bad. But of course, if you had no inflammatory response, that would be also bad. So the ideal state is inflammation when you need it, otherwise, off. Inflammation when you need it, otherwise, off. And I think that's probably the right way to think about this, right? Which is we want M2R on when it has a job to do and we want it relatively silent when we don't. And I think if Rapamysin is zero protective, and, um, when I say if I mean in humans, I think it's unambiguously protective across most species, but we still don't know if the species of interest is is going to benefit from this drug, and we may never, by the way, but it's probably working by tamping down the chronic inflammatory component of what we see with M2R activation, which by the way, might actually involve inflammation as well as one of the many things. So that there's also this challenge of trying to, to get folks to understand the difference between chronic and acute things. Again, cortisol, right? Great example, right? So cortisol, vital hormone, pulse, you know, the appropriate rhythm of cortisol is essential for life. If you took that away, you would actually be dead. That's called Addison's disease, but cortisol constantly being on would also be a problem, right? That would be cushionous disease. So both extremes, bad, it's, do you, do you know when you need it, and what it's supposed to do? And I think the same is true with M2R. I'd also like to see data comparing, like even, even if it's animal data, comparing like giving, giving rap and myisin or inhibiting, you know, somewhat inhibiting M2R versus like physical activity, like in these, like making them run on a treadmill, like being physically active, because if you look at like a lot of the protective effects of rap and myisin, I'm like, this is what exercise does. And actually, it does it better. So I'm just not convinced that someone who is, who's already bought in to like how important exercise is, both cardiovascular and weight training. Well, Eric Verdun made a very interesting podcast, a very interesting comment on my podcast a while ago. And so Eric is in the camp that he does not believe rap will be your protective in humans. And he talked about the longevity quotient. So for listeners, the longevity quotient is a plot, a very famous plot that on the x-axis puts body size and on the y-axis puts life span. And you just plot all the organisms on this thing. And as a general rule, it rises up into the right. The larger an animal is the longer it lives. And it's a pretty straight line. In fact, we should find a good example of it and link to it in the show notes. But there are always animals that punch above and below their weight. So there are animals that fall off that line either too high. So these are animals that live much longer than you would expect based on their body size. And there are animals that punch well below their body weight. They live much shorter than they should based on their body weight. Well, turns out two interesting examples are mice and humans. mice live on average two years. I forget the exact number. They should be living close to four or five years, I think, based on the longevity quotient line. So they are punching well below their weight. And humans, we live 80 years. We should probably be 40 according to the data. By the way, we did live 40 years until modern medicine came along. So maybe we were totally on the curve correctly until medicine 2.0 came around at the turn of the last century. And basically over five generations doubled our lifespan. Eric argues, and I think this is a very interesting argument. Rapa mice and disproportionately works well in animals that are below the longevity quotient. So that's why it works so reproducibly in mice. But he argues, it might not have any effect in humans because we're already we've already captured so much of our genetic potential in terms of lifespan. Now, the idea that Rapa would give us an extra 15% of life, he feels is just kind of hard to imagine. And again, because a theoretical argument, it's super interesting. But I'd never heard it in relation to the longevity quotient before. And I thought it was very much worth pondering. Yeah. Well, that's interesting. I've also seen data with Rapa mice and given to people that were undergoing resistance training. And it like blunted obviously some of the muscle proteins synthesis as would be expected. I don't remember the dose of M. Torre. It wasn't like I'm sorry. I wrap a mess and it wasn't super super high. But to me that was like enough to be like, well, I mean. Yeah. And then the question of course is, is there a way around that, right? Is there a way where you could intermittently dose it? You just take it once. You time it so that it's not in proximity to about a resistance training by a couple of days or something like that. But yeah, there's a lot there. There's a great expression I heard recently, which is mice usually lie. Monkeys sometimes lie. It's humans we care about. It's just fantastic, right? Well, to get back to the M. Torre story, I think that's like that that recent study. I don't know, it was in the last couple of years that came out. It was the animal study where they gave mice 25 grams of protein. And you know, M. Torre was activated in macrophages and it was like this whole story was pieced together about 25 grams of protein. Sorry, maybe it was the equivalent. Yeah. The equivalent. Yeah. Yeah. Wow. That's the that. The way they're eating their body weight in human equivalent. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But it was essentially like arguing that atherosclerosis was being caused by protein. And I'm like, you kidding me? Like, well, for one, we know atherosclerosis, like the bigger story there, right, is not protein. But again, it comes down to this whole activating M. Torre in like systemic circulation versus the loosing going to the muscle because you're physically active. And keep in mind, like those transporters, like the loosing transporters, they're pretty sensitive for quite a while. I mean, you're talking about at least 24 hours, right? Maybe even longer. But definitely 24 hours. I think that I think the mice, atherosclerosis studies are very dangerous. It's it's it's we have to be very careful. They have a very different life of protein system than we do. They evolved in a totally different manner than we did. They're amount the amount of protein. They require is totally different from us. So I'm always I'm always really wary when I see these studies that are using the mouse model of atherosclerosis. I think I understand why we do it because it's much easier and cheaper than looking at that primates. And obviously, you know, we can't do these studies in humans. But you can find a lot of things in mice when it comes to atherosclerosis that don't seem to matter whatsoever in human biology. I would chalk this up to one of those examples. So then there you have it. I mean, that's like a lot of the controversy around protein being bad for you and activating M. Torre is coming from that study. And then there's countless studies on cancer increasing with IGF1 and M. Torre. And again, same deal where, you know, IGF1 exercise is causing IGF1 to go into brain, to go into muscle. So people also don't appreciate how short the half life of IGF1 is. Like it's a staggeringly short half life molecule. Oh, really? Oh, yeah, it's insanely short half life. When administered systemically, it's on the order of minutes. Okay. Yeah. And by the way, administering IGF systemically is allows you way to get it to the muscle. Right? Like it's, you want to think of it almost as a paracron thing, right? Where it has to be delivered into the muscle. So yeah, I look all roads for me, still point back to this idea that, and I know you would agree with me. So it's not going to be that controversial. But exercise is the most important drug. I just don't, I'm just not aware of a drug in quotes that is that is better than exercise. And I know there's this enormous effort to figure out a way to put exercise into a pill. I just can't imagine it'll ever happen. It might be, there might be several pills that come out of it, right? We might figure out a way to make cloth though. We might figure out a way to make BDNF. We might figure out a way to deliver IGF directly to muscles. Like there might be a whole bunch of little things. There's like 500 molecules. Yeah, this is, this is, this is, the member, remember, I don't know if you remember this. I'm dating myself. But I don't know if you remember Irisin? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there are no shortage of these things. Right. And there's so many things going on for sure that has been official with exercise. And just kind of bring it back to the protein, you know, I think that they go hand in hand. Like we're talking about being optimal, increasing our health span, increasing our lifespan, having a good quality of life, then you're talking about having a higher protein intake to support your physical activity, period. And athletes, there's some of the longest live individuals on the planet. And we talked about this in our last podcast. I mean, Olympic athletes live on average five years longer than the gen population. Same goes with a lot of these athletes playing these indoor team sports. And there are several studies out there looking at elite athletes, including people in the NBA, major league baseball, you know, a lot of these big professional sports leagues. They're taking in, and at least, you know, two grams per kilogram of protein per day. So clearly, protein isn't killing them. In fact, they're living longer than the degenerate population. So again, it comes down to that supporting, like exercise, exercise is the king, right? Exercise is like the most important thing. But you need and protein to support that physical activity. And so I don't understand why anyone's arguing about that. Like, what's the argument? Yeah, I'm, I'm despite all the, despite all the flack I'm taking, I'm going to just defend this one and continue. And by the way, if new data emerge, I'm always happy to change my mind. I've changed my mind about so many things. It is absurd. The number of things have changed my mind on. I've changed my mind on GLP ones. I've changed my mind on sonas. I mean, I can count the list of things I've changed my mind on over the past 10 years. And if there are data that will make me change my mind, I will stand up here with a straight face. And I will eat crow. And I will tell you that I've changed my mind. But I'm going to stand by my recommendation. Two grams per kilogram per day. And my rationale, again, I explained that earlier in the podcast, but just to restate it, if you aim for two on the day you fall short, you'll still be at 1.6. If you aim for 1.6 on the day you fall short, you'll be 1.2. And that 1.2 won't be made up for on the next day. Because the downside is asymmetric compared to the upside. So that's our recommendation clinically. And that's how we work with real people in the real world, not on our sub-stack pages to try to help them with a longer life. Yeah. Is there anything else with the protein? No, let's never talk about this again, pending new data that fundamentally changed the way we think about it. All right, I want to pivot to another topic, which you may be single-handedly more responsible for the buzz on this topic than anybody else I can think of. And that is creatine. So should we start with, well, first of all, just tell me, what got you interested in this topic, right? So this is when, like, you're not the typical demographic, no offense intended by that. But like, when I was in high school, right, and I'm probably 15 years older than you, like we as young boys in high school in the 80s were mainline and creatine, like it was our day job. But here's the thing, I don't remember why, right? Like I, it must have been your friends were doing it. Well, no, no, no, but it must have come from bodybuilding magazines. Like I don't know what the, I don't know where we got the information. Because like, I was thinking about this the other day because I knew we were going to talk about this. And I was like, okay, there was no internet, like, like, what was our source of truth? It was muscle and fitness. So there must have been something in muscle and fitness that told us this. And then, you know what I realized we did, we would hang out at supplement stores. Like we'd literally go in and the supplement stores always had some big bro in baggy pants that paper down to his feet and he was barely wearing a shirt and he was yoked and he was explaining to us. And we were like, at the altar of this guy and he was telling us there's creatine monohydrate and then there's like creatine phosphate. And at the time, everyone said creatine phosphate is better. And you have to load 30 grams a day for two weeks. Then you go into your maintenance phase at five grams a day. And then you repeat the cycle every eight weeks or whatever it was. And we were like buying this stuff by the truck load. And this is like almost, I don't know what 40 years ago, right? Or, you know, 30, 30, yeah, easily 35, 40 years ago. Okay. Fast forward. I don't know a few years ago, we're paying attention to creatine again. Well, you just made a really important point. And I'll talk about my journey in a minute. And that is it's one of the most well-studied sports related supplements ever, right? And then there's just decades and decades of research out there on creatine a lot of it has to do with muscle. We'll talk about, you know, the brain, which is sort of my my interest. But I mean, it's, it's one of the tried and true. I mean, it's safe. I don't know that there's any other sports supplement out there that's safe as creatine. I don't think there is. So that's an important point, right? My journey with it began with my obsession with increasing my resistance training after like your performance or your hypertrophy or your recovery, what specific? And everything that we talked about in the first half of this episode, where I realized that I was so focused on endurance training for long-term health, for brain health, that I sort of neglected my muscle mass and thinking about how important muscle mass was for long-term health. And you've been, you've chronicled this pretty well on your social media. You've got videos if you're deadlift doing like your mullion bracing, yes. So this is, so, you know, after, after having a couple of experts on ingest, when I have an expert on, I read the literature voraciously. Like, I just dive in and I want to be in it, right? And it's part of the fun. I love it, right? Like, this is like, I get to learn all this new material that I'm interested in. And so, I finally realized that I wasn't doing enough training resistance training. And so I got a trip, I have a personal trainer now. I'm doing resistance type training. I do like a cross-fit type training for at least three hours a week. I'm doing now. It started out. I was doing like 30 minutes a week. So I've gone from 30 minutes to like three hours a week, big difference, right? And that's when I became really interested in creatine, or I was like, okay, I know this one supplement is obviously like shown to benefit people that are working out. I didn't know why everything until like gotten to the literature, but that's kind of what got my interest into creatine. So I started supplementing with, well, let's talk about creatine, right? So creatine, most people know, creatine is stored in our skeletal muscle as creatine phosphate. And it's essentially used to rapidly recycle ATP, a denocene triphosphate. This is the major energy currency in our cells. And so creatine phosphate is able to help rapidly recycle that so you can make energy quicker. Very relevant for a lot of scenarios, including high-intensity, able training resistance training, even endurance training, because it increases, I'm sorry, it decreases recovery time, because you're recycling that ATP. So it's really relevant for a lot of scenarios. And we do make creatine and dodginessly, that's another thing where it's like, okay, this is a molecule that we make in our body. It's not like a dangerous thing that I'm really scared of. We make about 1 to 2 grams in our liver. Our liver's make about 1 to 2 grams a day. And then we can take in another, depending on how much meat meat is the major source of dietary source of creatine, right? So vegetarians, 100% rely only on their 1 to 2 grams a day. And they're probably the population that benefits the most with supplementing with creatine. And there's just countless studies out there showing this because they're just not getting anything from their diet, essentially. And there's like, it's negligible, whatever is in plants. Does a type of meat matter does fish versus beef versus chicken, I would imagine there are different foods. Yeah, there are. There are differences. Like beef would be the most. Most. Yeah. Yeah. And it's probably why people on a carnivore diet, they just get so like jacked. Right? They're getting the creatine, they're getting the protein and they're working now. And it's like this combination, right? They're just getting so much. Do you have a sense of, if you're reading, if you need a 12 ounce steak, how many grams of creatine would you get in there? I people can figure that out with, you know, Google, I don't, I know, generally speaking, that like on average, people are getting in their diet, like probably like 1 to 2 grams. Additional. Yeah. So you got your endogenous plus. Yes. Yeah. And then you can supplement on top of that, right? And this is where I would say, for many, many, many decades, the literature was all about the effects on exercise performance, right? Because the muscle is a big consumer of energy, especially if you're working the muscle. And so I'm totally just summarizing this, like, you know, I'm not going into every single detail. But generally speaking, five grams a day of creatine is enough to saturate your muscle tissue. It takes about a month, maybe three weeks, to actually fully saturate it. If you're doing five grams a day, which is where the load of the pump. And the bros that we're telling me to take 30 when I was right 13. That's coming up. That might have been overkill. Yeah. Well, no, it's coming from the fact that in these studies that have been done, because people haven't been taking the five grams a day for like three weeks. And they're doing the short term, you know, weeks long study. They want to, like, quickly get their muscle saturated. And that's why they do that loading phase. And so most people don't have to do that. The problem, unless you're like doing some competition and you like need, you need, you need it like right then and there. But like generally speaking, it's just not necessary. And you really just increase the risk of like GI distress. And I think today is just take five every day. And then you should be all right. Well, that was my thinking, like up until a few months ago. And I was, I was taking for the last year and a half. I was taking about five grams a day. And that, you know, the evidence there is that the, the creatine is essentially improving your exercise performance in that it's, you can do one to two more reps or, you know, you're essentially the volume of training goes up because you're recycling that energy quicker. You're able to do more. And that is why you then get gains in muscle mass and strength. It's not like the creatine itself is acting like protein, right? It's not increasing muscle protein synthesis if you're just a couch potato. You have to do the work. You have to do the work. Right. And the reason that you do increase the muscle mass and strength is because you're able to do more work. Right. And so that was, and it's pretty obvious, like anyone that for me with my CrossFit, it really is useful because there's a lot of explosive like training, a lot of hit. So for me, and it was pretty obvious that it was having an effect. And of course, there's probably a mixture of placebo in there as well. I'll definitely admit that. But then, you know, I started getting interested in some of these brain cities. As you know, I'm very interested in brain health, energy genocides, risk, anything that can improve cotton defunction in a safe way, like any kind of safe, new tropic. And that's where I really started to get interested. And this is built up over years where I was getting interested in the brain effects, even though I hadn't been supplementing with it. I had been sort of just keeping an eye on the literature. And finally, when I started using it, I got pushed over. I'm like, okay, I'm all in. I want to get into this. And so you felt like you got all in because you actually felt a difference or you were like, well, look, I'm already taking it for these muscle purposes. Let me really now go deeper on the cognitive science. Yes, I was already like this is clearly improving my, first of all, the literature was clear with the muscle. There's a lot of literature. You can't deny it. You just can't, like whatever one off said it without. Yeah, it is a little odd. There aren't that many things that show up where the consistency of the studies is always in the same direction and really what you're basically looking at is the magnitude or the effect size. But you're always on the same side of the tornado plot. Exactly. Right. And when we're talking about 40 years or whatever of research, this is a lot of data. With the brain, so for one, your brain does make a little bit of creatine as well. Something, I don't remember. I think it's somewhere between one to three grams a day. But the data on the effects of supplemental creatine on the brain isn't dating back as far. And so you do have to kind of take the data with someone of a grain of salt because there's a lot of small studies and they're not like, you know, I wouldn't, you can't hang your hat on. I mean, like, this is the end all be all. However, I feel like as more data is going to come out, I'm pretty certain that it's been talked about some of the measurements because I think one of the advantages of studying the effects of creatine on physical performance is we have really good objective measurements that you can demonstrate in a short period of time. You could do a 12 week study and in just 12 weeks, you could objectively unambiguously determine if there was hypertrophy and if there was an increase in performance. Right. How do we do that on the cognitive side? Right. What are the data that you've been looking at that have given you an increasing level of confidence? Okay. Well, first, let's talk about dose because that's important. And I think that that was where initially when researchers were looking into like the effects of creatine on the brain, the five grams a day didn't seem to be doing anything in terms of like getting creatine into the brain. And so the question is crossing the blood brain barrier that's established? It is. However, the muscles are greedy as hell. Yeah. Lovely, greedy muscles. Yeah. The greedy muscles. And so there when you're taking in up to about five grams of of creatine, they're they're consuming it. They're they're taking their share. Especially if you're training. If you're training, it's like, yeah, exactly. But even if you're not training, it's still going to muscle. But yes, especially if you're training. And so it was a there was a German study that that was published a few years back that did dose, a dose dependent effect and looked at creatine levels in certain brain regions. And that study, the naive question, are they using an isotope or they label in the creatine? I believe they were using an ion. They're not using like CSF levels or anything. I believe it was an isotope. Okay. And but don't hold me to it because, you know, I don't remember exactly. I'm more creating. I know. But the 10 grams was where creatine was now. Was not rate limited. It was exactly now. You were increasing levels of creatine in the brain pretty sure it was um, radial isotope labeled. So essentially 10 grams. Yeah, you have to double that. And that's where, you know, I was like, okay, and so it just to be clear, I keep them sort of interrupt you. Does that mean that you're going to get mixed results if you look at the cognition literature because you're going to have some studies that were underdosed. And if if you have a study that was done at five and it shows no effect, you're going to come to the wrong conclusion potentially. Be in go. Just like with any supplement and or drug right, dose, dose matters. So yes, that is, that is the case. But also it's important to point out. Just like with muscle, you have to be stressing your muscle for creatine to work. Right. You're, you're basically putting in the work and you're able to put in more work. Right. And that's why you can increase muscle mass and you can increase strength. With the brain, it works in the background of stress. And what I mean by stress is sleep deprivation, psychological stress like you have an exam, marital, I mean whatever psychological stress, emotional stress, sleep deprivation is a big one, neurodegenerative disease or anything that's compromising brain function. Right. That's where creatine really shines in terms of cognitive function and we're going to measure them. But I think that's important to point out and you might, this is my argument. I feel like I'm constantly under stress. I think most people are constantly under stress. First of all, anybody listening, if you're not under stress, I'd like to hear from you. I want to know what you're doing. Same. Same. But yeah. So I mean like even just like diving into the scientific literature, like what we do every day, learning, that is the stress, right? That's very, it's the brain consumes a lot of energy as well. Right. It's 20% of our total caloric intake goes to an organ that weighs less than 2% of your body weight. It is the most insane statistic of the human body. Totally, which is why it makes sense that giving your brain extra creatine, which can recycle that energy quicker, would help particularly in the background of when you're using more of that energy. Right. If energy is being triaged to whatever stress in the hormones and whatever, whatever is going on, fill in the blank. The studies that typically are looking at the effects of creatine on cognitive function are looking at like processing speed. They're looking at a battery of tests that are typical of any fill in the blank supplement or treatment that is either going to improve cognitive function, memory being another one. Right. Processing speeds of big one too. I would say that that creatine's been shown to improve. But again, really it's in the background of stress, whether that's stress being aging. So older adults, so aging is kind of a stress brain aging. So older adults seem to benefit from taking exogenous creatine or supplemental creatine. And people that are sleep deprived, that's another one. That's a really big one. In fact, there's been a few studies that have shown people that are sleep deprived. If you give them, this was on a per kilogram body weight basis. So I think total, it was like 20 to 25 grams of creatine that were given just based on their body weight. But if there were sleep deprived and given that creatine, not only did the cognitive deficits that usually occur when you're sleep deprived, not occur, but their cognitive processing speed was improved more than baseline. Now, this is a small study. It's like, if you, if you Peter were to go to the study and look at this, you'd be like, this is small study, we got, you know, and I agree, I agree. We can't, we can't just hang our head on this one study. Who's doing these studies? Because there can't really be any financial incentive to do them. Right. Creatine is ubiquitous. There's no IP around it. We can talk, I want to talk a little bit about pre-appure and some of the actual, help, I want to give people some advice on how to go buy creatine because if you go to Amazon, it's like, what do I, which one do I buy? But who's sort of taken the mantle on trying to understand this? Because it is an important question. And if you've got something that's insanely cheap, completely safe, has other benefits in the body anyway. And all we're really trying to figure out is, hey, should we all just be doubling our dose from five to ten? But it'd be great to quantify the effect size and stratify patients that we need to be reaching out to because, again, not everybody listening to us is doing this anyway. And it's just one more thing to ask somebody to do, which comes at a cost. Right. There's a psychic cost to just asking people to do more stuff. And it's one more thing you got to do. So, just be, I mean, again, this is like low hanging fruit in the world of biomedical research. It is. And, you know, like Darren Kando is someone who he's getting into the brain stuff. He's been doing, I think there's quite a few people that have been doing muscle research. Or now, it's opening doors for them where they're like collaborating and they're kind of reaching out to like people that are, you know, doing more neuroscience and, and they're, and it's kind of explosive. This got like Dom Degasino's name written all over, right? Act, that's a really good point. It totally, we got to talk about them into doing this. It's, I'm, so there was like a pilot study that came out and I don't, these are researchers that I don't know necessarily and some of them are pretty junior. But there, there was one that came out with people with Alzheimer's disease. And they were given 20 grams of creatine and it improved, caught defunctions in these patients. So, with Alzheimer's disease, I think there was also a placebo control as well. And then they took those same patients and then had them exercise and improved strength and improved, you know, lean body mass. See, I'm just going to be skeptical that, that, that, I still think that the name of the game is prevention, right? Like where I'm most interested. And of course, that's the hardest thing to study. But, you know, when we think about the energy crisis that is happening in a brain with Alzheimer's disease. And while there, I think, you and I would agree there are probably many paths towards AD, right? There are inflammatory paths. There are lipid mediated and vascular paths. And then there are, there are sort of these more metabolic paths. But when you take that individual who is most susceptible to the metabolic path towards dementia and 10 years earlier or 20 years earlier, you're giving them a substrate that is augmenting ATP creation. Yeah, I get it. That's the hardest thing to study. That's also the single most important question in my mind. Totally. I mean, prevention is the name of the game for sure, 100%. Unfortunately, there's a lot of people's parents out there that have it right now because they miss the boat on prevention, right? But, and so, and those people are, you know, obviously, like their kids are willing to do anything to help them. It's terrible, right? But, I mean, I think the reality here and the point I want to make is I think that creatine for the brain is the most interesting aspect of this area of research right now, that at least for me. I certainly think that there's really no downside to doing 10 grams a day. Now, in some cases, sleep deprivation, like I just got back from China about five days ago. I've been like doing 20 grams a day, 15 to 20. And are you having any, I was, I remember as a kid, I never had the GI side effects with even 30 a day. But is for some people is, is 10 to 20. In one dose, it would probably affect a lot of people's GI. I do five gram doses. And you'll just put the five grams into water and just put the five grams into water or like tea and then I just take it like that. And, you know, I do it mostly before noon. So I like to take it. And then we're because for, you know, like I said, I don't know if this is placebo, but I don't get sleepy in the afternoon anymore. If I miss, if I only get five grams, I get this like Venus. And again, it could be complete like bias. And who cares? If it's not like, if the placebo is working for you, it's because it's because it's physiologic, right? I mean, it's a biological mechanism that's working for me. And if you listen to this episode and it works for you, that's great because there's really no downside. In fact, I think we're going to get more and more evidence out there that it's going to be beneficial. And 10 grams is going to be the new the new base line. Yeah. Yeah. It's going to be the new baseline. But if you aren't in this state of jet lag, 10 grams for day, you do two shots of five and you're you're feeling great. That's what I do. 10 grams a little bit. Let's talk a little bit about brands. Are you are most of the companies out there that are otherwise very reputable in making supplements? So whether that be thorn, momentous, like, I've lost track of all the names of the companies out there that make supplements. But there, there are a handful of like supplement companies that actually really seem to be credible. Do you have any difference between them? Do you always look to make sure that Cree-Appeer is the active ingredient within it or does it matter? I don't. I think the most important thing is that it's creating monohydrate. The reason people like Cree-Appeer is because it's like pure. But what I like even more than that is NSF certification because there's rigorous testing to make sure there's no like a lead contamination and these like heavy metals and things that sort of paycheck on a lot of these supplements. And so I personally, that's what I look for. I mean, I think Cree-Appeer is great too. I don't know if that depending on whatever brand, you know, is easy to create. Yeah, lots of brands are using it. So NSF is what I look for. I use the thought- There's no reason you can't have both, right? You could have the pure NSF certified product. One thing I want to call out that one of the members of my team was sharing with me yesterday. Apparently there are a whole bunch of Cree-A-Teen gummy products out there. For the obvious reason, they're very popular. There was a third party test. Why don't you tell what they discovered? Yeah, I mean, it was essentially, there was third party testing looking at, actually quantifying the levels of Cree-A-Teen Monohydrate in these gamies and there was essentially none. In 95 percent of them. I mean, and that does, I think, translate to gummies in general. I've talked to vitamin manufacturers and they've said it is incredibly challenging to get an act of ingredient into a gummy and you're heating it up. So there's the heat component that's degrading things. So gummies are, yeah, unless you can find a third party tested gummy that actually has the amount of Cree-A-Teen Monohydrate in it that's labeled, that says on the nutrition facts label, I would have avoided gummy. Yeah, and also the thing about this whole gummy craze that drives me bananas is you have to ask the question, how many gummies do I need to eat? So look at the chalky white Cree-A-Teen powder. Look at what five grams looks like and ask yourself, how many gummies would I need to put this into such that they would be palatable? And then the question is, do I really want that many gummy bears? Like, what am I doing to my teeth? Yeah, what else is in the gummy? How much sugar do I need to eat that's totally unnecessary? Like, if I'm going to have sugar, let it be good. Give me a nice piece of chocolate, right? Like, give me a piece of carrot cake. I'm not going to squander my sugar calories on gummy bears. That are not even giving me Cree-A-Teen. Don't eat the gummy. Like, you need the powder. Like, thanks for bringing that because also capsules, you're going to have to take so many capsules to get, like, I say the 10 grams are even the five if you're just looking for the muscle effects. Like, you just have to take a lot of capsules. And so that's also an important point. I also think that, like, the vegan thing in vegetarian is another really important aspect here. Like, they're, I don't know what. But if you take them the 10, they should be fine because they're at least offsetting the couple of grams. I'm just saying it'll change it. Like, I have so many vegan friends. I have vegan friends that it's literally changed their lives. Like, my phone blew up, like, I mean, I couldn't believe the magnitude of a fact that these women were experiencing was way outside of the community when I was getting. And I noticed it in effect. They, if they were just, I mean, it was like unreal. How long had they been vegan? One of them not that long. One of them, like, not that long. Maybe, like, two years. But the other one just, like, you know, most of her own. Yeah. And so I'd be interested. The one who had been vegan for two years. Like, when she, all of a sudden got creed in back, I wonder if that was a short enough period of time that she was like, oh my god, this is what I used to feel like just two years ago. Or there's probably too many confounders. You know, she's always kind of colorically restricted to. And I don't know how much protein she was really eating when she wasn't. Yeah, but that's a good question. Talk to me about kids. So my daughter is 17. She's really training hard. I mean, she runs cross country. She does tracks. She's in the weight room. Um, is she too young? No, she should she be taken creed in? Yes. Their studies out there on kids. And so, like, children, like younger than 17, that are doing like, so I'm going to be getting to my son. I'm giving it to my son. I'm giving it to my son. I'm giving it to my son. I'm giving it to my son. If I remember correctly, it's like a 0.1 grams per kilogram body weight. I give my son like two and a half grams. Okay. And again, their studies out there that it's it improves agility is a big one in speed. So a lot of these studies were done more like an endurance. Like, because kids aren't like lifting weights. But so it improves like agility and speed. And would you for my daughter give her five? Yeah. Of course. She's also she's studying hard. Like, does she just need the full pen? Exactly. Um, could question because she is almost an adult, right? I mean, I don't think she's done. If it were me, I would do 10. All right. If it was my daughter. That, yeah, there's so you know, there's actually some studies that have been done in college students who are undergoing like taking a test and stuff. And of course, you're super proud when you're saying for the test and the creed team improves test score. So I'm I'm all in on the creed team. Like, my creed team budget, literally the household creed team budget just went up about four same with the same average. Like, you know, like six months ago or so. But again, there's no again, the harm that people like claim, there's just it's unfounded. You know, like the kidney problems, like it doesn't cause first of all, as a physician, you know what the problem is. People are looking at creatinine. If you're like supplementing with creatine, you got to tell your physician. Well, the other thing is physicians listening to this, please make this another reason to just look at sustatency, please. I don't I'm sure the test costs an extra dollar. It's worth it. sustatency is a far more accurate way to measure and estimate GFR. And you don't have this problem of getting the confounded creatine levels increased. I know we have to get you out the door relatively soon because you were giving a talk today. But if we have a little bit more time, I want to talk something about a topic that is near and dear to both of our hearts, which is temperature. You know my journey on the sauna train, right? I was probably the biggest sauna skeptic for many years. Not because I didn't love it. I love I just love to sauna. I just had a hard time believing that the data were causal, right? I was just like there's too much health to use or bias in here. But, you know, over the last five years, as I've looked closer and closer at the data, while I can't comment on the effect size, I think it's very difficult to comment on the effect size from all the epidemiology. It's very difficult for me to believe that there isn't a positive effect in terms of at least cardiovascular disease and dementia. So those are my priors. My priors are I'm now in a place where I actually view sauna as an intervention that can help an individual reduce their risk. And for me personally, because I don't really worry about cardiovascular disease anymore, it's so easy to manage the risk around that otherwise. But dementia is a very difficult risk to manage because, you know, there's fewer things we understand about the causal pathways to get there than we do, a, c, b, d. So in many ways, I'm in the sauna, not just because I enjoy it, not just because it's a wonderful social opportunity to be with your spouse. If that's how you choose to do it. But because I'm also banking a little bit on, hey, I want to get some benefit to my brain. So tell us where you are currently because you're one of the people who I think keeps up with this literature more than anybody. So tell us if anything has changed in your mind, one way or the other, both in increasing confidence, decreasing confidence, you know, just update us on where you are. Yeah, I am still a huge proponent of using deliberate heat exposure to improve your health, both cardiovascular and brain. I do think that the physiological mechanisms are somewhat in many, in some ways, mimicking some aspects of moderate intensity cardiovascular exercise and that is how it is improving cardiovascular health and also a pot and aspect of that brain health. Cardiovascular respiratory fitness that's been shown. There's been not only like observational data, but there's been intervention studies looking at endurance getting someone on a stationary site cycle and then adding the sauna on top of that and bio2 max improvements were greater in individuals that are also doing the sauna right after their training. So anything that improves cardiovascular health is going to improve brain health. But there's another aspect to the story here and this kind of dates back to like the origins of my like one of my first biology, you know, experiments I did when I was actually a technician at the Salk Institute before I went to graduate school and that has to do with the heat shock protein response. And so we do know that heat stress in the form of either hot baths or going into a hot sauna. Infered sauna, a little different, you'd have to stand there really long, like a long time to get to get a real heat shock response. But if you're in like 163 degree Fahrenheit sauna for 30 minutes, we know that heat shock proteins increase about 50% over baseline. And what would be the equivalent exposure in steam or water? In the water, it's about 104 degrees for 20 minutes, like shoulders down. Okay. 20 minutes? Okay. Yeah, about 20 minutes. And then presumably if you're in a hotter dry sauna, less time is needed. Presumably we don't have that data. I'm just quoting the data that we that we in particular data that we have. And what tell me more about the IR? Because there are no questions I get asked more than hey, are all the benefits you're talking about, which all seem to come from studies in dry sauna, but they also applicable to to infrared saunas, to which the only data I can find is if you're using infrared, you actually have to rely on the change in skin temperature to know you've hit the if whereas in dry sauna, we can look at time and temperature and humidity. Right. Like if I know the temperature of the sauna, the humidity of the sauna and the duration that you're in there, I know what I know how to measure the effect size. We can't do that in IR. So we looked at some data that looked at basically thermal skin change. And I can't remember the numbers, so I don't want to get it wrong. It was either five or eight degree increase in skin temperature was necessary to produce similar benefits. What do you do know about this? I so I had not that. I don't know specifically about that, but I do know most of the studies that have been done comparing and they're not been many, maybe three or four that I can think of. They have compared a regular hot sauna to infrared sauna at the same amount of time. So in other words, the dose is the same. Obviously, the temperature difference is pretty vast. Depending on the study, the hot sauna could be, you know, one 60 or it could be 175 or 180, and the infrared is like 140 or something like that. So a lot of variation in terms of, you know, the temperature of the sauna. If you're looking at, there are having, in fact, there's like one study, like the title of something like infrared sauna, or like does not mimic cardiovascular effects of exercise or something like that. And that's because at this given dose, right? If you're just doing like a 20 or 30 minutes, it's not going to be the same. Like your heart rate doesn't go up as much. You don't feel as hot because the temperature is not as hot. Now you will sweat based on a different mechanism. But as far as my take of the literature, it's pretty clear to me that infrared sauna, if you want it to mimic the cardiovascular exercise response, you might have to double that. You might have to double that. Yeah. So rather than spending 20 minutes in 175 degree, 180 degree sauna, you're going to spend 40 minutes. Right. So you're giving up your time. If that's the kind of sauna that you either have or enjoy. Because if you do, and I've been in infrared sauna as many times, if you stay in long enough, like you get that, you feel hot and you feel that like heart rate going up just like you do when you're in a hot sauna. It just takes a lot longer. Now I know you've had Dr. Ashley Mason on this on your podcast. She's been on my podcast as well. We collaborate. She's awesome. She's awesome. She's awesome. And we collaborate on a variety of sauna studies. She does a lot of she wears a lot of hats. And her data, she's a psychologist by training and she looks at depression and she's looking at depression as an endpoint in terms of these infrared saunas. And she's looking at core body temperature increases. Right. So people, their core body temperature is going up by almost two degrees. And in that case, I mean, she's got them in an infrared sauna for like 85 minutes. They're in there a long time. They are getting hot and she'll talk about it. You know, the people are, they've got, she's got assistance that are cooling them down on their head because it's a head out in infrared sauna. It's like basically like a bed. And anyways, that's a whole other area looking at the effects on mental health. And this, this actually stems from her mentor, Dr. Charles Razan, who I had on the podcast many years ago, he did this like really phenomenal pilot study looking at. It was kind of funny. It's called hyperthermia. So you're like, you're inducing hyperthermia, right? And it's like this funny chamber where it's increasing your core body temperature. But we're, actually, it's not using that anymore. She's established the heat bed as a, you know, same way. And what I think is the role of the head being hot. So when I am in our sauna, which is a dry sauna, I think, and I'll run it pretty hot. I mean, I'll run it above, at least 190. Okay. And again, part of it is I don't want to be in there for more than 20 minutes because time is tight. Time is my most precious commodity. So I'll rather do 190 to 200 for 20 minutes than go longer. But I will tell you, the most discomfort is in my head. Now, of course, part of it is I'm sitting on the top bench. And so temperature is hottest at the top. So I think my head is exposed to more heat than my torso, just based on that difference. But is there harm or benefit or do we know anything that's happening from any of these other metabolic parameters? I will, okay, to answer that question, it'll take me to hold all the directions. Should I go there right now? Or should I finish? No, I'm sorry, I'm finished because I want to get into that. Yeah. Yeah. So basically, the only point I was getting at was the pioneering study where people with major depressive disorder were exposed to this device where they're heating heating up their core body temperature by about two degrees. And they had an anodopress and effect that lasted six months compared to a sham control, which was also heating people up at not single treatment. Single treatment. Now Ashley has gone out and she's done four to eight treatments depending on the person whether or not they completed the whole study. And she didn't have a sham control, but she's got an a just phenomenal. How do you sham control that? So he, so what he did in his study was he had the same device that just got people a little bit warm enough where they were thinking they were getting the active treatment, but it was not crazy. It didn't hit the threshold. Yeah, I raised in there core body temperature by two. It was a phenomenal study. And this by the way, Peter, what got me interested in the sauna back in like 2008 when I started doing it like every day was I was I lived across the street from OIMCA and I was going into the sauna in the morning. It was freezing in Tennessee and I was going the sauna the morning before I would go into the lab to do my experiments. And I was going every single morning and saying it a long time because I was like, you know, I'm like, go, I'm kind of the thing and I love the heat. And it was incredible. The effect it was having on my mental health and my ability to deal with stress and anxiety. So much that I was like, this isn't saying what's going on nothing has changed other than I've been going to the sauna every day before I go and do all my failed experiments. And that's kind of what got me into the whole sauna was actually the effect of my mental health. So it's kind of fun to go full circle and team up with Ashley on some of this research as well. And she's amazing by the way. We've got some she's got some new studies coming out that are really in this whole field of sauna depression. I think just she's opening the door. So that said, the effect on the head. And you know, if you think about like hot tubs to Cousie's, right, we're all sitting with our head out as well, right, we're in there and it's it's it's it's a good question because I agree with you when I'm in a hot sauna and I'm also on the top and it's like the same deal. I want to get out in 20 minutes. If I stay in too long, I will get a headache. And I have no my I know my threshold now. I know the temperature and the duration and the amount of water on all the like I know all those variables. Isn't it amazing how much water you can drink in a sauna like I know it's it's I worry I'm going to get hype when I dream you I'm like you got slow this down. So the interesting thing is is that talking about dementia risk I talked about heat shock proteins and I kind of didn't even lay like one off on this tangent. Sorry, but the heat shock proteins what they do is they prevent proteins from misfolding and forming aggregates, right? And so you know it's it's obviously when you're getting into a hot sauna you are denaturing some proteins. And so your heat shock proteins are a stress response that's activated to help with the proper folding of those proteins that were kind of denatured somewhat from the heat that you were exposing yourself to. Well, it turns out the heat shock proteins stay active for a long time and so they end up having this like effect where you're now just improving the folding of proteins in general even after you're out of the hot sauna, right? So there's a lot of animal studies that have been done. I did a lot of studies and worms like many many years ago where you can take amilloid beta 42 injected into a worm muscle tissue and then activate heat shock proteins and it like prevents the aggregation and it prevents the muscle sort of paralysis that occurs in these worms. Animal studies have been done looking at amilloid beta and heat shock proteins and Alzheimer's disease. Again, it's having a protective effect. Now, is that the whole story? No, the cardiovascular effects are also important for brain health in my opinion, right? You know the data coming out of Dr. Yariat Lachman's lab showing that dementia and Alzheimer's disease risk is 66% lower in people that are using this on a 47 times per week versus just one time a week of course all that was at 179 degrees or greater for 20 minutes or greater. Yeah, like 175 or herncy benign exact for 20 minutes. Now here's where your question comes in and that is like what about the head and there was another study out of Finland. It was not Yariat Lachman's lab. It was another professor that I'm not aware of but this study looked at sawn a use in dementia risk and then it sort of it stratified the data based on temperature and it was protective again people that are using this on again. They're getting a protective effect against dementia but when people were going extreme so if they're going above 200 degrees Fahrenheit and they're on average it was like if they're getting to like 212 people do this by the way this is like you can go on Instagram and see it's not an uncommon thing. Their dementia risk was actually increased with that temperature or it was a really hot and my concern is the head at that high of a temperature. I've started wearing one of those sawn a hat. The sawn a hat. Yes. And again, I don't know why it works. Do you? It's not logical to me why it's hurting. It's why it's helping rather than. I don't know it's it does seem to help. I mean it shields probably some of the heat that you're being exposed to right because you're not a like a little bit but the fact that that's a net benefit because it's also got to be preventing you from dissipating heat but clearly what it's preventing coming in is the excuse but but it makes such a difference. Those I mean these cultures and like I'm aware of. I'm sorry dialed mine down a little bit. I used to be consistently going to at least 200 and now I'm like you know what honestly like 185 to 190 is good enough. I'm 180. I do 180. And my wife is going to be very happy if we dial it down to 180 because she's more she seems more sensitive to the heat than I am. I'm more sensitive to the heat than my husband is as well. I wonder if there's some kind of sex thing where yeah if it's definitely like I'm more sensitive to it. So so that's great. But this is important. So you really think that we could even dial it to 180 and just totally get the same benefit. That's the data is showing. Yeah I know. You know me more is better. It's not just you. It's a common you know it's like a go hard go home right. But I do think we're talking about a type of stress here right? Yeah and you have to get it or medically correct. Exactly exactly you know I don't know that the 2012 and I hope people that are out there doing the 2012 are like listening to this because it's too hot. There's no need for it. You're not there's no evidence you're getting added benefit and if anything there's potential benefit. But potential risk that you're in there. Exactly potential risk downside. I don't you know that's just one study. Yeah. Yeah. But it's enough to make me go. I don't like there's no there's no data showing we need that. So why are we doing that? Ron I know you got to go but I want to end with with just one one question and topic which is what year did you launch your podcast? I launched it in 2014. So here we are we're 11 years in you are the OG in this space you have an incredible podcast. Are you still enjoying it and what are you most excited about? I love doing the podcast. I don't do it every week like some people. I like to find the guests that I'm really interested in learning from. What I love the most is I've always learned more from the conversations I would have with my colleagues or professors than I would from reading a paper. And now I get to do that for a living where I'm just having like these superstars on my podcast and they get to learn so much from I read their papers first but I also I I learned so much from the conversation and and then people get to like benefit from it. I mean it's so rewarding. So I get to like each my own you know, your scratch my own age and then I also get to like help people. Well you know I just want to make sure that everybody listening kind of understands your place in the podcast podcast landscape which is I've talked about one of my favorite podcasts probably my favorite podcast or one of my two favorite podcasts in the world is called a choir. So a choir does a podcast about companies, great companies and what makes them great and the hosts of that Ben Gilbert and David Rosenthall they only put out one a month on average. But the reason is the amount of work that they have to put into the preparation is insane and I've gotten to know Ben especially and you know I think Ben is putting at least 120 hours of preparation into each podcast and therefore you can only do one a month and it shows. So in many ways I think of you as the acquired podcast version in our space which is just the the breadth and the depth of what you're doing is is awesome. It's such a treat and it's just it's always it's always quality over quantity and yeah I'm sure if you could put out one a week you would but the real obvious you wouldn't be able to put in the quality if you were trying to bang one of these things out a week and so anyway I'm just I'm glad to hear you're still loving it and it's hard to believe how fast time has gone. I remember being on your podcast in 2014 so that's kind of insane. Yeah you were like one of the first 10 guests I've had. I don't think I knew what I'm I mean I sort of knew what a podcast was because Tim Ferris had had me on his but it was like I didn't really understand what this was I was like I wonder why she want to talk to me like it seems kind of random but it looked at how much it's evolved right? I know well thank you for the kind words and I feel the same about your podcast you know when I'm when I'm looking for information that I know I contrast it's always like I'm like what I a Peter Peter Peter Peter someone that I've always been able to trust for being rigorous right and really like like you said if something changes then you change and then I respect that. Ronda it is it this has been super interesting as is always the case there were about 80% more things we were supposed to talk about today but I'm really glad that we got to the topics we talked about. I think the the protein question the creatine question and this nuance around temperature are all things that matter to everybody and and in two of the three cases I learned a lot. Obviously in the protein side it was more about you and I trying to set the record straight but I this creatine stuff is new it's going to change what I do and also you're going to you've already made a change to what I'm going to do in the sauna so anyway thanks again this was awesome. Thanks Peter for having me on I really appreciate it.

Hey everyone, welcome to the Drive Podcast. I'm your host Peter Atia. Sally, thank you so much for coming out to Austin. Thank you for having me. This is a topic that on the surface might seem somewhat directed towards 50% of the population, but I think it's safe to say it's probably going to be directed towards a hundred percent of the population. So you have a practice, you're an OBGYN, but your focus is not just on maybe the standard OBGYN things, but really around women's sexual health. Is that a fair assessment? That would be a fair assessment. Yes, from a hormonal and physiologic perspective. Yes. Awesome. Well, by the way of background, we were introduced through a mutual friend slash patient who had listened to the Rachel Rubin. The reason to the Rachel Rubin podcast that I did recently was super impressed by it and said you have got to speak with Sally and one thing led to another and we are now speaking. So let's start by helping people understand why would a podcast that focuses on health, longevity, all of these things that pertain to living longer and better. Why would sex be an important part of that discussion? Well, I'm having a hard time understanding how sex couldn't be a part of that conversation. I think, you know, first of all, this is a performance driven podcast. And so for the 50% of your listeners who are male, if you want to improve your performance, I'm going to give you facts and anatomical descriptions and describe some pathophysiology so that you can improve your performance. This is clearly sexual health is health. And when you look at your longevity levers and you think about your centenarian to Catholic and what you want to do when you're 100. For many people, this is on the list and I want to talk about how to structure your life and get you ready to do that. I also think that there's probably a small group of listeners similar to myself who always thought that the drive was supposed to be about sex drive and that you just had a branding era when you named it the drive. So for those people as well, we're finally going to talk about the drive that you actually care about, which is extra. So there's a lot to sort of unpack there, but I think I want to kind of go back and talk a little bit about something you said vis-a-vis the actual health component of this, right? So if you if you if you look at this through the lens of just evolution, everybody clearly understands why sex is important and it's the single most important thing in the propagation of our species. But can you say a little bit more about how it actually factors into health? And I don't just mean emotional and mental health where I think we could easily make that connection. Is there any evidence whatsoever that a healthy sex life plays a direct role in in health as it pertains to disease? Definitely. I'll start out with my two caveats, though, which is one. This is an understudied under investigated area of our health. That's part of my messaging today. So many of the studies that I'll reference are not going to be robust in volume. And second, this is an incredibly heteronormative conversation for that reason. This is a data driven podcast and I don't have a lot of data on non heteronormative meeting. Men do identify as men having sex with women who identify as women. So that should alarm you as well that we don't have that data, but that's sort of the space in which if we're going to stay in a data rich zone that's where we have to stay. And also the discrepancy when you look at sexual health is greatest among those two participants. When we look at sexual health and we try to make the argument that sexual health is a part of health. You know, we can sort of use your longevity framework if we start with sleep. There is great data. We know that when you are sexually active with or without orgasm, just participation in a sexual activity. You switch from sympathetic to parasympathetic. So post orgasm. You have a great activation of the parasympathetic nervous system. You release neurotransmitters, dopamine, oxytocin. These are relaxing neurotransmitters. And when we study it either via diary or via there's great studies that look at resting heart rate, sleep latency. Many of the measurements that we look to in terms of looking at sleep efficiency and quality, subjectively and objectively improve within of course. What's really interesting and why I want to pull in all listeners, not just 50 percent is there was a great trial that looked at how women slept after an orgasm with themselves and they slept better. And then it looked at women being intimate with a man and they slept better. But women being intimate with a man and having orgasm with that man synergistically improved their sleep. You're getting sort of the dual benefit of that neuro pharmacology that you're releasing from your brain improving your biometrics. But also there's a connection and intimacy, a partnership that we know faster is better sleep. Cardiovascular health, this is also limited. We don't have tons, but we know that sex can mimic a lot of the pathophysiology that we experience during exercise. There's been arguments over the decades about is it low intensity, moderate intensity. I think it depends on the couple. But we have studies that have tried to measure the metabolic equivalence or essentially the energy output for women on average. It's around six to seven metabolic units for every sexual encounter. It's about 60 to 70 calories used during sexual activity. And there's a great study that compared this to walking slowly on a treadmill for the same amount of time. And they said that all those sex was slightly lower in your energy export than walking on the treadmill. Many of the participants reported that they had a much better time having sex than they did walking on the treadmill. And so it's still something to consider. We know the net sort of tapping into the body's natural pharmacology. Think about neurotransmitters and the sort of positive impact on mood and relationships. It's really interesting to think about from a relationship perspective. I think what I don't want to say what I don't believe is that everyone has to have lots of sex and that's, you know, sort of, and that there's a number that we're trying to target. Is there a number needed to treat? Is there a dose that we're trying to go for? No, there's no studies on that, but I also don't believe that every person every couple is different. When you look at couples, I like to look at sort of who's having sex and by what frequency. And so about 20% of couples and this is ages 30 to 60, about 20% of couples are having sex twice a week or more. About 10% of couples are what we call never having sex and that means in the last year. And about 70% of couples are having sex between those, meaning one, some month, twice a month, sort of around that number. When you look at risk factor for divorce, it's the same across all numbers in the sense that it doesn't matter how much sex you're having. You could never have sex. You could have lots of sex. The divorce risk factor is what we call sexual desire discordance or one partner wants more and one partner wants less. And so identifying that as the risk factor, I hope gives people sort of affirmation or interest in the fact that if you want to work on it, I will help you, but not everyone has to. This is not a podcast about everyone needs to go work on their sexually, but if you do, also go through the normal path of physiology and some additional tips and tricks. To help you have a healthier sex life. All right. So two things I just want to reiterate that you've said that that are both important and at least interesting to me. One is. Discoordinates of desire is a much bigger risk factor than anywhere you lie on the distribution of if I recall 10% of people are basically asexual 20% of couples, or is it 10% of couples 20% of couples are at twice a week or greater. Basically, two thirds of couples are somewhere in between. So that's very interesting. Second thing you said, I can't resist coming back to the centenary into Kathana. I've wide you brought it up because it is one of the items on our list on the framework that we hand to patients. When we ask patients to pick the 10 most important things that they want to be able to do in their marginal decade and the last decade of their life. And I would say about two thirds of our patients select having sex as one of those 10 activities. That says something given that we're giving people a list of about 150 things to choose from all of which are quite tempting. And to go back to your point about meds, if seven meds is what is required energetically to have sex, we can convert that into VO2. So seven meds translates to about a VO2 of 25 milliliters per kilogram per minute, which means if you want to be able to have sex in your marginal decade, you need to have a VO2 max of probably about 30 milliliters per kilogram per minute. Why? Because it would be pretty tough to have sex if you were doing it right at your maximum VO2. That would be like me asking you to do the fastest 800 meter run you've ever done and bring that level of exertion to sex. You got to be a little bit below your limit. And while most adults can easily muster a VO2 max of 30 milliliters per kilogram per minute. If you want to be able to achieve that in your 80s or 90s, when your your age, you're a lot younger than me, you need to be probably north of 45 or 50. So if I could just make one more shameless plug for having a high VO2 max, it's going to allow you to be sexually active in the last decade of your life. I think in addition to that, it would be great if at the end of this, we had a list of a few sort of action items in addition to a minimal VO2 max that we could consider a toolkit in order to get this action as something that's actually attainable on your centenarian list. Let's talk a little bit about, well, let me ask a very silly question. When it comes to understanding what an orgasm means for a man, it seems relatively straightforward in that it's tied to a jaculation. And well, there are examples where a man can have a retrograde ejaculation due to exemplary use of medication. And he can still have an orgasm, but you're not actually witnessing an ejaculation with with women. But how is an orgasm actually defined? Is it a biochemical response in the brain? Is it a muscular contraction in the body? Help me and help us understand that. I think it's important to say that we're going to talk about normal things. Yes, there's a lot of pathophysiology and deviations to what's normal and you should see a doctor and we can talk to you about it. But similar to sort of your focus on what's normal in men, to describe what's most normal in women is a rhythmic contraction of the pelvic floor muscles. It is there's four stages to an orgasm. It starts with the excitement phase, which is an engagement of the pelvic tissues. There's increased blood flow. There's lubrication released by the skin's glands and other glands of the vaginal canal. Then there's plateau phase that is predominantly in neurotransmitter phase in a hormone release phase. You can stay in that for a variety of time periods. It's person in partnership dependent. There's the orgasm and then there's the resolution phase. And these four stages understanding how they work and where you are in that stage can allow for the introduction of interventions that can improve your sexual life or help you foster a healthier life in general. What is the period of time in which a woman will go from those first to fourth phases? Again, I realize there's going to be a lot of variation. But what would be sort of considered interquortile range of that transit? So it really depends when women are on their own. It's the average time to orgasm is less than four minutes. And when women are with a partner, it's upwards of like 21 to 25 minutes. Question there. With a partner, you could still have it manual. You could stay because it's to be oral. And that's the inner course. So how much does that really skews the data? I don't have the numbers on that. I don't think we have that. And women are actually individually so different as well. An interesting takeaway from your interest in looking at those numbers is to think about a statistic we do know, which is that four play last in greater than 21 minutes over 90% of women orgasm. So it's really sort of interesting and enlightening to think about, oh gosh. So time actually does matter in that stage. And why do we care about four play what's happening during that time? That's sort of when you're in the excitement phase, building up towards orgasm. So blood is flowing to the area. So we think about your anatomy changes. So the vagina that's usually like three and a half by nine. So three and a half inches wide by nine inches deep. We'll actually get longer and wider. And why do we care? 30% of women will experience pain within a course. So actually appropriate for play where the vagina not only gets wider and longer, but actually the angle of the vagina changes. And I think this is something that I love talking to couples about because I have many women who will say, you know, my wife is a woman who will say, you know, my partner loves this position and often it's a deep penetration position. But it really hurts me. And I see how much for play is going on. And so if there's not enough for play, you don't actually change the angle of the vagina or change the angle of the canal. And so you will experience more pain. You'll have the tightness of the pelvic floor muscles and pain fosters pain. You can get into a pain cycle. And so actually appropriate amount of for play, allowing the angle of the vagina to change can allow women to participate in positions. Most commonly we call doggy style or sort of deeper penetration positions, which can then be sort of a part of your repertoire if you're interested in that. So what about just kind of the differences in ability to achieve orgasm? The so called orgasm gap. What can you tell us about that? I hope I've proven to you that sexual health, pleasure, orgasms are a part of health. And so I think when we then look at the disparities in how different parties will participate or receive enjoyment out of these activities. I hope it highlights to you how important it is that we work on this. And so I'm going to quiz you now, which is what percent of men do you think report when they're having sex with a woman? Report that they almost every time have an orgasm? 95 percent. 95 percent. And what about women? What percentage of women would report always be able to have an orgasm with a male partner? Correct. 50 percent. 30 percent. And what about for a one night stand? What percent of women are having orgasms on one night stands with men? Well, if it's 30 percent on a regular basis, I would say 10 to 20 percent. That's around 12 percent. What about men at one night stands? Still 95 percent? Correct. 90. Actually I should say it's 90 percent. And so when we think about the orgasm, so if I prove into you that sexual health is health, and if we understand that orgasm is one metric that we can use, it's not the end all be all. There's other sort of satisfaction intimacy connection, pleasure benefits that women get out of intercourse, but this is one numeric finding that we can track. This disparity or this discrepancy is a big deal. And this disparity in how women experience pleasure becomes a health disparity because of sexual health is health and women are not experiencing it with the same amount of pleasure that men are. This is a health disparity. By the way, within women, does orgasm at all correlate with underlying health? Yes. We do. We see that we know that orgasm is related to strengths of the pelvic floor, vascular blood supply, so there are issues. So there's a lot of sort of bidirectional, you know, if you're healthy enough to be able to have an orgasm, then you can have an orgasm and if you're having orgasms, you're likely healthier. So there's a lot to that. And we know that by directionality, but I think still looking at the numbers. I'm hoping that you're thinking, my gosh, this is this matters, this is a big deal. We should, you know, we classically think about sexual health as sort of an afterthought. When we think about longevity, we think about cancer screening and prevention and chronic diseases and now sleep and exercise. And once we've sort of addressed all of those, we now have the luxury of addressing sexual health. And I just think we should put it a little higher on the list. Okay. So let's talk a little bit more about foreplay. When I think when most people here for play, they assume what anything that is sexual shy of intercourse, how do we define foreplay? Great question. There's medical definitions of foreplay and social social definitions tend to say anything outside of penetrative intercourse. Medical definitions rely more on the physiologic changes that are happening in your body, increased blood flow, recruitment of a swelling of the clitoral nerve. Physiologic signals from your brain that sort of prepare you emotionally to participate in this interaction. What's most interesting to me about this is when we think about sort of, let's start with desire. When we think about desire, we think of more of this spontaneous desire. Spontaneous desire is more common in men. Spontaneous desire is only present in about 15% of women. Women have what we call is responsive desire. So sorry, just help me understand that. Oh, you were just about to the point spontaneous. Yes, so spontaneous desire is you've been married for 20 years. You see your partner get out of the shower for the 8,845th time and you think to yourself. That's spontaneous desire. That's sort of desire in anticipation of intimacy. Responsive desire is you see your partner get out of the shower for the 8,645th time and you think, did I sign up for the right treadmill tomorrow morning at 6am? And that's because your brain's just not there. That's not the same place as your partner. But if your partner comes over and starts to rub your shoulders and rub your feet or maybe has made dinner, we call chore play, which is where sort of emotional investments in the relationship can sometimes lead to, to responsive desire using lubrication. And we'll talk about how to use Loub using a vibrator sort of creating an environment in which you are capable of being aroused. That's responsive desire. And thinking about what's happening in that circumstance can be really helpful in validating for women and it can help their partners get them there too with those middle of sort of being aligned in your sexual desire from a frequency perspective. And so you're saying it's more typical that men experience spontaneous desire where arousal comes on in a moment. In anticipation and anticipation and often based on perhaps a visual cue. For women that is less common. Correct. But not impossible. Correct. And so acknowledging that there's a few sort of lessons that we can take from that. The first is if you're listening to this podcast and you want to work on your desire, if you're waiting for your husband to get a new shirt or a new selfie or anything, the visual stimulus is not evidence based. Stop waiting for that. I want you to think about. What about getting a new car? I love one, but no, but just to be clear, I would love one. I want you to think about how you get responsive desire in response to arousal and how we do that is lubrication. So we know how to use loop most of us do. You're in the act. You take some lubricant. You put it on the penis. You put it on the vagina. You have intercourse. I want to sort of encourage you to think about loop potentially using it 30 minutes prior to intercourse. So I want you to take a silicone based loop and I'll tell you why in a moment. I want you to think about using a loop shooter, which is a little droplet to take some of the loop and put it in a higher up in the vaginal canal. And then I want you to read a book, drink a cup of tea, wash your face. Women as you sort of alluded to are less visually stimulated into desire. There's great data that women like to read, erotic literature and there's great apps for that meat rosy, dipcia or great companies that are in the same way. There's great data that mindfulness can work for women. Lori brought a wrote a book called, better sex through mindfulness. Thinking about breathing techniques, staying present in the moment. My favorite strategy for this is to describe to yourself in your head not allowed. What's happening? My breathing is relaxing. My vagina feels wet. Sort of talking yourself through what's happening from a pathophysiologic perspective to bring yourself to the right. But when we think about how to curate that arousal, essentially what you're doing is showing up at the party and then seeing what happens. And there's no expectations what happens at the party. But Emily Nagowski who wrote, come as you are, talks about, you know, it's Friday night. And you really want to put on your bathrobe and watch love island. But instead you're going to go to a party with your friends because you said you would. And you get there and it's actually kind of fun. So you stay and you have a good, you have a good time. You have a drink. You actually like your like it when you're there. That's the sort of idea behind curating your own arousal desire through arousal, which is use of vibrator, use some lubricants relax. Get in the moment. Start to participate and if you don't want to obviously consent is of utmost importance and stop. But if you sort of start participating and decide that you're happy that you're there and you like it, please stay and have a good time. Okay, a lot of questions come up and you said all those things. Let's start with the need for lubrication. So I very naively have assumed that women who are young enough, right? So not even approaching estrogen withdrawal are not having an issue with lubrication. That clearly must be incorrect or you wouldn't be stating this. So what can you say about perhaps the differences in the amount of lubricant and maybe even just talk a little bit. Physiologically about where is this what is what is the loop that is naturally made? Where is it coming from and what drives variability both across women and within a given women's life? Let's not even talk about it within her life within a given month or something like that. You know, you're correct with that line of questioning to sort of assume that throughout the month. Women will have different levels of lubrication medications can impact lubrication. Life age, life cycle. There's so many factors that go into your ability to have the amount of lubrication that you need in order to have a comfortable sexual encounter. This idea that we just use loop need loop as we age. I want to completely dispel. I think the majority of women need lubrication and should use it. The reason the way that we sort of naturally get looped in our vagina is from a variety of different glands that work, you know, better or worse. There's the skin's glands that sort of support the vagina which are where they're right on either side of the urethra. And fun fact about this many people will have more prolific skin's glands in the sense that they can sort of shoot the lubrication a little bit stronger. So when we sort of talk about women who what we call squirt it's actually the skin's glands releasing lubrication in a more aggressive form. There's barthylins glands that produce lubrication that are commonly known for their likely hit to sometimes get clogged into cause pain. But there's so much that goes into lubrication and it's so important throughout the life stages that the WHO, the World Health Organization actually has guidelines in terms of how to pick out your loop. And if you're wondering right now, how I never knew that the WHO cares so much about my sexual life, that's that's wonderful. They don't they care about HIV transmission and picking the appropriate loop. Deacreases micro abrasions less friction less tearing less HIV transmission. But we can sort of take this data into the pleasure world and think about sexual health and sort of what so what types of loop should we use I think is the next part of that question. Well, actually I want to go back and ask a different question, which is isn't there sort of a min max optimization problem around loop because friction is also part of what is necessary at least for the male to have an orgasm. How much does it matter for the female. Less so friction is friction matters less so to women and let's talk about the literal nerve anatomy to answer that question. I I'm going to leave this for you as a gift, but I I'll keep it on my desk. It's pure pure gold. So you may want to put it in your safe, but this is sort of the anatomy of the Clarice and what you're looking at is sort of what we tend to discuss in terms of clear all not many typically we talk about is the tip of the iceberg or the the Clarice. But there's there's the crew of the Clarice and there's the vestibule which is an engagement structure when blood comes to the area. Your labia menorah would be here and your labia majora would be here this would make up the vulva. When we think about the literal nerve it actually has two types of nerve fibers in it. One is a type A nerve fiber and one is type C type A response to vibration and a response to deep pressure and type C response to heat and light touching. So A is vibration and deep pressure and C is heat and light touching. What's really interesting about using this to answer your question is that there's you don't friction is not a requirement to hit any of those four metrics. And actually is so significantly associated with migrataring and pain with the 30% of women experiencing pain within our course. I would argue that women need no friction. But to think about how that nerve changes over time is really fascinating because type A fibers the vibration and a deep pressure. They have a mild and sheath around them. And so they age better. The nerve is protected by a mild and sheath are more resistant to degradation. And that's the A fiber. And that's the A fiber. And so I have women come in to my clinic and they say I've been with my partner for 35 years. We do this position for six minutes. It always works. It's not working. And I say have you considered using a vibrator or introducing a vibrator into your sex life. And there's a law. I don't know if my partner would feel good about that. I don't want him to make him feel. And I sort of say this is an evidence-based intervention. Understanding the science of myelin sheets and nerve degradation. This has nothing to do with your husband and nothing to do with your relationship. How would you do that? So if a woman comes in and says in this position, it's exactly as you just said, When you're saying introduce a vibrator, do you mean use it doctor or before or during. I see. So put the vibrator externally. And there's different types of vibrators. Some are internal. But if you're trying to pick a vibrator that you want to use when you're with a partner. Buying something like a wand. So something that sort of has a is long enough that you can reach the structure in a variety of positions. Something Jimmy Jane makes a nice wand. Goop the wand makes a great great product as well. Did you bring any of these? You know, I a long discussion with your staff about what you wanted to laid out on the table and the net net was no. Oh, we might have been a strategic error. I don't think that I think people at least I'm kind of curious as to what these products are. We'll link to them in show notes. That sounds great. There are air pulse vibrators that you can put on the clitoris. These are sort of all external vibrators that you can sort of bring into a partnered encounter to have an evidence based way to continue to achieve orgasm. Because that is one of your greatest ways in which you can continue to maintain a healthy sex life. And again, not to get too graphic, but just because if I'm asking this question, I'm sure someone watching this is. If you're talking about a sexual position where the man is on top of the woman and she's using an external vibrator. Does the man also receive some pleasure from that? He might and there are more strategic ways that you can try to do that. If the man likes that, but there's ways that the man can angle his pelvis that he doesn't he may or he doesn't feel it. He doesn't have to. You want to go back to something about the female ejaculation that all of that ejaculatory material seems external. Not in the sense. So yeah, so how is the vagina being lubricated inside? So they've actually studied as the Kinsey Institute. Put has great studies where they put cameras inside the vagina and they actually watched the vagina essentially sweats. The cells of the vaginal canal release water molecules. There's cervical mucus that also serves as a lubricant as well. Again, all of these things very dependent upon hydration and medications and things like that. So you can understand the importance of sort of making sure it is appropriately lubricated through the use of external lubricants. But yeah, there's many different ways. So the vagina sweats the cervical mucus and then the glands that that's secret, mucus into the canal. And for women who do experience that ejaculation that's perfectly normal, do they have control over that? Most people think that they do not. Most people think they do not in terms of like how much if you're more hydrated, if you're more relaxed, but no, in general, people do not believe that you, that it's a normal physiologic response that you cannot control. And it doesn't imply a better orgasm. No. Okay. And what was the frequency again of women who achieved that? Squirting. I actually don't have statistics on that. I don't know. Maybe a helpful thing to do right now would actually be to go over a little bit of the anatomy. And I see that you brought a model that I think will make it easier for everyone to kind of understand. So I want to start by asking when you deal with your female patients who presumably are much more familiar with this anatomy than men are. What surprises you the most when a woman comes into your clinic. And you're taking care of her. What are you most surprised by in terms of her lack of knowledge about her own body? In its humicle lack of education from a- This literacy? Literacy. From a, where was this like, education? Well, did we have it? Did we go, I mean, from a verbiage perspective referring to the vaginas, the vaginal. That's the vaginal canal is the vagina, the vulva is the outside of the vagina. There's Libia, Majora, and Minora. And all the way down to the, to the clitoral nerve and sort of the fact that it has different different nerve routes. And so if we think about, you know, looking at this model, this is sort of if a female is lying down on her back, that's the angle that you're looking at. There was a great study that was done recently that said that only 41% of Gen Z men could accurately identify the clitoris on. A, pictorial. Women, a surprisingly. What would that be for Gen X? Like how much of that is a representation of declining intimacy as, as people are in younger generations, or is that a general statement of men period? I take from that sex education needs to get better. I mean, I sort of take from that the need for better sex education that's actually anatomical and not fear-based. So women as well, I mean, most women, not all, do know about the clitoral hood, or which is the clitoris or the bulb. That's what we sort of think about in terms of the iceberg. But what women often don't know is that they have sort of what we call is the vestibule of the clitoris, which are these sort of bulb-like structures that can receive engagement, or when there's an increase in blood flow. And then there's the crew of the clitoris, which is these nerve structures that go on either side of the Libia, Minora. It's a wish-bone-like structure, and what's really fascinating is to sort of normalize that anatomy can and should look different. There's a great website called the Libia Library that normalizes all different types and sizes of Libia, Minora and Minora. But the wish-bone structures are often asymmetric as well, and so it is quite common for a woman to experience clitor, greater pleasure on one side of the vagina versus the other. Meaning that this nerve root of the clitoris may be thicker or more sensitive. There's over 8,000 nerve roots as a part of the clitoris, and there can be more focused on one side versus the next. And so I hope that half of your listeners are thinking, I always wondered why I was a righteer. I always, I am a lefteer, but I also hope the other 50% are wondering if you've been with your partner for a long enough time. I hope you know if your partner is a righteer or a lefteer because there's asymmetry in how we experience pleasure. And then very interestingly is that there is, you know, if you're sort of looking at the tip of the clitoris, there's a nerve root. There's a part that goes sort of inside the vagina, and that's what we talk about in terms of social terms we talk about the G-spot. And what that is is it's a branch of the clitoris that runs along the anterior or the front part of the vagina. It's about a third into the vagina. The best way to find it is to, if your sort of, if a woman is trying to find it on herself is to take her dominant hand, middle finger, stick it as far as you can. It's sort of do a come-hitter movement or sort of movement of the finger towards the top part of the vaginal wall. It's easier to find when you're aroused because there's an agreement of the tissues. It feels a little more regated, and you'll know that you're there if you feel a sensation to urinate, but if you relax into that you won't. And so only about 10% of women now are able to orgasm from stimulation of that internal branch of the clitoris nerve. There's some data that shows that with education that can go up as they're talking to women about how they can find the anterior branch of their clitoris nerve. Not only allows them different ways to orgasm, but also gives them a sense of empowerment and sort of ownership to sort of talk their partner through how to sort of maintain pleasure. But for those people who can't have orgasms from the inner part of their vagina, the other 90% are having orgasms from external stimulation of the clitoris nerve. And so Dr. Lauren Stryker says, you know, for the 10% of women who can orgasm via the G-spot or the anterior branch, that's great. And she diagnoses the other 90% who can't orgasm from stimulation of the internal nerve as normal. So it's totally normal if you can't have an orgasm from that part of the clitoris nerve, but many women after hearing this podcast, I hope try. Partner should try. It has a little bit, it has better blood supply than the tip of the iceberg. And so as we age, this is one of my favorite techniques for women in the parrymenopause and menopausal period as their hormones change and the nerve fiber degrades a little bit. Teaching women how to have orgasms from the part of the nerve that is better, better has a better blood supply can help maintain pleasure and help maintain interest in sexual activity as we age. All right, so when a woman is having intercourse and maybe for the percentage of guys who might not be familiar, can you point out where the entry to the vagina is on this model? Yeah, so here's entry to the vagina. Of those, there is some statistics that talk about what percentage of women can orgasm simply by having penetrative intercourse, so penis here. And what's interesting is that the distance of the clitoris to the vaginal opening is variable. And the shorter the distance, they tend to say less than one inch, the shorter the distance of the clitoris to the vaginal opening, the more likely you are to be able to orgasm during penetrative intercourse. And that's because the distance is so short that the angle of the man's body is sort of able to stimulate that area. If that distance is greater, you're less likely to be able to orgasm simply from penetrative intercourse. Q introducing a vibrator or manual stimulation, it's such a thing. So what percentage of women are able to intercourse without any stimulatory vibrator or anything like that from intercourse less than 10%. Wow, so it's the same number that you have from the G spot. So if a woman is listening to this and she's never had an orgasm through intercourse, she is in the 90% there's nothing wrong with her. We would diagnose her as normal. And for those women out there who are regularly achieving an orgasm through intercourse, you're in the minority in. Or they're doing external, more likely they're doing external stimulation of the clitoris. Those those graves statistics are without any external manipulation of the clitoris. So for women who are achieving orgasm with a partner is because they've identified positions with their partners. They're using manual stimulation, they're introducing vibrators. They've figured out regardless of distance of clitoris to vaginal opening how to stimulate the clitoris, the external part of the clitoris. And I like to talk about anatomy so that patients can sort of think about their own individual anatomy. Talk to their partners about it and think about if there's someone who needs to sort of introduce that external stimulation. Or she'll they as a couple just try to find the anterior branch of the clitoris or if there's lots you can you can do as a part of that. How often do you have men in your practice who are there with their female partners who you're trying to educate? For a sexual health consult 20% at the time. And what is the most common? I don't want to use the word ignorance, but what is the most common thing that you appreciate about men when you're helping them in terms of their lack of understanding about the their partners and actually. The their partners anatomy. Giving men a roadmap being very descriptive, you know men most partners want their partners to be happy. It's not you know there's the selfish aspect of performance and there's the sexual empathy component where they care about their partner and they want their partner to feel well. Giving them a roadmap to sort of explore around and find the anterior branch and think about the wishbone structures is really exciting to them. Desire spontaneous desire thinking through that is really exciting for them how they tap into that how they can curate that with your their partner thinking about their partners or Rousal. And then sort of supporting there's a communication component I think when we think about sexual dysfunction. We tend to break it down into a biosyco social model. I like to talk mostly about bio. I'm a clinical physician. I'm a guy in ecologist so I think a lot about anatomy and pathophysiology and neurotransmitters and hormones. But there's a lot of other people in this field that are helping with psychosocial sex therapists communication. There's a great book called Sex Talks by Vanessa Merin, which talks about how to communicate with your partner. Clitorate is a great book to think through different ways that you can sort of improve your communication about what pleasures you and how to investigate that. There's really good websites now.OMgyes.com is a website that sort of talks about your anatomy and how to find it and how to find your pleasure spots. So there's a lot out there. I'm not alone in the space by any means, but I like to think about it from a very sort of biologic physiologic perspective. You mentioned a moment ago for example that a number of women are able to have an orgasm during intercourse. But it requires them using their own hand for example. How much does a woman control her ability to have an orgasm by the way she positions her pelvis? Female dependent and depends on her own anatomy. So if you're thinking about how far your Clitoral hood is from your vaginal opening thinking about if you're a lefty or a righty, understanding your anatomy, exploring your anatomy can help you sort of figure this out and talk to your partner about it. So yes, there is a good amount of control that women can have over this, but the first step is understanding their own anatomy. And it is a myth that if a woman uses a vibrator regularly on her own, it makes it harder for her to have an orgasm with her male partner or unless she becomes dependent on using it as well. It is a myth. There are in a sense that there is data on either side. And so there is some data that talks about if you sort of acclimate to sexual practices that you cannot bring into a partner model, maybe harder to have orgasms in a partner situation, but if you are comfortable using whatever technique you find upon your own time, and you can bring that into your relationship, then you're more likely to have orgasms. And so thinking about whatever it is that you're doing and however it is that you're doing it, if you can sort of inject that into your life with your partner, you are more likely to have orgasms. There is really good data that sort of orgasms, you get orgasms meaning like the more orgasms you have, the easier it is to have an orgasm in terms of training. The system sort of learning, you know, your body's response to stimuli can be trained. Your body's response to things can be trained. And I think from a going back to sort of how we could use this from a desire perspective, there is good data that sex begets sex meaning, the more sex that you have, the more sex that you want. And so I talked to my patients about scheduled sex as a way to sort of work on your desire and most of my patients when I bring up scheduled sex are like, oh my god, another thing I have to do, like, what a hassle. And I sort of, I point out the fact that you've always scheduled sex, right? Like when you met your partner and your partner said, what are you doing Friday? He was scheduling sex with you. And when you said sushi sounds good and you shaved your armpits and put on a nice t-shirt, you were planning for sex. So you were prioritizing your sex life in a way. And so scheduling sex is a great technique that we use. How that sort of rolls out is depends on the patient and what frequency they're going for, but I have my patients do what I call a fuck it February, where I essentially have my patients having sex scheduling sex two to three times a week for the month of February. It's a romantic month. It's the shortest month of the year. And this sort of takes pressure off of patients wondering, you know, the person who's been the initiator sort of gets to relax and not have to worry about rejection. And the person who has been less interested knows that they're sort of working through in a rousal pathway, they're working on responsive desire. And scheduling just means that you'll show up. You don't have to have sex, but you just show up and you try it. And there's great data that sort of after a month women will sort of have that maintenance of, you know, their increased desire. And so you can sort of write on that for a couple of months. You mentioned earlier discordance as an issue, discordance of desire. How often is the discordance in one direction versus the other so how often is the discordance at the mail wants more than the female advice versus. I wish I had a specific number for you. We can probably look that up and put that in the notes, but anecdotally I'll say it is most often. And then the higher desire than the female does it say anything about the couple if it's the reverse or is it. I anecdotally as well have I have the reverse as well. And there's so much that goes into this in terms of like, you know, the partner is health status and chronic diseases and and, you know, stressors that works. So there's a lot to sort of think through and it can happen both it can go both ways, but by far and large it is predominantly the mail with the stronger sexual desire. And so on the topic of sexual desire, what are the, you know, because this podcast is called the drive and we're talking about cars. What are what's the throttle and what's the break pedal on sexual desire for men and for women and I assume it's different. I would assume it's different to I never talk about men because I'm not an expert in men's sex life. So I'm going to all over cues that to the next guest. But when we think about women, we think about accelerators and breaks. It's a common framework that we use from a social behavioral perspective like, you know, what helps you feel relaxed and what turns you off. But from a pathophysiologic perspective, we think about neurotransmitters. And so accelerators from a neurotransmitter perspective would be things like estrogen and testosterone, nitric oxide, dopamine and oxytocin. And those sort of five neurotransmitters are in a complex interplay to sort of tell our brain and our body through a variety of different pathways. I'd like to participate in intercourse estrogen is very interesting because although we know, you know, there's different types of estrogen receptors throughout the body. But when it comes to sort of sex drive, we think about alpha receptors, which stimulates sex drive and beta receptors, which decreases anxiety and inhibition. And not as clear cut when we replace estrogen. It's not a slim dunk that you cannot make the connection then that oh, so if I replace estrogen as it's dropping, I fixed my sex drive all as well. To stastroon has a little bit more of a direct link to that. So when we think about, for example, the postmenopausal female and I'll use the term menopaus hormone therapy over hormone replacement therapy. And I would be so excited if you switched your nomenclature as well. But I think when we think about postmenopausal women, we think about menopaus hormone therapy replacing estrogen. We sometimes do see an improvement in sex drive, but that's usually through an indirect pathway. You're sleeping better. You have more energy. Like you're not having as many hot flashes. So we'll see sort of an indirect improvement in sex drive to stastroon is, you know, well studied for hyp proactive sexual desire disorder or a problem with, you know, I was shouldn't say, but a decrease in your sex drive. To meet that diagnosis, you have to have a low sex drive for more than six months. And you have to care. Not your partner cares, but you have to care. And if you meet that diagnosis, testosterone is very well studied in terms of its benefits on your sex drive. What is your preferred method for administering testosterone to women? I prefer a cream. I, you know, I think, percribing tests. I so I do also prescribe test him, which is an oil. And that's where I will sort of like get receivable packets. I'll put it into a empty syringe and that syringe. The kind that we give our children Tylenol with, not an actual needle syringe. And so, and then you can administer 0.5 cc's and rub it on the inner thigh as my favorite place to do it. I do a lot of compounding cream. I use Coshlin pharmacy. They have a pretty standard like well mixed formula and also use. I'll prescribe a testosterone cream where the patient will use a pump a day when they get out of shower. They'll let it dry for 20 minutes and then they can put on their get sort of get dressed. Do you think the oil is more efficacious and consistent in its absorption than the cream? I don't. I find sort of when and I do try I do follow labs when prescribing testosterone. So anecdotally and from a lab perspective, I don't find a difference. I'm interested in what you say. I sort of go maced up based more on patient preference. If they want an FDA approved product, although it's not FDA approved for women, then we'll go ahead and use the test him. I don't I much prefer to just compound it. It's it's cleaner. It's less messy. It's easier to dose. There's so many dosing issues with the oil in terms of how we dispense it when it's not dispense you know supposed to be dispensed for women that I much prefer the cream. How about you? We use a cream more typically. Yeah, I don't use intranaisal. I do use introvaginal. So I will use but sort of in the form of DHA. I use a lot of intro Rosa intro Rosa or press and then press the test run is sort of a metabolite that can ultimately you know come down the testosterone estrogen pathway. I will use that. But in terms of that's for pain of the vagina, but when it comes to sort of sex drive and desire to administer testosterone, mostly cream. Do you target a level for total testosterone or free testosterone or are you just basically saying I want to get it above a certain floor and then symptoms determine where we end up. I want to get it above 20 in terms of total testosterone. It's very very low and then I use symptoms. And so then I use so for example, so 20 to 80 would be you know the range at which I'm interested. But I'm predominantly use symptoms. The guidelines in terms of how to titrate it are not clear and I you know anecdotally I'll have patients at 80 who have no benefit to their sex drive. I have 20 you see a great benefits. So I want to see like you know some sort of moderate modest improvement in their testosterone and then interview see other doing. And given how much variability there is in men with energy and receptor density. We I think we have a pretty clear sense that in men levels don't tell you much unless you're below you know 350 400 you know if you're below that level you're really going to be hypogonatal. But men can be replete at 600 and other men might not be replete till they're at a thousand and again it just comes down to AR density. Do you have any sense of how that works in women? Other than it's incredibly complicated as you alluded to but more so in women because most women who are on testosterone are also on estrogen. And we know that estrogen increases your sex hormone binding globulin quite significantly. Sex hormone binding globulin thing that protein that sort of runs around and gobbles up free androgens or testosterone. And so you know because I'm prescribing estrogen and that we know progestons actually have the ability to to blunt or mitigate that increase in the sex hormone binding. The sex hormone binding globulin the more androgyanic the progestin the more mitigating effect on that increase in sex hormone binding globulin. And so this is where. This is my true passion and sort of thinking about hormones and contraceptive and menopause hormone therapy and sort of tinkering with hormones. Because some of what you do will help the sex drive some of what you do will hurt. But the addition of the two variables of estrogen and progestin make this incredibly more challenging. As you know we talked about this at length with with Rachel Rubin, but I think it's always worth rehashing how how do you like to initiate. Estrogen progesterone testosterone use in a perimenopausal woman who is. Obviously one of the most difficult to treat because she still has waxing and waning natural levels of all of those hormones. But during her natures is typically pretty. Debellitated by the symptoms. So how what is your what is your playbook on that which is obviously pretty challenging. This is when you'll see me get very animated. I love this topic because it's so different. It's so different for each woman in terms of how she responds the first question that I try to answer in my interview with my perimenopausal patients is. Do you like ovulating or not? And that's the sort of first branch point at which I sort of decide how I'm going to approach this patient. So the part of this. Let's just stop on that question for a second. I've never really thought of that question. Obviously being someone who's never ovulated but. Tell me why that question matters and why would a woman know the answer to that question at the risk of sounding naive. So I'm going to answer this from first is sexual health perspective and then in general health perspective. Some people when their sex drive is higher around ovulation, they love it. Like the benefit that ovulation gives to their sex drive. There are times in the month when they have a great sex drive, they ovulate and they feel good. Similarly, the first half of your cycle when estrogen is climbing right before ovulation is a is a high performance part of your cycle. And so these women who like to cycle feel good the first part of their cycle. They feel great right before ovulation. There are a lot of biometrics that are peak right before ovulation. Your memory is stronger energy is stronger. I have a few Olympic athletes in my practice and we will figure out when their events are and we will try to figure out their ovulation. So that they are competing in the first 10 to around day 9, 10, 11, 12 to 15 of their cycle because right before ovulation is where they can lift the heaviest. And the fastest I'd love for you to do a steady on the O2 max throughout the cycle. But I think it's really interesting when you look at the metrics that we care about, many of them are peak. So, but sorry, just to be clear, at that moment in time her estrogen is pretty much at her highest. Progesterone is very low to testosterone is high. Correct. So does that mean? Progesterone is a performance inhibiting hormone or does it mean that estrogen, because obviously testosterone is a performance enhancing. Does it really mean estrogen is performance enhancing? Progesterone is performance inhibiting because in the in the luteal phase, you would also see high estrogen, but you now have high progesterone. And not as high estrogen, but you're correct. I think to to make this at the risk of boring anyone listening to get a little more academic about it. You're really talking about a progesterone is sort of which is a there's estrogen and there's progesterone. And there's progesterone. And there's progesterone. Now, natural progesterone, we know, which is that's what's in your body is progesterone. Yes, it is a sort of rest and digest a low energy phase, a preparation in case you need. Helps with sleep helps with sleep. But in terms of the progesterone plantation, Progesterone pregnancy, exactly. In terms of the progesterines, which are a synthetic class of progesterines, we then think about what is the family that this was derived from and decide effects can be very, very, very different. And I think about that in terms of what pills I will prescribe my patients. But to bring it back to the question, I essentially threw interview. And this is where the patient can really advocate for herself, you know, sort of for patients who are listening. We, you're, we care. Doctors, we, we've worked our butts off to get here. We deeply care about helping you. All doctors too. But you sort of coming in with great symptom tracking and timelines and relations to bleed and things like that can really help us. Understand through interview, whether you're someone who feels great because of obelating or whether you're someone who, you know, really suffers from PMS, pre-menstrual syndrome. Has it turned into pre-menstrual dysphoric disorder where it's PMS, but now it's impacting your life. There's so many reasons by which you would say I actually feel terrible cycling. I would prefer not to, but that's the first branch point when I have a period of menopausal woman. And just give me the divide there, Sally, what percentage of women who are, let's just call it 44 years old, 45 years old. We'll respond to that first question as, yep, I really enjoy ovulating. Let's keep it up versus let's make this go away. I would say about 70% of my patients, 7080% of my patients prefer not to ovulate. Okay. This is the 45 year old who's like, you know, I used to be really short tempered with my kids, the day before my periods. And now I'm just, you know, it's the whole week before I'm really short tempered. So, you know, I have all of the symptoms of low estrogen hot flashes, vaginal dryness. I have all these hypos estrogen exemptums, but I also have, you know, periodimenopausas, you know, your brain is yelling at your ovaries. To please do unlast ovulation, listen up so you have this sort of hyper simulation of signaling. A hyper responsive FSH follicle stimulating hormone. So much so that you can get, you know, a loop event, which is a luteal out of phase event, we're essentially you ovulate twice. Your FSH is so high. It's so busy yelling at your ovaries that your ovaries are like, I heard you. And I heard you again, and they essentially double ovulate, and that's that story where you'll have, you know, long cycle and then a short cycle and then a long cycle. So these are all clues that you don't like to ovulate. And so if you do like to ovulate, let's go down that sort of less lesser trouble. Either you're the first person besides me who I've heard used the yelling analogy. I'll never get 10 years ago, I was sitting down with a male patient, and he came in and he had a pretty high testosterone. It was, let me not very high, but it was probably like 7 or 800, which for his age was actually pretty high. And his FSH and his LH were two ex normal, and he wasn't taking, you know, anything. And I was like, this is really interesting, and he's like, why? And I'm sort of drew him a picture, and I said, basically your pituitary gland is yelling. It's screaming at your nuts, and they're really responding. And like, I forgot about the statement, right? And like a six months later, a year later, two years later, he keep coming back with that. At some point, I started taking care of one of his friends. His friends told me about it. They're like, he's really been bragging about this. And so anyway, I just thought, you know, I'm sure women do not go and brag to their other friends that their pituitary glands are screaming at their ovaries. But that's a guy thing, a guy would brag about that. I would agree with that. What women do do is, you know, they're walking around the block with their protein shakes. There's, you know, doing their thing. And you have one 46 year old average age of periomatopaus being 46. The of 146, the of 146 year old saying, gosh, I feel so great. I'm on a birth control pill. And I just feel so great. And the other 46 year olds like me too. I'm on menopaus hormone therapy. I just feel so great. And then they look at each other like, wait, where are you on that? Why did you, where are you on that? And the heart of this for me is who likes to ovulate and who doesn't. And from a sexual health perspective, understanding is your sex drive. And all the other things that make you happy and feel good, which ultimately go into your sex drive. Do you want to ovulate? And if you do want to ovulate, then we can think about, you know, do you need contraception, right? So how can we sort of, yeah? And sorry, just go down that branch point again because you just, you just made a distinction that I, I don't know that every listener will understand. You just talked about oral contraceptives, which are hormones. And then menopausal therapy, which is hormones. Can you explain why that branch point is different in response to your question? Yeah. So menopaus hormone therapy, the dosages do not suppress the gonantropin pathway. And so when you are on menopaus hormone therapy, you still ovulate. If you're going to ovulate, you still ovulate. You're going to still ovulate to your skin. Yeah. Whereas contraception, many forms of contraception suppress ovulation, but not all forms. To be clear when talking about contraception and how it affects your sex drive, I just want to sort of, you know, we talk about ovulation and how women's sex drive can be ovulation dependent. Remember though that we've looked at how suppressing ovulation impacts your sex drive. And the data shows that they've great meta analysis of 32 trials. And it looked at over 14,000 women. And it said that 20, and it said that 20% of women who suppressed ovulation still had an increase in their sex drive. 65% had no change in their sex drive and 15% had a decrease in their sex drive. So I don't want you to think that by choosing some form of contraception, that suppresses ovulation. You know, we'll absolutely have an impact on your sex drive. It's so multifactorial and safety from pregnancy can be so sort of reassuring for patients that that's, you know, definitely not the case. And when we think about how hormone pills can impact your sex drive, we think about sort of the twofold suppression of the hypothermic pituitary access in terms of suppressing your hormones downstream and you're there for ovulation. But also going to ovaries and shutting them down, which then decreases their production of testosterone. So even though yes, we have, you know, biologic plausibility for how contraception impacts your sex drive. There's so much going into this from a bioscico social perspective that we don't see the, you know, equal number of changes in terms of how it actually impacts your sex drive. And so once we sort of identify, okay, you do not want to ovulate, then we can sort of march down, okay, do we want to use, do you need contraception? Do we need to do contraception? But that continues to allow you to ovulate things like a parigard, IUD, spermicides, you know, there's a vaginal pH modifiers. There's many ways that we can provide contraception without impacting your ovulation. Or if contraception is not an issue and you like to ovulate, then we go down the menopause hormone therapy route. If you said that 70% of women would be fine without ovulating anymore, does that imply that 70% of parigandopausal women would be better off on oral contraceptives than on estradiol and progesterone? My patients and, and yes, in my patient panel, they are happier on that. What's, what's really interesting is, I want to talk about so when we think about menopause hormone therapy, we're thinking about 17 beta-astroidal, which is this estrogen, it's an E2 and it's the predominant estrogen when we're in our reproductive years and there's so many benefits to this estrogen, right? There are some new birth control pills on the market that have this 17 beta-astroidal. So it's an fascinating mix where you're suppressing ovulation, you have contraception, but you're potentially still getting the health benefits of being on a 17 beta-astroidal or an estroidal value, which is metabolized into 17 beta-astroidal. And so for my par amenopausal patients, once we establish, okay, do you want to ovulate yes or no, do you need contraception? Yes or no, then we can sort of think through how we pick a pill. Because that would be my concern with an oral contraceptive as a bridge through menopause, which is they're missing out on real estrogen and progesterone. And I think we have pretty good evidence that the benefits you accrue later in life, especially with respect to bone density, but probably with respect to other metrics of health, are heavily dependent on getting real 17 beta-astroidal and real progesterone right away, never having an interruption in those hormones. So if that is correct. I agree with you. I've had if what we believe on that front is correct, then it means any woman who's going to go down the oral contraceptive route would be best receiving that oral contraception in the form of what you just described, which is a real 17 beta. And I guess my next question, I'm worried I know the answer to this question, but I'm going to ask it anyway, what is the cost of that type of oral contraceptive and how often are insurance companies covering that? Rarely covering it. So to sort of. And the out-of-pocket monthly cost on that pill would be 100ish a month. So to incredibly creative. Yeah, it's incredibly prohibitive. So when you, you know, if you were to think about, okay, so now I'm par amenopausal and I don't want to ovulate. The first question is, do I want to be on estrogen? You and I are sort of looting to the fact like, yes, I want to be on estrogen, but a certain kind of estrogen. Remember some people are not candidates for estrogen, right? My greens with or a blood clot, family history. So then, but we still want to suppress ovulation. The newest progesterone on the market is something called, Dr. Spirinone. Dr. Spirinone, the pill is called slind. It suppresses ovulation at about 98% of women, whereas previous progesterone only pills suppressed ovulation 50 to 70% of the time. So you're getting a huge mood benefit for these women who cannot take estrogen, but really don't want to feel the ups and downs of par amenopaus cycling, which can be wild. Dr. Spirinone being a derivative of spirinolactone, there's a diuretic component to it. And so it's a really well tolerated, really exciting. I hope I can convey how excited I am about this, progestin because having just spirinone means that we can mitigate some of the other side effects. And so such as water retention. And so then, okay, so now we've decided, all right, if I don't want estrogen, I'll use slind. This just spirinone only, but ovulation suppressant medication. What if I do one estrogen? Then the branch point is, do I want something synthetic? Said very few people ever, or do I want something more natural said both of us? The people who do end up on a synthetic estrogen are, it's, it's your insurance covers it. It's available at all pharmacies. So there's sort of an access issue here that we would be sort of remiss to ignore. I still have favorite pills. And within that category, I still have pills that I like. And historically, if you interview patients, they may be able to tell you, oh, I did well on this synthetic estrogen. So as we sort of get into the later forties, I care more in terms of getting them back on a more natural estrogen for the reasons you mentioned in terms of bone protein. When you're talking to a 28 year old woman who just needs birth control, you don't have a concern with putting around a synthetic estrogen. I don't. And I still have favorites. So I still, you know, low low esterin. I was just about to say that's my favorite. Yeah. So I use low low esterin a lot. Low low esterin is North and drone, Progestin. The reason why I like North and drone is it's a little bit more endrogenic. The more endrogenic the progestin, the, the, it has the ability to blunt or mitigate the increase in sex hormone binding globulin. Again, I'm talking about pills from a sexual health perspective. There's lots of other ways you could do this, but today this is my angle. And so when you think about super low dose ethanol ester dial, low side effects, plus a, you know, slightly more endrogenic progestin. You then can have a, you know, blunting of the increase in sex hormone binding globulin. It's less likely to gobble up all those extra androgens and patients tolerate it really well. Side effects are there's more bleeding because of the low ethanol ester dial. So sometimes I'll go up to a less, which is a 20 microgram ethanol ester dial. And this has a, we've no gestural, Progestin to it. And this progestin is similarly a little bit more endrogenic, less likely to impact your sex hormone binding globulin. And then my last two very popular jazz and jazzmen. The reason why those are so popular is the progestin in them is just spironone. And so it has that ability to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, more, but diuretic. Exactly it acts as a diuretic. When we think about ethanol ester dial and I, if I could just sort of step out of professionalism for a moment and ask my father and law to tune in because he's a nephrologist. And he would be so excited to hear that I'm going to talk about angio 10cinogen, which is in the kidneys, ester gen goes ethanol ester dial goes to the kidneys. And some 17 beta ester dial goes to the kidneys and causes sodium retention water retention. So when we think about estrogen and how it impacts our bodies, our PMS, our breasts feeling heavy and painful. Bl loading slight waging. This is from, this is estrogen effects. And drosperonone being a derivative of spironolactone can have a mitigating or a diuretic, a blunting effect on that water retention. Dave, if you could tune out now because I might say orgasm soon. But anyways, using this sort of counter acting principle in these newer medications can help me pick a really good synthetic form of contraception. Now, if we're going to go to the natural form, one of the, there's a few combinations that I'm using now that my patients are tolerating really well. The first is to go back to that progesterone, progestin, only pill, progestin, only pill, which is sling drosperonone. And adding it a 17 beta ester dial patch to it. So you're essentially taking an ovulation, suppressive component of contraception, but adding in menopause hormone therapy ester gen. And that's where the benefits are. You get the bone protection, you get the, so from a patients who are on contraceptive pills. But you're saying the progesterone and ruptured, the progestin alone will help with suppression of ovulation, which will harm the sex. Such that you can use physiologic 17 beta ester dial. Correct. That's super interesting. I'm ashamed to admit I didn't know that. So it's a great, this is a great sort of in-between stat because you can call contraception. You can provide your spironov, which is a diuretic, which 17 beta ester dial does have, you know, some sort of water attention components to it. But the downsides to it as the, although these sort of work very well throughout the body, they, at the level of the endometrium or the lining inside the uterus, is you have a little bit more breakthrough bleeding. Because the 17 beta ester dial does not stabilize the endometrium as much. So one of the side effects in limiting reasons for which I won't, my patients won't be happy on this is if they're having breakthrough bleeding. So when there's other options that are better at that. So a newer, that sort of two medications that I want to make sure, you know about, and I have no disclosures, but I'd love to have some. Is, is that the next medication that we think about is next cellus, and next cellus is Drows Spironone, which is the spironovlactone derivative, the diuretic with esterol. Or E4, it's a natural esterogen. It's typically produced by the fetal liver. But this has a longer half life than 17 beta ester dial. So you get less breakthrough bleeding, less spotting. We don't know. We think natural esterogens. You must get bone protection and bone benefit. We don't know yet. It's currently being studied. It's only made by the fetal liver. Correct. So that you have none of this in your body right now. I hope for you. Yeah, I'm less you're taking this. Hopefully not. Yeah. And what do we understand about, and this, we might have to cut this out of the podcast, because it is so freaking nerdy at this point. But we understand how E1, E2 and E3, esterol, esterol, we understand, I mean, if we want to, we can understand exactly how they move between each other. Yeah. Do we understand how E4 fits into that pathway? Does E4 have any conversion back to E2? Or is it going to be a one? Or is it going to be a one? We don't, we don't, we don't totally know. We think it's independent. But with, really, something we do know about E4 is that it does not activate the NGO 10centage in pathway. So you don't get these. So you don't get this swelling. You don't get this swelling. You don't get the bloating. So you have that pluster spironone and patients feel really good. Remember, just spironone is so good for bloating in the end. If we don't know that this has, I mean, until we know if this is going to be protective of bones and all these other things, when there be a risk that we're solving one problem without addressing the jugular problem? Yes, currently being studied, but it is a, the benefits of drows spironone less spotting or breakthrough bleeding than the drows spironone plus menopause hormone therapy level estrogen. But I think by you asking that question and sort of the dedication to making sure that we're on a study in 17 beta ethanol ester dial. The newest medication on the market is called Natasia. And Natasia is a progestin with ester dial valerate, which essentially is 17 beta ethanol ester dial. And this is a huge sort of hugely important contraceptive option for a few reasons. The first is the only contraceptive pill that's been approved by the FDA to treat heavy menstrual bleeding. And this is a huge issue in perimenopause and contributes greatly to sex drive and desire. But this is once you've ruled out fibroids and things that otherwise can't be treated like that are not going to be. This is sort of like, you know, I said that I wanted to stay and sort of the normal pathology part for this for this podcast. If you're Clark to Disseptuous coyote or so an include you'llinental tablets, €2 overall will be about 20% CAR. We'll just continue to look at the guidance of stonterip ι patients from the big beta beta Foundation. It will be very helpful with the relief in healthcare times. Benefit categories will cause highly psychological painst coronavirus stress in the brain painstも condition, mammal legs to get been immunostoresme, bone in circulation to allной out the muscle and distraction to the brain. to suggest micronized progesterone, even at 200 milligrams, which would probably be the upper limit of what we would use. That's not enough to simulate to suppress ovulation, obviously. For 300. 300. 300 plus is what you would need to sort of predictably reliably. But of course, at three, most women can't tolerate them. Two sedating, you know, and additionally, you know, not to be left out is menopause hormone therapy plus aniodee, right? Or menopause hormone therapy plus a salping jack to me removal of the tubes. There's other ways to get at this. But I think that's why I really start at the branch point. Those those points do not block ovulation. So that's why to me, I really care how you feel in relation to ovulation. And that's the branch point and how you decide how to treat my patients. So a lot of what we just talked about probably went over the heads of a lot of people, which is understandable. It is pretty complicated stuff. Um, I want to kind of bring this back to to a listener, right? To me, the takeaway is if you're a woman, um, you've got to show up with a point of view on what you're trying to optimize around. You have to show up on a, you know, you just show up with a point of view around preferences. Um, and this one around, do I like ovulating or not is important? So that's something that regardless of how young a woman is listening to this and, you know, truth be told, I don't think our audience skews very young. But I'm sure there is a 25 year old out there listening. This is something she could be paying attention to right now, right? She's 20 years away from having to deal with what we're talking about. But she can still be pretty receptive to the idea of how do I feel during my cycle? That would be my greatest takeaway and to sort of end to, and to make you aware that that changes, um, that the way in which we feel in the second part of our cycle, um, as our estrogen declines as we age can become more and more dramatic. So it's a very important question to me for everyone and a very, very important question for me for my Perryman Apostle Patience. And how much does that change based on children? And, um, and the number of children in women has or any other factor like that? I, I would feel a little theoretical going into that. I don't think we have great data. There's some, you know, some studies talking about the later, um, in your, you know, the later you have your last child, the earlier you'll go into Perryman Apostles. Um, the way that I think about hormones and, and what happens from a, uh, I think one thing I want to go back to from a neurotransmitter perspective is you ask me about the accelerators and we launched into a discussion about hormones, but we didn't talk about the breaks. Um, and the breaks are, uh, serotonin. Um, so we know about how SSRIs can impact our sex drive and what, you know, we could think about what to do about that. But pro-lactin, um, is a break. And that's really interesting because when in our lives is pro-lactin, breastfeeding, breastfeeding, postpartum. And so women can find this very validating, but from a biologic perspective, we know that pregnancies spaced 18 months apart. That's the a cog or American college of obstetrics and gynecology. They recommend 18 months between pregnancies because that second pregnancy will be healthier. The baby will be bigger. It would more likely to make it to term. So we know that spacing pregnancies is healthy. And so having a high pro-lactin postpartum and keeping you from being interested in sexual and of course, is your body's natural way of spacing out pregnancies for the better? Well, we're in the topic of evolution. There's something I've, I've always wondered, um, that seems a bit at odds with pure, a pure natural selection and this is going to expose how naive my thinking might be. So it's not a surprise that men would have a high sex drive for as long as they are, you capable of reproducing, which is seemingly indefinitely, right? But you could make an argument maybe theoretically that women's sex drive should decline after a certain age, call it 30 or at this. When evolution narrowly, their probability of producing healthy offspring goes down. But I don't think we believe that to be true at all. I don't think we see that women's sex drive goes down as they age, which sort of flies in the face of maybe at least one naive interpretation of what natural selection might interpret. Is there a smarter explanation for why a women's sex drive goes up? Or it doesn't go down, maybe to phrase it more accurately? There are many explanations. You know, this is hard to study. Potentially the most popular one, which the European Society of Sexual Medicine gives like a grade to level B rating. So not super high rating, meaning like case control study. No, no, this is like theoretical. If we can sort of tangent on the theory for a little bit, there's something called women's dual sexuality. And it basically talks about women's motivation to participate in, and of course, being different at different parts of the cycle, meaning mid-cycle when you are able to get pregnant, you are fertile. You are more likely to participate or to want to participate in, in a course for purposes of reproduction. And the mates that you are more likely to select during that time will have features of genetic dominance, such as a very symmetric face, more masculine features. We talk about the histocompatibility complex, and there's dissimilarity that we look for at this time, because we know that mixing and feeding is better than not. And then there's other times of the cycle when you're interested in participating in a course, and you're seeking out things such as partnership, shelter, companionship, protection. And so talking about that. And you're not optimizing around. And you end up with genetic features. And that is effective or less symmetric or less masculine partner. But your partner may have better communication skills, the ability to provide better shelter or protection. It's very interesting. People take this and run with it online, and they talk about, you know, and your 20s, what form of contraception should you be on when choosing a mate? This goes back to that question of, do you want to ovulate or not? Because there's so much this is not an anti-obulation anti-controsception discussion. Your sex life is so multifactorial and being protected from pregnancy is, you know, for many can be such a positive contributor to their sex life. But if you believe in this evolutionary hypothesis, and if you believe that you would rather pick your future mate when you're still ovulating, versus being on something like a contraceptive pill that blocks ovulation, there is some data to show that you may pick a different partnership. The discussion section is, you may want to pick a partner that has a less symmetric face, but is more likely to have a partnership in communication skills. But that's sort of excuse myself from that. You can decide for yourself on that. That is super fascinating. And honestly, there's more to explore there than the simple and obvious stuff I proposed. I want to go now back to some of the other stuff that we talked about around desire. We didn't touch on this, but this must be a very important topic that you deal with, which is how much do adverse sexual experiences during the early part of a woman's life negatively impact her ability to have a healthy sexual life later on? And again, we can, I think we can talk about this across the entire spectrum, right? So we could take the most egregious example, which would be sexual assault, rape, things of that nature. But then we can also, I think, fan this out into things, which is just like, no, you know, the first time I had sex, it was awful. It was in a car in the back seat with a guy that I didn't really know that well, and we were both drunk and yeah, I was consenting, but it was awful. So it's hard to imagine that many women can't relate to that type of experience. How does that play forward? I see it incredibly often in my patient panel. It is unfortunately, you know, if you're listening to this and you have a history of sexual trauma, you are unfortunately not at all alone. And there are things we can do about it. So yes, it plays a part, and yes, we should do things about it. So there are lots of different approaches. You know, I hope that patients are in therapy, and that they have sort of the right support team around them. I want to bring up sex therapists are a great sort of contributor in this area, and sort of thinking about how your experiences are brought into the bedroom and sort of, you know, how do we sort of use a trauma informed approach when sort of talking about how to curate or rousal and bringing yourself to the encounter when you're not quite ready. There are, there's a sense-saint focus exercise that is really evidence-based for survivors of trauma, but can also be very applicable to patients who, for example, are listening to as podcasts and it's been a year or spend six months, and they want to sort of think about how to become intimate again. And it's a, it's a four step program that can be done over a month, over four months. You can sort of pick how long each stage you want it to last. Dr. Lee Amel Hauser, who's done a ton of work in sexual health from a gynecologic perspective, talks about this, and it's essentially, you know, step one is to, you know, let's say spend 20 minutes, a couple of times a week if you want it, the stage to last a week is to sort of be intimate with your partner, no touching of the breast, no touching of the genitals. Step two would be okay to touch breasts in genitals, but orgasm off the table. Step through the orgasms on the table, but no penetrative sex, and step four is penetrating, of course, is allowed. And this is sort of, it's a evidence-based way in which you can create a safe space to sort of start to, you know, find yourself back in your body. There is a book called The Body Keeps Score, which talks about how to bring your sort of mindfulness back into your body when you are a, you know, trauma survivor. And Emily and Agowski talks a lot about it in her book as well. And then there's this sort of potentially less traumatic but still pain that can, you know, sort of presented self in sexual encounters like it just hurt like, you know, I see this a lot in my cancer survivors. Just about to ask you about cancer, but I'm sorry. Yeah, so I see this a lot. Cancer, I often see sort of a two-fold hit. There is this sort of a psychosocial of, I'm mad at my body and I, you know, there's all those sort of complex feelings. Sort of like physiologic aspect of, you know, chemotherapy, radiation and how that impacts pain and lubrication of the vagina and, you know, comfort of hormone use, although, you know, we really feel, you know, quite, quite confident that, you know, local estrogen treatment of the vagina is completely safe. For almost all cancer survivors, Dr. Tammy Rowan talks a lot about this with the, you know, is wish and menopause society sort of, you know, encouraging not only patients, but also doctor. To feel comfortable prescribing local estrogen and this patient population. Physical therapist, pelvic floor physical therapist can be incredibly helpful. I think every woman, you know, if you're sort of making a centenarian plan and you're seeing a physical therapist to keep your posture and your muscles healthy, I think you should see a pelvic floor physical therapist. There, you know, great in terms of increasing the tone of the pelvic floor. We know that strength of contraction can lead to better quality orgasms. I often get emails like, oh, I just had the best sex thanks for sending me to the pelvic floor at this physical therapist. But it also is good for hyper tonicity where your pelvic floor is too tight, where you carry stress and trauma and pain. You know, in terms of thinking about how we take care of the vagina, I would like to encourage you to think about taking care of the vagina like you take care of your face. You listen to my recent podcasts. I did. And I would like to say, so, you know, you're going to go out in the sun. And you put on sunscreen, you put sunscreen on your face. So if you're going to have intercourse, you should use loop. That's just one week. Well, then if a woman says I've never had any difficulty with lubrication, I don't have any discomfort with sex. You still think a woman should be using lubricant. I do the data shows less micro abrasions. And also what I really... And I'm sorry, if you're not concerned with sexually transmitted diseases, which is what the WHO is concerned with. If you're with one partner and only one partner, our micro abrasions are problem. They lead to pain. And once we get into a pain signaling process, you can get, this is a common cause of what we call vaginism, or a tightening of the pelvic floor, which then leads to more pain. It is very possible. And you should absolutely work at it. The breaking of aginism is cycle. It takes a lot of work. And so part of this recommendation that almost everyone should use loop is this idea that we're trying to avoid pain. And we're trying to avoid pain. Do you have any other woman? Yes. This is one of my favorite things to talk to young teens about. You know, when we think about sexual education, and there's a great study looking at 1200 high school students, and we ask them about what we call sexual debut or their first sexual encounter. And then it's for us just first sexual encounter. That includes kissing. No, no, sexual encounter. What defines that? I'm going to guess penetrate a dinner course based off of, yeah. Yeah, yeah. And 70% of boys gave responses related to pleasure. And 70% of girls gave responses related to pain. And that's a big deal. And so talking about foreplay and lubrication even for young women who have an adequately lubricated vagina and decreasing the likelihood that they'll get into pain. That they'll clench up the pelvic floor. It will then hurt more breaking out of that cycle is incredibly important to me. So yes, Lou, if you're going to have sex. Going back to the face. You like there putting moisturizer on your face. Only recently. Only recently. So there's vaginal moisturizer. So if you want to use your vagina when you're older using a vaginal moisturizer, there's good ones on the market. There's reverie, which is a hyaluronic acid suppository. It lowers the peach of the vagina and brings water molecules with it. There's Replains, which is a polycarpiphyl suppository that also recutes water molecules. You're moisturizing. Gear of a vagina. And then sorry, just explained to me how this is used. This is like part of your nightly routine. Yeah, yeah, put on your eye cream. Or moisturizer. Which is more important. For people like evening because I'm looking at what if you're having sex after. So whether you're using a vaginal moisturizer or whether you're using a hormone, which will be the third part of this facial analogy recommendation. If you put it in and you decide you want to have an, of course, like please do. I wouldn't use it for the purpose of it. It's sort of you're playing the long game. Yeah. So if you think about sort of step three with your face, you're using a vitamin C serum or a, you know, DNA repair enzyme or an exosom or whatever. That's sort of the long game in terms of, you know, collagen and overall sort of tone of the face. So hormones would be this sort of counterpartum of vaginal perspective using using a yeah, inter vaginal topical. Um, local estrogen of my patients who are on menopause hormone therapy. About 30 to 40% of them. And that's consistent with with the data are also on local estrogen therapy. So just to be so clear that we treat local vaginal conditions with local treatment for women who don't respond from a vaginal health person. So we treat them with vaginal health perspective to systemic hormones. All right. So let's recap that. So the equivalent of sunscreen was lubrication lubrication. Um, you'd said silicon based. I like it. So silicon based because it is needs it lasts longer. So water based lubricant doesn't last as long. And so in order to make a water based lubricant work, they have to add a lot of additives. You add additives. You get hyper osmolar. Um, lubricants which then if you go back to high school chemistry means that you're actually long game is water molecules are going from the vagina into the lubricant because the osmolality. So it's trying you out melancholy. So I like a silicone based loop. Give us a cup of grand you like Uber loop the osmolab Uber later. Get like what I took care. Yeah, like I took a Uber here. So yeah, I like Uber loop. Okay. The osmolality is 600. Um, I like good clean love almost naked. Osmolality is about 280 to 300. The osmolality of the vagina is 300. Um, it's it's really quite shocking to me when you go to, you know, a drugstore and you sort of pick up, let's say, Astro glide the most, you know, sort of popular. So the osmolality of Astro glide is 8,000. Um, they have a gentler one that's lower. Most people don't know about that. Don't buy it. If you look at KY, it's just around 4 to 6,000. Wow. These things shouldn't be sold. They should not be sold. Um, but they're and they smell good and why are they? Why are they the most ubiquitous loops out there? They taste good or they smell good or they have a cool package or, you know, it's essentially like, you know, Do these, uh, loops say the osmolality on the package? If you look on the back, they should say it. Right. So you want to be basically in the 280 to 300. 300 as close to 300 as you can. Okay. Yeah. Great to know. So Uber, Lou, what was the other one? Good clean love almost naked. That's a long name. They might want to shorten that. Good clean love. Okay. Good clean love. All right. And then the sex. So if that's your sunscreen, um, your moisturizer is a reverie or a replens and these are suppositories that you can put in the vagina nightly. And the suppositories providing what? It is recruiting water molecules into the cells and the reverie is also slightly lowering the pH of the vagina. The lower the pH of the vagina or as close to the, is a natural desirable outcome. And how does a woman know if her systemic hormone therapy? Uh, is insufficient. And therefore she requires topical as the third part of this playbook. If you are going to respond to systemic hormone therapy in terms of. Improvement of pain, dyspruneo we call it. Feels like sandpaper can now. There's this sort of a rubbing raw feeling to the vagina. You'll respond by about six to eight weeks. So I tend to start my patient. Got it. So give it a start. See if things get better. If there's no change. Yeah. If you weren't having pain and nothing gets better. Yeah. You were probably fine. This strikes me as a great example of something that a male who's listening to this podcast, whose female partner is not could actually bring home and talk about over dinner. I'm on the scene the back of my mind. I'm I'm look, I mean, half our audiences men, half our audiences women. So there's a guy who's listening to this episode, who's partner is not. And he's, if I'm in his shoes, I'm thinking, what am I, what am I bringing back to the table? And this would be one of those things, which is, hey, let's have a discussion about these three things. You know, and and so anyway, hopefully we'll link to examples of all of these in the show notes. What percentage of women are regularly receiving oral sex? I don't have that statistic. I'll have to find that and look it up. I will say that when you look at orgasm frequency with any sort of intimate encounter, it is one of the highest likelihood to be able to achieve orgasm acts that a man and a woman can participate in together. There's a great book called She Comes First by Ian Kerner that has diagrams and tips and tricks and talks about essentially how to do that. One of the best way, if you sort of from a performance perspective is to go back to the sort of stages of orgasm that we talked about the excitation, plateau orgasm and resolution. When you think about the plateau phase, that sort of the hormone cascade that's happening in the woman. There's two different ideas in sort of that that are relevant here. The first is something called the approach and the approach is the second sort of moments just prior to orgasm. The first is that the person who is in the right way is to observe two thirds of women report that whatever is happening when the approach starts that it should just keep happening exactly as it is. So no increase in pressure, no increase whatever you're doing, just keep doing it, no change in temperature pressure, speed, depth, nothing. So understanding that is sort of like a key component for most women, but not all can be something that can sort of help you from a performance perspective. The only one that's known as the woman in the man, the woman needs to recognize she's there and have a cue to her partner that says don't change a thing. The guy needs to not try to be a hero and needs to know when she taps my head or whatever it is, don't change a thing. Yeah, and that's the strategy to help women sort of have more of a guaranteed orgasm. And then the contrary is something called edging, which is where you do stop what you're doing and you sort of like bring your partner close to orgasm and then you stop what you're doing and then you can bring your partner close again and then you stop. And this is for women to be able to achieve more of an intense orgasm, this edging technique. So if you were to give a guy a few pieces of advice on how to be more successful at helping his partner achieve orgasm using oral sex and penetration, what would be your advice. Loop, get over it. It's evidence-based, it's for friction and has nothing to do with how interested your partner is in you anatomical awareness. So understanding that there's two these two wishbone nerve pieces enjoy being massaged. Try to explore with your finger two thirds of the way into the vagina on the anterior or the front wall where the G spot is find that rugated area. So, you know, for play, what does that look like for you as a couple? What does it look like outside of the bedroom is it? Is it you made dinner or you put the kids down? What is your chore play? What chores did you did as a part of for play? What nice text messages. There's so much contextual going on. There's really funny. And there's really research pieces that talk about, you know, people who are in the military who are traveling around and there's bombs everywhere and it's really dangerous and men are still like ready to have sex and women are feared for their lives. So, there's, you know, there's women, there's a lot goes into a lot, a little bit more that are a lot more that goes into women's sexuality that I want you to be aware of. There's no need to take this personal. I hope today sort of understanding, you know, a rousal versus desire, responsive desire and it's homically thinking about not just the tip of the clitoris. Although many men haven't even thought of that, but in addition to the tip of the clitoris. The wishbone structures that go down, the anterior wall of the vagina thinking about, you know, what phase of orgasm your partner's in is she in the excitement phase is she in the plateau phase or is she sort of in in the orgasm phase. And what does that look like? What about little details like for example, if you're stimulating the clitoris, is it just very individual variation up and down side to side around like individual variation. And is this something where a guy should just ask a woman and say, hey, how do you like this done or is a woman put off by a guy asking that? In my dream world, these conversations would take place. There's books that walk you through how to have these conversations, the sex talks book that I mentioned by Vanessa Marin, she writes it with her husband. So you get sort of both perspectives. You think, you know, that website, omg.com actually teaches women how to find the different techniques. So they go over, you know, a hard stroke, a round stroke, a gentle touch an internal touch. They actually teach women. And yeah, I have a dream that women would, you know, go to this website and learn for themselves how to do it and talk to their partners about it. Men can also go to the website. It's a look a one time flat fee website. Then you have access to all of their content. And it walks you through different techniques. So you can actually learn and talk about with your partner what she likes. All right. Let's pivot a little bit and talk about sort of the pharmacology of arousal. We've talked a little bit about it through a hormone perspective. And we've obviously talked about how testosterone and particular, but also estrogen and progesterone player role in in the arousal of a woman. But there are also drugs that are specifically used to target this. What can you tell us about them? There are a couple in particular that that I know have come up on this podcast previously. So using that sort of accelerator and break analogy. Many of the medications will work on one or both of those pathways. The two most common medications and the only two that are FDA approved for women are adi, which is a pill in Vilecy, which is an injection. They work along the M.A.O.I. pathway on increasing nor up in effort and dopamine and decreasing serotonin. So if you go back to those neurotransmitters thinking about serotonin as a break. So they decrease that. Nor up in effort and dopamine to the rewards center of the brain and they increase those. I don't use them a ton in practice. They are studied for, they are not studied for postmenopausal women. Adi is a nightly pill. You take it for six weeks or you take it forever. But after it takes about six weeks before you can see benefit to it. In the trial for which it was FDA approved, it increased your number of satisfying sexual encounters by one. So you went from having like two to two-ish satisfying sexual encounters a month to three-ish satisfying sexual encounters. You can't drink alcohol on it. It can cause nausea for some people. It can interact with anti-depressants and mood stabilizing drugs. It's not a contraindication but can change the way in which they work. I just don't use it very much. How much is this drug cost? I don't know the answer to that. Why do you think this drug was approved with such limited efficacy? It's statistically significant to go from what's a two-ish to three-ish satisfying sexual encounters. But there was a social movement at the time. There was frustration about how easy it was for Viagra to be approved. The data for Viagra men is much more clear and easy to see. This is women's sex drive is very complex and this is potentially one angle at improving it. But it's a bit of a bad analogy. Viagra is not really a drive drug. It's a performance drug, right? It's a performance drug that ultimately can impact drive as well. But it also impacts, are there any data that show that Viagra or Cialis or any phosphodastric inhibitor improve orgasm quality in women? They've looked at Viagra a great deal. The studies do not show for women across the population level when study that it impacts driver gastric quality, except when looking at a specific patient population. So when you look at Viagra, the patients who had an improvement in their quality of sex, be it dry or orgasm quality, etc. Or women, diabetics, N.S. multiple sclerosis, spinal cord patients and SSRIs. These are women who we think that the vasodilation of the nitric oxide and the physiologic response. That they have to Viagra, dose at 25 to 50, you know, one to two hours prior to anticipated intercourse can be helpful. Let's go back to Adi, the pill. When I talk about one satisfying sexual encounter, you know, improved per month, like remember that that's compared to placebo. So there is still a great placebo benefit here and for many that's, you know, exciting and fine to introduce into their life. Viagra is an injection. You may get questions about it from your patient panel because it's similar to the peptide PT-141. Malanotan, this sort of has the, the, the, the street name is the barbie drug because it works through the MCR4 or the Malanacordicin pathway. So you, you get tan and pretty happy and, and horny is what they say. So they call the barbie drug for that reason. There's a significant amount of nausea. You inject yourself for the first two hours. There's about 40% of women will have nausea. I often prescribe so-foran and antide nausea medicine when I prescribe this drug. After two-ish three-ish hours, the nausea can go away and then the drug lasts for up to six hours. You can't use it more than twice a week. But this had slightly sort of similar efficacy to adi in terms of improving your sex drive. When, when I hear that a drug causes that much nausea and you can only use it twice a week. I worry that it's doing something unhelpful as a side effect beyond what you just said. Do you have a concern with long-term use of this drug? It has not been, it's been out since 2019. We don't have particularly long-term data on it. I have the same, you know, questions. People anecdotally do like it. But I do think there's a great placebo effect going on here. Do you think one is better than the other? It's really hard for me to convince patients to inject themselves with a shot prior to, you know, an hour or so prior to intercourse. It doesn't really feel so- It's a preloaded end. It goes socially, yes, that's easy. Well, yeah, I guess it speaks to, obviously, the magnitude of the problem. I don't suppose these drugs have been compared head to head to testosterone. I don't believe that they have no. I assume that it would be prudent to make sure a woman's testosterone has been pushed to the physiologic limits before you would engage with any of those drugs. I just prefer testosterone, which to be clear testosterone is sort of from a guideline perspective, recommend it only in the post-menopausal woman. So if we're going to sort of stay in the, you know, where is most of the data? You know, when do I ever use these drugs? So this is in the premenopausal premenopausal premenopausal. For an FDA perspective? Exactly. So if you're like, you know, why even use these? This is studied for premenopausal testosterone is postmenopausal. But there's a lot of sort of behavioral interventions which I've already mentioned. And then, you know, sort of more off-label would be cannabis. There is some pretty good data now that we have in some states, you know, legal THC. That opens up for researchers to study and investigate. And there's really good trials talking about cannabis and your ability to have more satisfying sexual encounters. But it is dose dependent. So when we think about T, when we think about cannabis, I'm probably an inverted you shit. It's inverted. Yeah. So it's specifically THC. We around one to two milligrams is the recommended dose. Anything higher for some can be sedating to speak to your sort of inverse relationship, which adversely affects your sexual experience and desire to participate. But around one to two milligrams patients report that they have more satisfying orgasms or, you know, have a hyper awareness of their senses. Sex drive is higher. It's quite significant in the data. Much more significant than the medications they've already talked about. And one to two milligrams. So is that through any form, edible, inhaled? How do we even, I don't know enough about how do you dose inhaled and know this getting that amount? You know, so first, you know, if this is an illegal substance where you live, it is not a recommendation. If it is legal, there are safer ways to ingest THC smoking, vaping, obviously have a great impact on the lung, or you know, incredibly worried about that. One of the best ways to sort of dose adjustments to get name brand THC. So there are brands out there that have, you know, unregulated, but some, you know, but arguably quite standardized dosing of gummies and you can get, you know, one milligram or a two milligram or a five milligram. And is one milligram, um, altering a sense is it all? For most people. Yeah, it's pretty low for most people. It's sort of a heightened sense response in terms of physical sensibility to appreciate orgasms. But not enough to cause like paranoia or, you know, things like that. Munchies. True for men and women are just women. Both. Interesting. Let's talk about pregnancy for a minute. What is happening to a woman's arousal during pregnancy? Again, if you go back to my naive evolutionary view, now I can modify my view, by the way. So my view would have been a pregnant woman should not want to have sex at all because any amount of penetration puts the feed is at risk. However, based on what you taught me a few minutes ago, there's another reason for her to have sex during pregnancy, which is to keep her male partner around to protect her and hopefully their child. So I assume it's a balancing act of those things. So how does that shake out in the real world? What do we actually observe about a woman's sexual desire during pregnancy? And what are the do's and do's? So complex is you can imagine and yes, that would be the evolutionary approach to it. From a medical perspective, because I think it might scare some women to say, you know, it puts the fetus at risk to be clear in a healthy pregnancy in the absence of a contraindication, a low lying placenta, a low lying blood vessel or a cervical insufficiency, which we would pick up on in routine ultrasound. Sexual health sex during pregnancy is completely safe, totally fine, and has a lot of relationship and psychosocial benefits. Is there a point that, which laid enough in the pregnancy where you would recommend a woman not have intercourse? In the absence of a, you know, pathology, absolutely not. Wow, okay. We know that for many women sex during pregnancy can be quite intense in the pleasurable category. The reasons for this are the neurotransmitters, right? You have super high levels of estrogen and oxytocins, so that can make for a more pleasurable experience. There's more blood flow to the genital area, so the contractions of the muscles are sort of more, or more intense, the blood vessels are sort of bringing more heat to the area. And then for some women, I wish this for all women to feel sort of safe and supported and bonding with a partner in pregnancy, but that's done not the case for all. Post pregnancy, what do you advise your women, assuming they've had a normal, well, let's start with a vaginal versus c section. So for women has had a c section, what do you think is the right time for her to go back to sexual activity, pending her desire? We don't change the recommendation of for when to resume sexual activity, post vaginal birth or c section. It's six weeks across the board. That's the time when you go see your doctor, they check you out, they make sure everything is well healed. It sort of sits uneasy for a lot of people to say, well, gosh, like why would, why is it the same recovery time for both? The c section is so much bigger. The thought process is that by six weeks, you should have complete healing from the c section. In the absence of complications. And we're more sort of from a hormonal physiologic perspective, making sure that the uterus has shrunk down a significant amount that you're not at increased risk of infection by having things in the vagina. You're a good candidate to have contraception at that time, so we can provide you with protection from future pregnancies. But I think from a postpartum perspective, you know, maybe reason number 15 why I love your podcast and why love Rachel Rubin is she recently published on the Genedow urinary syndrome of lactation, which basically talks about the hypostrogenic or the low estrogen state of the vagina postpartum and how that mimics the pathophysiology of women in menopause. And so for a lot of my patients who are breastfeeding, who have high pro-lactin, who have low estrogen, I'm prescribing them the estrogen cream that I'm prescribing my postmenopausal women to sort of keep the vagina as healthy and sort of moisturized as possible. Does an episiotomy affect the ability to resume in a course after pregnancy or is that usually healed by six weeks as well? I hope is that it's healed but unfortunately pain from tearing in general or episiotomies which are to be clear out of fashion in the absence of an emergency. We don't do routine episiotomies, the data is clear against those, but we do see that any sort of tearing or cutting that happens. We can lead to pain which can lead to dysprunea pain with sex and therefore we have you know, drive issues and sexual health issues as well. Another thing to think about from a postpartum perspective is how these, you know, these insults of pain can sort of manifest into something bigger than they are. So initiating, you know, sort of participating in sex before you're ready and having a painful sexual experience can cause tightening of the pelvic floor, or rigidity in the muscles and can set into motion a pain cycle that then takes you know future pelvic floor physical therapy to break that pain cycle. You alluded to sexual education a number of times I have to be honest a little naive. I don't really know what's being taught in sex ed. I don't even really remember what I learned in sex ed although I remember watching these really embarrassing movies that's on a VCR that's about the extent to it. You were sex ed, ZAR appointed from a top the mountain. How would you design the curriculum? How would it differ for boys versus girls when would you initiate it? So if I were a queen of sex ed, I would get away from the fear based, don't get pregnant, don't get an STD, you know, don't don't don't don't you're going to get HIV sort of fear based counseling and really provide the The first thing is important though. They are important, but there has to be some actual education in terms of pleasure and anatomy and pathophysiology. This is not a podcast talking about you know the plight of women. I have as a mom to four boys. I'm equally committed that boys are as educated as girls are and I care that my boys care about the experience that their potential future partners might have with them. Women's sexuality is complex. It's the anatomy you cannot see as well as you can see with that just sort of the nature of the fact that you know in a bunch of boys are in a locker room. They can see other boys anatomy. They see the differences. They understand that that's healthy. Women don't often see other, you know, girls don't often see other girls vaginas as clearly as as you know boys see other penises and so normalizing through you know the the labia, you know librarian and realizing what's normal and understanding the literal nerve for both boys and girls thinking about safe ways to sort of explore intimacy. If you don't provide them with information content such as you know OMG yes and and teaching them about how to explore their anatomy they will turn to porn. And we have great data that almost all of the porn is not healthy for teens in terms of setting expectations that are unrealistic. Both anatomical and sort of describing you know penetrative penis and vagina sex is the way that women have like screaming orgasms that's just not accurate. And so it sets expectations for encounters that are just not obtainable and leads to you know disappointment and self confidence issues. So I'd love to for for for the you know sexual education to be informative from an anatomical physiologic accurate pleasure based perspective and talk them through how to have safer encounters. So this is obviously near and dear to your heart. What is. What is the way in which you're going to communicate with your boys about this in an environment where they're growing up in a world that you me or husband like we just can't relate to right like I've made this point before I think with with Rachel on the podcast like when I was growing up porn was a black and white playboy or something right like it's a totally different thing. So what what what what are you going to do and what is your advice for other parents out there who have growing boys and girls for that. Yeah, I think I don't distinguish the genders you know as as much I think that you know pull I think that education about all bodies should be provided to all people. And you know so first it's sort of like you know using the correct verbage and anatomical no manclature calling a penis the penis and you know calling a vulva of vulva and sort of normalizing this is a part of your health. So there's also a mission for uh. Is still there a 거야 or half A there's a? So I do really super. You you know, where are the first parts of this world? And you know now is it says hey yoh and I those are amazing things that we did in your над no part so you know I just will ask myself what are you thinking of so-called of their body, it's normal, it's healthy, it's a part of your health or gasm is healthy, but it should be done in a private place. And sort of how you interact with what is consent, what are the components to consent, what does that look like? You know, is it specific? Is it enthusiastic? Is it persist as the activity changes? Is there a timeline on it? Like thinking thinking about all the different ways that we think about consent? And then sort of changing the way that sort of society allows its perceptions to trickle into what we think of in terms of safety. So for example, you know, as a culture we tend to say that, you know, penetrative sex, penis and vagina is sort of the end all, you know, top of the pyramid, most intimate act you can do with someone. But condoms are relatively quite effective at preventing sexually transmitted diseases when used, you know, in a penetrative sexual encounter. People don't really use protection when performing oral sex, either, you know, women on men or men on women. And so as we see the rise of the, you know, herpes across college campuses, this is an intervention that we really need to talk about. If you're at a party and you're with someone and you want to be intimate with them, having penetrative intercourse with a condom on is safer and less likely to transmit a sexually transmitted disease than if you're going to perform oral sex on each other. And so thinking about it from a safety perspective and not a cultural perspective would be another sort of key foundational change that I think needs to happen. And also sex education needs to change. Like what we talk about in, like, did you have sex education in college? What about grad school? What about Perry menopause and menopause? There's sort of needs to be an evolving door in terms of, you know, different providers coming in and talking and educating because our body's change, our physiology changes and our needs change. And this is not a like eighth grade one hour, you know, split the boys and girls talk about it kind of a thing. But coming back to this specific issue, how much of an issue is pornography for young boys and what, what is the solution? Like it's not going to get regulated away, right? Although there are some states where at least age verification is required. I don't know how effective that is, but I assume it's, I mean, that's a step in the right direction. So my strategy in general when thinking about don't do this is always to do it, don't do this, do this. So it is sort of like introduce what you should do instead of what you should. And so let's introduce something healthy. So what does a healthy sexual life look like? There are, you know, the poor industry is, you know, there are parts of it that have evolved. There is, you know, healthier informational videos that you can watch if you're looking for a rousal. There are healthy ways to have an orgasm and to interact with another human being. And talking about how you, you know, bring someone into your life, that's healthy and how you have what, you know, what frequency is healthy for both of you. And if you're not getting that, like, to what ends do we go to get an elsewhere? And, you know, what are you searching for? Is it a dopamine release? Is it, you know, what can we add in a replace of that neurotransmitter release that you're looking for? Is there a crisis of intimacy in young people? I've heard this a lot, but again, I just don't know the data, but I keep hearing that people in their 20s today are becoming less and less intimate over time relative to a decade ago, two decades ago. And so first of all, I don't know if that's something you know, but is that, is there a, I don't. I, I sort of have the same anecdotal experience in my clinical practice where I have very lonely, less intimate, 20-year-old, you know, women in my practice would have asked, you know, and when I, when I take a sexual health history, which, which I always do, you know, there is, there is a lot lacking there. And we could, you know, it would be a whole another podcast to talk about AI and how that's going to sort of, you know, replace intimacy and how we can use that for a rousal and things like that. But I think it's something to think about. So I guess maybe final thoughts. What are you most concerned with right now, as you think about your, your, your professional world? And what are you most excited about? I'm most excited about the new information that we have coming in about hormone options in terms of how we provide menopause, hormone therapy and how we treat perimenopause and the new types of estrogen and progestin and how we tinker with those and moderate those to optimize women and how they feel. This is super personalized, super individualized medicine and we want to do this as physicians. We love doing this. But I think the more research that's coming out and the more, you know, drugs available make it really fun to be a part of. So that's definitely my area of passion right now. In terms of concerns, do I have to have a concern? I guess I just have another passion, which is that I, I, I think, where I think the world is changing and I think we're, I think people are ready for it. I'm ready to push it there. You're pushing it there. I think it's really exciting to think about sexual health as a part of your health and talking about it in a various sort of like generic safe place from a physiologic perspective. Think about all the people you can get on your team to to help you, you know, sex therapists and pelvic floor physical therapists and how to tinker with your hormones and behavioral interventions. And I love thinking about couples listening to this podcast together and trying different things. And, you know, seeing this as, you know, potentially orgasm as another biometric or, you know, sexual satisfaction as another sort of longevity lever that we pull when improving, you know, the happiness and health of our lives. I think that's an awesome way to to close this discussion. And I definitely appreciate the optimism and lack of pessimism around it. So thanks again for all of this insight. I learned a lot as is often the case with podcast. So thank you. Thank you for having me.

We can't get out of this podcast without me understanding the difference between lasers, micro abrogens, micro needleing, chemical peels. I can't understand any of these things, but you mentioned resurfacing, you mentioned my skin sucks. So clearly before I go on the path of my rejuvenating anti-aging protocol, I might as well do something to fix the situation we have going on here. And so tell me about sure I think we can do a crash course. I know this podcast is running long, but it's just a massive subject to cover. The start with lasers. Yeah. I mean, could we take one step back, maybe? Please. And talk about the difference between a blade of a non-ablative and maybe talk about peels. So maybe the way to go is there are various technologies that will that will in a controlled manner injure the skin to harness the body's natural healing cascade, which then will produce the aesthetic benefits we're looking for, which is more college and production. Smoother skin, less pigment issues. And that's the goal, right? And so the bottom line is there's a relationship with how aggressive the treatment is and how much of an aesthetic improvement should going to get. But the more aggressive it is, the more downtime there is. So that's always the kind of balancing act. And that's why there's such a confusing array of options that exist because there's a huge spectrum going from the least invasive, which has least result to the most aggressive with the best result. And so I guess to generalize, there are treatments that are not truly a blade of meaning. They're going to penetrate through the skin. And then there are treatments that are, shall I, I think hopefully I set that up for uses and to maybe go from there. So that's the definition. A blade of means it penetrates the skin? No, yes, a blade of yes and non-ablative, not doesn't penetrate the skin. So what are the non-ablative, which are presumably the less severe, which means shorter recovery time, less overall response? So non-ablative things, you can start with even your topical skin care vision, because that is going to be model the skin and set the stage for you to even prime it. So you make more collagen. And then you can do things such as light chemical peels, which are only going to affect the epidermis of the skin. You can do things like non-ablative fractional lasers. And those are going to again, send tiny, fractionated beams of light onto the very surface of the skin. And just damage the upper layers of the epidermis, and that's going to stimulate a cascade of cytokines to build on the collagen and texture, but it's going to be minor. And they might help with some minor pigmentation issues. Those are non-ablative devices for resurfacing. What was the last one? Not a fractional, non-ablative fractional lasers. We also have non-ablative vascular lasers. Those are lasers that are going to penetrate with a beam of light to hit the dilated blood vessels and people who have rosacea. And it's a brand name on one of a non-ablative fractional. Faxle or a clear embrilliant? Okay, that's a bit of a... And it's a bit of a... Yeah, there are different ones. So, Faxle has multiple different ones. Clear embrilliant is just superficial. And then you have non-ablative things like vascular laser that will help treat broken blood vessels, scars, texture change. And that one, even though it's a shadowing some of the dilated blood vessels deep in the skin, it's not leaving an open wound on the surface. So when we say non-ablative, there might be things happening deep down, but the surface of the skin is intact. So there's no raw wound. You might want to pause on that category for one second, just because that is probably one of the most high yield areas for someone to try out as an initial kind of intervention at a, you know, with a physician or provider. Because the downtime's easy. We're talking about non-ablative, you know, like, for example, intense pulse light or broadband light, which is IPL or BBL for short. Those are in the category that Susan just mentioned of non-ablative light treatments. And it's a huge, huge category. There are so many devices in this category that it would be kind of silly to even list them. But they're very effective in that they don't have a lot of downtime and produce improvements that are real for patients. Starting to run. I just thought I was just pause there for one second. Absolutely. And actually the last one. So the boxy is another non-ablative. So I'd have to look and see what the technology on Moxie is. Okay. If it's, if I'm not mistaken, I think that one might be a radio frequency micro-needling. I think that's right. Yes. So that one is a little bit. It depends. It is semi-ablative because you're literally piercing the skin with a bunch of needles. Got it. And delivering radio frequency energy through those needles. And those will seem like college, college-en. So anything that generates heat in the skin to a certain level, to a certain temperature, I should say, will then cause the formation of something called heat shock protein. And that causes a whole cascade of other activity within the dermis of the cells. The dermis of the skin to make you produce collagen, elastic, shrink the overactive sebaceous glands, and reduce some of the dilated blood vessels. So there is a lot of benefit beyond just treating the vasculature that you see. So I tell patients, like for example, if we treat the arosatia and they get improvement after two or three sessions, they should come every year and repeat it. Even if the arosatia is quite, because it really does help with anti-aging. And so from that standpoint, those are non-ablative. And then if we go to a blative, we've got deeper chemical peos. They've got the modified TCA peos. We've got modified phenol peos. And then we have our ablative and... So we don't need to worry about brand names at this point. We're really talking to the practitioner in saying, do we want to move into an ablative peol? I'm going to get a better result, but I'm going to have a greater downtime. And presumably I need to do it less frequently. Yes. And that's exactly what you said is key. I think the big mistake is to come in and say, oh, all my friends are having moxie, I want moxie. Let's talk about what it is. We might have something that does similar results, or maybe even something that does better results. And maybe it's not the right choice for you, even though you're friend. It's a family. It's a family. And so the field is so confusing to consumers. And honestly, even practitioners, because it's a gold rush, right? There's so much money to be made in this area. Every company is getting private equity money and getting an FDA approval for some kind of device because they want a piece of the action. And they're purposefully confusing everybody because it's like snake oil. You know, it really wants to sell their product. And some of the products work well, some don't. Any products you think people should just absolutely avoid? Just based on lack of efficacy. No, but I do caution my younger patients. The ones who are under the age of 40, even up to 45 in some cases, to really avoid doing things such as ultrasound tissue tightening, radio frequency tissue tightening at that young of an age, because there is some fat activity that happens. And I would caution against premature aging their face. Yeah, I agree. I mean, those are the categories that are probably have the most hoop law with the least effect. Yep. Is ultrasound based energy. And look, I mean, there once was a time where that was the only non-surgical option for tightening the neck, but it didn't do a great job in most people of left to by the wayside. I like it though, in addition to a biostimulatory filler. So you inject a little sculpture under the skin, and then you come over it with a... Automatic properties. Can't exist for the devices. And that's what I was going to say is, you know, if you know your physics with all these devices, you can achieve so much with your lasers beyond what the company tries to sell you. How do you then decide? I understand why I understand that fork in the road between a blade of a non-ablative, but let's say once you commit to an ablative therapy, how are you deciding between a chemical peel, a laser, a micronetal? And I vaguely remember my wife telling me something or overhearing her and her friends saying that if you had malasma, you couldn't do this one, but you could do this one. What are some of the do's and don'ts, as you navigate that? So I think there are a lot of nuances this conversation, but to generalize a little bit, chemical peels are generally safe for all skin tones, generally. Laser resurfacing, a blade of laser resurfacing, can be riskier for higher-fizpatric skin types that have more pigmentation. Because the melanin cells are sitting deeper in the skin, and the deeper the laser goes, the more it can create permanent injury and pigment cells and create permanent pigment problems. Whereas the chemical peels you can control that depth a little differently. And so that's one, I would say generalization that's probably worth mentioning. I should not do a laser peel because I'm a... You can have a laser, but you're the kind of person who needs a lot of preparation and caution heading into it. You would need to probably get onto a regimen to control your pigment cells with hydrochlorine. Why would I bother? Like why would I take their risk? Why not just do it? It can be better. I see. So I guess just to complete the conversation about the different categories, the most effective, non-surgical skin interventions are in the category of a blade of lasers and phenol peels because they go the deepest. And TCA, I'm going to have to throw that in there. TCA, sure, TCA. TCA peels are something that should be done by someone who's really not what they're doing. And so going to your point, how do I choose? Sometimes on the same patient, I'll do all three. So on most of their face, I may do a medium depth TCA peel, especially because I can get the ears, I can get into the brows, I can feather onto the neck, into the hairline, so I don't leave any area unre-surface. And the medium depth peels are going to go just to the level of what's called the papillary dermis, which is the sweet spot for tissue tightening. And peels of that sort. And this is TCA or phenol. TCA. And these peels penetrate in the prickly into pores. So I love peels for large pores. And you'll see the solution sitting in the pores and they'll just go a little bit deeper just in those pores. And as the tissue heals, they'll contract. Then I may take a patient who has very deep, perioral lines and use my fractionated, oblative CO2 laser on those. And then someone with redundant skin on the lower eyelids will take my phenol peel and apply it there. So in one sitting, the patient might have all three. But I'm going to pick and choose where I do it. In some patients, I may be depending if they don't want an eye lift. Or I didn't eye lift on them a number of years ago and they're just trying to get redundant skin. I may just oblate that tissue with either my laser or the phenol peel and get a mini eye lift again. That might buy them with two or three more years. I'm Peter Ratee. The cast relies exclusively on premium subscribers for support, which allows us to provide all our content without taking a single penny from advertisers. I believe this keeps my content honest, making it a trusted resource for listeners like you. As a premium member, you'll get immediate access to our entire back catalog of AMA episodes and all future AMA episodes. You'll get longevity, focused premium articles packed with actionable insights. You'll get unrivaled show notes for each and every episode of the drive, every topic, every study, every resource from each episode carefully curated for you. You'll get quarterly podcast summaries where you'll learn my biggest personal takeaways from the previous 90 days of expert guest episodes and much more. This journey doesn't have to be navigated alone. We can take these steps towards a better, longer life together. Become a premium member today at PeterRateeMD.com forward slash subscribe to join me in a shared commitment to a healthier future.

Now, my head is, you know, how about I just stay off chronic disease as long as possible, stay as healthy as possible. Stay in the game as long as possible so that if it turns out that that was for nothing, we're sitting here. It's 10 years from now. I'm in my early 60s and someone comes along and says, Peter, all that stuff you did was totally unnecessary. You could have been eating Cheetos, drinking Margarita's all day long. I have a pill that's going to make you 20 years old again. I would have no regrets. Yeah, I would be like, I don't care. I am really glad that I did what I did. But I would have regret if I put my eggs in the basket that said, I'm going to drink the Margarita's all day. I'm not going to exercise. I'm going to wait for the exercise pill to come along. And it just doesn't come along. Sure. I also think we just have to, you know, accept, you know, one of my favorite thought experiments. I was talking about this with a friend a couple of weeks ago. So if you just consider modern human history, right? We're just talking about 250,000 years. I don't know. Let's forget everything that came before homosapiens. You go back in time, 250,000 years ago, 200,000 years ago, 150 that you do this in like 50,000 increments until you hit 10,000 years ago and then 5,000 years ago. And then 2,500 years ago and then 1,000 years ago. And you go in and you ask them to predict the future. Letting them see everything that's happened before. Because of course, that would be a difficult thing to do. Most points in time. They don't even know anything beyond there. To like, what's the future? Yeah, I was shit. I went back too far. Yeah. Yeah. And it's sort of like it would be impossible to imagine because the pace of change during that 250,000 years was pretty much nothing. Right. Then, you know, 5,000 years ago, we get agriculture. Then, you know, a couple hundred years ago, we get, you know, the industrial revolution like we really started to first industrial revolution. Yeah. They started to get these two more steps. Step function changes. But even if you go back in time, 100 years. So 100 years were in the roaring 20s. Life couldn't be any better. Nobody knows that there's this depression coming. Nobody knows what technology is coming. You know, all of these things. So we couldn't predict anything. You go back in time 40 years. I don't think anybody could have predicted what we're doing today. Ray Kurtz, while successfully did what did Ray predict almost everything, probably about his 70. If you're conservative 60 to 70% accuracy, which is wild because the baseline accuracy is zero. Yeah. And if you're not conservative and you give him a little bit of a minute, 80%. This was throughout the 80s and 90s, he was able to predict a substantial amount of correct predictions all the way through the 2020s. And he was the almost the only person to predict the arrival of artificial general intelligence as interestingly enough, specifically the year 2029. And now there is a debate of he was probably too conservative and AGI will be here by 2027. In the early 2000s, they did a lot of asking questions of AI experts. People working in the space. But almost all of them said Ray was an insane person. And about half of them said we could never actually create artificial general intelligence. The other was like, oh, and 2100 or 2700 and every five years that you ask this, everyone trends closer and closer to Ray Kurtz, while it's original prediction. And he's not doing magic. So early, he said something kind of interesting. He said, we started 250,000 years ago. Then we went to 125 and 50. So on, as you said, that things get faster. Progress happens exponentially quicker. But if you plot every single event on human and animal history and geological history, it all plots on the same logarithmic scale. Very, very tight clustering. And right around 2045, the line's fucking vertical. And so when I make predictions, which are not mine, I'm just parading with other smarter people have said of possibly getting traction on almost every kind of disease in the 2030s. This isn't the wishful thinking of a child. Though mentally I'm below the average child. At least in my own heart, this is something that is inevitable based on our incremental understanding and manipulation of the world. It is the most accurate type of prediction that you could make bereft of exact knowledge, because it's the thing that tracks on that exponential progression. If we're pessimistic about it, we're actually estimating that things will somehow progress substantially less than they have been. Computing powers and easy one, that curve of computing power in the early 2020s, people are like that's it, Moore's Law is dead. But then AI picked up the pace. And it's outpacing Moore's Law. It's crazy. They exactly on the trajectory that Ray Kurtz-Wild was the first one probably the best to formalize. So when I'm saying crazy shit, like we're going to Kabosh, aging, we're going to Kabosh, disease, and all this other stuff, it's tantamount to someone in the 1930s peak depression error days to hear that in the 2020s, you can make $16 an hour or work it at McDonald's. And that in the United States the poorest people are the fattest. They'd be like, you're out of your fucking mind. And you're like, no, no, no, it's totally true. Like I'm in the future. It's totally true. And like, so what do you do for a living? I can't imagine a describing a person in 19th. It's what you do for a living. Look, well, social media and they're like, what's that? You're like, oh God, how do we even put this to you? And we're still working the same physical world. We're really the same humans. But anytime we think, oh, Jesus, no way it's going to get this good all disease eradicated in a whole new segment. One's the last time you've treated a patient with cholera. Do we have cholera in the modern Western world anymore? Yeah, I think that this is where I'm less optimistic. I don't know less, no more confident to be clear. So I want to be very clear. They could be wrong about all this by the way. Yeah, but just as a point of discussion, my optimism is less around. Everything you said I agree with in terms of compute velocity, et cetera. It comes down to the manipulation of biology, where I think certain things would need to be true to undo. So I'll give you a silly example, right? Do we believe that in 10 years, we will be able to take a pro, an egg that has been put into a frying pan, fried, the clear part has turned white and make the white part clear again. Like, do we think 10 years will bring the technology to do that? Yeah, how, yeah. But why? Why do we think that we'll be able to unfold proteins again? Because Google's DeepMine Project just mastered protein folding last year. And this earlier this year took the first open contracts with major pharmaceutical companies. I get very to familiar with it, but that's a remarkable problem for which obviously a Nobel Prize was awarded. But a very different problem. Like I'm just not sure that the entropy will allow the reversal, right? So what DeepMine did, again, it's incredible. But they could actually take an amino acid sequence and predict the protein structure in folding. But when the protein has folded, right, which is why the goes from clear to white in the pan, how do we undeneature that? Yeah, through industrially designed enzymes, which we do not have the brain power to design, but for which I'll put this as well as I can. For which in the 2030s AI will be comically overpowered for? Because we think we're very complex and by our own standards, we're insanely complex. But AI is so much smarter than us already in many of the relevant ways and soon to be way smarter than us to a degree that most of us have difficulty conceptualizing. I mean, just a quick analogy. And you're explaining to your dog why the only season inside of your house is a light summer day. Peter doesn't know what seasons are. It's total communicative throughput involves gestures and emotions. It knows its name, it knows it knows a few other things. You can't do it. It's impossible. AI, as predicted by these very simple equations, which have never steered us wrong of how smart it's going to be in pet 10 years, in 10 years, will be like probably several orders of magnitude smarter than us than we are than dogs. So it sounds like wishful thinking and hope. No doubt many of the comments in this will be like this guy's an idiot lunatic, fair play. I don't necessarily think that. They might be like, I think that's something that they might be listening to. Me and say Peter, you are so pessimistic. How can you be so pessimistic? Or it's not that I'm pessimistic. How can you not be more optimistic? But nevertheless, sure. The solutions to the problems that we're seeking to systems that intelligence should they choose to solve them can be a factor better term pedestrian in nature. And they're going to be dealing with problems that are much more complex than the reengineering of human biology. So for me, when the raw compute and the raw understanding of how to manipulate matter and energy to get kind of any kind of shape you want at a given energy input, when that's there, the only question is like, are we going to try to do it or not? And that's where it come back to the incentives and constraints problem. The biggest hurdle to the development of advanced pharmacology in genetic engineering and so on to do this kind of thing is going to be regulatory nature hands down, FDA, everything is off by five or ten years and it sucks. But once AI has enough time to cook on these problems, the candidate drugs released will run through trials with just an unreal record. But why? Because if you have very not so good at things, AI, it's decent. But AI is going to do a great job at the first step of the process, which is what's the molecule? Right. Right now, it's trial and error. It's brute force. It's super painful. Yeah. Exactly. Alpha full changes that. Yeah. How is AI going to streamline the phase one trial where we have to prove? Once we have the IND. Oh, yeah. No, no. It doesn't streamline it at all. It just flies through it like it knocks out phase one, knocks out phase two, knocks out phase three, market. So you can say, right, but we get the phase two to phase three, it's still going to take a decade. Totally. But at the end of that decade, we have super drugs hitting the market all at the same time as opposed to the incremental process. The impriments are all handled up front by the AI and that last decade is just like, we just got to do this. Yeah. So your example would be, it's like coming up with Reddit true tied in 2014 when we had Lira Glutide as the first generation, GLP-1 that sucked. Yep. We already knew how to build or touch or tie it back then and we could have just done it no one cared because the money wasn't there slash. There's lots of other candidates, drugs, you can work on. That's interesting. Yeah. I really thought of that. If the AI is powerful enough, it'll just give you candidates that are just killers right off hand. It's like, but how will it know that? Because again, this is such a silly philosophical discussion. Sure. But like, didn't we kind of need to see that, okay, semi-glutide was better than Lira Glutide. But we had to see, I don't know if this was predictable. You had to actually see the experience to then go from semi-glutide to Tersepatide and realize that, oh, like, maybe it's the GIP as well as the GLP that's really good. Yes, now when we look at the pipeline, it's different. So I do wonder, I mean, again, it's a, it's a very tantalizing proposition. But I wonder how much of it can be figured out through simulation, which is what would be necessary. Eventually all of it. But I'll give you the second wrong of what's starting to happen now. The second wrong, the first wrong is, I just candid at drugs based on protein structure alone. And will that protein structure fold into the receptor, or targeting well enough to give us some activity? The second phase is this sounds funny to say, but it's computationally going to be tractable quite soon, simulating every single protein in the human body and seeing how that can't get a drug interacts with every single other protein. And then they just optimize the selection criteria for the dial-up of the effect. Good go down to the target. How do you familiar with Jeperone, aka Exua, a new major depressive disorder medication? So Jeperone, the trade name is Exua, is class. Targeting against the SSRI, I think. And it only targets the serotonin receptors in specific parts of the brain as opposed to just like, you're going to get it all. And so it has seemingly no more probability to reduce sex drive or ultra-consumption of food patterns than a placebo. That's not even developed with AI. This is just a more selective target. We can get almost 100 to 0 ratio targeting with that phase to approach. Now you just want muscle growth and skeletal muscles only. You got it. Entirely I driven. And when the first phase one participant takes that first pill, there's an almost 100% chance. Holy crap. What else do you feel? How's your blood work? Everything's totally normal because we've tested it on every single other receptor in the human body. There are definitely bumps on the road with that. It's not quite just that simple. But it's on the way there. And the last thing that we'll let everyone do is to think, oh, AI's, every night again, you hear like, oh, AI's overrated. It's overhyped. In my view, there is no overhyping AI. Sure, it's magical. And it's going to be here tomorrow and we'll never die. Fine, OK, it's a few years to off-center. But the power of computing all of this and then using that computation to test it in the human body and getting irritative loops on that is to me not to be understated. And if somehow biology is somehow magically intractable for older folks or whatever, I think that scanning of the human brain and brain machine interface and mind uploading is going to happen by the 2040s anyway. And then it doesn't matter what the hell your body's like you live in the cloud. Yeah, I've thought about that a bunch. Sure, I like it.

All right, I guess this is gonna be the beginning. Okay, and three two one. Am I you welcoming people? We're gonna be full. Peter. All right, welcome to you. Welcome. I'm at your place. All right. Someone said, which is good. You remind me of who Bob is. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, so now we're starting. No, I'm starting. All right. Hey, Bob. Peter. Welcome back to New York. Thank you. Thanks for having me. It's a huge sacrifice to have you. Hey, everybody. Welcome back to our third slash second AMA. I guess technically our second when you consider that the nothing burger one was very specific to the fast. Again, we're still thinking that this might be a quarterly thing. We've got these. We've got an AMA page up on the blog. So now folks are asking questions and voting up and down. And that sort of making it much easier for Bob Kaplan here, who's my, I don't know, my right hand, my main man, my side kid. Yeah, I've heard whatever to aggregate before that. He was doing it through Twitter, which was super painful. Let's see. Today we have a lot of questions. I haven't looked at them yet, but I like seeing on your screen how many there are. It's stressing me out a little bit. Yeah, I'm suspecting it's impossible to get through all of them. So maybe we'll just kind of try to draw a hard stop in a couple of hours and see how far we get. Also, for those of you watching this, this is the first time we're going to record one of these in video. So I have no idea if that's going to prove to be of any value or not, maybe it won't. But nevertheless, for those who like to be able to watch a couple of knock-o-heads drink their topo-cheekos, as opposed to just listen to the bubbles, welcome to my little apartment. All right, I'm going to let you take it with you. It's good started. So one of the features on the AMA page is a vote up, vote down feature. So we can see it which ones are more popular than others. So we'll buy us some of those questions towards this. And so one of the most popular questions was curious what other reference ranges Peter considers to soft. Okay, so this is sort of on the heels of the last podcast for the last AMA where I talked about my blood values before during and after the fast. So because I don't remember what I actually talked about, I'll just probably just start from scratch and there might be some repetition here. So as I just sort of think about going through the labs from start to finish when it comes to the lipids, I generally take a harder line on triglycerides than is typically given. So the typical reference range on triglyceride is less than 150 milligrams per deciliter. Apologize, I don't know what that is, in millimolar for people who are outside of the United States. I generally like to see triglycerides below 100. And if we're really gonna get fancy, I'd like to see triglycerides lower than HGL cholesterol when both are measured in milligrams per deciliter. So again, that's probably a bit more of a stringent, sort of level that I would put on things but that's sort of the first place I think about it. Secondly, looking at the LDL particle number, which is measured in animal per liter, just morally and philosophically, I feel like that number ought to be below 1,000 animal per liter, which is about the 20th percentile of the population. And the reason I feel that way is, you know, heart disease and atheroscler disease are the most ubiquitous causes of death. So to be average on the disease that is the most common strikes me as just backwards mathematics. So you really do need some alpha when it comes to a metric like that. And I know that there's gonna be some people watching this that are saying, oh my God, LDL, all this controversy, I don't know when this podcast is gonna come out in relation to the discussion that I had with Dave Feldman about this and the discussion of Tom Dayspring. So either by the time you're listening to this, hopefully that point will have been long addressed and if not, I assure you it will be addressed. So it might make sense to define what reference ranges are because I think people might get confused with what is average and what is optimal. And so people might look at, I don't know, that two thirds of the country is overweight and or... Great point. And so when you look at the average, it's gonna be different from what is actually either normal or healthy. So thanks for bringing that up. So reference ranges are usually given around a population distribution, but it evolves over time. So if you went and looked at a laboratory test from 25 years ago and you looked at in the same units for the same variable, for example, ALT or AST, the Transaminesis, you would see different numbers. And all that's telling you is every few years, the labs have to kind of update their reference range on what they're seeing in the population. So for some things like hormones, you're often going to see between X and Y. And any lab will tell you upon asking they usually don't print this on the lab, but we go back and usually ask them what do your reference range is represent? And it's usually either 10th to 20th percentile to 80th to 90th percentile or two standard deviations below the mean to two standard deviations above the mean. And again, that's usually something they could only say if the data approximates a normal distribution, which many of these things do. Just like height, for example. So you could report height as the average height or the interquartile range. So the 25th to 75th percentile of height I'm making this up for a male in the United States, would be, I don't know, five foot, eight to five foot, 11 and a half. But of course, if you're asking a separate question, which is if you're trying to optimize to be a rower, a heavyweight rower, someone who rose crew, you'd obviously want to be probably between six foot two and six foot four. Again, I'm making that up. But the point is showing you that you would pick a range that's completely outside of this statistical norm because you're optimizing for something very particular in that case, rowing. So I basically just disregard all the reference ranges when I look at labs. And I kind of have my own set of standards that are based on my belief system around what should and shouldn't be the case physiologically. So again, going down that list after the LDL, I'd like to see the small LDLP below 500 nanomol per liter, which is represented by the 50th percentile pardon me. I like to see the oxidized LDL below 40. That's a very stringent criteria, because most labs will acknowledge that anything below 60 is reasonable. I like to see that even lower. I like to see C-rective protein below one, even though most labs consider anything below two reasonable. Kind of just kind of mentally scrolling through this. I like to see Europe acid below 5.0. Again, most labs consider anything below six to be normal. Some labs even consider anything below seven to be normal. And again, I think in part, that's because they're optimizing around the prevention of gout. And it's very unlikely you're going to have a gout attack with a Europe acid of 6.2. However, I think there are a number of other health consequences to that. Let's see. Did you give LDNAS? No, so LDNST as of now on the lab that I use, the upper limit of ALT is 44, maybe 42, and AST is about 40. I think both of those are unnecessarily high. And we typically like to see patients below 20 on both of those. Oral glucose tolerance test. Do you mention this? I think maybe in another AMA, we talked about the one hour or two hour both insulin and glucose actually you gave those. So again, I can't remember what the reference ranges are on our lab, but I know that they're geared primarily towards a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes. There was a day when you would use the OTT to diagnose type 2 diabetes and not what we do today, which is rely on hemoglobin A1C. I think the use of an OTT is a better test. And I think the hemoglobin A1C is not a particularly helpful test. So yeah, I generally like to see the fasting glucose below 90 milligrams per desolator that fasting insulin below six. And at one hour following a 75 gram glucose challenge. So this is a liquid glucose challenge. Again, if you change the way that you do the test, you have to come up with a whole new set of reference ranges. At one hour for a reasonably muscular male, I'd like to see the glucose below 120, or maybe at a max 130 milligrams per desolator in the insulin below 20 or 30. And a less muscular individual, or an a woman who is just smaller, I will tolerate slightly higher levels. And at two hours, I'd like to see the glucose back down to below 100 milligrams per desolator in the insulin ideally below 20, or potentially even only two X, what the one hour glucose was. So if the glucose at one hour was eight to see it at 16 or less, at two hours would be great. You know, on the hormone front, boy, it's complicated there because you're dealing with so many other issues, which include symptoms that go far and beyond just the numbers. But if someone TSH is between about 0.5 and 2.0, and their free T3 is above 3.0. And their reverse T3 is below 12, I find it very hard to see how they could have hypothiroidism. Regardless of the symptoms they have, and if they do have symptoms that sound and smell and feel like hypothiroidism, I'm generally searching much harder for another cause, which again is not to say you can't be fooled. I think you always can be. But that would be what I would consider sort of biochemically optimal for thyroid. And then of course, I think it's probably too nuanced to get into a discussion of what happens when one or more of those is out of whack. How do you begin to make the diagnosis? And I've probably talked about this in the past, but the TSH is really only telling you about what the pituitary gland is seeing in terms of T3, T4 to T4, T4, T3 conversion. So that's telling you about the diode nace and the brain that's making that distinction. The free T3 is telling you how much peripheral T4 is being converted to T3, and then a reverse T3 is telling you how much peripheral T4 is being converted to reverse T3, which opposes T3. So the reverse T3 opposes T3, and each of those is a completely different sort of cause. So again, probably a little more complicated, and maybe we'll save that for another AMA. That's a great conversation with a whiteboard. Yes, that's a whiteboard discussion because I'm going to screw it up if I try to explain it without being able to show D1, D2, D3 as the diode naces and all the hormones. Probably another whiteboard discussion then would be the male and female sex hormones. That's an even more complicated pathway. There are about nine things that we measure. They're beginning with DHA, FSHLH, all the way to dihydrotist host or NERDHT. Again, these are hormones that are sometimes we're looking to keep things below a certain level, or above a certain level, sometimes we're looking to keep things between a certain level. I think for EPA and DHA, when we look at the red blood cell index of EPA, DHA, I know this is a very messy topic, and it's also something we're going to absolutely talk about on a future podcast. So I don't want to get too far down that rabbit hole. I definitely want to have Bill Harris on the podcast to discuss that. But I do like to see the EPA, DHA, and DHA, and X above about 8.5%, I used to sort of think anything above 8% was ideal. Frankly, now I let patients up to 10 and even sometimes 12% if they're not having any issues like nosebleeds or something like that. But again, it's more complicated because that's just showing the total EPA, DHA, and in some patients, you really want to see that DHA preferentially higher versus the EPA. And it does depend quite a bit on what which access were most worried about, whether it be the neurodegenerative access, in which case the DHA might be a little more important, or the atheroscerotic access in which the EPA might be more important. And of course, it all comes without saying, the source of that EPA and DHA is heavily dependent on what you care about and what you're worried about. A lot of the other ranges are kind of complicated. I've talked about it before, so I'll bring it up again. Does master all is a very important sterile that we measure. So we measure markers of cholesterol synthesis, which there are mainly two that can be measured commercially, and measures of cholesterol absorption, in addition to stand-all production. So steriles and stand-alls are slightly different. They have a slightly different chemical composition. I don't particularly have an interest in how high or low the stand-alls are or the phytosterols. But I use that very much so when making therapeutic interventions with lipids. But I do care about the dysmosterol. And I do all things equal if given the choice like to see that above 0.5. And the reason for that is potentially obscure. But I do have some concern about overly suppressing cholesterol synthesis, which is typically an issue in patients who are taking statins. If you oversuppress cholesterol synthesis, I think in aggregate, there's a meaning at the population level. This does not seem to pose a problem, but at the individual level, I would exercise some caution. And so the dysmosterol becomes a guide post. Of course, that's all complicated because there are some medications that interfere with the enzyme that converts dysmosterol into cholesterol and so the whole thing becomes a bit challenging. And you can't really interpret the level in that context. Let's see. Did I forget anything? IGF? Oh, yeah, that's a good one. IGF, boy, this is one where I've really changed my tune a lot over time. I used to be in the camp that said, low IGF is best. And in an ideal world, everybody should be at or below the 50th percentile. And that's one where it's not even worth explaining what the numbers are because it varies so much by age that you just have to look at the table that gives you the IGF breakdown by age. But I actually no longer think that's the case. I really think that IGF should be psychalled between high and low. And for example, like when I did my fast, after seven days, my IGF was probably at the fifth to tenth percentile. And it might rebound to the 80th percentile when I'm not fasting. And so I think it's, I think epidemiology mostly sucks, especially epidemiology that is involving an intervention. Like people who do X get Y. I think that epidemiology is absolutely the worst. The next layer of epidemiology that's less shitty is looking at IGF levels and contrasting it with disease, because at least there you've simplified a variable. You're not trying to figure out, like, did those people eat more eggs or less eggs? That comes a separate question. And I think based on the epidemiology, there's a huge shape, mortality curve with IGF, except it's very skewed. So it's not even a perfect view. And I'm having a hard time being convinced by anyone, including proponents of very low IGF, that an IGF outside of the range of about the 60th to 80th percentile is anything but optimal. So there, I've really switched my tune and become a little more liberal in what I like to see. Obviously, the two things that say three things that impact IGF, the most are amino acid intake. And there are some amino acids like methionine that seem particularly potent. Insulin levels indirectly through the binding proteins. So therefore, which is large determined by dietary carbohydrate. And then of course, exogenous hormones, like growth hormone, which is obviously very popular in the longevity slash whatever he circles. But growth hormone, which is an analog, it's the exact analog of the human growth hormone is a hormone secreted by the pituitary gland. It tells the liver to make more insulin micro-factor. So if a doctor is using IGF, I hope to hell they are monitoring IGF levels. If they're using GH, I'm sorry, I'm a suspect. If they're using GH, I hope they're monitoring IGF levels. And so when you're looking at IGF, a blood test, you're looking at a snapshot, whereas you're living your life as a more of a movie. And for example, I think if we vault her long ago is probably people think of him as a proponent of low IGF. One of the things that he points out in his FMDs and the studies is that you get the shrinking of tissues and organs in the low IGF. And then there's the regeneration, which sort of looks like rejuvenation. I suspect when those tissues and organs are rejuvenating or regenerating, IGF levels aren't necessarily at the floor. That's your rebound. That's where you're actually looking at synthesis and the other thing. So you're looking at an average when you really should be looking at the cycling. That's right. And I think Longa was influenced by his mentor by the negative effects he saw in his mentor. And fell to. Yeah, yeah, it felt like maybe this having low IGF all the time is in such a good thing either. Again, don't want to speak for somebody else's views. I don't know exactly where Longa falls out on that. But you're right. Luckily, IGF is much more stable than GH. So people always ask, should we be measuring GH in people? And my view is that's sort of like measuring ACTH, which is another pituitary hormone that is the one that's most responsible for this accretion of cortisol. And unfortunately, the answer is outside of very extreme pathological cases, like acromegally or pituitary cushing's disease, very difficult to infer what the hell is going on from looking at those hormones because they are so pulsatile. You go in a sauna for 20 minutes. That's going to change your growth hormone level significantly. Probably won't change your IGF levels as significantly. So the advantage of looking at very high fidelity, high frequency moving hormones is great. Your closer to the physiology origin. The drawback is the noise can be too much. I'm sure there are a bunch of other things that I care a lot about. You know, I do. But I just, I think, I'm tired of this question. I was going to get into iron and ferretin and TIPC and hematocrit hemoglobin. And white blood cell count. I have points of view on everything. I'm a little probably too opinionated on this topic. We lose through our time limit on that question, man. Let's see what next. This might be a quick one. What aspect of women's health is the least studied slash understood? Is that a high scoring question? It was. You wouldn't be asking it this early in the cast if it was. So ironic that I would be asked that question given that I'm not particularly knowledgeable in this subject. And I hope I don't represent that I am. I do have a number of women patients. I would say a quarter to a third of my patients are female. But when you start to talk about things that are uniquely female, a couple of things come to mind. So I guess what I'm going to do is not answer this question because I don't know the answer, but just go off a little bit and hopefully something I say is a value to the people who answer this question. Obviously, the most important distinction between men and women of the sex hormones. That's an enormous difference. And the other difference that comes along with that is that men experience a much more gradual decline in their sex hormones. And as such, it's often harder to appreciate symptomatic changes in men. You got a guy who's walking around with his testosterone, two standard deviations below the mean. He can actually feel pretty reasonable because just like a frog who's been in water that's been slowly getting warmer, he doesn't actually realize how hot the water is, because he's been in there at the whole time as if you dropped him in that water overnight. It would be pretty stark. Conversely, women experience to completely, you know, again, I'm just completely empathetic to what women go through, which is during their menstrual cycle, or during their reproductive years, they have a menstrual cycle, which even over the course of 30 days or so, 28 to 31 days on average, they're experiencing profound fluctuations in their hormones. And this is another one of my favorite whiteboard topics. And you know, I remember there was this one patient on their forget, I remember sitting down with her in her living room actually drawing this ad for her. And explaining to her why she has PMS, because her chief complaint, actually, which I thought was an odd reason to come to see me, because I don't think like I offer any genius expertise on this. But I mean, mostly it was just to help control her emotional swings during her cycle. And when I actually drew for her the time course of here are the, you know, here's day one, the day your period starts, here's day one of your next cycle. Here's how your FSH, your follicle simulating hormone, your LH, your lootinizing hormone, your estradial, your progesterone, and your testosterone, very throughout that, and let's highlight what's happening on about day 22 to 28, which is when you have this drop in progesterone, and explaining to her that for some women, that central meaning in the brain, that reduction, that withdrawal of progesterone can create emotional liability and other things, and it's like you're not crazy. That's like saying someone who's depressed because they don't have enough serotonin is crazy. No, I mean, it's just everyone has different neurotransmitters and everyone has a different response to hormones. So it was a very profound thing for her, she's like, oh my God, I've always just thought I was kind of crazy, and I'm just like a moody bitch. And I was like, no, I mean, your mom went through the same thing, your sister goes through the same thing. I mean, this is her retotary, and here are two things that you can do about trying to control this. Again, I don't want to get up on the tangent and go what those two things are that we talked about, but nevertheless, so that's, so that's during a woman's reproductive ears. The second thing that's really profound is, but the time of woman is in her fifth decade typically, all of a sudden that stuff gets shut down. So all of a sudden, she's losing estrogen, she's losing progesterone, and she's losing testosterone. And I include that last one, because most people forget about it. So when you talk about the distinguishing characteristics between men and women, we usually think about testosterone being the male phenotype describing hormone, estrogen and progesterone being the female dominant hormones. And that's true, but what most people don't realize is, when you actually convert the units to the same numbers, so when you go from nanograms per desoliter and peakograms per milliliter, which they're often reported in different units, and you do an apples to apples view. When you look at a woman's highest estrogen level in her life, which, I mean, outside of pregnancy is during her ovulatory cycle. So when she's ovulating, when she has that burst of estrogen, if you take that estrogen level and compare it to her testosterone level on average, which is testosterone varies a little bit by cycle, but not enormously, the testosterone's about 10 times higher than the estrogen. Now the number never looks that way, because testosterone's reported typically in nanograms per desoliter, whereas the estrogen is reported usually in peakograms per milliliter. But if you do the high school calculation of what your chemistry teacher would have you do and put them both in the same units, you'll realize that testosterone is much higher. So even though a woman's testosterone level is much less than a man's testosterone level, a free testosterone for a woman might be one nanogram per desoliter, whereas in a man, the 50th percentile would be about 14 nanograms per desoliter, so called 14, 15 times higher. It is still a very dominant hormone, even relative to estrogen. So when all three of those hormones are basically taken away in a period of two to three years, I don't want to get too far on the soap box, but like definitely top 10 pet peeves, or maybe top five pet peeves, are doctors that completely disregard menopausal perimenopausal and postmenopausal symptoms in women, and who without having ever even read a single study, or tried to understand the limits in the methodologies of the women's health initiative, come to the conclusion, well, no women should ever take hormones, and they should just deal with their postmenopausal hot flashes and perimenopausal symptoms, and eventually let them lose their muscle mass and bone density, because God forbid hormones, cause cancer or some other equally knuckle-headed conclusion. So those are really two huge things. I think a third thing that I've seen, and I gotta be honest, I'm kind of lazy, I don't think I've seen this in the literature, and I haven't probably made a strong enough effort to look at it, but empirically it is so overwhelming that I would be surprised if it's not described in the literature is there's something about multiple pregnancies and the HPA axis in women. So I usually don't see it after women has had two kids, but usually if a woman has had three or four kids, the likelihood that her thyroid bounces back to normal seems not that high. And so I have a couple of patients who came into the practice again, interested in longevity, but their proximate issue of concern was, you know, ever since two years ago, when I had my third child or my fourth child, I have not been able to get back to the same level of energy that I once had. And you look at them and they have a normal TSH typically, but usually their peripheral metabolism of T4 is very altered. And these are, I think in some ways, like kind of the easiest saves, like you, in a very short period of time, you can make a patient feel a hell of a lot better. And they sort of fall through the cracks. And again, I think it might come down to just a failure to appreciate some of the subtle differences between men and women. And again, men are giving birth, fortunately, are species would have died, and we wouldn't have a species if, even a high-responsible for pro creation. Trying to think what else are fundamental differences. I mean, there are many others. I'll part of that question is least studied or understood. I think it was a free economics podcast. They talked about this a little bit where there was a, the fillet of my issue. And I believe that there were, I think they were maybe doing studies, or something where women were involved and obviously birth defects and horrible things happen. And they sort of took women virtually off the table in terms of studying. And so there's a long period of time where it was, I think men were predominantly being studied and were... The subjects of, yeah. Yeah, we would just sort of assume that's whatever we see in the men, we might see in the women. But I think there's been, as far as epidemiology goes, there's been a research in women's studies. And things like that. But I do think that there's, overall they've been understood just in that regard as well. Just looking at the female body versus the male body, instead of just assuming, you know, they're the same. Yep. That's a great example. I remember that, I remember hearing that and thinking, yeah, that's, I mean, everybody knows this story about the letter and the idea, you can't get through med school without it. But it's the ramifications of that. It's that what happened as a result that that's a very interesting point. You know, another difference between men and women, I don't know how well it's been studied, but I mean, most epidemiologic assessments would make a clear case that women all things equal, tend to get less cardiovascular disease. Now, I don't know how eloquently these studies have been done. And I don't know if they've been normalized for APOB and I just know LDLC, my guess is they may not have been. But nevertheless, if you were to make the assumption that once that analysis is done, if all things equal inclusive of APOB inflammation, all of the things insulin sensitivity, even if you want it to be really rigorous, women still get less heart disease than men. And after you've normalized for blood pressure, smoking, and really all of the major factors, you'd have to look at iron levels as a next, interesting concept, right? So there's pretty interesting data in men that the more metabolically deranged they are, the better they do with therapeutic phlobotomy, whereas the less metabolically deranged they are, the less of an effect they have by giving blood, reducing the oxidative stress of iron. So it might be the case that somewhere buried within there is this idea that because, for a great number of years of a woman's life, she is going to have less iron than a man due to her menstrual cycle, that may actually offer protective benefit against heart disease. Again, something I would be interested to know if that's, certainly people have speculated that, but again, I don't know how rigorously it's been documented. And we have another thing out there that's lingering, and you're talking to Richard Isaacs and very soon actually, he'll probably have more insight into this, which is if you look at Alzheimer's disease and you look at the prevalence, I think it's two out of every three cases are women. And so two out of every three cases of Alzheimer's are women, and you could probably say that age is a factor longevity may be a factor in things like that, but I think that that needs to be studied more too. Yeah, because I have a hard time believing that that is purely an age issue. I don't think that the increase in longevity of a woman can affect that much of a gap in, and again, I would be a great discussion with Richard, you're right because you want to make sure that you're not being fooled by a diagnostic distinction and things like that as well. So piggybacking on the women's health a little bit, what are your thoughts on fasting and ketosis for females? Well, you know, again, it's a real tough question because I find all questions of nutrition to be so individual that it's hard to answer them, sort of, in a one-size-fits-all sort of one-stop shop, approach, that said, I think there are a couple of things women need to be thoughtful about. If any woman is having an issue with fertility, I really would not, I just, I couldn't make a case. I can't make a very compelling case for nutritional ketosis if a woman is trying to get pregnant. And I'm sure this is just going to piss off a lot of the keto herd, but because of course, if you're in the keto cult, you believe that ketosis is the optimal state for everything, including, you know, global warming. But the reality is if you look at the FGF levels, and also if you just think about it from an ancestral standpoint, the higher the level of ketone during our evolution, the more likely we were separated from food. And the more likely you're separated from food, the less genetic pressure you should have to be reproducing at that point in time. And this concept is so well preserved in biology. I mean, we had a great discussion with David Sinclair recently to talk about this. And it's even true in the case of the Sertuens, which would be one of the more important regulators of sort of our aging and our and including, you know, our reproductive stress. So I think when you look at the FGF 21 data and the ketosis data, there's a very, and I don't wanna bastardize this because I wish I'd known that I was gonna be asked this question. I would have looked up the paper. It's from a researcher in Texas. I think he's at, he might get UT Southwestern, but he's, if you search, you know, and his name's First Name's David, I'm blanking on his last name, being with an M though, but if you mangled mangled door. Yes, yes, that's him. I saw him presented a meeting once, and it was remarkable data that looked at the differences in a male and female brain in the presence of changing FGF 21 levels. And it was so cool to see this difference the pituitary gland is one of the very few pieces of tissue in the body that has what's called portal circulation, the liver being the other one. So the pituitary has a direct connection, the other pituitary stock to the hypothalamus. The long and short of it is in a collerie restricted state, when ketones are elevated, it suppresses FSH and LH and women, but not in men. This is super interesting to me. And it has a profound evolutionary, I mean, again, maybe I'm just making up a story to fit this, but if we're gonna subscribe to any of Ockham's razor, this would be a great application. In a period of famine, you would want women to stop reproducing. You would want to shut off FSH and LH. You would want men to have no impairment on their testosterone level. That's all the more time that they should be out there and able to get food. So again, I've always been kind of a little bit careful of suggesting that a woman who's trying to get pregnant, be in ketosis. Now look, I know what's gonna happen, everyone's gonna say, well, I got pregnant. When I was in ketosis, yeah, obviously it's possible. I mean, I'm not suggesting it's not, but we're talking about optimization. The second thing, of course, is should a woman be in ketosis during pregnancy. And the answer is, I simply don't know the answer. Clearly we evolved with mothers being in ketosis and having children, I mean, it's be impossible for our species to be here. If mothers were not in ketosis during pregnancy, I mean, we didn't have buffets. But that said, is it optimal? Again, just because something happened in sort of our evolutionary time history, does that mean it's optimal? No, almost not at all. So, is it general rule, and again, I don't like to make general rules when it comes to nutrition? I'm not convinced, it's necessarily the best strategy. Just like I don't think it's the best strategy for kids unless they have seizures or something else, for example. So, you know, a far better strategy is just like don't eat junk food, you know? Don't eat sugar, don't eat highly refined carbohydrates, but you know, should one restrict carbohydrates to the point where they're in ketosis, as a very deliberate act, I'm not convinced that's the case. And of course, when you start to look at things like maternal diabetes or gestational diabetes rather, that's where it gets a little tougher, because ketosis can be a very effective tool for treating type 2 diabetes. And gestational diabetes is not type 2 diabetes, but it has some of its features. So, again, I really, I hope there are some obstetricians out there who spend a lot of time on this problem because it is a huge problem. There are many women who go through this. My sister, I probably have talked about this in the past, and I don't think she'd mind me talking about it. And if she does, I'm in trouble, but, you know, my sister had an operation, when she was quite young, that took out two-thirds of her pancreas. So, during her first pregnancy, she got gestational diabetes, which was to be expected because she had, like, a third of the insulin-producing capacity, and then it happened again during the second pregnancy, and then after that second pregnancy, she actually got type 2 diabetes. Over the course of a year, going on a ketogenic diet, actually working with a company called Vera To Health, that I'm an advisor to an investor in, although that is unrelated to the fact that my sister was getting care from them. She'd lost 50 pounds. Her hemoglobin A1C went somewhere in the 12s to in the 5s in the course of a year, and then she got pregnant again. Well, she decided to go off the ketogenic diet, but still be much more diligent and strict, and despite that, she still requires insulin during this third pregnancy. I suspect she'll have a much easier time recovering, following this pregnancy, but one of the things that's been frustrating, which maybe goes back to this question prior to this is, her obstetricians, like, they have no insight. Like, they have not a thing to offer her, as far as how she should be thinking about managing her blood sugars other than just chronic cram or insulin into her exogenous insulin. So, now, and this is why context matters, and there's no bumper sticker. You could have, you know, the question thoughts on fasting and ketosis for females. You could have somebody with the constellation of abnormalities that is metabolic syndrome, insulin resistant, type 2 diabetic, and maybe for that person, their fertility might be an issue, and going on a ketogenic diet, may get them in a healthier state. Yeah, exactly. It might actually improve their fertility because of the inflammation and all the other stuff that could be happening as a result of what you just mentioned. So, yeah, I, yeah, well said, you should just answer the questions from now. You do better job than me. I probably have way too many bumper stickers there that lack context that need it. What advice would you give to medical students and residents? It's pretty broad. With regard to what? If you don't do it, do it. Yeah, definitely try your spreads every day. Yeah, how do I, probably, how do I, I don't know. I'm, I'm inferring stuff from this, but probably, how do I get through it too? All the way from how do I get through this thing to how do I optimize my time in medical school? And maybe you can sort of look back on your hair. What's there? Maybe I'll start even broader. So, I definitely really enjoy talking to kids in high school and college who want to go into medicine. And I think in part, I think the most important piece of information, and most important, you know, piece of advice I would offer these folks, which is probably somewhat biased by my own experience. So I explain that as a caveat and I say, look, here's my bias. Is don't study premed in college. And for a lot of them, they're like, wait, why? But I know I want to do medicine. Like, why wouldn't I study premed? And I'm like, that's exactly why. Like, all that stuff you learn in premed is like the JV version of what you're going to learn in med school. Like, yeah, you're going to learn a little bit of anatomy and some biochemistry and, you know, physiology and a whole bunch of things. And you'll learn them at like, you know, some sort of superficial level of depth. And then you're going to go to medical school and learn it all in real depth. Okay, great. You just wasted four years. What you really ought to do in college is study first, something that you freaking love. Like, in the end, you want to study something where you don't care about the grades. You're going to do well because you are absolutely obsessed with mastering this subject. And that look, that could be going, you know, an inch wide and a mild deep on something. Like, you know, I want to really study genetics or biochemistry or molecular biology or something. Alternative, it could be, you know what? I want to study philosophy and history or I want to study engineering or whatever. And, you know, but the point is what you, the absolute last thing you want to do is try to cobble together an education that is geared towards asing the MCAT. Like, I can think of no sadder thing to do than to do that. So that's sort of my advice on the people going to medical school. Once you're there, you know, I mean, this sounds kind of touchy-feely, but I remember there were some days in medical school where I was super unhappy. A large part of it was, it was the first time in my life I realized you just had to memorize certain shit. And I had prided myself up until that point in life of never memorizing things. Like, I, you know, I could remember the dates of boxing matches and that was it. Couldn't remember a birthday to save my life. Like, didn't want to memorize anything. And then you get to medical school and you just can't get through one first principles. You didn't. You just, there's just certain things you have to generate a certain base of knowledge before you can even participate in a thoughtful discussion. And, and so that took me like a year to just accept. And there were times when I was super pissed off when I was sitting there studying, thinking like, I'm getting so dumb. Like, I'm not solving problems. There are no differential equations. You know, I don't even get to use vector calculus anymore. One of the things that was very helpful. And I don't remember where this advice came from, but it was very wise advice, which is at any point in life where you're sitting somewhere in your inner situation. And you think it sucks. Go and find someone who would give their left not to be in your situation and go and help them out. So I, I remember having this thought and thinking, you know what, I'm sitting here at, you know, med school at Stanford. I've got a whole bunch of undergrads at Stanford who are among the smartest undergrads in the country. And, you know, half these kids wanted to not have, you know, some percentage of these kids want to get into medical school. And they might not, right? So I remember actually going and just, you know, putting up my name on a billboard in the, I forgot even the name of the God, it's been so, I don't remember the name of the quad, like what the main quad at Stanford was called, but putting up a thing like, hey, anyone who needs help setting for M.C. like, I'm going to be in this room at this time and I'm just going to answer questions. And a bunch of kids showed up and I, you know, I in charge of anything. I was more, it was actually I was doing it for me, right? I was doing it to see what their level of enthusiasm was and could I catch some of that infection again? And it works, you know, it's really a powerful tool. And I did it again in residency. So in residency, there were days when I was like, this fucking socks. Like, I haven't slept in two days. I haven't eaten a proper meal in a week. I haven't even changed my underwear in two days. Like, I just hate my life. I haven't exercised in three days. And then I thought, wait a minute, you are so privileged to be sitting here, right? Like, you know, you are one of six residents that's chosen to be in this categorical program. Look at all of these medical students and Hopkins that would give anything to be here. Do the same thing. Grab two of them, sit down and walk them through something, help teach them something. And you'll see, like, they'd give anything to be where you are. And so, I guess that's, I mean, you could apply that to life, I suppose. But it's particularly helpful in sort of this transition from college to medical school to residency and beyond. One other advice could I give. I mean, I think a lot of the advice I have is so glib and so cliche that, I mean, I feel a bit embarrassing. It, you know, you, hearing it come out of my mouth makes me cringe, but you do have to maintain a balance. In other words, you'd be surprised. Like, let's just say you think there's like a hundred hours of work you need to do to prepare for a certain exam. You're probably better off putting 85 hours into it and spending 15 hours doing something else that is, you know, sort of replenishing you in another way and for some people, that's pleasure reading, like, you know, reading fiction. For others, like me, that was always going to be exercise. For others, it's just sort of blowing off steam and going to get, you know, drunk. Again, not advocating necessarily, but the point is, it is important to get out of that, you know, get out of those books for a while. I did not do that in college. So when I went to college, I just decided, I just wanted to know everything that was noable and that meant studying every minute of every day. I mean, I did exercise, but I didn't socialize at all in college very, very little, actually. Probably drank twice in all of college. And they were both incredibly epic nights, actually. That's another story. I feel like Chevy Chase, like, there's like a fletch moment here, reflecting on that. Bubble, go back to playing basketball on the lakers? Yeah, yeah, with the fro at six inches. But in medical school, I definitely spent way more time having fun. And part of it was like being in such a, this is my first time living in California, it was like, oh my god, like, you can ride your bike outside every day. You know, you can swim, you can do other things. So I think that is important. I think the other thing in medical school, not to lose sight of is why you're doing it. Like, you really, the more frequently you can interact with patients in medical school, the better. Not for the reasons that I think the consortium would say, which is the problem-based learning. There may be some truth to that. Meaning when you take what's called a problem-based learning approach, which was something that I think Harvard borrowed, actually McMaster University was the first to do it, and then Harvard and two or three other prominent schools started doing it, which is basically this idea of kids weren't going to sit in class anymore and do the traditional stuff. They were going to go straight into the words from day one, and then encounter a patient, encounter a problem, and then go back and learn what they needed to learn to do that. You know, whether that approach is right or wrong, actually, have no insight. But what I think you do get out of seeing patients, whether it's in a traditional path like they had at Stanford where you spent the first two years grinding through class and not, was it's really exciting. You start to, I mean, again, now, I think at my stage, it's very easy to take that for granted and be like, my patients are calling me, and I'm trying to enjoy my weekend, and I'm stuck answering 27 emails or calling the lab or doing nothing. But boy, when you're starting out, it is just amazing to realize that you have this bizarre privilege. People are going to tell you shit that they would never tell anybody else. You're going to see people at a very vulnerable state. And that's, I guess it's good to figure out early if that's appealing or not. Because if it's not, if you're not odd by that, you probably don't belong in medicine. Because there's enough things that'll beat that out of you in medicine that if that initially doesn't all you, you know, there's an issue. This is totally unrelated, but Tim Ferris had a podcast once about how to say no elegantly. And I forget who he credits this to, but there's someone who has this criteria, which is if someone asks you to do something, if the answer isn't hell yes, don't do it. Because it's all downhill from there. If Bob, if you call me up and you're like, I've got this great idea. We're going to do blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. If I think, hmm, okay, I'll do it bad idea. I have to think that's the greatest idea I've ever heard. And so similarly, like, if as a college student or as a medical student, you aren't bold over by the beauty of this interaction with the patient, it's worth questioning why you're doing this because it, you will slowly have that sort of, the forces that be will do everything in their power to beat that out of you. That makes sense. It sounds touchy feeling, but it is. Yeah, it's touchy feeling. It's begin with the end in mind. You really have to know what your goal is because more or less you turn the have to use and to get to. So, you know, like, oh, I have to get up early in the morning. I have to be on call. I have to, you know, whatever it is. Even like a profound thing is like for a mother saying, like, I have to change these dirty diapers or something like, I get to change these dirty diapers because I have a kid that I love and we are able to, you know, make this baby together and things like that. And I think when you go through something like medical school, how rigorous and how tough it is, you need, you know. And you, regardless, you're going to have to remind yourself at times because it's going to be tough. Yeah. Yeah. That's, again, well set on the way I'm answering these questions. You always say it better. We'll see. You wrote on Twitter that you are considering different avenues to monetize the podcast in order to make it sustainable. What do you think is the best way to do it? So, this is something that, so, so, we're recording this today on September 11th, I'm not sure when this podcast will actually come out probably later this month or October. But it will have been about three months. We started this in July. So, first of all, the whole thing was started as an experiment. Have we officially put every podcast out that was in that first trial balloon? Yeah. Okay. Cool. So, as of yesterday, with lustig's coming out, that is the experiment. Yeah. We might have squeezed one more in. I think it was, we're going to do 12. And he's